Operating and Financial Review to adjustment for certain inflation indices and taking the cost and capital risk.
3.1 Introduction The business operates from 10 depots and has a fleet of around 1,250 buses The Directors are pleased to present their report on the Group for the year serving routes in and around east and south-east London.
This section 3 contains the Operating and Financial Review, which includes 3.3.
3 North America the information that the Group is required to produce to meet the need for a The Group provides transport services in North America.
Our businesses business review in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Operating include commuter transit services, inter-city services, tour and charter, and Financial Review also provides significant information over and above sightseeing and school bus operations.
Biographies of each director are contained in section The North America business is headed by a Chief Operating Officer.
4 of this Annual Report and the remainder of the Directors report is set out Stagecoach excluding its joint ventures operates approximately 2,700 in section 5. vehicles in the United States and Canada where our operations are mainly in The Operating and Financial Review that follows is intended largely to reflect the states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, Indiana, the recommendations of the Accounting Standards Boards reporting Illinois and Wisconsin and the provinces of Quebec and Ontario.
Our services statement of best practice on the Operating and Financial Review.
operate in major cities such as New York City, Newark, Pittsburgh, Chicago and Milwaukee.
com operates budget inter-city coach services in North America and The Operating and Financial Review has been prepared for the shareholders of represents a growing proportion of the Divisions revenue.
the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Its purpose is to assist shareholders of the Company to assess the strategies adopted by the Company 3.3.
4 UK Rail and the potential for those strategies to succeed and for no other purpose.
This Operating and Financial Review contains forward-looking statements that Stagecoach Group has major rail operations in the UK.
The UK train operating are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic market is split into a number of separate franchises, which are awarded by the and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, Government for set time periods to a specification set by the Department for sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the Transport DfT on the basis of competitive bids.
Train operating companies expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be operate passenger trains on the UK rail network.
The UK railway infrastructure affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ is owned and operated by Network Rail, a not for dividend company that materially from those currently anticipated.
No assurances can be given that invests any profits into improving the railway.
Network Rail runs, maintains the forward-looking statements in this Operating and Financial Review will be and develops tracks, signalling systems, bridges, tunnels, level crossings and realised.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and key stations.
information available at the date of preparation.
Our principal wholly owned rail businesses are South Western Trains and East Midlands Trains.
South Western Trains incorporates the South West Trains and 3.3 Description of the business Island Line networks.
South West Trains runs around 1,700 train services a day Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, with in south west England out of London Waterloo railway station, while Island extensive operations in the UK, United States and Canada.
The Group employs Line operates on the Isle of Wight.
The South Western franchise is expected to around 34,000 people, and operates bus, coach, train and tram services.
From 11 November 2007, we have operated the East Group has four main divisions UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus Midlands Trains franchise.
The franchise comprises main line train services London, North America and UK Rail.
running to London St Pancras, regional rail services in the East Midlands area Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, and inter-regional services between Norwich and Liverpool.
The East Midlands domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its ordinary shares are Trains franchise is expected to run until 31 March 2015.
We also operate publicly traded and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in the city of Throughout this Annual Report, Stagecoach Group plc is referred to as the Sheffield, on a concession running until 2024.
In May 2007, we signed a Company and the group headed by it is referred to as Stagecoach and or contract with Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive GMPTE to the Group.
operate and maintain the Manchester Metrolink tram network and commenced operations under the 10-year contract in July 2007.
1 UK Bus regional operations South Western Trains, East Midlands Trains and the tram operations each have Our UK Bus regional operations division connects communities in more than a managing director.
100 towns and cities across the UK on networks stretching from the Highlands of Scotland to south west England.
These include major city bus operations in Liverpool, Newcastle, Hull, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield, Cambridge and 3.3.
5.1 Virgin Rail Group The current structure of the bus market in Great Britain outside London was Stagecoach Group has a 49% shareholding in Virgin Rail Group, which established by the Transport Act 1985.
This is essentially a deregulated operates the West Coast Trains rail franchise.
The current West Coast Trains structure: any holder of a Public Service Vehicle operators license may operate rail franchise runs until March 2012.
The other shareholder in Virgin Rail bus services, having first registered various details with the relevant traffic Group is the Virgin Group of Companies.
The traffic commissioners are responsible for enforcing Stagecoachs Group Finance Director is Joint Chairman of Virgin Rail Group.
compliance with these registered details, including standards of maintenance, Virgin Rail Group has a Chief Executive, who reports to the Virgin Rail Group reliability and punctuality.
board, which includes Stagecoach Group and Virgin Group representatives.
Our UK Bus regional operations division operates a fleet of around 7,000 buses and coaches across a number of regional operating units.
5.2 Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited operating unit is managed independently and is led by a managing director, In Scotland, Stagecoach has a joint venture Scottish Citylink Coaches reporting directly to the head of the UK Bus division.
Limited with international transport group, ComfortDelGro, to operate In addition to local bus services in towns and cities, Stagecoach operates megabus.
com and Scottish Citylink coach services.
Stagecoach owns 35% of express interurban services linking major towns within its regional operating the share capital of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited and ComfortDelGro company areas.
The Group also runs the budget inter-city coach service, owns the remaining 65%.
The joint venture is the leading provider of express megabus.
Stagecoach is responsible for the day-to-day Stagecoachs bus and coach services in the UK are operated on a commercial operational management of the business, which is overseen by a joint board.
basis in a largely deregulated market.
We also operate tendered services, 3.3.
5.3 New York Splash Tours including schools contracts, on behalf of local authorities.
Around 11% of the In North America, Stagecoach has a joint venture, New York Splash Tours LLC, UK Bus regional operations divisions revenue is receivable from local with Port Imperial Duck Charters LLC.
Splash Tours ceased operations in authorities in respect of such tendered and school services.
UK Bus regional operations divisions revenue is earned from concessionary fare schemes, whereby the Group is reimbursed by public authorities for 3.3.
5.4 Twin America carrying the elderly and disabled free of charge.
In North America, Stagecoach began operating a joint venture, Twin America LLC, with CitySights NY on 31 March 2009.
2 UK Bus London sightseeing services in New York under both the Gray Line and CitySights We are the third largest operator in the London bus market, with an estimated brands.
The Group holds 60% of the economic rights and 50% of the voting 15% share of that market.
The UK Bus London business operates bus rights in the joint venture.
Twin America LLC is headed by a Chief Executive services under contract to Transport for London, receiving a fixed fee subject and overseen by a joint Board.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 3 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 4 Operating and Financial Review which covers buses and light rail, the Association of Train Operating 3.4 Resources and relationships Companies and the American Bus Association.
1 Resources Suppliers we rely on a range of suppliers to provide goods and services Stagecoach Group has a range of resources that underpin its business and linked to our bus and rail operations.
These include vehicle and rolling stock support its strategy.
These assist in giving the Group a competitive advantage manufacturers, fuel suppliers, IT companies and clothing manufacturers.
in the markets in which it operates.
We have contractual relationships with a number of parties which are essential 3.4.
1.1 Employees to the business of the Group, including: Stagecoach Groups most important resource is its employees.
We seek to The operation of our rail franchises depends upon a number of contractual recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, offering an excellent relationships, the most critical of which include: contracts with the DfT package of benefits, which allows us to deliver good customer service to our governing the terms of the franchises: contracts with Network Rail passengers.
The Groups individual divisions invest significantly in the training governing station and track access arrangements: leases with rolling stock and development of our people and we operate a successful graduate training companies for the lease of trains and: maintenance contracts for the scheme which provides one source of training for the managers of the future.
We also encourage our people to give something back to their local All of our businesses have various contractual relationships including community and many are regularly involved in fundraising, payroll giving and purchase contracts with fuel suppliers, vehicle suppliers, IT companies and in-kind support to a wide range of good causes.
Further information about our spare part suppliers.
commitment to corporate social responsibility is set out on pages 16 and 17.
We have contracts with local authorities, government bodies and other 3.4.
1.2 Market research parties for the supply of bus services on a contracted or tendered basis.
An important element of the Groups success in growing its customer base lies in a track record of product innovation and new ideas on developing We have contractual arrangements with banks and other finance providers effective public transport systems.
The Group has an ongoing programme of for the provision of funds and financial products to the Group.
We have a dedicated telemarketing unit in the UK that We are committed to conducting business in a socially responsible way and we communicates with current customers and non-users to build a detailed believe this to be consistent with our business objectives and strategy.
Indeed, profile of what attracts people to use our services.
by taking a responsible approach towards the environment and the wider 3.4.
1.3 Corporate reputation, brand strength, and market position community, we believe we will enhance our objective to deliver organic growth.
Stagecoach is one of the best-known public transport operators in the UK and is consistently rated highly for the quality of its services in research by Government 3.5 Group business objectives and long-term and other independent organisations.
We value our reputation, both as a public strategy transport provider and as a key part of the communities in which we operate.
1 Business objectives and long-term strategy Stagecoach has a strong set of brands that support our strategy of organic The key elements of Stagecoach Groups business strategy to deliver long-term growth in our business and that help maintain our leading market position.
1.4 Natural resources and manufacturing technology To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations: Operating our bus and rail services requires considerable use of natural To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing resources, including diesel and electricity.
We have arrangements in place to ensure that these resources are sourced as efficiently as possible and that our operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise supplies are maintained to ensure the smooth functioning of our business.
A and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups number of experienced manufacturers supply our buses, coaches, trains and weighted average cost of capital: trams, which are produced to detailed specifications relevant to the individual In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the markets in which they are required.
Groups Rail business by bidding for selected rail franchises and to seek to 3.4.
1.5 Licences secure new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
Various licences are held by Stagecoach giving authority to operate our public A fundamental objective underlying this strategy is the continued provision of transport services and these are maintained up to date as required.
safe and reliable services to passengers.
Stagecoach Group has demonstrated particular strength in managing bus and 3.4.
2 Contractual and other relationships coach businesses that operate scheduled services in a relatively deregulated Stagecoach Group works closely with a range of bodies in each of the markets environment, although it also operates more regulated bus services where it where we provide public transport services.
Our stakeholders include: believes it can deliver good returns for shareholders.
The Groups focus is on Our People we have established strong working relationships with trade operations with critical mass in their own local markets.
In rail, Stagecoachs skill unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including centres on organic revenue and passenger volume growth, the management of training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other significant change projects, the delivery of improved operational performance, employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face and and driving up customer satisfaction.
through a number of internal publications.
Our overall business strategy is supported by a financial strategy whereby we Investors and the Financial Community our shareholders and lenders are seek to maintain a long-term efficient capital structure.
critical to our business success.
We have a regular programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent updates to the markets and financial 3.5.
2 Business model community on our performance.
We are a constituent of the FTSE4Good The Groups business model varies to some extent by division.
The business index, which sets standards and tracks the performance of the leading model is intended to deliver the business objectives and long-term strategy socially responsible companies around the globe.
explained above in that it is designed to add value through organic growth, Customers millions of people use our services every day.
We conduct targeted acquisitions and rail franchise wins.
The overall model of the Group is extensive customer research to monitor our performance and to determine based on a relatively decentralised management structure with short chains of how we can improve the delivery and accessibility of our services.
command and close monitoring and direction from the centre.
Across the Customer Interest Groups our businesses have a regular and ongoing Group, there is an emphasis on achieving strong operational performance as dialogue with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from an underpin of strong financial performance.
managers on detailed aspects of our service as well as consultation and The business model for the Groups UK Bus regional operations and North information sharing on particular issues.
America Divisions is designed to be sufficiently flexible to respond to Government our managers have an ongoing dialogue with national and developments in the markets in which they operate and to changes in local government in all our countries of operation to ensure the effective demand.
The key features of this business model are: delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting wider A decentralised management structure enabling local management objectives.
In the UK, we work closely with the DfT, the Scottish Executive, to quickly identify and respond to developments in each local market: Transport Scotland, the Welsh Assembly, and Transport for London TfL.
An emphasis on lightly regulated bus operations enabling Transport Authorities we work closely with local authorities, including management to vary prices, operating schedules and timetables in passenger transport executives, regional transport committees and transit response to developments in each local market without significant authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
Many of our hindrance from regulation: businesses have partnership agreements in place to improve the delivery of public transport in their areas.
A flexible cost base whereby operating mileage and operating costs can be flexed in response to changes in demand.
Government Advisory Bodies and Lobbying Groups we have constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for Integrated The business model of the UK Bus London and UK Rail Divisions is different.
Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and lobbying The businesses are more highly regulated and their cost base is less flexible so groups such as the Campaign for Better Transport.
there is greater management focus on agreeing the right contractual Transport and Industry Representation Groups we are active members of arrangements, including appropriate risk-sharing arrangements, and ensuring industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK these are appropriately managed for the duration of each contract.
3 Key Performance Indicators The Group uses a wide range of key performance indicators KPIs across its various businesses and at a Group level.
The most important of these KPIs at a Group level focus on five key areas: Safety Profitability Organic growth Service delivery Staff retention KPIs are also shown below for the Groups largest joint venture, Virgin Rail Group.
3.1 Safety The safety of our passengers, staff and others is our first priority.
Safety is monitored in various ways, including through a range of KPIs.
Businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are excluded from the safety KPIs.
Five of the more important safety KPIs are reported below: Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2011 30 April 2010 30 April 2009 Target UK Bus regional operations number of blameworthy 21.4 21.9 see below accidents per 1 million miles travelled US number of blameworthy accidents per To decrease each year 7.3 8.8 9.3 1 million miles travelled ultimate target is zero To decrease each year South West Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.8 2.0 1.7 ultimate target is zero per 1,000 staff East Midlands Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.5 1.6 2.6 per 1,000 staff Virgin Rail Group West Coast workforce lost time 2.1 1.9 1.6 injuries per 1,000 staff Due to development of our safety reporting systems to standardise and enhance the reporting of safety indicators, certain KPIs are not presented above as they would not be comparable to later years.
3.2 Profitability The Group seeks to increase long-term value to its shareholders.
While the Group aims to take a long-term perspective on shareholder value, it also monitors the financial performance of each of its businesses in the shorter term.
For the Group as a whole, the key measure of short-term financial performance is earnings per share before exceptional items and intangible asset expenses Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangible asset expenses divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the relevant period.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: Year ended 30 April 2011 2010 2009 pence pence pence Target Adjusted EPS To increase in excess of inflation 23.8p 18.7p 22.9p 3.5.
3.3 Organic growth A key element underpinning the Groups strategy is to deliver organic growth in revenue.
Organic growth KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year.
The following measures of organic growth are monitored in respect of three of the Groups divisions: UK Bus regional operations growth in passenger journeys measured as the percentage increase in the number of passenger journeys relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
Rail growth in passenger miles measured as the percentage increase in the number of miles travelled by passengers relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
North America growth in constant currency revenue from continuing operations measured as the percentage increase in revenue relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
The measures vary by division reflecting differences in the underlying businesses for example, a significant proportion of the revenue in North America is not determined on a per passenger basis.
Throughout this Annual Report, references to passenger volume growth for UK Bus or Rail businesses mean growth determined on the basis set out here.
All of these growth KPIs involve a degree of estimation in respect of passenger volumes and are normalised to exclude businesses that have not been held by the Group for the whole of both periods.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 6 Operating and Financial Review The organic growth KPIs were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2011 30 April 2010 30 April 2009 Target Growth % Growth % Growth % UK Bus regional operations passenger journeys 0.9% 0.4 % 3.2% UK Rail passenger miles Positive growth South West Trains 4.1% 1.1 % 2.2% each year East Midlands Trains 6.9% 0.4 % 1.6% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 9.3% 20.4% 1.5 % North America revenue 8.5% 3.4 % 7.2% During the year ended 30 April 2009, Virgin Rail Group experienced numerous Network Rail possessions, over-runs and days of poor performance and this is reflected in the decline in passenger miles shown above for that year.
The declines in passenger volumes at UK Bus regional operations and UK Rail, and the decline in North America revenue, in the year ended 30 April 2010 shows the impact of the tough economic conditions during the year.
At Virgin Rail Group the impact has been offset by the increase in services following a new timetable being introduced in December 2008.
3.4 Service delivery We aim to provide a reliable service to support our organic growth strategy.
Our measures of service delivery include: UK Bus regional operations reliability measured as the percentage of planned miles to be operated that were operated.
Rail punctuality measured on the basis of the DfTs Public Performance Measure moving annual average being the percentage of trains that arrive at their final destination within 5 minutes or 10 minutes for inter-city services of their scheduled arrival time having called at all scheduled stations.
References to rail punctuality throughout this Annual Report refer to punctuality calculated on this basis.
Due to the nature of the North American business, there is no single measure of service delivery for the North American division as a whole.
Service delivery KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year.
The service delivery KPIs were as follows: Year ended 30 April 2011 2010 2009 % %% Target UK Bus regional operations reliability 99.0% 99.1% 99.3% 99.5% UK Rail punctuality South West Trains 90.0% 93.3% 93.0% 93.3% East Midlands Trains 85.0% 92.0% 92.5% 89.3% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 85.0% 86.3% 85.3% 79.7% Service delivery at our UK businesses for the year ended 30 April 2011 was adversely affected by the severe winter weather in November and December 2010.
3.5 Staff retention The strength of our business is built on the quality of our employees.
We monitor staff turnover which is measured as the number of employees who left the Group other than through business disposals during the period as a proportion of the total average employees during the period.
Staff retention KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year.
Staff turnover for the last three years in our continuing businesses was as follows: Year ended 30 April 2011 2010 2009 % %% Target UK Bus regional operations staff turnover 15.0% 15.0% 18.3% UK Rail staff turnover To South West Trains 7.4% 7.4% 11.3% decrease East Midlands Trains 4.4% 7.3% 8.3% each year Virgin Rail Group West Coast 2.6% 3.6% 5.3% North America staff turnover 16.5% 20.1% 20.2% page 6 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 7 3.6 Overview of financial results Stagecoach Group has achieved continued strong financial and operational performance for the year ended 30 April 2011.
Revenue by division is summarised below: REVENUE 2011 2010 2011 2010 Functional Functional currency Growth m currency m % Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 893.6 875.4 893.6 875.4 2.1% UK Bus London 133.6 Nil 133.6 Nil % North America 295.1 266.1 US$ 461.7 426.3 8.3% UK Rail 1,070.0 1,026.7 1,070.0 1,026.7 4.2%% Intra-Group revenue 2.5 3.8 2.5 3.8 34.2 % Group revenue 2,389.8 2,164.4 Operating profit by division is summarised below: OPERATING PROFIT 2011 2010 2011 2010 % % Functional Functional currency m margin m margin currency m Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 153.1 17.1% 126.1 14.4% 153.1 126.1 UK Bus London 5.9 4.4 % Nil 5.9 Nil North America 19.3 6.5% 9.1 3.4% US$ 30.2 14.6 UK Rail 48.4 4.5% 41.6 4.1% 48.4 41.6 Group overheads 11.3 11.6 Restructuring costs 2.9 1.2 Total operating profit from continuing Group operations 200.7 164.0 Joint ventures share of profit loss after tax Virgin Rail Group 28.4 19.2 Citylink 1.8 1.2 New York Splash Tours Nil 0.9 Twin America 9.3 8.5 Total operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 240.2 192.0 Intangible asset expenses 15.2 11.1 Exceptional items Nil 1.8 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit after taxation 225.0 179.1 Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 8 Operating and Financial Review plans for the future and Stagecoach was the first major UK bus operator to 3.7 Divisional Performance complete the installation of Government-standard smartcard ticket machines 3.7.
1 UK Bus regional operations on its entire UK bus fleet outside London.
In London, all of the Groups buses Financial performance accept Transport for Londons Oyster card.
We have launched our own smartcard, StagecoachSmart, which can be used by passengers to store their The financial performance of the UK Bus regional operations division for the tickets electronically.
Customers also have the option to pay for their travel year ended 30 April 2011 is summarised below: through automatic monthly payments.
We are rolling out StagecoachSmart 2011 2010 travel cards across our regional bus operations, offering potential for further m m Change integration with other operators services where infrastructure and commercial agreements are in place.
Revenue 893.6 875.4 2.1% Like-for-like revenue 883.0 864.7 2.1% Regulatory developments Operating profit 153.1 126.1 21.4% The Group continues to respond to the Competition Commission on its consideration of the local bus market in the UK excluding London and Operating margin 17.1% 14.4% 270bp Northern Ireland.
The Commission published its Provisional Findings and Possible Remedies in May 2011.
Local bus services in the UK have been Revenue from our UK Bus regional operations for the year ended 30 April 2011 subject to detailed and unprecedented scrutiny by the competition was up 2.1% to 893.6m, compared to 875.4m in the prior year.
Like-for-like authorities for more than eighteen months and we note that the revenue growth was 2.1%.
Operating profit was up 21.4% at 153.1m 2010: Commission is not proposing any fundamental change to the regulatory 126.1m which includes the benefit of a 14.3m year-on-year reduction in structure of the industry.
At this stage, the Commission has ruled out both fuel costs.
Operating margin was 17.1%, compared to 14.4% in 2010. price controls and forced divestments of bus operations.
In addition, the Passenger revenue growth Commission has acknowledged that there are existing agencies, mechanisms We have delivered further revenue and passenger volume growth at our UK and legislation, which can address a number of its recommendations.
Over many years, our UK Bus regional operations have consistently attracted more passengers by investing in our buses and volume growth and profit margins have been amongst the best in the sector networks, providing innovative products and offering good value fares.
We and we also offer the best value fares of any major operator.
We have seen will engage with the Commission on measures that we believe will deliver increasing signs of modal shift from car to local bus services as road further improvements to bus passengers, while retaining the many positive congestion, the high price of fuel and Government green taxes impact on existing initiatives that benefit our customers as a result of the competitive the cost of motoring.
Consumers are seeing the convenience and financial market in which we operate.
At the same time, we will continue to press local benefits of switching to a better value and more sustainable mode of and national government for action on the issues that matter to customers.
Revenue growth in the year was consistent with our plan for modest We believe the Commissions report should be a starting point for serious, fare rises.
Like-for-like passenger volume growth for the year was 0.9%.
Our consistent and extensive measures to tackle road congestion and deliver value fares strategy and focus on organic growth has ensured we have a more bus priority.
vibrant bus business in the UK and we believe the environment for public Business development transport will support continued modal shift to bus and coach travel.
Stagecoach has been awarded a major contract to provide transport at the Cost control London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
The contract will involve Reduced public sector spending is resulting in reductions in concessionary transferring the worlds athletes and media between their accommodation revenue, and cuts by local authorities in tendered services.
All bus operators and various Olympic and Paralympic venues in London, as well as transporting have also faced increasing pressure on fuel and energy costs and from April them to and from airports as they arrive and leave the Games.
Stagecoach will 2012, will see a reduction in Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG.
However, we be responsible for managing two depots in London, with a total of 1,100 buses have maintained a strong commercial bus network through a mixture of fare and coaches in operation throughout the event.
Around half of the buses and increases at or below inflation and some limited mileage reductions.
We will coaches required will be provided by Stagecoach with the remainder being continue to manage the impact on our business proactively and take these supplied by other UK and Irish bus operators.
factors into account in future decisions on bus services, tenders and fares, while We are building further on our successful direct marketing and telemarketing working hard to minimise the effect on our passengers.
campaigns to attract new customers and retain existing business.
We have Investment built up a database of more than one million customers and targeted specific We are driving up the quality of travel for our customers by investing in demographic groups, such as commuters and mothers, with tailored greener vehicles, better facilities and improved services.
In January 2011, we campaigns to encourage them to switch from driving to taking public announced that we were investing 52m in 360 new Euro 5 buses and transport.
We are joining the Ice loyalty card scheme for sustainable products, coaches for our regional bus networks across the UK in year to 30 April 2012, which brings together companies with superior ethical and environmental further improving the standard of travel for passengers.
This is in addition to credentials and allows consumers to collect and spend points across a range of the purchase of more than 60 hybrid electric buses, which was announced in businesses.
In addition, we have launched pilot projects in Scotland and late 2010.
It means the UK Bus Divisions investment in new vehicles outside Oxford using social media channels to inform passengers about marketing London over four years will reach nearly 290m.
Stagecoach is leading the way promotions and assist the management of customer service, including issues on investing in new greener buses using state-of-the-art hybrid electric affecting service reliability.
More than 20% of the 542 vehicles supported by the Department Our budget services are continuing to attract more and more people looking for Transports Green Bus Fund are being purchased by Stagecoach in what is for an affordable, reliable and greener travel alternative.
In April 2011, we the biggest investment in low carbon buses outside London.
Across our announced a further expansion of our budget transport services across the UK.
regional operations, we have placed orders for 142 hybrid electric vehicles, at a megabus.
com added five new locations and now serves over 60 locations cost of 26.9m.
We are also making a multi-million-pound investment in a hiacross the UK.
tech eco-driving system for our regional bus operations, which will help reduce fuel consumption and carbon emissions, improve passenger comfort and cut Outlook the risk of accidents.
A key element of the initiative is an EcoDriver incentive UK Bus operators undoubtedly face a number of challenges in the months scheme giving employees the chance to earn green points that are converted ahead.
We forecast that in the year ending 30 April 2012, concessionary into financial benefits from a potential 900,000 annual bonus pot.
revenue and tendered revenue will reduce by around 15m and that fuel costs Pricing strategy will increase.
However, we remain positive on the prospects for the Division.
Stagecoach has been independently recognised as offering the best value bus The flexibility we have on fares and service patterns, the rising cost of running a fares of any major UK bus operator.
We are continuing to focus on our value private car and the strength of our management team, mean that the Division is fares strategy to support organic passenger growth, offering our customers well positioned to at least deliver operating profit in the year to 30 April 2012 at a level similar to that of the year to 30 April 2011.
Whilst fares will increase at a good value travel options through our multi-journey megarider discounted travel tickets.
Investment in smartcard technology is a key part of our ticketing higher average rate than the previous year, our services will remain good value.
See definitions in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 North America Financial performance The financial performance of UK Bus London since the Group acquired it in The financial performance of the North America division and North America October 2010 to 30 April 2011 is summarised below: joint ventures for the year ended 30 April 2011 is summarised below: Financial performance 14 October 2010 to 30 April 2011 2011 2010 Change m US$m US$m % Revenue Revenue 133.6 Wholly owned 461.7 426.3 8.3% Operating loss 5.9 Share of joint ventures 67.7 64.1 5.6% Operating margin 4.4 % Total 529.4 490.4 8.0% The reported operating loss of 5.9m is after taking account of i a 3.2m Like-for-like revenue 457.0 421.1 8.5% release from the provision that was recorded as at acquisition in respect of Operating profit acquired customer contracts and ii 9.9m of costs in relation to rebasing of Wholly owned 30.2 14.6 106.8% staff terms and conditions.
Share of joint ventures 15.2 12.8 18.8% In October 2010, the Group completed the acquisition of the bus business Total 45.4 27.4 65.7% formerly owned by East London Bus Group Limited in administration, Operating margin 8.6% 5.6% 300bp acquiring four companies that together operate the business.
The cash paid in respect of the acquisition was 59.5m, inclusive of amounts to settle interRevenue from our wholly owned North American operations for the year to company liabilities payable by the acquired business to its former parent 30 April 2011 was up 8.3% at US$461.7m 2010: US$426.3m, and the company.
The closing enterprise value being the aggregate of the equivalent like-for-like revenue was up by 8.5%.
Operating profit was consideration paid and the net debt assumed with the acquisition on the date US$30.2m 2010: US$14.6m, resulting in an operating margin of 6.5%, of completion was 56.0m, taking account of the cash in the acquired compared to 3.4% the previous year.
The increased profit and margin reflects business at completion.
We operated a successful and profitable bus business the benefits of revenue growth and reduced fuel costs.
Converted to sterling, in London for several years and are pleased to re-enter the London bus market revenue for the 12 months to 30 April 2011 was 295.1m 2010: 266.1m.
Operating profit for the 12 months was 19.3m 2010: 9.1m.
We have made significant progress in restructuring the acquired business to both megabus.
com maximise synergies with the wider Group and tackle the structurally high cost megabus.
com revenue in the year ended 30 April 2011 was US$75.4m 2010: base.
Our first step was to put in place a new management team, comprising US$45.1m and it continues to be the growth engine of our business in North Stagecoach personnel from other areas and also incumbent members of the America.
Passenger demand is strong and we are continuing to expand our London management team.
The head office accounting and administration range of destinations.
com now covers around 60 cities from hubs in structure of the business was then reduced, with all accounting functions being Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, Washington D. C. and Pittsburgh.
Our strategy integrated with our Shared Service Centre in Stockport.
of using transport hubs has helped support the rapid expansion of the product, We have held discussions with the employee trade union representatives and maximise the productivity of our fleet and control start-up costs.
The market are pleased with the constructive response to our plans to improve employee for budget travel has bucked the trend of the wider economy and we have productivity and reduce unit costs significantly, and in doing so secure the created more than 250 jobs over the past two years.
Moving forward, we expect business and jobs for the future.
The results include the financial cost of megabus.
com to account for an increasing proportion of our North American implementing these changes in working terms and conditions and we will see business and we are now focusing on the best strategy to exploit further material reduction in future payroll costs.
growth opportunities in other parts of North America.
We have also undertaken a full review of the integrity of the financial models Other operations supporting the contract costing and budgeting for bids and set a realistic We continue to take steps to match services to demand in the nonreturn criteria for future tenders.
As we have previously reported, it will take megabus.
com parts of our business, as well as focusing on cost control.
We some time for the existing low margin contracts to work through to re-tender, have a flexible business model and have taken action to reduce costs and miles and the business has already lost some sizeable contracts which will impact operated, with vehicles in charter operations redeployed as part of our from the year to 30 April 2012. megabus.
The economic environment has improved and We have recently announced the planned closure of one of the ten bus depots in the second half of the year, we have seen positive revenue trends.
from which the business operates.
This property rationalisation plan Outlook recognises the significant extra capacity the business has, and will allow us to We are looking to grow megabus.
com revenue from US$75.4m in the year improve efficiency by better spreading overheads, yet still leaves sufficient ended 30 April 2011 to over US$110m in the year to 30 April 2012.
This will capacity for future requirements.
still largely be served by our existing depot infrastructure but we are already In the next six months our focus remains on the cost base of the business, in working on the further expansion of megabus.
com beyond April 2012, which particular fleet maintenance costs and working practices, where we anticipate might involve new partnerships and or infrastructure.
com further economies and efficiency improvements can be achieved.
routes are expected to be loss-making initially, which partly masks the success As a sign of our confidence in the future of the business, in January 2011 we of the established routes.
announced plans to lease more than 160 new state-of-the-art vehicles for our Although megabus.
com offers the greatest potential to grow the North London operations.
Our long-term aspirations are for mid to upper singleAmerican business, the remainder of the business is well positioned to offset digit operating margins.
While we do not underestimate the challenges we higher fuel costs.
The rate at which megabus.
com is rolled out to new face in improving the financial performance of the acquired business, our plans locations will have a bearing on the North America operating profit for the are firmly on track and we remain confident we can deliver a good return to year to 30 April 2012 with a more rapid roll-out resulting in higher start-up shareholders from the acquisition.
Overall, however, the Division remains well placed to deliver a good Outlook operating profit in the year ending 30 April 2012.
As we anticipated when we acquired the London Bus Division, the annual rate of revenue is likely to fall in the year ending 30 April 2012 but there is good potential to generate a small operating profit by reducing costs and relinquishing some under-performing contracts.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 10 Operating and Financial Review passengers to the improved levels of comfort and on-board benefits, such as 3.7.
4 UK Rail the WiFi now available on all trains to London.
The refurbishment of the Financial performance Meridian fleet is now well underway, and includes luxury leather seats and The financial performance of the UK Rail division for the year ended 30 April improvements to the luggage space as a result of feedback from passengers.
2011 is summarised below: At South West Trains, we are also carrying out an interior refresh of our Class 2011 2010 458 trains to deliver an improved travelling environment.
m m Change Revenue 1,070.0 1,026.7 4.2% Policy & Regulatory Developments The Group has engaged extensively with the Department for Transport and Sir Like-for-like revenue, excluding tram 1,026.9 968.9 6.0% Roy McNulty on the way forward for reform of the rail industry.
The final report Operating profit 48.4 41.6 16.3% by Sir Roy McNulty on value for money in the UK Rail industry was published in Operating margin 4.5% 4.1% 40bp May 2011, and we believe its recommendations are a major opportunity to unlock further growth in the years ahead and deliver a more efficient, more Revenue from our UK Rail subsidiaries for the year to 30 April 2011 was up by passenger-focused railway.
We are supportive of efforts to reduce industry costs 4.2% to 1,070.0m 2010: 1,026.7m.
On a like-for-like basis, revenue and we believe our achievements at our own franchises demonstrate our ability excluding our tram operations is up 6.0%.
Operating profit was 48.4m to drive out efficiencies in areas under our control, whilst maintaining high 2010: 41.6m, giving an operating margin of 4.5% 2010: 4.1%.
We have levels of performance and customer satisfaction.
We would welcome radical benefitted from improving passenger volume trends at our South Western reform to deliver greater alignment of track and train, which we believe would Trains and East Midlands Trains franchises.
South Western Trains, which benefit all stakeholders in the UK rail network.
Our vision of vertical integration makes premium payments to the DfT, qualifies for revenue support payment does not necessarily envisage the train operator taking ownership of the under the terms of its contract as revenues remain below that forecast when infrastructure or delivering major infrastructure projects but rather it foresees the contract was originally awarded.
The first revenue support payment was the train operator having responsibility for infrastructure maintenance and received in March 2011, which covered the period from 1 April 2010.
As renewals thereby improving accountability and efficiency.
We would relish the expected, East Midlands Trains has made a loss during the year.
It qualifies for opportunity to participate in a pilot of such vertical integration.
We look revenue support from November 2011. forward to working with the Government to improve the railway for the Operational performance benefit of passengers, taxpayers and our shareholders.
Operational performance at our East Midlands Trains and South Western As part of the Comprehensive Spending Review, the Government retained Trains franchises is consistently amongst the highest of the UK train operators.
the Retail Price Index RPI 1% formula for regulated fare increases for East Midlands Trains continues to run the most punctual trains of any long January 2011.
However, this will change to RPI 3% from January 2012 as part distance franchised train operator in the UK.
For the year to 31 March 2011, of a wider policy to shift the funding of the railways more towards the punctuality on East Midlands Trains was 92.1%, compared to 87.7% for longpassenger, so that the taxpayer pays less.
All additional income raised by the distance operators.
Following the improvements made on its regional routes, decision will be passed through by train operating companies to Government.
East Midlands Trains has also been named as the UKs most improved regional Regulated fares account for roughly half of all rail journeys and we will train operator.
South Western Trains recorded a record punctuality figure of continue to offer a range of good value fares to suit the different budgets of 93.7% for the same period.
The average for London and South East operators our customers.
was 91.1% and was 90.9% for all UK franchised rail operators.
Rail franchising Customer satisfaction The Government announced in December 2010 its early thoughts on rail Satisfaction amongst our passengers also remains high.
The latest National franchise reform and its intention for the tendering of specific franchises.
We Passenger Survey, carried out during Autumn 2010, shows South West Trains will continue to evaluate franchise opportunities as they emerge in light of passengers are amongst the most satisfied in the London and South East these policy decisions.
Overall satisfaction was 87% compared to the London and South East As a major rail operator with a good track record of delivery, we were pleased average of 83%.
At East Midlands Trains, satisfaction is at its highest ever to have been shortlisted for the Greater Anglia rail franchise and, in level, with 88% of passengers satisfied, compared to a long-distance average partnership with Virgin, for the new West Coast franchise.
The Greater Anglia of 87%, marking the biggest improvement of any UK rail operator.
franchise is expected to commence in February 2012 and will run for between Satisfaction with punctuality continues to be rated highly on both franchises.
The current West Coast franchise is due to end on 31 March 2012.
However, the start of the new West Coast franchise has been Value travel delayed until 9 December 2012.
Virgin Rail Group VRG has entered into Our marketing strategy continues to focus on acquiring new customers bilateral negotiations with the DfT to agree acceptable terms for the through the promotion of value for money fares and on-board services.
Our extension of the current franchise to 8 December 2012.
The new West Coast budget megatrain.
com tickets, priced from just 1 franchise is expected to commence in December 2012 and will run for 14 plus 50p booking fee, are continuing to prove popular.
We have also years expiring in March 2026 with an option to extend for a further year.
launched successful promotions, such as the Red Dot Days at East Midlands Greater Anglia and West Coast are very different franchises, each with their Trains, which have seen almost 20,000 passengers travelling for 5, 10 or own specific challenges, priorities and opportunities.
In May 2011, we rolled out a new competitively priced on board catering with local communities and other stakeholders to develop sustainable bids to offer at East Midlands Trains, where our new online Best Fare Finder and the deliver the Governments specification, improve rail services for customers, introduction of WiFi on board all London services is also having a positive and ensure value for money for taxpayers.
impact on passenger perception and volumes.
The latest National Passenger The new Greater Anglia franchisee will not take significant passenger revenue Survey found that the perception of value for money has increased by 9% and risk, consistent with the short-term nature of the franchise.
It will, however, 4% year-on-year respectively for East Midlands Trains and South West Trains.
take cost risk and will operate the train service during the London 2012 Passenger improvements Olympics.
We are continuing to progress investment of more than 22m to improve The new West Coast franchise will likely include a risk-sharing mechanism stations across the East Midlands Trains and South West Trains networks.
We based on GDP rather than revenue and will give the train operator some are making rail travel better for our customers through a package of increased flexibility to change timetables and fares.
accessibility enhancements, additional car parking spaces and refurbished Tram toilets and waiting rooms.
At East Midlands Trains, we are currently in the Stagecoach is Britains biggest tram operator and the light rail systems we process of a 2.2m project to install new Customer Information Screens CIS operate in Manchester and Sheffield are important to their local at a number of stations.
At South West Trains, we have invested in an communities.
The new management team we appointed for our light rail industry-leading software innovation at London Waterloo to improve operations last year has helped deliver further improvements and is passenger information during times of major disruption.
Passengers are also continuing to work successfully with our Passenger Transport Executive benefitting from improvements to our fleet.
East Midlands Trains is investing partners.
more than 30m to improve every single train in passenger service across the franchise.
The 10m refurbishment of the Class 158 trains, which are used to Supertram continues to deliver exceptional levels of service reliability and has operate services on the busy Liverpool to Norwich route, has now been achieved good revenue growth.
At Metrolink, trams now serve the major completed, as has the 9m refurbishment of the High Speed Trains used on employment centre at Media City in Salford Quay and further track our main line services to London.
We have received a positive response from extensions are scheduled to be completed later in 2011. page 10 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 11 Outlook We are pleased by the strong financial performance of our Twin America joint Operating profit in the UK Rail Division has been expected for some time to venture in the year ended 30 April 2011.
The business has benefited from an reduce in the year ending 30 April 2012 and this remains the case given the increased number of visitors to New York City.
Our share of operating profit change in the premium payments to Government.
Thereafter, the availability for the year increased to US$15.2m 2010: US$14.2m.
The tax treatment of of revenue support should help limit the risk of profit falling short of our share of profit is such that the joint ventures own profit is partially taxed expectations but the scope to significantly increase UK Rail profit new but an additional tax charge falls on the joint venture partners and the effect franchise wins excepted is already recognised as being limited.
of that on the Group is included within taxation in the consolidated income statement.
5 Joint Ventures TwinAmerica was notified by the United States Surface Transportation Board 3.7.
"5.1 Virgin Rail Group ""STB"" in February 2011 that its application for formal approval of the joint Financial performance venture had not been approved."
The STB confirmed that the joint venture, as The Group's share of the financial performance of Virgin Rail Group for the currently structured, did require its approval and therefore, having decided not year ended 30 April 2011 is summarised below: to approve the joint venture, the STB gave Twin America the option of 2011 2010 separating the business, assets and management of the joint venture.
m m Change Alternatively, the joint venture could divest its interstate services, which account for around 1% of the joint venture's revenues.
The latter option would remove 49% share of Revenue 392.7 355.3 10.5% the transaction from STB jurisdiction and place it within the authority of the Operating profit 39.5 25.5 54.9% New York State Attorney General.
The Chairman of the STB agreed on 9 March Net finance income 0.2 0.2 - 2011 to grant an application for a stay of the February decision pending a Taxation 11.3 6.5 73.8% forthcoming decision by the STB on Twin America's request to undertake a further detailed review of the case.
Twin America believes customers have Profit after tax 28.4 19.2 47.9% benefitted from good quality, high value, and better co-ordinated services, while Operating margin 10.1% 7.2% 290bp the joint venture has achieved cost savings and other synergies.
We will continue to assist the STB should it move forward with a fresh consideration of Our share of VRGs profit after tax for the 12-month period was 28.4m this matter and are prepared to present any further evidence as appropriate to 2010: 19.2m.
Our share of operating profit was 39.5m 2010: 25.5m, help inform any future decision.
Twin America continues to look for our share of finance income was 0.2m 2010: 0.2m and our share of opportunities to expand both in its current market and beyond New York.
May 2011, Twin America commenced a joint venture in Los Angeles offering Passenger revenue growth open top double deck, hop on hop off, sightseeing bus services and on 1 June VRG has continued to achieve strong passenger revenue growth.
Improved 2011, it started to offer sightseeing tours by boat on the River Hudson around journey times, more frequent services, and good value deals, have all had a Manhattan.
We believe the outlook for Twin America remains positive and we positive impact on passenger trends.
Passenger volume growth has been well are confident of further growth in its revenue and profit.
ahead of other long-distance train operators, and Business and First Class traffic has grown in particular as the economy has improved and better infrastructure performance has delivered more reliable services.
Virgin is 3.8 Other financial matters winning further market share from domestic airlines as passengers turn their 3.8.
1 Depreciation and intangible asset expenses back on out of town airports and opt instead for city-centre to city-centre Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, intangible asset expenses and travel.
Figures issued by the Association of Train Operating Companies in April exceptional items pre-exceptional EBITDA amounted to 330.5m 2010: 2011 show that on London to Manchester, rails market share rose from 69% 283.9m including the Groups share of its joint ventures profit after tax.
Depreciation, including non-exceptional impairment charges, for the year was Passenger improvements 90.3m 2010: 91.9m.
The income statement charge for intangible assets Investment has continued to improve the Virgin Trains website, provide more increased from 11.1m to 15.2m, of which 5.1m 2010: 5.1m related to fast ticket machines and increase the number of car parking spaces at stations joint ventures.
The year on year increase reflects amortisation of intangible to meet the growing demand.
As a result, Virgin West Coast continues to be assets acquired during the year, primarily as part of acquiring the East London rated highly by its passengers, with 90% of passengers satisfied in the latest bus business.
2 Exceptional items VRG has a proven track record over the last 14 years of providing better rail The following exceptional items, before taxation, arose in the year ended 30 services for customers, including the renewal of the entire train fleet and the April 2010: introduction of a high-frequency timetable.
In the last six years alone, annual A loss of 0.1m in relation to the disposal of land and buildings across the passenger numbers have doubled from 14 million to over 28 million and Group.
Virgin is now delivering industry-leading levels of customer satisfaction.
VRG is A gain of 4.6m being the revision to the estimated insurance provision in negotiating an extension to its existing West Coast franchise and has been relation to pre-acquisition liabilities.
shortlisted for the new West Coast franchise, as explained in section 3.7.
VRG A loss of 0.6m being expenses incurred in relation to the acquisition of is committed to submitting a strong bid to retain the West Coast franchise, our UK Bus London operations.
building on the investment and customer improvements made in recent years A loss of 3.2m in relation to the disposal of certain operations in the and working with local communities along the route, as well as other United Kingdom.
stakeholders, to develop these plans.
A gain of 18.5m on the release of a liability related to previous disposals Outlook of businesses.
VRGs profit in the year ended 30 April 2011 benefited from some contractual The net effect of exceptional items was a pre-tax profit of 19.2m 2010: loss settlements with Network Rail that will not repeat in the year to 30 April 2012. of 20.4m, of which a gain of 18.5m 2010: 3.9m was reported as profit While this might mean a fall in short-term profit, the main strategic focus of from discontinued operations.
A tax charge of 1.3m 2010: credit of 7.4m VRG is now on the opportunities presented by the new franchise which VRG is arose in respect of exceptional items resulting in a net after-tax gain from bidding for.
exceptional items of 17.9m 2010: loss of 13.0m.
3 Net finance costs 2011 2010 Pre-exceptional net finance costs increased from 30.7m to 34.5m.
The US$m US$m Change ratio of pre-exceptional EBITDA to net finance costs was 9.6 times for the 60% share of Revenue 67.7 63.6 6.4% year ended 30 April 2011 2010: 9.2 times, reflecting increased profit.
Operating profit 15.2 14.2 7.0% Taxation 0.6 0.6 Profit after tax 14.6 13.6 7.4% Operating margin 22.5% 22.3% 20bp Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 12 Operating and Financial Review Net cash from operating activities before tax for the year ended 30 April 2011 3.8.
4 Taxation The tax charge is analysed in Table A below: was 252.2m 2010: 217.1m and can be further analysed as follows: 3.8.
5 Earnings per share 2011 2010 Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items mm were 23.8p, compared to 18.7p in 2010.
Basic earnings per share increased from 15.6p to 24.6p.
Operating profit of Group companies 190.6 156.2 Depreciation 90.3 77.2 3.8.
6 Fuel Costs Intangible asset expenses 10.1 6.0 The Groups operations as at 30 April 2011 consume approximately 370m Impairment of plant and equipment Nil 14.7 litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profit is exposed to movements in the underlying price of fuel.
EBITDA of Group companies 291.0 254.1 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 0.9 2.0 The proportion of the Groups projected fuel usage that is currently hedged Equitysettled share based payment expense 4.7 6.3 using fuel swaps is as follows: Working capital movements 22.7 10.7 Year ending 30 April 2012 2013 2014 2015 Net interest paid 30.1 53.1 UK Bus regional operations 96% 51% Dividends from joint ventures 28.8 35.7 UK Bus London 50% 38% 25% 13% Net cash from operating activities before North America 77% 28% excess pension contributions 272.6 234.3 UK Rail 76% 61% 5% Pension contributions in excess of pension costs 20.4 17.2 The Group has no fuel hedges in place for periods beyond 30 April 2015.
Net cash inflow from operating activities The Groups fuel costs include the costs of delivery and duty as well as the before taxation 252.2 217.1 costs of the underlying product.
Accordingly, not all of the cost varies with movements in oil prices.
The impact of purchases of property, plant and equipment for the year on net The Groups like-for-like diesel fuel costs for the year ending 30 April 2012 are debt was 164.4m 2010: 154.9m.
This comprised cash outflows of likely to be higher than for the year ended 30 April 2011 because after taking 156.3m 2010: 89.2m and new hire purchase and finance lease debt of account of the fuel hedges in place, the average fuel cost per litre will be higher.
14.7m 2010: 53.0m was received from the Further information on the Groups exposure to movements in fuel prices is disposal of property, plant and equipment.
provided in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
9 Liquidity The strong cash generative nature of the Group is once again highlighted by The Group has comfortably complied with all of its banking covenants net cash from operating activities after tax of 231.8m 2010: 216.4m.
Net throughout the financial year.
The Group is subject to certain market standard cash outflows from investing activities were 198.2m 2010: 37.2m and banking covenants, which include a limit on the level of net debt compared net cash used in financing activities was 49.7m 2010: 79.9m.
to EBITDA and a minimum level of EBITDA to interest, in each case as defined in the relevant agreements.
8 Net debt Our strong financial position is evidenced by: Net debt as analysed in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements The ratio of net debt at 30 April 2011 to pre-exceptional EBITDA for the reduced from 296.7m at 30 April 2010 to 280.9m at 30 April 2011. year ended 30 April 2011 was 0.8 times 2010: 1.0 times.
The Groups net debt at 30 April 2011 is further analysed below: Pre-exceptional EBITDA for the year ended 30 April 2011 was 9.6 times Fixed Floating Total 2010: 9.2 times pre-exceptional net finance costs.
rate rate Undrawn, committed bank facilities analysed below totalled 491.5m at m m m 30 April 2011 2010: 345.9m.
This included 67.9m 2010: 24.9m Unrestricted cash Nil 174.9 174.9 that is only available for non-cash utilisation.
In addition, the Group Cash held within train operating continues to secure new asset finance.
companies Nil 163.1 163.1 In February 2011, the Group saw strong appetite from banks for the reRestricted cash Nil 20.3 20.3 financing of its core bank facilities and entered into 510.0m of new fiveTotal cash and cash equivalents Nil 358.3 358.3 year, committed facilities.
Sterling bond 244.8 150.0 394.8 The three main credit rating agencies continue to assign investment grade Sterling hire purchase 8.4 168.5 176.9 credit ratings to the Group.
US dollar finance leases 40.4 Nil 40.4 The Group is cash generative and has the flexibility to vary capital Canadian dollar finance leases 3.4 Nil 3.4 expenditure and other cash outflows where appropriate.
Loan notes Nil 21.1 21.1 The Groups principal lines of credit have been arranged on a bi-lateral basis Preference shares Nil 2.6 2.6 with a group of relationship banks which provide bank facilities for general Net debt 297.0 16.1 280.9 corporate purposes.
These arranged lines of credit allow cash drawdowns to finance the Group and also include facilities which are dedicated to issuing The split between fixed rate and floating rate sterling bonds is after taking account of the effect of performance season ticket bonds, guarantees and letters of credit.
interest rate derivates that synthetically convert 150.0m of fixed rate debt to floating rate debt.
TABLE A Year ended 30 April 2011 Year ended 30 April 2010 SUMMARY OF TAX ON PROFIT Pre-tax profit Tax Rate Pre-tax profit Tax Rate m m % m m % Excluding intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 218.1 47.5 21.8% 168.7 34.6 20.5% Intangible asset expenses 15.2 3.1 20.4% 11.1 1.7 15.3% 202.9 44.4 21.9% 157.6 32.9 20.9% Exceptional items 0.7 1.3 185.7% 24.3 7.4 30.5% 203.6 45.7 22.4% 133.3 25.5 19.1% Reclassify joint venture taxation for reporting purposes 12.4 12.4 n a 7.4 7.4 n a Reported in income statement 191.2 33.3 17.4% 125.9 18.1 14.4% page 12 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 13 The Groups committed bank facilities and related surety arrangements as at 717.8m, with a further 2.2m 2010: 2.3m of ordinary shares held by employee trusts and not ranking for dividend.
30 April 2011 are analysed below: Performance Available for 3.8.
13 Net assets bonds, non-cash Available for Net assets at 30 April 2011 were 246.2m 2010: 12.7m with the increase guarantees utilisation cash Facility etc.
drawn only drawings primarily reflecting the strong results for the year, movements on cash flow Expiring in m m m m hedges of 23.4m after tax and actuarial gains on Group defined benefit MAIN GROUP FACILITIES pension schemes of 52.5m after tax.
14 Retirement benefits 2013 80.7 70.8 9.9 Nil The reported net assets of 246.2m 2010: 12.7m that are shown on the 2012 69.6 51.8 17.8 Nil consolidated balance sheet are after taking account of net retirement benefit liabilities of 97.1m 2010: 202.1m as analysed in note 26 to the 702.3 224.3 67.9 410.1 consolidated financial statements.
LOCAL & SHORT-TERM FACILITIES The Group recognised pre-tax actuarial gains of 76.5m 2010: losses of Various 15.7 2.2 Nil 13.5 138.7m on Group defined benefit pension schemes in the year ended 30 April 2011.
15 Capital The Groups main bank facilities are committed through to 2016.
The Group The Group regards its capital as comprising its equity, cash, gross debt and issued a 400m 5.75% bond in December 2009, which matures in December any similar items.
As at 30 April 2011, the Groups capital comprised: 2016.
The Group also maintains facilities in relation to asset finance Asset Finance 2011 2010 Facilities.
Asset Finance Facilities are typically agreed in principle one year in mm advance and are arranged for the purpose of funding bus vehicle expenditure and for specific UK Rail operating assets.
Asset Finance Facilities include Market value of ordinary shares in issue 1,778.0 1,418.6 finance leases, hire purchase agreements and operating leases.
The terms of Asset Finance Facilities are dependent on the underlying assets and typically Cash 358.3 375.7 range between five and ten years.
Gross debt 639.2 672.4 Although there is an element of seasonality in the Groups bus and rail operations, the overall impact of seasonality on working capital and liquidity Net debt see section 3.8.
The Group manages its capital centrally.
Its objective in managing capital is to The rail operations maintain cash balances to meet working capital optimise the returns to its shareholders whilst safeguarding the Groups ability requirements and the franchise agreements restrict the transfer of this cash.
to continue as a going concern and as such its ability to continue to generate Unless DfT consent is obtained, cash can only be transferred by loan or returns for its shareholders.
The Group also takes account of the interests of dividend to the extent that the relevant train operating company has other stakeholders when making decisions on its capital structure.
distributable profits, and the franchise is compliant with the liquidity covenants specified in its franchise agreement.
The capital structure of the Group is kept under regular review and will be adjusted from time to time to take account of changes in the size or structure 3.8.
10 Capital expenditure of the Group, economic developments and other changes in the Groups risk Additions to property, plant and equipment for the year were: profile.
The Group will adjust its capital structure from time to time by any of the following: issue of new shares, dividends, return of value to shareholders 2011 2010 and borrowing repayment of debt.
There are a number of factors that the m m Group considers in evaluating capital structure.
The principal ratios that the Directors consider are 1 Net Debt to EBITDA, 2 EBITDA to interest and 3 UK Bus regional operations 85.1 97.1 Net Debt to market capitalisation.
It is a matter of judgement as to what the UK Bus London 17.0 Nil optimal levels are for these ratios.
16 Treasury policies and objectives Other 0.1 Nil Risk management is carried out by a treasury committee and a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the 167.8 156.7 Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close 3.8.
11 Business combinations co-operation with the Groups operating units.
"The Board provides written principles for overall treasury risk management, as well as written policies On 14 October 2010, Stagecoach Bus Holdings Limited ""SBHL"", a Group covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit subsidiary, completed the acquisition of the bus business formerly owned by risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investing excess liquidity."
East London Bus Group Limited in administration.
SBHL acquired 100% of the voting equity interests in four companies that together operate the The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, lease acquired business.
and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the business.
The cash paid in respect of the acquisition was 59.5m, comprising 5.4m for the entire share capital of the acquired companies and 54.1m to settle See note 27 to the consolidated financial statements, for details of inter-company liabilities payable by the acquired companies to their former the Groups treasury risk management: parent company.
Further details are given in note 16 to the consolidated the Groups management of interest rate risk: financial statements.
the Groups fuel hedging: The Group has made no other material acquisitions in the year ended the Groups management of foreign currency risk: and 30 April 2011. the Groups management of credit risk.
12 Shares in issue Major financing transactions The weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year used to During the year, the Group entered into various hire purchase and finance calculate basic earnings per share was 717.5m 2010: 716.2m.
The number of lease arrangements for new assets as described in note 31 f to the ordinary shares ranking for dividend at 30 April 2011 was 717.9m 2010: consolidated financial statements.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 14 Operating and Financial Review The following new financing arrangements were put in place during the year incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimation of the ended 30 April 2011 and subsequently: balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that In May 2010, a new c. 20m 3.5-year rail bonding arrangement was agreed will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date to replace a bank facility that was due to expire in November 2010. but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The eventual In February 2011, the Group entered into 510m of new, unsecured bisettlements on such claims may differ from the amounts provided for at the lateral bank facilities that are committed for five years to February 2016. balance sheet date.
This is of greater risk in younger operations with a These new facilities replaced the bank facilities that were due to expire in shorter claims history from which to make informed estimates of provisions.
Pensions In February 2011, two new one-year rail bonding arrangements of c. 63m The determination of the Groups pension benefit obligation and expense for and c. 7m were entered into to replace two arrangements that were due defined benefit pension plans is dependent on the selection by the Directors to expire in March 2011. of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts.
Those In June 2011, the Group sold vehicles to a bank for c. 8m and leased them assumptions are described in note 26 to the consolidated financial back on an operating lease.
statements and include among others, the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, annual rate of increase in future salary levels 3.8.
17 Critical accounting policies and estimates and mortality rates.
A portion of the plan assets is invested in equity The Groups material accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the securities.
Equity markets have experienced volatility, which has affected the consolidated financial statements.
value of the pension plan assets.
This volatility may make it difficult to Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with estimate the long-term rate of return on plan assets.
The Directors International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the assumptions are based on actual historical experience and external data.
European Union requires directors to make estimates and assumptions that While we believe that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements and in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially accompanying notes.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimated.
The affect the pension obligation and future expense.
Directors believe that the accounting policies and estimation techniques Property, plant and equipment discussed below represent those that require the greatest exercise of Property, plant and equipment, other than land, are depreciated on a judgement.
The Directors have used their best judgement in determining the straightline basis to write off the cost or valuation less estimated residual estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a different set of value of each asset over their estimated useful lives.
Useful lives are estimated judgements could result in material changes to the Group's reported financial based on a number of factors, including the expected usage of the asset, performance and or financial position.
The discussion below should be read in expected deterioration and technological obsolescence.
If another conjunction with the full statement of accounting policies.
depreciation method for example, reducing balance was used or different Taxation useful lives or residual values were applied, this could have a material effect The Groups tax charge is based on the pre-tax profit for the year and tax rates on the Groups depreciation charge and net profit.
Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be made of the Rail contractual positions potential tax consequences of certain items that will only be resolved when The UK Rail industry is subject to a complex matrix of contractual agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
Assessment of the likely outcome is relationships.
The Groups train operating companies are party to contractual based on historical experience, professional advice from external advisors, and relationships with, amongst others, the DfT, Network Rail and rolling stock the current status of any judgmental issues.
However, the final tax cost to the lessors.
The nature of these contracts is such that there can be uncertainty Group may differ from the estimates.
and or disagreement as to amounts receivable or payable by the Group in Acquired customer contracts and onerous contracts accordance with the contracts.
The Group makes estimates of the amounts The Group has a number of contractual commitments, most significantly in receivable or payable taking account of the available, relevant information.
respect of its rail franchises and its acquired East London bus business.
In Actual outcomes can differ from the estimates made by the Group and there certain circumstances, IFRS requires a provision to be recorded for a contract can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions made by the Group will that is onerous or when acquired as part of a business combination, that is hold true.
A contract is considered onerous where it is probable that the future economic benefits to be derived from the contract are 3.9 Current trading and outlook less than the unavoidable costs under the contract.
Determining the amount Current trading remains in line with our expectations.
The improving trends of any contract provision necessitates forecasting future cash flows and mean the Group can look forward with confidence to the year ahead.
We will applying an appropriate discount rate to determine a net present value.
There continue to consider opportunities in the transport sector to create value for is uncertainty over future cash flows.
Estimates of cash flows are consistent our shareholders.
The strong fundamentals of the Group ensure we are well with managements plans and forecasts.
The estimate of future cash flows and positioned to take advantage of emerging opportunities for growth.
the discount rate involves a significant degree of judgment.
Actual results can Public transport is central to supporting economic growth and meeting the differ from those assumed and there can be no absolute assurance that the global challenge of climate change.
In the UK, high quality public transport will assumptions used will hold true.
be at the heart of the successful delivery of the London 2012 Olympic and Goodwill and impairment Paralympic Games.
We believe the outlook for our bus and rail services is In certain circumstances, IFRS requires property, plant, equipment and positive.
We have the people, the products and the passion for public transport intangible assets to be reviewed for impairment.
When a review for that will deliver for our customers and our shareholders.
impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to 3.10 Principal risks and uncertainties the net present value of the expected future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit CGU or net realisable value, if higher.
The discount rate Like most businesses, there are a range of risks and uncertainties facing the applied in determining the present value of future cash flows is based on the Group and the matters described below are not intended to be an exhaustive Groups estimated weighted average cost of capital with appropriate list of all possible risks and uncertainties.
adjustments made to reflect the specific risks associated with the CGU.
Generally, the Group is subject to risk factors both internal and external to its Estimates of cash flows are consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
External risks include global political and economic conditions, The estimation of future cash flows and the discount rate involves a significant competitive developments, supply interruption, regulatory changes, foreign degree of judgement.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there exchange, materials and consumables including fuel prices, pensions can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
funding, environmental risks, industrial action, litigation and the risk of Insurance terrorism.
Internal risks include risks related to capital expenditure, acquisitions, regulatory compliance and failure of internal controls.
Details of The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee risk management procedures are given on page 27. incidents.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of The focus below is on those specific risks and uncertainties that the Directors the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made for the believe are the most significant to the Group, taking account of the likelihood estimated cost to the Group net of insurance recoveries to settle claims for of occurrence of each risk and the potential effect on the Group.
page 14 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 15 Our UK Rail businesses are subject to complex contractual arrangements.
3.10.1 Catastrophic events Contractual management is an important part of our rail activities because the There is a risk that the Group is involved directly or indirectly in a major way in which contracts are managed can be a significant determinant of operational incident resulting in significant human injuries or damage to financial performance.
This could have a significant impact on claims against the Group, the reputation of the Group and its chances of winning and retaining contracts or Compliance with franchise conditions is closely managed and monitored and franchises.
procedures are in place to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
The Group has a proactive culture that puts health and safety at the top of its 3.10.7 Pension scheme funding agenda in order to mitigate the potential for major incidents.
In the unlikely The Group participates in a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
There event that a major incident did occur, the Group has procedures in place for is a risk that the cash contributions required to these schemes increases or responding to such incidents.
decreases due to changes in factors such as investment performance, the rates 3.10.2 Terrorism used to discount liabilities and life expectancies.
Any increase in contributions There have been multiple acts of terrorism on public transport systems and will reduce the Groups cash flows.
other terrorist attacks that whilst not directly targeting public transport have Decisions on pension scheme funding, asset allocation and benefit promises discouraged travel.
There is a risk that the demand for the Groups services are taken by management and or pension scheme trustees in consultation could be adversely affected by a significant terrorist incident.
Such a fall in with trade unions and suitably qualified advisors.
A Pensions Oversight demand would have a negative effect on the Groups revenue and financial Committee has been established comprising the Finance Director, a Nonperformance.
The Group has plans in place designed to reduce the financial Executive Director and other senior executives, to oversee the Groups overall impact of a terrorist incident and these plans take account of the Groups pensions strategy.
The Board participates in major decisions on the funding experience of managing the North American business during the period of and design of pension schemes.
depressed demand following the major terrorist attack on 11 September 2001.
3.10.8 Insurance and claims environment 3.10.3 Economy The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee claims.
The economic environment in the geographic areas in which the Group The Group protects itself against the cost of such claims through third party operates affects the demand for the Groups bus and rail services.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of the the revenue of the Groups UK rail operations is historically correlated with excess on insurance policies.
factors such as UK GDP and Central London Employment.
In North America, a greater proportion of the revenue is derived from tour, charter and sightseeing There is a risk that the number or magnitude of claims are not as expected and services than in the UK and these services tend to be more susceptible to that the cost to the Group of settling these claims is significantly higher or economic changes.
The revenue and profit of the Group could therefore be lower than expected.
In the US, in particular, there is a risk that given the size of positively or negatively affected by changes in the economy.
the excess, that a small number of large-value claims could have a material Management monitors actual and projected economic trends in order to impact on the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
match capacity to demand and where possible, minimise the impact of The Group has a proactive culture that puts health and safety at the top of its adverse economic trends on the Group.
agenda and this helps mitigate the potential for claims arising.
Where claims do arise, they are managed by dedicated insurance and claims specialists in 3.10.4 Rail cost base order to minimise the cost to the Group.
Where appropriate, legal advice is A substantial element of the cost base in the Groups UK Rail Division is obtained from appropriately qualified advisors.
The balance between insured essentially fixed because under its UK rail franchise agreements, the Group is and retained risks is re-evaluated at least once a year and insurance and claims obliged to provide a minimum level of train services and is therefore unable to activity is monitored closely.
flex supply in response to short-term changes in demand.
In addition, a significant part of the cost base is comprised of payments to the infrastructure 3.10.9 Regulatory changes and availability of public provider, Network Rail, and payments under train operating leases which are funding committed and do not vary with revenue.
Accordingly, a significant proportion Public transport is subject to varying degrees of regulation across the locations of any change in revenue for example, arising as a result of the risks described in which the Group operates.
There is a risk that changes to the regulatory in sections 3.10.2 and 3.10.3 will impact profit in the UK Rail Division.
environment could impact the Groups prospects.
This risk is taken account of when bidding for new rail franchises see 3.10.5 Similarly, many of the Groups businesses benefit from some form of financial and for current franchises we look to closely manage those variable costs that support from government including direct financial support, the provision of we can control.
equipment, government contracts and concessionary fare schemes.
There is a 3.10.5 Sustainability of rail profits risk that the availability of sufficient government financial support changes due A significant element of the Groups revenue and profit is generated by UK rail to regulatory or other reasons.
The UK Governments stated policy to reduce franchises.
There is a risk that the Groups revenue and profit could be spending has increased the likelihood of this risk crystallising.
The UK Bus significantly affected either positively or negatively as a result of the Group regional operations profit for the year ended 30 April 2011 included 78.7m winning new franchises, failing to retain its existing franchises or winning new 2010: 80. m of Bus Services Operators Grant, 231.4m 2010: 230.0m of franchises on unattractive terms.
In order to manage the risks, the Group has concessionary revenue and 101.8m 2010: 106.3m of tendered and school devoted significant management resource and financial investment to bidding bus revenue.
In the UK, the study of the UK bus market by the competition authorities is an Appropriately experienced personnel are retained to work on rail bids and third example of a regulatory matter affecting our business.
Whilst at this stage, we party consultants are engaged to provide additional expertise.
The Board do not expect this to have a material impact on the Groups financial approves the overall rail bidding strategy and the key parameters for each bid.
performance or financial position, we continue to monitor developments closely.
3.10.6 Breach of franchise The Group is required to comply with certain conditions as part of its rail Management closely monitors relevant proposals for changes in the regulatory franchise agreements.
If it fails to comply with these conditions, it may be environment and communicates the Groups views to key decision makers and liable to penalties including the potential termination of one or more of the bodies.
The Group actively participates in various industry and national trade rail franchise agreements.
This would result in the Group losing the right to bodies along with domestic and international government forums.
The Group continue operating the affected operations and consequently, the related seeks to maintain good, co-operative relationships with all levels of revenues and cash flows.
The Group may also lose some or all of the amounts government, by developing and promoting ideas that offer cost effective ways set aside as security for the shareholder loan facilities, the performance bonds of improving public transport.
and the season ticket bonds.
The Group can do more to prevent breaches of 3.10.10 Management and Board succession franchise where it has sole control than where it has joint control.
As the holder of a 49% joint venture interest in Virgin Rail Group, the Group has less The Group values the continued services of its senior employees, including its control over the joint ventures operations and that means the Groups Directors and management who have operational, marketing, engineering, management may be less able to prevent a breach of the Virgin Rail Group technical, project management, financial and administrative skills that are franchise agreement.
important to the operation of the Groups business.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 16 Operating and Financial Review Succession planning for the Directors and senior management is an important During the past year, we have undertaken further initiatives to improve and issue and as such is considered by the Nomination Committee as described in make a difference in many of these areas.
The information below provides just section 8.3 and the Board.
The appropriate level of management deals with a few highlights of our commitment in action.
recruitment and retention of other staff.
3.10.11 Disease 3.11.1 New Code of Business Conduct There have been concerns in recent years about the risk of a swine flu Stagecoach Group has a set of core values and policies in a number of areas: pandemic, which follows previous concerns over bird flu and SARS.
There is a how we deal with our employees, suppliers, customers, competitors, and the risk that demand for the Groups services could be adversely affected by a wider communities in which we work.
These values apply to every director and significant outbreak of disease.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative employee in all our companies across our global operations.
The Board of impact on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
The Group has Directors remains committed to ensuring the correct processes, controls, plans in place to respond to any significant outbreak of disease.
governance and culture exist to support the maintenance of these values and behaviours.
3.10.12 Information technology The Group will shortly finalise a new Code of Conduct setting out these key The Group is reliant on information technology for sales, operations and back principles and providing practical examples and advice to act as a guide to office functions.
Information technology failures or interruptions could employees corporate behaviour.
The Code of Conduct will include information adversely affect the Group.
on Stagecoachs anti-corruption policy and programme, which is supported by An increasing proportion of the Group's sales are made via the Internet.
There its Board of Directors and overseen by the Group Company Secretary.
The is a risk that the Group's capability to make Internet sales either fails or cannot Board of Directors does not tolerate bribery or corruption and periodically meet levels of demand and the time taken to implement restorative actions is assesses the risk of bribery and corruption.
The new Code of Conduct will be unacceptably long due to insufficient resource being available and or over supported by a communications programme to raise awareness among reliance on a small number of service providers.
This risk could result in employees of the importance of living up to the Company's values.
significant levels of lost revenue at a time when the Group is investing in megabus.
com coach operations in North America, of which Internet sales is a fundamental part.
com website failure 3.11.2 Supporting and recognising our people could severely affect the megabus.
com brand and also give a competitor an Our Healthy Heart Bus initiative the first of its kind in the UK is continuing advantage during the time of the failure.
to benefit employees across the country.
The voluntary heart health screening programme for employees in our UK Bus division is delivered in partnership The Group is continually investing in its information technology systems, with the UK's largest independent hospital provider, BMI Healthcare.
A bus people and suppliers to ensure the robustness of its information technology.
refurbished as a mobile cardio-screening unit is touring our bus depots, It is developing new Internet sales platforms and continues to look to ensure providing free heart health check-ups for thousands of staff.
During the year, that it secures reliable service provision.
we have extended the scope of the scheme to cover all UK Bus employees 3.10.13 Treasury risks regardless of length of service.
Employees receive individual advice on ways to Details of the Groups treasury risks are discussed in note 27 to the improve their heart health and access further medical tests through their GP if consolidated financial statements, and include the risks arising from required.
We also believe it is important to recognise the excellent work our employees do across our operations in the UK and North America.
This year, we extended 3.11 Corporate social responsibility the scope of our Stagecoach Champions recognition awards to cover new Responsible business remains central to what we do every day from the categories.
Gold, Silver and Bronze awards were presented for excellence in the principles that underpin our business, to the way we support our employees areas of safety, environment, community, health, customer service and and the steps we take to engage with our stakeholders.
The Group has published separate documents outlining its sustainability strategy and its approach to corporate social responsibility.
These documents and additional information and case studies are provided on our website at 3.11.3 Promoting safety http: www.
As a result, this section includes A commitment to the highest standards of safety is at the heart of our examples of our initiatives to illustrate our approach to these issues.
Public transport remains the safest way to travel and we have a We are a key part of communities in the UK and North America, providing good safety record.
We have a proactive culture across the Group that lifeline transport services and significant job opportunities.
People and ensures the health and safety of our customers and our employees is our top partnership are central to the success of our approach.
Our focus is on growing priority and goes beyond strict adherence to legislative regulations.
our business sustainably, enhancing the communities in which we operate, Health and safety is monitored and reported on across Stagecoach Group and delivering value to our shareholders and helping to meet the global challenge immediate action is taken to address issues in our business processes.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired by a non-Executive Stagecoach Group is consistently rated highly against the other UK major director, considers these issues and monitors a range of relevant performance transport groups in comparative studies examining social, environmental and indicators.
It reports to the Board on these matters.
For the second time in three years, the Group Our employees are provided with appropriate health and safety training and headed the transport sector in the Britains Most Admired Companies awards.
encouraged to report any concerns.
We expect our suppliers and contractors Stagecoach was rated in the top 20 companies in 2010 out of the full survey of to have a similar commitment to complying with appropriate regulations in more than 200 businesses assessed.
The Group was ranked first in the this area.
transport sector for the quality of goods and services, community and In the UK, we have in place an engineering maintenance regime which is environmental responsibility, and use of corporate assets.
stricter than legal requirements and this is bolstered by a rolling programme Our corporate responsibility strategy focuses on a number of specific key areas: of operational and engineering audits at our depots.
Our people and our customers Trials have been conducted in North America of a device to support existing Safety and security processes to promote safety among drivers on overnight duties.
The NapAccessibility and affordability Zapper device is clipped to the ear of a driver and emits a loud buzz if it detects Environmental performance signs of driver fatigue.
We have also undertaken analysis of lifestyle risks to Building community relationships drivers, including irregular sleep or work hours and poor exercise and diet.
Corporate governance We were one of a number of bus operators who took part in a multi-agency exercise in November 2010 to simulate the evacuation of New Jersey Many stakeholders are involved in the success of our business and information residents from New York City during a man-made or natural disaster.
on how we build relationships with them can be found on our website at http: www.
com scg csr stakeholders page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:38 Page 17 3.11.4 Affordable travel installing new energy efficient hand-driers in facility toilets in the United States, as well as water coolers which cut landfill waste by removing the need We believe promoting affordable travel is a key part of driving modal shift for bottles.
from the private car to greener, smarter public transport.
During the year ended 30 April 2011, Stagecoach has extended the footprint of its budget introducing energy saving lighting and schemes to recycle oil filters and travel services in the UK and North America.
com, our low-cost interaerosol cans at our Canadian operations.
city coach service, now covers around 60 locations in the UK and around a The Group is working with industry partners and the UK Government on further 60 locations in the United States and Canada.
com in North climate change issues, including contributing to the development of policies on America won the Leading Provider of Outstanding Car Rental and Bus Deals adapting infrastructure to mitigate the impacts of climate change.
Stagecoach category at the Travelzoo awards for the second year in a row, beating off is also seeking more pro-bus and coach policies through the Greener Journeys competition from major global brands.
Passengers can also use our discount campaign www.
com and highlighting the need to tackle rail service, megatrain.
com, to travel for as little as 1 plus booking fee to energy security risks through its work as part of the UK Industry taskforce on around 30 locations in the UK on the South West Trains, East Midlands Trains Peak Oil and Energy Security www.
com, our innovative budget coach We continue to report annually through our website on our carbon footprint and rail service, has also expanded during the year.
We continue to focus on and our progress in reaching our carbon reduction targets.
In addition, we offering value-for-money local bus travel in our regional networks across disclose details of our strategy and performance through the Carbon Disclosure through the UK.
"The Group is also investing in technology to make it easier for Project ""CDP"", the worlds largest corporate greenhouse gas emissions customers to find good travel deals."
East Midlands Trains award-winning database.
The Group is the only UK public transport group in the FTSE350 online Best Fare Finder provides a quick and easy way for passengers to access selected for the CDPs Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index.
the cheapest available fare for around 450 different UK train journeys.
Stagecoach has received further independent recognition in the past year for its environmental initiatives.
It won the Travel and Transport category at the 2010 3.11.5 Sustainable business Green Business Awards for its innovative Bio-bus scheme in Kilmarnock where The Groups five-year sustainability strategy, launched in April 2010, is a fleet of buses run on 100% sustainable biofuel made from used cooking oil progressing well and we have made further progress towards reaching our and other food industry by-products.
Stagecoach was also a finalist in the goals.
We are investing 11m in a range of measures and have set specific Company of the Year category at the 2011 BusinessGreen Leaders Awards, while targets for each of our businesses.
The Group is targeting an overall reduction of while the Chief Executive, Sir Brian Souter, was shortlisted as Leader of the Year.
8% in buildings CO e carbon dioxide equivalent emissions and a cut of 3% in 2 annual fleet transport CO e emissions by April 2014.
It follows significant 2 3.11.6 Supporting community projects reductions already achieved in previous years.
As well as ensuring we meet our We help local people share in our success by funding the vital work of local, regulatory obligations, we believe our initiatives can help improve efficiency, cut national and international charities.
During the year ended 30 April 2011, costs and contribute to the growth of our business.
0.6m 2010: 0.6m was donated by the Group to help many worthwhile We held our third annual Green Week in May 2011 to drive forward awareness causes, including many health charities and local community projects.
of environmental issues in the UK and North America among employees and The Group has provided financial support for the road safety charity, Brake, as customers.
As well as demonstrating the measures we are taking across the well as the Railway Children, which works for runaway and abandoned children Group, Green Week highlighted the environmental and financial benefits of who live in or around the world's railway stations.
Our funding is also helping using public transport.
Green roadshows, events, competitions and support the work of the National Rail Chaplaincy Service, whose welfare support demonstrations were held at a number of the Group's bus and rail operations.
is available to all current and retired rail staff members, their families and the Employees were also given the chance to put forward their own green travelling public.
suggestions, while proceeds from fund-raising initiatives were donated to During the year, we have made significant donations to Marie Curie Cancer environmental charities.
Cares Big Build Appeal, Downs Syndrome Scotland and Help for Heroes, which Stagecoach Group continues to take steps to ensure compliance with its raises money to support members of the Armed Forces who have been obligations under the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency wounded in the service of their country.
The Groups achievement of the prestigious Carbon Trust Standard, We have also provided backing for dozens of smaller initiatives, as well as which covers all of its UK operations, will give the business a higher ranking in offering match funding to complement many fund-raising activities by our the performance league table.
The Group intends to apply for recertification for employees for national campaigns or local good causes.
the Standard or an alternative standard certified by the Department of Energy and Climate Change during the year ending 30 April 2012.
3.11.7 Corporate Governance During the year ended 30 April 2011, the Groups initiatives to reduce the Stagecoach Group is committed to the principles of good corporate impact of its businesses on the environment have included: governance, as described in section 6. a multi-million-pound investment in a hi-tech eco-driving system in the UK designed to reduce fuel consumption and improve safety.
The scheme also 3.11.8 Further information offers employees the chance to earn green points that are converted into Full details of our corporate social responsibility strategy and further case studies financial benefits from a potential 900,000 annual bonus pot.
can be found on the Stagecoach Group website at leading the way on investing in greener vehicles, placing orders for more http: www.
com scg media publications policydocs than 140 hybrid electric buses which deliver a 30% reduction in carbon csr-strategy.
pdf emissions compared to standard vehicles.
A copy of the Groups sustainability strategy is available online at launching a fleet of greener buses powered by household rubbish and animal http: www.
com scg media publications policydocs waste converted into biomethane.
installing new intelligent lighting systems at bus depots and at railway Annual updates on our environmental measures and performance are available stations, which use movement sensors to determine the amount of light at http: www.
com scg csr environment performance.
issuing bus drivers across the UK with fleece jackets made from recycled plastic bottles.
investing 2.2m in a major regenerative braking project at South West Trains.
The technology, being installed on to more than 200 trains, returns electricity to the third rail system, allowing trains in close proximity to draw on the electrical supply.
using an innovative fuel additive to reduce fuel consumption at East Midlands Trains, as well as testing an energy-saving train engine standby mode.
introducing energy wardens and greener driver training measures at East Midlands Trains.
