Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIrEcTorS STATuTorY rEPorT 46 corPorATE GovErNANcE rEPorT 51 DIrEcTorS rEMuNErATIoN rEPorT 59 STATEMENT oF DIrEcTorS rESPoNSIBILITIES 68 INDEPENDENT AuDITorS rEPorT 69 44 44 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2011 ANNU 011 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 45 45 Corporate Governance: directors Statutory Report dIReCtoRS StAtutoRY RepoRt The Directors are pleased to submit their report together with The Groups adjusted profit before taxation which excludes Share capital Supplier payment policy and practice the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2011. amortisation and impairment of intangible assets associated with the Details of the Companys equity and preference share capital are given The Company does not incur significant costs and the Group Groups Japanese business and impairment of the goodwill associated in notes 23 and 22 respectively to the Financial Statements.
Details of does not follow any stated code on payment practice.
It is the Principal activities with the Groups Sport business was 163,000,000 2010: 157,639,000. the Groups required regulatory capital are disclosed in note 34 to the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with suppliers when An overview of the principal activities of the Group is provided Financial Statements and in the Operating and Financial Review.
agreeing the terms for each transaction and to abide by those in the Business Review.
Standard terms provide for payment of all invoices within Details of related party transactions are set out in note 31 to the The Group purchases its own shares in order to satisfy awards under 30 days after the date of the invoice, except where different terms Branches outside the united Kingdom Financial Statements.
the Groups share incentive plan schemes and the Group issues shares have been agreed with the supplier at the outset.
There were 5.5 In line with strategic objectives, the Group has branches in in respect of long-term incentive plan schemes.
Details of the shares creditor days of suppliers invoices outstanding at the year-end a number of overseas jurisdictions including Australia, New Subsequent events held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trusts and the amounts paid 2010: 4.5 for the Group.
Zealand, South Africa, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the On 8 June 2011 the Group reached agreement to sell the majority during the year are disclosed in note 24 to the Financial Statements.
Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Sweden.
of the client list relating to extrabets sport spread betting and Donations fixed odds betting business to Spreadex Limited.
The terms of the change of control The Group made no political donations in the year 2010: nil.
review of business and future developments sale are such that the Group will receive semi-annual payments Following any future change of control of the Company, the The Group made charitable donations of 119,036 in the year A review of the Groups progress, outlining developments during for the next three years, calculated by reference to the revenue Groups banking facilities, which are currently undrawn refer to 2010: 40,335 as follows: the year and giving an indication of future developments, is that the acquirer generates from clients on the list.
note 33 to the Financial Statements, will be cancelled and any 2011 provided in the Business Review.
The Business Review also covers obligations will become immediately due and payable.
Japanese earthquake relief fund 37,286 an analysis of the financial position of the Group at the year-end On 12 July 2011 the Group completed the redundancy The Gambling Trust 26,288 and Key Performance Indicators.
consultation process with the employees of extrabet.
As a result Annual General Meeting The Entrepreneurs Foundation 20,000 of this any extrabet employees unable to find a role within the The Groups Annual General Meeting will be held on 6 October 2011.
Employee-matched giving various causes 11,750 risk management Group will be made redundant as of 19 July 2011.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Specialist schools 10,500 An overview of the Groups risk appetite and the risk management Meeting are set out in a separate circular sent to all shareholders.
Cricket Foundation 5,000 framework, along with the Groups key risks and their mitigation, is Dividends Other 8,212 provided in the Our Business Risks section of the Business Review.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 14.75 pence registered number per share, amounting to 53,368,000, making a total of 20.00 pence The registered number of IG Group Holdings plc is 04677092.
The Corporate Governance Report provides an explanation of the per share and 72,337,000 for the year.
Dividends are recognised in Groups governance and control frameworks including the roles the Financial Statements in the year in which they are paid, or in the Major interests in shares and responsibilities of each of the Board, Audit Committee and case of a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
The Notifications shown below have been received by the Company of shareholdings of three percent or more of the issued ordinary Risk Committee.
amount recognised in the Financial Statements, as described in note share capital.
11, is made up of this years interim dividend and the final dividend as at 15 july 2011 as at 31 may 2011 The principal activities of the Group outlined in the Business from the previous year, which were both paid during the year.
of shares percentage Review give rise to exposure to financial risks in the ordinary course BlackRock Inc. 18,569,208 5.13% 12,956,579 3.58% of business.
The main risks associated with the Groups financial The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 11 October Massachusetts Financial Services Company 18,150,880 5.01% 17,841,957 4.93% instruments, as well as the policies agreed by the Board to manage 2011 to those shareholders on the register at 9 September 2011.
Artemis Investment Management Limited 18,144,994 5.01% 18,144,994 5.01% these risks, are detailed in note 33 to the Financial Statements.
Cantillon Capital Management LLC 18,119,287 5.00% 18,119,287 5.00% Directors and their interests Investec Asset Management Limited 17,863,943 4.93% 17,863,943 4.93% results Profiles of the Directors who held office at the end of the year Ameriprise Financial Inc. and its group 17,774,188 4.91% 17,774,188 4.91% The Groups statutory loss for the year after taxation amounted are given below, and details of the service contracts for those Standard Life Investments Limited 17,564,421 4.85% 17,564,421 4.85% to 25,292,000 2010: profit of 101,486,000, of which a loss of Directors are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
JP Morgan Chase & Co 15,830,307 4.37% 15,830,307 4.37% 25,453,000 2010: profit of 101,281,000 is attributable to the Details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Legal & General Group plc 14,287,840 3.94% 14,287,840 3.94% equity members of the Company.
Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Ignis Investment Services Limited 11,851,906 3.27% 11,851,906 3.27% Prudential plc 11,066,417 3.05% 11,066,417 3.05% Jonathan Davie BoArD oF DIrEcTorS non-executive chairman, 64 years old Jonathan qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
He joined George M. Hill and Co, a jobber on the London Stock Exchange Jonathan Davie Non-Executive Chairman 47 David Currie Non-Executive Director 52 in 1969.
The firm was acquired by Wedd Durlacher Mordaunt and Co where Jonathan became a partner in 1975.
Tim Howkins Chief Executive 48 Martin Jackson Non-Executive Director 53 Jonathan was the senior dealing partner of the firm on its acquisition by Barclays Bank to form BZW in 1986.
Jonathan Christopher Hill Chief Financial Officer 49 Stephen Hill Non-Executive Director 54 developed BZWs Fixed Income Business prior to becoming CEO of the Global Equities Business in 1991.
In 1996 Jonathan became Deputy Chairman of BZW and then Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston in 1998 on their acquisition of Peter Hetherington Chief Operating Officer 50 Nat le Roux Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 55 most of BZWs businesses.
Jonathan is presently a Non-Executive Director of Persimmon plc and Chairman of First Avenue Andrew MacKay Director of Corporate Strategy 51 Roger Yates Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 56 Partners, an alternatives advisory boutique.
46 46 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2011 ANNU 011 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 47 47 Corporate Governance: directors Statutory Report dIReCtoRS StAtutoRY RepoRt continued corporate governance As a result of this review, the Directors have a reasonable Central to the Groups TCF policy is the quality of our order Protection of our clients data and funds: The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue execution.
We offer near-instantaneous execution, with We prioritise the security of our clients information and funds and in the Corporate Governance Report.
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this around 99% of client orders accepted automatically.
We never we have achieved the ISO 27001 certificate for Information Security.
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in re-quote prices and, within our set margin of tolerance, we Auditors preparing the Financial Statements.
will accept orders even if the market moves.
Our innovative client services In the course of the current financial year, the Groups Audit Price Improvement technology enables customers to receive a Impeccable client service is at the heart of our commitment to the Committee decided it was desirable to put the Groups audit corporate and social responsibility better price if one becomes available as a trade is executed.
responsible treatment of all our clients.
Our large team of highlyappointment out to a competitive tender process.
The Group is committed to ensuring that its interactions with trained, dedicated client service staff delivers a professional and employees, clients, suppliers, shareholders, society and the wider Client support and education: responsive value-based approach to client service.
Almost 10% of Upon careful consideration of proposals from three candidate environment are managed responsibly.
This commitment has We provide extensive educational resources for clients, including the Groups total global staff is engaged in client services.
firms, including the incumbent auditors, the Committee made been a key feature of the Groups values since its inception in an introductory education programme promoting responsible a recommendation to the Board that  1974.
A sense of responsibility underlies all our businesses and trading and a wide range of client seminars and webinars, operations and environment LLP be appointed as the Groups auditor.
The Board agreed to is manifested in everything from our dealings with clients to available online and in person.
As a business which conducts over 90% of its client trades this recommendation, and effective from 8 December 2010, the conscientiousness about the environmental impact we make.
online, we do not see ourselves as a significant emitter of Board accepted the resignation of Ernst & Young LLP and the Client suitability: environmentally harmful substances.
However, we do understand appointment of  LLP as the Groups In the following pages we provide an overview of our corporate We have a number of procedures to ensure that our products that our operations have an impact on the environment and auditor until the conclusion of the Companys next forthcoming and social responsibility report.
The Groups full corporate and reach the right audience and that our clients understand how our we are committed to taking greater consideration of our AGM in October 2011, when a resolution to re-appoint social responsibility report is published on our corporate website products work: environmental footprint.
 LLP will be put to shareholders.
Our pr oducts are not suitable for everyone.
It is for this reason that we apply strict rules to ensure we only promote our products to Further details on our commitment to the environment can be Directors statement as to disclosure of information Business standards the right audience.
We also apply strict rules to ensure that any found in our full corporate and social responsibility report on to auditors The Group applies high standards across its businesses, and these promotion is clear, fair and not misleading and contains a balanced our corporate website at www.
The report details So far as each person who was a Director at the date of approving standards frequently exceed local regulatory requirements of the description of the risks alongside the benefits of our product.
the Groups carbon emissions, the use of email statements, and this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being jurisdictions in which we operate.
We also support and adhere Bef ore we allow clients to open an account, we will undertake an endeavours towards sustainability including a section on the information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing to high standards of corporate governance as set out in the assessment to determine whether our products are appropriate or environment sustainability charter promoted in the fit-out of their report, of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director Corporate Governance Report and the Statement by the Directors suitable for the client in question.
This involves asking the client about the Groups new UK head office at Cannon Bridge House, that has taken all the steps that he is obliged to take as a Director in in Compliance with the Combined Code.
their trading knowledge and experience and about their income amongst other things achieved a recycling rate of 94% of the order to make him aware of any relevant audit information and to savings.
Based on the results of this assessment, we may choose to strip-out materials taken from the site.
establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
A reputation for honesty and transparency is vital in the financial provide the client with a warning about the appropriateness of the derivatives industry, and the Groups commitment to these account, or we may decline to open an account.
Workplace Going concern values is a cornerstone of our success.
The Group maintains high The Group is rapidly growing and provides a fast-moving and The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on a going standards of corporate behaviour throughout our businesses and Limiting client losses: successful working environment.
Our employees have pride in concern basis, which requires the Directors to have a reasonable operations.
This is embodied within each of the following service We have a number of service offerings that aim to limit what we have achieved and a strong sense of belonging.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in offerings and behaviours.
client losses, for example we offer clients the ability to operational existence for the foreseeable future.
include Guaranteed Stops on positions so that the maximum The Group pays performance-related bonuses to most staff and Commitment to Treating Customers Fairly TCF : possible loss to the client is known at the outset of the trade.
makes awards under long-term incentive and value sharing plans The Directors have reviewed the Groups processes to control As set out in the Business Review we are fully committed to the Additionally, our Close-Out Monitor COM, which automatically to key personnel.
In addition, the opportunity to acquire shares the financial risks to which the Group is exposed, its available FSAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF initiative and have developed liquidates client positions where their margin has been under various share incentive plans has been made available to liquidity, its regulatory capital position and the annual budget.
a scorecard of 25 measures to monitor how we treat our clients.
significantly eroded, also aims to limit potential client losses.
At all UK, Australian and US staff.
These awards reward employees for 31 May 2011, 98.8% of all client accounts were either subject past performance and help to retain them in the future.
We also to Guaranteed Stops or the automatic COM procedure.
Further provide a range of other benefits to employees, including pension details are set out in note 33 to the Financial Statements.
contributions and private health insurance.
Tim Howkins Christopher Hill chief executive, 48 years old chief financial officer, 40 years old Tim has a first class degree in Mathematics and Computer Science from Reading.
He qualified as a Chartered Christopher has an MA in Modern History from Oxford University.
He is a Chartered Accountant and an associate Accountant with Ernst & Young and is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Tim was one of a group member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Before joining IG Group, he was Chief Financial Officer of Travelex, of partners and staff who left Ernst & Young in 1990 to form Rees Pollock, a firm of Chartered Accountants targeted at a group providing cross-border payment and foreign exchange services to corporate and retail customers.
Prior to entrepreneurial, owner-managed businesses.
Tim was a partner in Rees Pollock for seven years and was the partner joining Travelex in 2007, Christopher worked at VWR international, a global laboratory supply company from 2005 to responsible for IG Groups audit.
He then joined IG Group as Finance Director in 1999, and became Chief Executive in 2007, at General Electric from 2000 to 2005 and at Arthur Andersen from 1992 to 2000.
Tim is a member of the Board and Executive Committee of the Futures and Options Association.
48 48 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2011 ANNU 011 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 49 49 Corporate Governance: Corporate Governance Report dIReCtoRS StAtutoRY RepoRt CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe RepoRt continued Employee involvement Equality and diversity STATEMENT BY THE DIrEcTorS IN coMPLIANcE Nat le Roux has informed the Board of his wish to step down at The Group prides itself on being an open, non-hierarchical We are an equal opportunities employer and have extensive human WITH THE coMBINED coDE the 2012 AGM.
The effect of these changes means that the Board organisation with direct and open access amongst all teams and at resource policies in place to ensure that employees can expect to The Corporate Governance Report, together with the Remuneration will be fully compliant with Code Provision A.
3.2 of the Combined all levels.
In response to the expanding size of the Group during the work in an environment free from discrimination and harassment.
Report, details how the Company has applied the principles and Code after the 2012 AGM.
year, the policy of providing employees with information about the complied with the provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code on Group continued through quarterly management forums facilitated The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment Corporate Governance, for this financial year, a copy of which can be It is the intention of the Board to put every member up for by the Chief Executive.
These included updating line managers from disabled persons where the candidates particular aptitudes found on the Financial Reporting Council website www.
re-election commencing with the 2011 AGM in October, on business results and on current initiatives across the Group and abilities are consistent with adequately meeting the bringing the Company into advance compliance with on a quarterly basis.
Employees are encouraged to make these requirements of the job.
Where existing employees become The Board has reviewed the new UK Corporate Governance Code, paragraph B.
7.1 of the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
sessions as interactive as they can by challenging ideas, presenting disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide continuing employment which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 suggestions and views on the Groups performance, development wherever practicable in the same or alternative position and to June 2010, and which will apply to the Company for the year Profiles of the Directors who held office at the end of the year are and policies.
Line managers then communicate the points raised provide appropriate training to achieve this aim.
ending 31 May 2012. shown on pages 46-56. in the forum across the organisation.
The Chief Executive also runs these sessions for all Head Office employees every six months to Society The Board is satisfied that the Company complied with the provisions THE WorKINGS oF THE BoArD AND ITS ensure that employees get the opportunity to hear the view from We are keen to encourage employees to engage in activities of the Combined Code for the whole year, with the exception that the coMMITTEES the top.
The recent series of meetings in June 2011 were filmed that help their development and support local communities.
Company was not compliant with paragraph A.
The Board for the first time so that all of our overseas offices could also be For example, we match any funds employees have raised for Composition of the Board involved in this communication.
A summary of our charitable donations, Paragraph A.
3.2 of the Combined Code requires that at least half During the year, the Company was headed by an experienced Board including the employee matched giving, is provided earlier of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent Nonof Directors consisting of an independent Non-Executive Chairman, The Groups intranet is utilised to communicate with employees.
in the Directors Statutory Report.
The Board is currently comprised of four a non-independent Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, four Executive The home page of the intranet is updated weekly to provide Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors excluding Directors, including the Group Chief Executive Officer, and as of details of employee news for example new starters, leavers, role Our Absence Management Policy also offers the opportunity for the Deputy Chairman and the Chairman.
28 April 2011, four independent Non-Executive Directors.
changes as well as employee challenges or any Company awards.
employees to take up voluntary work, for which we grant additional Employees participate directly in the success of the business leave on a like-for-like basis up to a maximum of five matched days The Deputy Chairman, Nat le Roux is considered a nonChristopher Hill, the Groups Chief Financial Officer was appointed through the Groups performance-related bonus schemes and per annual leave year.
independent Director as he is a former Chief Executive of the on 26 April 2011 and replaces Steven Clutton who resigned on employee share plans.
We have around 35 to 40% of eligible Group.
The Board considers the value he brings with 18 years 2 August 2010.
Stephen Hill was appointed as an independent employees participating in our partnership share schemes.
By order of the Board experience in the uniquely specialised market of spread betting Non-Executive Director on 28 April 2011. and Contracts for Difference justifies his position on the Board Top employer and is in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Our positive working culture was recognised when IG Group was the Chief Executive is clearly defined in writing and has been named one of Britains Top Employers for the third year running in christopher hill, Chief Financial Officer Robert Lucas, who resigned from the Board in October 2010, was approved by the Board.
With the exception of the Deputy 2011.
The award, by the Corporate Research Foundation, was based 19 July 2011 considered to be a non-independent Non-Executive Director Chairman, all the Non-Executive Directors are independent of on a strong performance in each of the surveyed categories: pay as he represented funds managed or advised by CVC Capital management, and are considered by the Board to be to be free and benefits, training and development, corporate culture, and Partners Limited and associates CVC, a major shareholder, from any business or other relationships which could interfere particularly in career development.
holding 2.93% of the ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 with the exercise of their independence.
Senior Independent Director Following the appointment of David Currie from 4 May 2010, the Board Roger Yates is the Senior Independent Director and provides an remained committed to becoming compliant with the Combined additional contact point for shareholders if the normal contact Code by undertaking a search to appoint an additional independent channels are inappropriate.
Non-Executive Director, and the Board was pleased to announce the appointment of Stephen Hill with effect from 28 April 2011.
Peter Hetherington Andrew MacKay chief operating officer, 42 years old director of corporate strategy, 45 years old Peter read Economics at Nottingham University and has a Masters in Finance from the London Business School.
Peter Andrew has a Masters in History from St Andrews University and completed the Law Society Finals examination at was an officer in the Royal Navy before joining IG Index, as a graduate trainee, in 1994.
He became Head of Financial the College of Law in London.
He qualified as a lawyer with Linklaters and worked there for seven years, principally Dealing in 1999 and was appointed as Chief Operating Officer of IG Group in 2002. in the litigation and financial services practices.
In 1998, Andrew moved to LIFFE as Market Investigations Manager before joining IG Group as Legal Counsel in March 1999.
Andrew was appointed a Director of IG Group in 2003.
Andrew served as the Groups Head of Asia Pacific for three years before recently returning to London to lead the new Corporate Strategy team.
50 50 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2011 ANNU 011 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 51 51 Corporate Governance: Corporate Governance Report CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe RepoRt continued Approving annual budgets THE WorKINGS oF THE BoArD AND ITS Induction and training The performance of the individual Executive Directors, other than Appr oving changes relating to the Groups capital structure coMMITTEES coNTINuED New Directors to the Board are provided with appropriate the Chief Executive, is appraised annually by the Chief Executive, including reduction of capital, share issues except under Re-election of Directors training and briefings to familiarise them with their duties and the to whom they report.
The performance of the Chief Executive employee share plans and share buybacks including the use In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys Articles Groups business, operations, risks and governance arrangements.
is appraised annually by the Chairman.
The performance of the of treasury shares of Association, all Directors are subject to election by shareholders at The induction programme includes meetings with senior Chairman is reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Reviewing operational and financial performance the first opportunity following their appointment and subsequently, management.
All Directors receive, during their term of office, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Roger Yates, taking S etting risk appetite and approving any changes to the Groups must seek re-election at least once every three years.
regular briefings on changes and developments in the Groups into account the views of the Executive Directors, following which risk management policy which materially increases the risk business and on any legislative and regulatory changes which are Roger Yates gives feedback to the Chairman.
profile of the Group While the Company is still required to report against the Combined relevant to the Group.
R eviewing the Groups systems of internal control and Code for the year ended 31 May 2011, the Board has taken the decision committees risk management to comply with the recommendations for the annual re-election Conflicts of interest To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Appr oving Board, Board committee and Company of Directors in the new UK Corporate Governance Code which will In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all Directors must Board manages the Group through Board meetings and a Secretary appointments apply to the Company for the year ending 31 May 2012.
In addition disclose both the nature and extent of any potential or actual number of committees, each of which has terms of reference Ensur ing adequate succession planning for the Board and to Christopher Hill and Stephen Hill, who offer themselves for election conflicts with the interests of the Company.
The Articles of and meets regularly.
The terms of reference of these committees senior management following their appointment in April 2011, all Directors will stand for Association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts that can be obtained from the Company Secretary on request and Defining and setting Board committee terms of reference re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 6 October 2011. may arise and to impose such conditions or limitations as it are available in the investor relations section of the Groups Appr oving policies relating to Directors remuneration and the thinks fit.
The minutes of each of severance of Directors contracts Role of the Board the committee meetings are made available to all Directors, and R eceiving reports on the views of the Companys shareholders The powers of the Board are set out in the Companys Articles Insurance and indemnities the Board receives an update from each Chairman following each of Association, which are available on the Companys website The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for all committee meeting.
Matters not specifically reserved to the Board are delegated to the at www.
The Articles may be amended by way of Directors and officers.
These include: a special resolution of the members of the Company.
The Board The following committees deal with specific aspects of the may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles and in Board evaluation Groups affairs: T he development and recommendation of strategic plans for accordance with the Companies Act 2006, and other During the year the Chairman led the Board in conducting an the Group applicable legislation.
internal evaluation of its effectiveness and of the effectiveness Remuneration Committee Implementation of the strategies of the Group of its committees and individual Directors.
This was done by way The Remuneration Committee comprises Roger Yates Chair, Da y-to-day monitoring of the operating and financial results of The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of a questionnaire which was completed by each Director, and Jonathan Davie, Martin Jackson, David Currie and Stephen Hill, the Group of the Group.
The Board meets regularly: at least five times a year.
one-to-one discussions between the Chairman and Directors, who are all independent Non-Executive Directors.
It makes Prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources In addition, the Board meets when necessary to discuss ad hoc including meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, D eveloping and implementing risk management systems, emerging important issues that require consideration between Executive Directors being present.
The results of the evaluation on an overall remuneration package for the Executive Directors policies and procedures regular Board meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors have a were discussed at a Board meeting in July 2011. in order to attract, retain and motivate high-quality Directors particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the capable of achieving the Groups objectives.
Consideration is given Information provided to the Board Executive Directors are appropriate and fully considered.
The new UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial to the Group Remuneration Policy, especially when determining All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Reporting Councils Guidance on Board Effectiveness annual salary increases.
The Committee determines the contract Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved require the Board to evaluate performance annually, with an terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the Executive procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations to it.
These include: external assessment performed every three years.
The Board Directors, including performance-related bonus schemes, pension are complied with.
To enable the Board to exercise its judgement commissioned the Board evaluation team of the Institute of rights, compensation payments and contingent share awards.
The in the discharge of its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and Setting Group strategy Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA to carry out a Committee approves all share-based awards under the Groups timely information.
Briefing papers are distributed to all Directors in Approving major acquisitions, divestments and thorough evaluation of the performance of the Board in 2009, employee incentive schemes and approves the remuneration of advance of Board meetings and financial information is distributed capital expenditure and the Board intends to use an external facilitator to conduct an the Chairman.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the monthly.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors take independent Approval of extension of the Groups activities into new evaluation of its effectiveness in 2012.
professional advice as required, at the Companys expense.
business or geographic areas David Currie Martin Jackson non-executive director, 64 years old non-executive director, 62 years old David Currie Lord Currie of Marylebone was the founding Chairman of Ofcom, where he served from 2002 to Martin was appointed a Non-Executive Director of IG Group and Chairman of the Audit Committee in April 2005.
He was also previously a Non-Executive Director of Abbey National plc from 2001 to 2002, and a founder and He was the Group Finance Director of Friends Provident plc between 2001 and 2003, of Friends Provident Life Office Chairman of the International Centre of Financial Regulation and Chairman of Independent Audit from 2003 to 2007. between 1999 and 2001, and of London & Manchester Group plc from 1992 to 1998 up until its acquisition by Friends Between 2001 and 2007 David was the Dean of Cass Business School.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director of Royal Provident Life Office.
He is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Admiral Group plc and is Mail Holdings plc, BDO LLP, the Dubai Financial Services Authority and the London Philharmonic Orchestra, as well a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
as Chairman of Semperium PPP Investment Partners.
David has recently been appointed as a panel member to the Leveson inquiry into media ethics.
52 52 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2011 ANNU 011 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 53 53 Corporate Governance: Corporate Governance Report CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe RepoRt continued THE WorKINGS oF THE BoArD AND ITS The main duties of the Audit Committee are: Reviewed the policy on the use of external auditors for Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups application of the coMMITTEES coNTINuED non-audit services and reviewed all non-audit services FSAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF requirements Review of the Remuneration Committees performance T o monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the provided by the external auditors to ensure compliance with Reviewed the Companys procedures for detecting internal fraud During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed its Group including annual and interim reports, preliminary results the policy as part of the safeguards in place to ensure the Reviewed the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements performance.
The review consisted of all members completing an announcements and any other formal announcements relating independence of the audit is not compromised: the policy is Reviewed the Groups Anti-Bribery policy and Gifts and evaluation questionnaire, and a discussion of the results by the to its financial performance, reviewing significant issues and available on the Groups website at www.
com Hospitality policy Committee took place at a meeting in June 2011.
The results were judgements contained therein Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and reported to the Board in July 2011.
T o keep up-to-date with changes to accounting standards and risk management systems supported by an external evaluation In addition, the members of the Audit Committee meet privately in to review any changes to accounting polices year on year of the internal controls and risk management systems separate meetings with Head of Internal Audit, Head of Compliance Nomination Committee T o review and monitor the external auditors independence Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit and external auditors to focus on respective areas of responsibility, The Nomination Committee comprises Jonathan Davie Chair, and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process Function, supported by an external evaluation, including a and to discuss any potential issues where support from the Audit David Currie, Martin Jackson and Roger Yates, and considers T o consider and make recommendations to the Board on the review of the three-year rolling internal audit plan, individual Committee may be required.
appointments to the Board, meeting as necessary.
The appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys internal audit reports and reports on the implementation of Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating candidates external auditors, which are subject to shareholder approval internal audit recommendations Following each meeting, the Audit Committee reports to the to fill Board vacancies and for making recommendations on Board T o review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and Reviewed reports from the Compliance Functions Board on its activities.
risk management systems T o monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Internal The Nomination Committee leads the process for making Audit Function appointments to the Board or where the appointee is likely to To review the overall effectiveness of the Groups implementation Attendance at Board and committee meetings become a Board member.
The Committee ensures there is a of the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF requirements The number of full Board and committee meetings attended by each Director during the year is set out below.
In each case the first figure formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment T o review the Groups arrangements for its employees to indicates the number of meetings attended and the second figure indicates the maximum number of meetings during the year for which of new Directors to the Board through a full evaluation of the raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in each individual was a Director or committee member.
skills, knowledge and experience of candidates.
The Committee financial reporting or other matters also ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for T o report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of full board nominations audit remuneration meetings committee committee committee appointments to the Board, and to other senior management which it considers that action or improvement is needed and positions.
Responsibility for making senior management make recommendations as to the steps to be taken Jonathan Davie Chairman 6 6 1 1 - 3 3 appointments is vested in the Chief Executive.
Tim Howkins Chief Executive 6 6 - - - The Company Secretary drafts the agenda for each Audit Committee, 1 Steven Clutton 1 1 - - - Audit Committee ensuring that each item in the terms of reference is covered at least David Currie 6 6 1 1 4 4 2 3 The Audit Committee is chaired by Martin Jackson, who has once in the financial year, and more frequently if required.
The Peter Hetherington 5 6 - - - recent and relevant financial experience, and also comprises agenda is then finalised by the Chair of the Audit Committee.
2 Christopher Hill 1 1 - - - David Currie and Roger Yates.
All are independent Non-Executive 3 Stephen Hill 0 1 - - - Directors.
The Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Summary of main activities undertaken by the Audit Committee Martin Jackson 6 6 1 1 4 4 1 3 Head of Internal Audit, Global Head of Legal and Compliance, during the financial year: 4 Robert Lucas 2 2 - - - Head of UK Compliance, Company Secretary and the external Andrew Mackay 5 6 - - - auditors attend the Audit Committee by invitation appropriate to R eviewed the Annual Report and interim results of the Group Nat le Roux 5 6 - - - the matters under consideration.
Other Directors, representatives P ut the Groups audit appointment out to a competitive tender Roger Yates 6 6 1 1 4 4 3 3 from the Finance Function and other areas of the business attend process: reviewed and approved the proposed audit fee and the Audit Committee as and when required.
The Audit Committee terms of engagement for the financial year ended 31 May 2011 for those Directors in office for part of the financial year the maximum number of meetings is reduced to show those for which the individual was a Director or Committee member.
normally meets four times a year and as and when required.
R eviewed the external auditors audit planning and other 1 Steven Clutton resigned from the Board on 2 August 2010 3 Stephen Hill was appointed to the Board on 28 April 2011 reports, proposed audit fees and performance of the external 2 Christopher Hill was appointed to the Board on 26 April 2011 4 Robert Lucas resigned from the Board on 7 October 2010 auditors including their independence and objectivity Stephen Hill Nat le Roux non-executive director, 51 years old non-executive deputy chairman, 54 years old Stephen has extensive experience in media and online businesses, having worked as the CEO of the Financial Times for Nat was Chief Executive of IG Group for four years before becoming Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in 2006.
He Pearson Plc between 1996 and 2002, and as the CEO of Betfair Limited from 2003 to 2005.
Stephen is an experienced initially joined the Group as Financial Dealing Director in 1992 after a career in futures broking and stock broking.
Nat Non-Executive Director and has previously served on the boards of RSA Insurance Group plc, Psion plc and as 1 Sir Alan Budd st holds an MA in Laepped do w from Cwn fr ambr om the Boar idge Universit d on 4th M y and an MS ay 2010. c in Anthropology from University College London.
He is an Chairman of Interactive Data Corp. Stephen is now Chairman and CEO of the Harbour Group, a private investment independent Director of the London Metal Exchange, where he chairs the Audit and Risk Committees.
2 David Currie was appointed to the Board on 4th May 2010. company, and Trustee and Treasurer of the Royal National Institute for Deaf People Action on Hearing Loss, where he chairs the Audit and Investment Committees.
Stephen also currently serves on the Advisory Board of the Cambridge University Judge Business School and is on the Board of Channel Four Television Corp. 54 54 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2011 ANNU 011 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 55 55 Corporate Governance: Corporate Governance Report CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe RepoRt continued THE WorKINGS oF THE BoArD AND ITS Feedback is provided to the Board following these investor risk Appetite The responsibilities of the Risk Committee include: coMMITTEES coNTINuED presentations of any views or concerns expressed by shareholders.
The Groups Risk Appetite is articulated in Key Risk Indicators KRIs External auditors and each KRI has either a numerical measure or relates to a specific Reviewing the overall level of risk faced by the Group, whilst As noted in the Directors Statutory Report, the Groups Audit The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with risk event.
Taken together the KRIs are a balanced mix of quantitative paying due consideration to the interests and obligations of Committee decided it was desirable to put the Groups audit private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
and qualitative measures which provide an important indication of Group companies, shareholders and customers appointment out to a competitive tender process during the year, The Chairman aims to ensure that all of the Directors, including the increasing or reducing levels of risk.
KRIs are developed based on: Recommending overall risk appetite, tolerance, scenarios and which resulted in the appointment of  LLP Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees, are available planning to the Board as the Groups auditor.
As a part of the tender process, the Audit at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
The Annual Measures adopted by the Board to ensure a low level of volatility in Committee reviewed and approved the proposed audit fee and Report and Accounts and notice of the Annual General Meeting are revenues and earnings In addition to the management of individual risks, the Group terms of engagement for the financial year ended 31 May 2011.
The sent, or made available on the website, to shareholders at least 20 Measures covering regulatory requirements undertakes various stress and scenario testing as part of the Audit Committee also recommended to the Board that it proposes working days prior to the meeting being held.
Measures adopted by the Board to encourage trust from Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and to shareholders that  LLP be appointed shareholders and clients Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA prepared as the Groups external auditor for the financial year ending Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, is available to meet Measures to promote orderly business operations to ensure according to the requirements of the FSA.
The Audit Committee also monitored the balance shareholders on request, and to ensure that the Board is aware of confidence in the business by staff and business partners test the effect on capital and liquidity of a series of combined risk of audit and non-audit fees to ensure that the independence and shareholder concerns not resolved through other mechanisms for events occurring simultaneously.
Both assessments are overseen objectivity of  LLP is maintained.
risk management framework by the ICAAP and ILAA Committees, to which Nat le Roux, Martin The risk management framework operates at three levels within Jackson and Stephen Hill all contribute via a non-executive As part of its consideration of the annual Financial Statements, the The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director provide the Group: working group.
Audit Committee has reviewed and is satisfied that the auditors feedback to the Board of any views or concerns expressed to have remained independent of the Group during the financial them by shareholders.
1 Board-level review and challenge The Risk and Compliance functions are responsible for coordinating year, and have continued to remain so to the date of this report.
2 Executive Risk Committee and the assurance functions of Risk, the processes of identifying, evaluating, managing and monitoring rISK MANAGEMENT AND INTErNAL coNTroL Compliance and Internal Audit risks using departmental risk registers.
Heads of Department are Review of the Audit Committees performance The Group is exposed to a number of business risks in providing 3 Internal controls implemented by management responsible for the maintenance of these registers and, where During the year the Audit Committee reviewed its performance.
products and services to our clients.
These risks are outlined in the necessary, taking action to mitigate risks and enhance the The review was carried out using an evaluation questionnaire, and a Our Business Risks section of the Operating and Financial Review.
The Board reviews and challenges the risk management control environment.
The Risk Department consolidates the key discussion of the results by the committee took place at a meeting framework and the Audit Committee monitors the ongoing operational and business risks from the detailed departmental risk in July 2011.
The results were reported to the Board in July 2011.
The Board of Directors is responsible for establishing the overall process of identifying, evaluating and managing all significant registers and reports to the Risk Committee.
appetite for these risks, which is detailed and approved in the Risk risks throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee normally meets relations with shareholders Appetite Statement, and for the framework of risk management and four times a year, and as and when required, and receives periodic Internal controls The Board recognises the importance of communications with control that is designed to embed the management of business risk reports from the external and internal auditors concerning risk Management have designed and implemented a system of internal shareholders.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review throughout the Group.
controls to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve and the Operating and Financial Review include detailed reviews of business objectives and provides reasonable, but not absolute, the business and future developments.
There is regular dialogue with The Board reviews and challenges the risk management framework Management has established a Risk Committee to monitor the assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
A policy institutional shareholders, including presentations by management on an annual basis and more frequently through the Audit implementation of the risk management framework as well as the framework has been implemented across the Group to support the around the time of the Groups preliminary announcement of the Committee.
Management are responsible for the day-to-day system of internal controls.
The Risk Committee is an executive adoption of risk management practices and controls.
year-end results and at the half year.
These presentations are made implementation of the risk management framework as well as a committee and comprises the Chief Executive Officer, Chief available on the Groups website at www.
com which also system of internal controls.
Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Risk Officer The framework covers HR, compliance and information security provides information to shareholders and prospective shareholders.
as well as the Dealing and Operations Director, Risk Director, the policies which provide guidance to all members of staff.
An online Treasurer and the Regulatory Controller.
The Risk Committee Policy Matters tool allows for the effective distribution of new or meets weekly, and as and when required, to review the risks faced changed policies to ensure that all relevant staff have read and by the Group, within the parameters set by the Board.
The Senior confirmed electronically their understanding of the policy.
Independent Director, Roger Yates, also attends Risk Committee meetings once a month, and minutes of the meetings are The system of internal controls includes, but is not limited to: circulated to the Non-Executive Directors.
Compliance with policies, plans, procedures, laws and regulations Safeguarding of assets Reliability and integrity of financial and management information Roger Yates senior Independent non-executive director, 54 years old Roger joined the Board as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in February 2006.
Roger read Modern History at Worcester College Oxford, and has 28 years experience in the fund management industry as an investment professional and business manager.
Previously he was Chief Investment Officer of Invesco Global and held senior roles for fund management companies LGT and Morgan Grenfell.
He joined Henderson Global Investors as Chief Executive in 1999, and in 2003 led the fide-merger of Henderson from its then parent AMP, becoming Chief Executive of the resulting listed entity, now Henderson Group plc, until November 2008.
In June 2009, he also became a Non-Executive Director of F&C Asset Management plc, and latterly, CEO of Pioneer Investments, a part of the UniCredit Group.
56 56 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2011 ANNU 011 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 57 Corporate Governance: directors Remuneration Report CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe RepoRt dIReCtoRS ReMuneRAtIon RepoRt continued Internal control over financial reporting review of risk management and internal controls This report sets out the Groups remuneration policy and details Remuneration should never be used to reward behaviour Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining The risk management framework has been in place for the full the remuneration of each of the Directors for the financial year that exposes the Group to risks outside its risk appetite adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Internal year under review, and up to the date of approval of the Annual ended 31 May 2011.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Remuneration should be aligned with the best interests of the controls over financial reporting are carried out under the Report, and is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance Internal Companies Act 2006, the Combined Code and Schedules 5 and 8 Companys shareholders supervision of the Chief Financial Officer, to provide reasonable Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts Remuneration should be straightforward, making it assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the and Reports Regulations 2008. understandable for employees and easy for the Group preparation of the consolidated Financial Statements for external The Board of Directors and the Audit Committee have reviewed to monitor reporting purposes, in accordance with International Financial the effectiveness of managements system of internal control, INForMATIoN NoT SuBJEcT To AuDIT Variable remuneration should not be guaranteed for new staff Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union covering financial, operational and compliance controls and The Remuneration Committee, whose composition is set out unless it is exceptional, and if it is provided it must be limited to and the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
risk management systems, and no significant weaknesses were in the Corporate Governance Report, is responsible for making their first year identified during this review.
recommendations to the Board on the Groups remuneration Internal controls over financial reporting focus on the most policy.
Within the terms of the policy, the Remuneration remuneration regulation material financial statement line items and include policies and Accountability and audit Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and During the year, the Remuneration Committee ensured the procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the other benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including Groups approach to remuneration was structured in accordance reasonable detail: Financial Statements is set out immediately prior to the Financial performance-related bonus schemes, pension rights, with the FSAs Remuneration Code the FSA Code.
Code Staff are Statements, and a statement regarding the use of the going compensation payments and contingent awards.
defined as the Groups employees whose professional activities Accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements is given in could have a material impact on the Groups risk profile, and who of assets the Directors Statutory Report.
The Committee aims to put in place a remuneration structure for fall into the Code Staff categories set down by the FSA Code.
Provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded Executive Directors which positions total remuneration: Code Staff have been identified, made aware of the implications as necessary to permit preparation of Financial Statements The Independent Auditors Report, which sets out the auditors of their status and their remuneration has been reviewed by the in accordance with IFRS, and that receipts and expenditures reporting responsibilities, is also given immediately prior to the Competitively against the market Remuneration Committee during the financial year.
are being made only in accordance with authorisations of Financial Statements.
At median for target performance management and the Directors At upper quartile for above-target performance A summary of the ways in which the Remuneration Committee Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or is committed to ensuring remuneration arrangements are in timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of accordance with the FSA Code is provided below: disposition of assets that could have a material effect the Chairman, while the Chairman and the Executive members on the Financial Statements of the Board determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive At least 40% of variable remuneration of Code Staff is deferred Directors.
No Director or manager is involved in any decisions as over three to five years, with awards vesting no faster than on The Annual Report is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board to their own remuneration.
a pro-rata basis and the first vesting no earlier than one year prior to publication.
Where the amount of variable remuneration is Details of the number of meetings and attendance at more than 500,000, at least 60% is deferred Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have committee meetings during the year are set out in the At least 50% of variable remuneration is paid in non-cash form inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
The allocation of variable remuneration takes into account all Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future types of current and future risks periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice Mechanisms are in place to adjust awarded but unvested inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of from external advisors Kepler Associates.
variable remuneration, in particular where there is evidence compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
of employees misbehaviour or material error, or where the remuneration principles firm suffers material financial downturn or material failure in The Remuneration Committee has agreed that the following risk management principles should apply to all matters relating to remuneration of Appropriate ratios of variable to fixed remuneration are set, Group employees: and there is an appropriate balance between the elements.
The level of fixed remuneration is sufficient to allow no variable Remuneration should recognise and reward good and remuneration to be paid where appropriate excellent performance of employees that helps drive the There is a clear written remuneration policy in place which is sustainable growth of the Group communicated to employees and ensures the implications of Remuneration should be focused on retaining proven their status is understood senior management Remuneration should be consistent with regulatory and The disclosure of the aggregate remuneration of Code Staff is set corporate governance requirements out later in this report.
Remuneration should be used to achieve effective risk management 58 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 59 Corporate Governance: directors Remuneration Report dIReCtoRS ReMuneRAtIon RepoRt continued INForMATIoN NoT SuBJEcT To AuDIT Last year, the Board commissioned external advisors Kepler Long-term incentive plans coNTINuED Associates to benchmark the Non-Executive Directors remuneration The Group operates long-term incentive plans LTIPs for management, including the Executive Directors.
Awards were made under the Directors remuneration against a tailored comparable group, and their remuneration was LTIPs during the years ended 31 May 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 which vest ed on publication of the results for the financial years Basic salary found to be in the fourth quartile.
In recognition of the increasing to 31 May 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011and 2012 respectively.
LTIP awards are discussed further in note 26 to the Financial Statements.
No During the year, the Remuneration Committee commissioned commitment required from its Non-Executive Directors, the Board future awards are expected to be made under LTIPs.
external advisors Kepler Associates to carry out a comprehensive decided to increase the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors annual review of the remuneration of the Executive Directors for the first time since 2005, to a uniform rate of 50,000, with the The vesting criteria of these plans are based on compound annual growth rate in diluted adjusted earnings per share and share price and of the Chairman.
As regards to the former, the review exception of the Audit Committee chairman Martin Jackson, who growth over the relevant three-year period, as shown in the table below: benchmarked the salary and total remuneration of the Companys receives an additional 12,500, bringing his remuneration to 62,500. base measurement base period earnings period compound Executive Directors against three comparison groups: FTSE These changes took effect from 1 June 2010. year ended per share year ending annual % of award 101-250 companies, FTSE 350 financial services companies and year of award scheme 31 may pence 31 may growth vesting a tailored peer group comprising 20 companies with similar There are no proposed changes to the Non-Executive Directors market capitalisation selected from the financial, technology fees for the next financial year.
1 31 May 2010 Share price growth award 2009 N A 2012 22.5% Nil and entertainment sectors.
The review considered the total 22.5-100% 0-100% remuneration package for the Chief Executive Officer salary, Performance-related bonuses 31 May 2010 Earnings per share award 2009 24.74 2012 12% Nil bonus and LTIPs and revealed this fell below the median The annual bonus for the Groups Executive Directors is calculated 12-18% 0-50% remuneration paid to chief executive officers in the comparable by reference to growth in diluted adjusted earnings per share 18-25% 50-100% groups.
The Remuneration Committee recommended increasing EPS.
During the financial year ended 31 May 2011, the bonus 1 31 May 2009 Share price growth award 2008 N A 2011 22.5% Nil the Chief Executive Officers salary to 414,000. scheme approved by the Remuneration Committee required an 22.5-100% 0-100% EPS growth of 17.5% to achieve a maximum bonus, set at 200% The review revealed the total remuneration package for of salary.
At 12.5% EPS growth a bonus of 100% of salary was 31 May 2009 Earnings per share award 2008 20.28 2011 12% Nil Executive Directors fell between median and upper quartile.
payable and below 5% growth, no bonus was payable, with linear 12-18% 0-50% 18-25% 50-100% The Remuneration Committee recommended the salaries for growth between these parameters.
The Committee felt these the Chief Operating Officer and Head of Asia Pacific be increased targets represented a stretching, but not completely unachievable, 1 31 May 2008 Share price growth award 2007 N A 2010 22.5% Nil to reflect the changes to the responsibilities of executive objective.
As shown elsewhere in the Annual Report, actual EPS 22.5-100% 0-100% management for the next financial year.
Peter Hetherington, Chief growth for the year was 6.08%, which resulted in a bonus of 14.36% 31 May 2008 Earnings per share award 2007 14.52 2010 20% Nil Operating Officer, will take leadership of all of the Groups revenue of salary for each of the Executive Directors.
In cash terms, the total 37.5-75% 20-25% generating business units, and Andrew Mackay, who has been performance-related bonuses payable to the Executive Directors 75-100% 25-31% Head of Asia Pacific for the last three years, will return to London were 143,000 compared to 1.8 million in the previous year.
as Director of Corporate Strategy and lead the Groups efforts 1 Share price growth is determined on a base share price of 310.9 pence 2008, 306.8 pence 2009 and 225.0 pence 2010. to identify further opportunities for geographic and product For the year beginning 1 June 2011, the Remuneration Committee expansion.
has recalibrated the bonus scheme to reflect current performance In all cases, vesting is pro-rata between the lower and upper limits.
The Committee feels that these targets The Remuneration Committee approved the following salary represent an appropriate balance between a stretching target and In order to obtain tax-favoured treatment for the Group and participants, up to 100% of the ultimate value of the LTIP awards made in the increases for the Executive Directors effective from 1 June 2011: one which is not completely unachievable given current economic year ended 31 May 2010 2010 LTIP, which is conditional on the performance conditions noted above, will be delivered to the participants conditions.
The approved profile is as follows: using HM Revenue and Customs HMRC approved options.
The HMRC approved options have been granted to participants subject to the Tim Howkins - from 400,000 to 414,000 rules of the IG Group Limited Executive Share Option Scheme Approved Plan which has been updated and re-approved by HMRC.
These growth in ePs bonus as a percentage of salary christopher Hill - from 280,000 to 289,800 approved options have exactly the same vesting and exercise conditions as the 2010 LTIP awards.
In order to ultimately exercise a 2010 0% - 1 Peter Hetherington - from 240,000 to 248,400 LTIP award, a participant will have to first exercise the respective Approved Plan option and use the IG Group Limited shares acquired as 2% 50% Andrew MacKay - from 270,000 to 279,450 ultimate payment for that 2010 LTIP award.
7% 100% 12% 150% 1 Peter Hetherington is paid a reduced pro rata salary of 248,400 based upon a Value-sharing plan VSP 310,500 full-time equivalent salary to reflect his flexible working arrangements.
15% 200% Any bonus payments are based on his full-time equivalent salary.
During the year ended 31 May 2010, the Committee carried out a review of long-term incentive arrangements, and as a result of this review, and following discussions with our shareholders, the Committee proposed to introduce a new value-sharing plan VSP to replace Last year the Remuneration Committee introduced an element of The Remuneration Committee also decided to bring the the existing LTIPs.
Shareholders approved this new plan at the 2010 AGM, and the first awards were made on 29 October 2010. deferral into the cash bonus scheme and these arrangements, which Chairmans salary more into line with the median for are in line with the final FSA rules on disclosure of remuneration non-executive chairmen, based upon a benchmark The VSP comprises annual awards, providing the Executive Directors and other senior staff with a pre-defined number of shares for each published in December 2010, continue unchanged this year: the first comparison against a tailored comparable group of FTSE 101- 1.0 million of surplus shareholder value created over three years above a hurdle.
Surplus value is calculated under two criteria: 100,000 of any bonus plus one third of the reminder to be paid in 250 companies and FTSE 350 financial services companies.
cash, the balance being deferred for 12 months and provided in shares.
In each case the Chairmans salary was just above the i Value created from the difference between the total shareholder return TSR of IG Group Holdings plc and that of the FTSE350 lower quartile.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee Financial Services Index, multiplied by IG Group Holdings plc starting market capitalisation, defined as the average market The Remuneration Committee retains the right to reduce the recommended the Chairmans salary is increased from capitalisation in the three months to 31 May 2010 bonuses payable if it considers that the formula has not produced 160,000 to 180,000, with effect from 1 June 2011. ii Growth in profit before taxation PBT times a fixed multiple determined by IG Group Holdings plc starting market capitalisation, plus an appropriate result.
The cash elements of performance-related net equity cash flows to shareholders above a hurdle return.
For the 2010 VSP, the hurdle return was 12% per annum, with the multiple bonuses are paid in full within three months of the year-end.
being 10.467, based on the financial year ended 31 May 2010 60 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 61 Corporate Governance: directors Remuneration Report dIReCtoRS ReMuneRAtIon RepoRt continued INForMATIoN NoT SuBJEcT To AuDIT The Executive Directors have elected to do the following: Interests in share capital coNTINuED 31 may 31 may 31 may 31 may For Executive Directors, 60% of the shares will vest on the TSR tim howkins R estrict pension contribution to 50,000 2011 2011 2010 2010 measure and 40% of shares will vest on the PBT measure.
Note that and receive the balance of the pension ordinary Preference ordinary Preference shares shares shares shares the 60 40 ratio between TSR and PBT applies only to Executive contribution as an additional cash payment Directors.
Code Staff and other senior staff are paid on a either a christopher hill Receive the full pension contribution J R Davie 530,000 - 600,000 - 50 50 or 40 60 split between TSR and PBT.
Peter hetherington R eceive the entire pension contribution as T A Howkins 3,800,000 10,000 3,800,000 10,000 an additional cash payment S Clutton resigned from the Board on 2 August 2010 N A N A 17,169 - The Remuneration Committee believes that profit before taxation andrew macKay Receive the full pension contribution P G Hetherington 200,833 10,000 250,000 10,000 excluding impairment of goodwill and intangibles is the best A R MacKay 494,690 10,000 867,687 10,000 internal measure of the Groups financial performance as it is Fees D M Jackson - - - - highly visible and regularly monitored and reported.
The use of The fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board.
R R Lucas resigned from the Board on 7 October 2010 N A N A 47,312 - relative TSR introduces an element of relative performance into The Non-Executive Directors are not involved in any discussions or N B le Roux 75,000 10,000 100,000 10,000 the Groups remuneration package, which is intended to improve decisions by the Board about their own remuneration.
R P Yates 25,000 - 25,000 - robustness to general stock market movements, and focus more D A Currie - - - - closely on the value created for shareholders by management Service contracts C F Hill - - - - over and above that delivered by peers.
The Remuneration Each of the Executive Directors is employed under a service S G Hill - - - - Committee believes that the blend of PBT and TSR measures contract with IG Group Limited a wholly-owned intermediate provides strong alignment with shareholder interests and a holding company for the benefit of the Company and the There have been no changes in Directors interests in share capital between the year-end and the date of the Annual Report.
good balance between internal and external performance and Group, which can be terminated on six months notice by either between absolute and relative performance.
the Company or the Executive Director.
All service contracts The market price of the Companys ordinary shares on 31 May 2011 was 449.0p and the high and low share prices in the year were 553.0p are continuous and contractual termination payments are for and 379.2p respectively.
LTIP awards and the value-sharing plan are discussed further in the unexpired notice period.
The effective dates of the service note 26 to the Financial Statements.
contracts for each of the Executive Directors as at the date of this Performance graph report are: The following graph illustrates the performance of IG Group Holdings plc ordinary shares measured by total shareholder return share Benefits price growth plus dividends paid in the period from 1 June 2006.
The most appropriate benchmarks are considered by the Directors to be: The Group provides a range of benefits to its employees, including Executive Directors: private health cover and health club membership.
The Executive tim howkins 12 April 2005 The FTSE 250, as it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent member Directors are entitled to participate in these non-cash benefits on christopher hill 18 January 2011 The FTSE 350 Financial Services Index, given this is the benchmark index for the Groups value sharing plan equal terms with all other staff.
The Group re-introduced subsidised Peter hetherington 12 April 2005 health club membership to all staff from 1 June 2010. andrew macKay 12 April 2005 The figures have been rebased to 100 as at 1 June 2006 in order to aid comparison and are presented to 18 July 2011.
Pensions The Non-Executive Directors were each appointed for an initial The Group contributes 15% of basic salary to personal pensions for term of twelve months with appointment continuing indefinitely 305 each of the Executive Directors.
As an alternative to the payment of thereafter, subject to re-election, but capable of being terminated IG Group part of a performance-related bonus or basic salary, Directors may on three months notice.
280 FTSE 250 elect to receive an equivalent contribution to their pension.
FTSE 350 Financial Services Index 255 There are no special provisions for compensation in the event Effective from 1 April 2011, the Government introduced new of loss of office.
The Remuneration Committee would consider 230 limits on tax-efficient contributions to pensions, which make the circumstances of individual cases of early termination and 205 contributions above 50,000 tax-ineffective.
In light of this, the determine compensation payments accordingly.
Remuneration Committee agreed that the Executive Directors 180 would be given the option to take part or all of their pension 155 entitlement of 15% of basic salary in cash.
This additional cash 130 payment is counted in lieu of pension, and will not be counted as base salary for the purposes of calculating other benefits, such as 105 the cash bonus scheme.
This was put in place with effect from 80 1 April 2011.
55 30 62 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 63 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Corporate Governance: directors Remuneration Report dIReCtoRS ReMuneRAtIon RepoRt continued INForMATIoN SuBJEcT To AuDIT Pension entitlements Directors remuneration 2011 2010 This section of the report sets out the remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 31 May 2011.
The remuneration of the Directors 000 000 who served during the year was as follows: T A Howkins 58 40 2 Performance-related bonuses 1 S Clutton 5 32 other P G Hetherington 74 75 benefits basic salary and Paid in deferred Pension year ended year ended A R MacKay 73 63 1 3 2 and fees payments cash into shares elections 2011 2010 C F Hill 4 - 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 214 210 Executive Directors: 4 T A Howkins 402 1 57 - - 460 796 1 S Clutton resigned from the Board on 2 August 2010.
P G Hetherington 240 1 43 - 34 250 561 6 C F Hill 28 270 4 - - 302 - There were no contributions made for the Non-Executive Directors during the year ended 31 May 2011.
This includes the cash element of the compensation Value sharing profit award 3 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 117,511 - - 117,511 for loss of office of 174,000 paid to S Clutton.
Value sharing profit award 4 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 117,512 - - 117,512 2 The first 100,000 of performance-related bonuses plus one third of the balance are paid to the Executive Directors in cash: the remaining two thirds of the balance is deferred into IG Group Holdings plc ordinary shares for 12 months.
Total shareholder return award 3 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 176,267 - - 176,267 3 Executive Directors can elect to receive pension contributions in lieu of performance-related bonuses and salary.
These contributions are deducted in the remuneration table Total shareholder return award 4 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 176,268 - - 176,268 and included within pension entitlements below, inclusive of employers National Insurance.
1,021,804 587,558 176,099 - 1,433,263 4 T A Howkins has elected from 1 April 2011 to restrict his pension contribution to 50,000 and receive the remainder of the allowance as additional salary.
5 S Clutton resigned from the Board on 2 August 2010.
This includes the cash element of the compensation for loss of office of 174,000 paid to S Clutton.
6 C F Hill was appointed to the Board on 26 April 2011.
C F Hill was granted an additional bonus on appointment of 270,000, of which 157,000 is payable in cash and number number number remainder deferred into shares of the Company vesting of July 2012. share price number as awarded lapsed exercised number as 7 Fees of 10,583 2010: 30,000 relating to the services of R R Lucas as a Director of the Company were paid to CVC Capital Partners Limited.
R R Lucas resigned from the Board at award at 31 may during the during the during the at 31 may on 7 October 2010. award date date 2010 year year year 2011 8 A Budd terminated his employment on 4 May 2010.
1 S Clutton 9 S Hill was appointed to the Board on 28 April 2011.
Earnings per share award 23 Jul 2007 312.25p 96,077 - 10,225 85,852 - compensation for loss of office Share price growth award 23 Jul 2007 312.25p 96,077 - 89,454 6,623 - Included in the Directors remuneration for the year are amounts paid as compensation for loss of office to S Clutton, who resigned from Earnings per share award 30 Sep 2008 313.75p 132,013 - 42,567 89,446 - the Board on 2 August 2010.
Amounts paid as compensation for loss of office comprised: Share price growth award 30 Sep 2008 313.75p 132,013 - 79,233 52,780 - Earnings per share award 25 Sep 2009 318.80p 134,881 - 76,808 58,073 - Compensation for loss of office, including payment in lieu of notice, of 174,000 disclosed under other benefits and payments Share price growth award 25 Sep 2009 318.80p 134,881 - 74,087 60,794 - Gains associated with the early exercise of the long-term incentive plans in relation to the 2008 and 2009 financial years, pro-rata for the vesting period served in office.
This exercise was based on the average daily closing share price of the Company for the six-week period to 31 January 725,942 - 372,374 353,568 - 2011 for the share price growth award, and on earnings per share for the year ended 31 May 2010 for the earnings per share awards.
This resulted in the early award under the 2008 and 2009 LTIP plans of a total of 261,094 shares in the Company and a gain of 1,191,000 1 S Clutton resigned from the Board on 2 August 2010.
Legal fees paid by the Company on behalf of S Clutton in relation to his loss of office of 12,604 Total compensation for loss of office was therefore 1,365,000, exclusive of the legal fees paid.
There was no compensation for loss of office paid in the prior year.
64 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 65 Corporate Governance: directors Remuneration Report dIReCtoRS ReMuneRAtIon RepoRt continued INForMATIoN SuBJEcT To AuDIT coNTINuED Gains made by Directors on share options Interests in value sharing plan and in long-term incentive plans continued The table below shows gains made by individual Directors from the exercise of share options during the year.
The gains are calculated by reference to the share price as at the respective exercise date, although the shares may have been retained.
number number number 2011 2010 share price number as awarded lapsed exercised number as 000 000 at award at 31 may during the during the during the at 31 may award date date 2010 year year year 2011 T A Howkins - 676 1 P G Hetherington S Clutton resigned from the Board on 2 August 2010 1,634 534 P G Hetherington 366 117 Earnings per share award 23 Jul 2007 312.25p 76,861 - 8,179 68,682 - A R MacKay 368 94 Share price growth award 23 Jul 2007 312.25p 76,861 - 71,562 5,299 - C F Hill appointed to the Board on 26 April 2011 - - Earnings per share award 30 Sep 2008 313.75p 105,611 - - - 105,611 Share price growth award 30 Sep 2008 313.75p 105,611 - - - 105,611 2,368 1,421 Earnings per share award 25 Sep 2009 318.80p 125,471 - - - 125,471 Share price growth award 25 Sep 2009 318.80p 125,471 - - - 125,471 1 Includes a gain of 1,191,000 made following the early exercise under the 2008 and 2009 LTIP plans of a total of 261,094 shares in the Company which has been disclosed as compensation for loss of office.
Value sharing profit award 3 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 73,445 - - 73,445 Value sharing profit award 4 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 73,445 - - 73,445 Total shareholder return award 3 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 110,167 - - 110,167 rEMuNErATIoN coDE DIScLoSurE Total shareholder return award 4 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 110,168 - - 110,168 code Staff aggregate remuneration The aggregate remuneration paid to senior management and members of Code Staff whose actions have a material impact on the risk 615,886 367,225 79,741 73,981 829,389 profile of the firm are disclosed in the following table: executive other code number number number directors staff total share price number as awarded lapsed exercised number as at award at 31 may during the during the during the at 31 may Fixed remuneration 000s 1,090 850 1,940 award date date 2010 year year year 2011 Variable remuneration 000s 413 398 811 1 Share based payment schemes 000s 4,303 1,824 6,127 A R MacKay Number of staff 4 6 10 Earnings per share award 23 Jul 2007 312.25p 86,469 - 9,202 77,267 - 1 Represents the fair value at date of award and not the actual gain made on exercise of share based payments or the income statement charge taken in the period.
Share price growth award 23 Jul 2007 312.25p 86,469 - 80,508 5,961 - Earnings per share award 30 Sep 2008 313.75p 125,413 - - - 125,413 By order of the Board Share price growth award 30 Sep 2008 313.75p 125,413 - - - 125,413 Earnings per share award 25 Sep 2009 318.80p 144,291 - - - 144,291 Share price growth award 25 Sep 2009 318.80p 144,292 - - - 144,292 Value sharing profit award 3 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 73,445 - - 73,445 christopher hill, Chief Financial Officer Value sharing profit award 4 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 73,445 - - 73,445 19 July 2011 Total shareholder return award 3 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 110,167 - - 110,167 Total shareholder return award 4 year 29 oct 2010 528.50p - 110,168 - - 110,168 712,347 367,225 89,710 83,228 906,634 66 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 67 Corporate Governance: Independent Auditors Report StAteMent oF dIReCtoRS ReSponSIBIlItIeS Independent AudItoRS RepoRt to tHe MeMBeRS oF IG GRoup HoldInGS plC The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and Company Financial We have audited the Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc for The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with Statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the year ended 31 May 2011 which comprise Group Income Statement, the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the the European Union.
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statements of Financial Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation Position, Statements of Changes in Equity, Cash Flow Statements and the The Directors are required to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies Company and of the Group and the financial performance of the Group and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for that period.
their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Act 2006 In preparing those Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the In our opinion: parent company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the T he audited section of the Directors Remuneration Report has been Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently provisions of the Companies Act 2006. properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The information given in the Directors Report for the financial explained in the Financial Statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue out on page 68, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the consistent with the Financial Statements in business Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the with respect to internal control and risk management systems The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Statements that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Matters on which we are required to report by and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the exception companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of We have nothing to report in respect of the following: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it in our opinion: Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are provided in the Corporate Governance Report, confirms that, to the best of may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
their knowledge: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been The Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and received from branches not visited by us: or the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable The parent company Financial Statements and the audited The Business Review and the Directors Statutory Report contained in the Annual Report include a fair review of the development and assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material section of the Directors Remuneration Report are not in performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an agreement with the accounting records and returns: or it faces assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and are not made: or By order of the Board have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the We have not received all the information and explanations we reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the require for our audit: or Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
A corporate governance statement has not been prepared by In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information the parent company christopher hill, Chief Financial Officer in the Chairmans Statement and the Business Review to identify 19 July 2011 material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
The Directors statement, set out on page 48, in relation to going concern opinion on Financial Statements The sections of the Corporate Governance Statement relating In our opinion: to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review The Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at Directors remuneration 31 May 2011 and of the Groups loss and Groups and parent companys cash flows for the year then ended The Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union darren Ketteringham Senior Statutory Auditor The parent company Financial Statements have been properly for and on behalf of  LLP prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the London Companies Act 2006 19 July 2011 68 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 69 Financial Statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GrouP INcoME STATEMENT 72 GrouP STATEMENT oF coMPrEHENSIvE INcoME 73 STATEMENTS oF FINANcIAL PoSITIoN 74 STATEMENTS oF cHANGES IN EQuITY 75 cASH FLoW STATEMENTS 77 INDEx To NoTES To THE FINANcIAL STATEMENTS 78 NoTES To THE FINANcIAL STATEMENTS 79 70 70 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2011 ANNU 011 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 71 71 Financial Statements GRoup InCoMe StAteMent GRoup StAteMent oF CoMpReHenSIve InCoMe for the year ended 31 May 2011 for the year ended 31 May 2011 2011 2010 2011 2010 restated 000 000 000 000 before before Loss profit for the year 25,292 101,486 certain certain certain certain 1 1 1 1 items items total items items total other comprehensive expense income: note 000 000 000 000 000 000 Foreign currency translation on overseas subsidiaries 344 27,434 Trading revenue 353,246 - 353,246 344,427 - 344,427 Other comprehensive expense income for the year 344 27,434 Interest income on segregated client funds 9,124 - 9,124 5,791 - 5,791 total comprehensive expense income for the year 25,636 128,920 revenue 362,370 - 362,370 350,218 - 350,218 Interest expense on segregated client funds 176 - 176 321 - 321 total comprehensive expense income attributable to: Introducing broker commissions 32,854 - 32,854 45,876 - 45,876 Equity holders of the parent 25,797 128,290 Betting duty 4,085 - 4,085 4,298 - 4,298 Non-controlling interests 161 630 net operating income 2 325,255 - 325,255 299,723 - 299,723 25,636 128,920 Analysed as: The notes on pages 79 to 127 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
Refer to notes 3 and 4 for more information.
All of the Groups revenue and profit for the year and prior year relate to continuing operations.
The comparative Group Income Statement has been restated such that trading revenue is reported gross of introducing broker commission with an equal expense disclosed in arriving at net operating income.
Refer to note 37 for more information.
The notes on pages 79 to 127 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
The comparative Group Statement of Financial Position has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy for segregated client funds.
Tim Howkins Christopher Hill Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 74 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 75 Financial Statements StAteMent oF CHAnGeS In equItY CASH FloW StAteMentS for the year ended 31 May 2011 for the year ended 31 May 2011 equity group company share share other retained total 2011 2010 2011 2010 capital premium reserves earnings equity 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 note restated company note 23 note 25 note 23 cash generated from operations 18 119,636 129,126 68,641 58,638 at 1 june 2009 18 206,246 10,400 184,390 401,054 Income taxes paid 43,503 47,719 - - Interest received on segregated client funds 8,015 5,745 - - Profit for the year - - - 81,090 81,090 Interest paid on segregated client funds 161 332 - - Other comprehensive income for the year - - - - - Net cash flow from operating activities 83,987 86,820 68,641 58,638 Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 81,090 81,090 Investing activities Equity-settled employee share-based payments note 26 - - 4,782 - 4,782 Interest received 2,046 2,557 1 1 Purchase of own shares - - 175 - 175 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15,387 2,669 - - Exercise of US share incentive plans - - 16 - 16 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 18 313 - - - Equity dividends paid note 11 - - - 57,657 57,657 Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets 4,521 2,369 - - Movement in equity - - 4,591 23,433 28,024 Purchase of a minority interest 5,072 - - - at 31 may 2010 18 206,246 14,991 207,823 429,078 Purchase of a client list and business 2,739 - - - Net cash flow from investing activities 25,360 2,481 1 1 Profit for the year - - - 122,278 122,278 Other comprehensive income for the year - - - - - Financing activities Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 122,278 122,278 Interest paid 1,897 1,317 325 918 Equity dividends paid to equity holders of the parent 67,727 57,657 67,727 57,657 Equity-settled employee share-based payments note 26 - - 4,225 - 4,225 Purchase of own shares 291 175 291 175 Purchase of own shares - - 291 - 291 Payment of redeemable preference share dividends 3 3 3 3 Exercise of US share incentive plans - - 26 - 26 Net cash flow from financing activities 69,918 59,152 68,346 58,753 Equity dividends paid note 11 - - - 67,727 67,727 Movement in equity - - 3,908 54,551 58,459 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 11,291 25,187 296 114 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 128,097 99,407 8 122 at 31 may 2011 18 206,246 18,899 262,374 487,537 Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents 7,722 3,503 - - The notes on pages 79 to 127 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 17 124,528 128,097 304 8 The notes on pages 79 to 127 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
The comparative Group Cash Flow Statement has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy for segregated client funds.
76 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 77 notes to the Financial Statements Index to noteS to tHe FInAnCIAl StAteMentS Note Page 1.
Net trading revenue 79 Net trading revenue represents trading revenue from financial instruments carried at fair value through profit and loss net of introductory 2.
Segment information 80 broker commission as this is consistent with the management information received by the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Operating profit 81 external customers includes interest income on segregated client funds and is analysed as follows: 4.
Staff costs 83 net trading revenue 7.
Earnings per ordinary share 88 Binaries 14,724 10,600 11.
Property, plant and equipment 89 Total Financial 312,721 292,619 1 13.
Investments in subsidiaries 91 total net trading revenue 320,392 298,551 15.
Impairment of goodwill 94 Interest income on segregated client funds 9,124 5,791 16.
Cash and cash equivalents 96 revenue from external customers 329,516 304,342 18.
Trade payables 97 1 As discussed in notes 4 and 35, on 8 June 2011 the Group reached agreement to sell the majority of the client list relating to extrabets sport spread betting and fixed odds betting and has subsequently closed the Sport business.
Provisions 98 In addition to the above, finance revenue is disclosed in note 7.
The Group does not derive more than ten percent of external revenue from 22.
Redeemable preference shares 98 any one single customer.
Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts 100 25.
Authorisation of Financial Statements and statement of compliance with IFRS 120 37.
Accounting policies 120 78 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 79
