Operating financial review Sound fi financial result Investec reported adjusted earnings per share EPS before goodwill, acquired intangibles and nonOver the past operating items down 4.2% to 43.2 pence from 45.1 pence, largely as a result of an increase in the number of shares in issue.
We continued to focus on building our non-banking revenue streams with two years, we recurring income as a percentage of total operating income increasing to 62.3% from 60.4% in the have positioned previous year.
The board proposed a final dividend of 9.0 pence per ordinary share equating to a the group as a full year dividend of 17.0 pence, an increase of 6.3% on the prior year.
Our dividend cover, based on adjusted EPS before goodwill and non-operating items, is 2.5 times and is consistent with our specialist bank and dividend policy.
asset manager We have realigned our business model towards less capital intensive activities by building our Asset Despite the various Management and Wealth Management businesses thereby growing our annuity net fee and commission challenges in our operating income.
This has resulted in a substantial rise in total third party assets under management for the environment, five of our group of 20.0% to 88.9 billion, and a 53.5% increase in operating pro t from the Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses which now account for 38.6% of the groups operating pro t, six core divisions enjoyed compared with 25.3% in 2010. strong operational performances with overall The banking environment is experiencing severe levels of public scrutiny together with a period of results constrained by the unprecedented regulatory change.
There is still a lack of clarity as to where all the new enhanced slow recovery of nonregulatory requirements will settle.
As a consequence, we continue to maintain our strong liquidity performing loans.
We have and capital position as we adjust to an environment where higher levels of liquidity and capital will focused on realigning become the norm.
The capital adequacy of Investec plc was 16.8% and Investec Limited was 15.9% the business model and at year end.
growing revenues from less capital intensive Stable operating environment activities.
We believe we are developing the right Overall, the operating environment continued to stabilise although uncertainty, volatility and lower than balance of businesses for normal activity levels were still a feature.
Equity markets and all indices that affect us were up over the the long term.
financial year but they were volatile with a strong increase in the second half of the year.
Interest rates around the world were relatively at but we experienced volatile exchange rates with some key rates appreciating strongly towards the end of the year.
South Africa The past year has been one of economic recovery for South Africa with growth being led by consumption without being held back by the need for austerity measures applied in many developed economies.
Corporates in South Africa are in good shape but have maintained a degree of caution by remaining cash ush and delaying investment decisions.
Consumers and households continued to deleverage and have been more conservative in relation to debt which was a steady source of both revenue and pro t growth for banks in the past.
The country has a strong financial sector, ranked sixth in the world in the most recent competitiveness survey for both soundness and sophistication of its financial markets.
South Africas financial system was protected to some degree from the global financial crisis due to the Reserve Banks high level of financial market supervision.
With its low level of sovereign debt and ability to increase borrowings, the South African economy is well structured for growth.
South Africa is seen as the gateway to Africa and we believe our local positioning will allow us to partner with our clients in their growth aspirations on the continent.
The Financial Sector Charter, which was terminated in December 2008, is currently undergoing an alignment process with the Department of Trade and Industry DTI codes.
We continue to engage with all stakeholders in our efforts to advance the development of the Financial Sector Charter and, in the meantime, we will measure our transformation progress against the DTI codes.
Investec obtained its first DTI rating for the 2010 financial year and was awarded a level 4 which is roughly equivalent to the A rating we received via the Financial Sector Charter.
United Kingdom The UK operating environment was affected by deteriorating economic conditions which had an effect 18 on clients activities and underlying asset values.
The Irish market in particular was acutely affected by 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Overview of the year economic dif culties and the local banking crisis.
There are a number of factors weighing negatively on the outlook for the UK economy.
Policy tightening is likely to temper the pace of recovery this year with consumer con dence remaining subdued.
We will need to consider the outcomes from the Independent Commission on Bankings ICB recommendations.
This commission was set up in June 2010 to consider reforms in the UK banking sector that will promote financial stability and competition.
The final report will be published in September 2011 and we will then assess the implications for our business.
We have shown resilience in this region where many banks needed government support during the financial crisis.
We have worked hard to establish Investec as a meaningful manager of wealth and savings.
Investec has created a credible business as our brand continues to gain traction in a competitive environment.
Australia The Australian economy has been relatively insulated from the global meltdown of recent years and is one of the few developed economies that did not go into recession over this period.
Unemployment has stayed low and the household sector remains resilient.
Growth over the past few years has been largely commodity driven with robust international export demand continuing to support overall growth.
The outlook is mixed although economic activity is expected to improve further as business investment picks up and the resource sector continues to outperform.
Our business in Australia will look to bene t from cross-border ows between our three core geographies.
We also have capabilities in China and India which will serve us well in this region.
We are a niche player in the Australian market where the largest four banks dominate the financial services environment.
This provides us with a unique opportunity to position ourselves in those areas that are under-serviced by our larger competitors.
Strong contribution from the Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses In this mixed environment with lower than normal activity levels, Investec businesses continued to grow their local platforms and maintained their positioning.
The groups non-capital intensive Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses reported a strong increase in their contribution to group earnings as a result of the acquisition of the balance of Rensburg Sheppards plc and signi cant net in ows.
While some of the groups banking businesses have performed well, notably Capital Markets, overall group results have been constrained by lower levels of transactional activity and the slow recovery of non-performing loans in the Private Bank.
Asset Management Asset Management increased operating pro t 52.6% to 127.3 million, bene ting from substantially higher funds under management and a solid investment performance.
The division recorded net in ows of 7.4 billion contributing to an increase in assets under management of 26.7% to 58.8 billion from 46.4 billion.
The divisions performance can be attributed to an experienced team supported by a global footprint that has seven distinct and scaleable investment platforms.
Wealth and Investment Wealth and Investment increased operating pro t 56.2% to 40.4 million with total funds under management up 8.5% from 27.1 billion to 29.4 billion.
The UK business has bene ted from higher funds under management due to the acquisition of the balance of Rensburg Sheppards plc and the consolidation of our Private Wealth Management businesses.
In South Africa, the key focus was on integrating the Private Banking Wealth Management business into Wealth and Investment.
While equity markets have improved, the economic outlook remains uncertain and performance is affected by the level of equity markets.
In the UK, we expect to achieve net organic growth of funds under management of 5% per annum while in South Africa the newly merged business is well positioned to leverage off a more streamlined cost and operational base.
Property Activities Property Activities generated an increase in operating pro t of 42.5% to 47.7 million.
The results of the division were largely supported by continued enhancement of the investment property portfolio in South Africa.
The Australian business bene ted from the acquisition and sale of investments and raised a new opportunity fund.
The business has a substantial pipeline of development and re-development projects and in April 2011 we listed the Investec Property Fund Limited on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited raising R807 million.
With property fundamentals stabilising, we are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities for property and development acquisitions through principal investments and partnering with investors through joint ventures or syndicates.
19 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Overview of the year Operating financial review continued Private Banking This was a dif cult year for the Private Banking business which posted a loss of 91.4 million as a result of low activity levels, a lack of opportunities to exit investments and a sharp rise in impairments due to the prolonged weak economic environment.
Nevertheless, we managed to grow the private client core lending book by 3.1% to 13.3 billion and the deposit book by 5.9% to 12.5 billion.
We have managed to maintain revenues during a tough period and have taken a number of steps to strengthen the business as outlined below.
We recognise that we misjudged the final phases of the bull market and have had to rethink our strategy for this business.
The entrepreneurial and high net worth clients who accepted too much leverage have been impacted upon by the financial crisis.
As a consequence, we have reviewed all our risk appetite philosophies and have tightened our focus on target clients to ensure a greater degree of resilience to cycles without inhibiting our entrepreneurial air.
In the UK, activity levels are slowly being restored and we are starting to gain momentum as private clients get back on their feet.
The South African business is starting to see a pick up in deal ow and we expect to bene t from the consolidation of our banking businesses into the specialist banking platform.
In Australia, we are launching a card and transactional banking initiative to enhance Experiens offering to clients as its book is starting to reach scale.
Investment Banking The Investment Banking business reported operating pro t up 62.1% to 67.4 million with mixed performances across geographies and business activities.
The Principal Investments division recorded a robust result, primarily driven by the scaleable South African and Hong Kong businesses which are bene ting from well diversi ed portfolios.
The agency and advisory business across all geographies enjoyed a healthy deal pipeline but trading conditions in the Institutional Stockbroking business remain dif cult.
The outlook for this business is predominantly driven by equity markets.
In South Africa, activity levels are rising and there is a fair amount of corporate activity.
The brand in the UK is gaining traction and we are ready to take advantage of opportunities from increased secondary fundraisings and capital raisings.
Australia is in a re-investment phase and we have rebuilt the team to focus on the top end of the mid-market.
In April 2011, we acquired a boutique corporate advisory rm in Hong Kong, Access Capital, which will help capture deal ow between developed and developing markets.
We have also established a presence in India where we advise middle to large cap Indian companies on growth solutions.
Capital Markets Capital Markets was able to produce a solid performance with an increase in operating pro t of 35.1% to 242.0 million and a decline in both impairments and defaults.
The division bene ted from good levels of activity across the advisory and structuring businesses, notably within the Principal Finance, Structured Finance and Structured Equity Finance teams.
Core loans and advances increased 7.2% to 4.8 billion.
Overall, we have invested in building our capability and remain well positioned to grow market share and extend our franchise in all core geographies.
In South Africa, we have re ned our portfolio and are ready to bene t from a recovery in the local economy.
We continue to build a balanced business model in the UK where we can bene t from both primary and secondary market activity while our Australian business continues to invest for the long term and several new business initiatives should start gaining momentum this year.
Committed to sustainable business practices Just as relevant as our business accomplishments is the manner in which we conduct ourselves in attaining them.
Our sustainability goals re ect our culture of continuous advancement and reaf rm our belief that sustainability in its broadest sense is about managing and positioning the group for the long term.
This year we are producing an integrated report which brings together the financial and nonfinancial aspects of our business which we believe will show a more complete and balanced picture of our business and performance.
As a result, there is no separate sustainability report this year as our approach to the various aspects of sustainability has been documented throughout this integrated report.
On a broader sustainability front, during the year, a stakeholder engagement exercise took place involving a number of stakeholders in the UK, South Africa and Australia.
The aim was to collect the views regarding the business implications of environmental, social and governance issues, and to assess their perceptions regarding Investecs performance and communication on these issues.
While we have been recognised for our efforts in many of these areas we acknowledge that there is vast room for improvement and we are reassessing our approach going forward.
The environmental dimension of our sustainability approach is based on a growing understanding of the risks to our business represented by climate change and global warming, and the need to reduce our environmental impact by becoming more energy ef cient.
In the UK, Investec was recognised for the fourth year running in the City of Londons Clean City Awards Scheme for our efforts in managing waste through recycling.
In early 2010 we commissioned an external analysis on the risks and opportunities for climate change for the South African business and several recommendations are under consideration as part of the strategic review of our sustainability approach.
We also hosted a postCancun breakfast in February 2011 with government and industry, creating a platform for discussion on climate change and the potential 20 implications for business and society at large.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Overview of the year Dedication and commitment of senior management, staff and a strong board of directors As always, the performance highlighted throughout this report re ects the dedication and commitment of an experienced senior management team and more than 7 000 Investec employees around the world.
We thank our people for their many contributions and for making Investec a truly out of the ordinary company.
It is also appropriate to thank all of our clients and stakeholders for the trust and con dence they place in us.
We remain committed to nding better and more ef cient ways to deliver value to all stakeholders.
In these challenging times where there are increasing corporate governance and regulatory demands, a strong board is pivotal to the effective management of the company.
During the period, Sir Chips Keswick and Alan Tapnack retired, and Geoffrey Howe resigned from the Investec plc and Investec Limited boards.
We thank them for their outstanding contribution and wish them all the best for the future.
At the same time, we appointed Perry Crosthwaite, Hendrik du Toit and Olivia Dickson to the Investec plc and Investec Limited boards and look forward to the input their knowledge and wealth of experience brings to the boards.
Focus on creating a single Specialist Bank Over the past two years, we have re-positioned the group and made substantial progress in realigning our business model in response to the challenging and uncertain regulatory landscape.
Our strategic focus remains the same.
We are committed to facilitating the creation of wealth and the management of wealth for our clients.
We have focused on establishing Investec for long-term growth by positioning the group as a specialist bank and asset manager operating off a global platform.
The Asset Management business has been successfully globalised while the Wealth and Investment business is in the process of being globalised.
The focus is now on creating a single specialist bank that is even more oriented to our clients so that we can create sustainable value together.
The aim is to ensure a single bank mindset and structure is entrenched with client need and demand at the core of our offering.
We intend to do this by creating a more appropriate business structure in order to maximise the product offering to the client and through sharing the competencies of the group to achieve greater operational ef ciency.
Our success in nding synergies and connectivity across the group will translate into a leaner cost structure and will allow us to convert growth opportunities into strong bottom-line results.
This is an intricate process which will take time to implement across the group and we will be in a better position to elaborate on the ner details at the investor brie ng in September 2011.
Well positioned for growth in 2012 Looking ahead, regulatory uncertainties remain and we will continue to maintain high levels of liquidity and capital until there is further clarity.
While our performance remains sensitive to the global economy, we expect earnings to bene t from continued momentum in our businesses and the normalising of impairment losses.
We have sought to realign the business model and grow revenues from less capital intensive activities.
We have taken advantage of the dislocation that occurred in financial markets to attract talented people and extend brand awareness to bene t from steadily improving market activity.
The foundations are in place and we are well positioned for growth in 2012.
Hugh Herman Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chairman Chief executive of cer Managing director Operating pro t as used in the text above refers to operating pro t before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests.
The operating financial review provides an overview of our strategic position, performance during the financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read together with the sections that follow on pages 22 to 286, which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
21 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Overview of the year
