58 58 Independent Auditors report on the financial statements of the Group To the Members of Jupiter Fund Management plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Jupiter Fund Opinion on financial statements Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which In our opinion the Group financial statements: comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance 31 December 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the then ended: consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes.
The have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as financial reporting framework that has been applied in their adopted by the European Union: and preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Opinion on other matters prescribed by the As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set Companies Act 2006 out on page 33, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of In our opinion: the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give the information given in the Directors report for the financial year a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an for which the Group financial statements are prepared is opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with consistent with the Group financial statements.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Matters on which we are required to report by exception Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with in our opinion: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume not made: or responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom we have not received all the information and explanations we this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where require for our audit.
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors statement, in relation to going concern: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK assurance that the financial statements are free from material Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Directors remuneration.
the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Other matter estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the We have reported separately on the Company financial statements financial statements.
of Jupiter Fund Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in that is described as having been audited.
the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Sandra Dowling Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 March 2012 Jupiter Fund Management plc
