One year on from demerger I am pleased to We generated 116 million of trading cash The Board recommends a final dividend of3.0 pence per share which, subject be able to comment on a solid set of results.
flow in 2010 11 up 45 million on last year.
Solid because we have seen EBITDA grow Free cash flow increased by 62 million to toshareholder approval will be paid on 11August 2011.
The Board has reviewed to 442 million from 431 million last year and an inflow of 61 million compared with the trading cash flow increase to 116 million free cash outflow of 1 million last year.
thedividend policy following the performance Thisis after paying 23 million of interest of the business in its first year as an from 71million.
This has been achieved ina particularly demanding economic and finance costs and repaying 22 million independent listed company and now of finance lease capital.
intends to hold the dividend at the current environment in which we have experienced customers and suppliers applying some level of 4.5 pence in the 2011 12 year, and Exceptional operating costs relating to the intends to adopt a progressive dividend considerable financial pressure.
business restructuring declined substantially policy once the dividend payment is in the year from 54 million to15 million as covered by free cash flow, which will Total revenue for the year is marginally down at 2,257 million, from 2,265 million these programmes completed.
Cash spent reflectthe growth in cash generation.
on exceptional items declined similarly from last year, primarily as a result of a reduction in voice and legacy products, reduced 73 million to 37million.
On a personal note, I have thoroughly enjoyed my year leading the finance team traffic volumes and increased pricing pressure.
Continued organic growth in our Balance sheet capital expenditure in atCable&Wireless Worldwide and working 2010 11 marginally increased to 282 million with the business during the year post strategic product set of IP, data, hosting and applications increased its share of and 12% of revenue.
Looking to the future, Ihand on customer contracts related capital overto Ian Gibson as the incoming Group revenue to 56% from 54% last year.
expenditure, 88million on new capability ChiefFinancial Officer with continued assets and 33 million maintaining our confidence in the Cable&Wireless Total operating costs decreased year-onyear by 21 million.
The reduction primarily property and network assets and on cost Worldwide colleagues who have shown reduction initiatives.
great commitment and dedication over reflects a combination of lower bad debt expense, energy savings, network charge thepast year.
This performance meant we ended the year rebates recognised in the year and savings on communication costs.
Against this we with 266 million of cash, up 40 million on last year.
Our 300 million revolving credit incurred 13 million of charges in respect ofleaver redundancy payments and facility remains undrawn.
7million in respect of increased staff costs due to wage inflation and additional heads following demerger as we changed the balance of our teams to match the evolving Tim Weller Chief Financial Officer needs of the business.
