The key areas of responsibility within the Committees Disclosure Committee The Board has delegated authority to the Disclosure scope include: Committee to assist it with the identification and Making recommendations to the Board on the consideration of disclosure matters relating appointment of additional or replacement Directors, toallmarket releases containing material financial following a rigorous and transparent process, which information.
The Disclosure Committee membership will include engagement with an appropriate comprises senior management from the Finance, executive search consultant, consideration of all Legaland External Affairs functions, and is chaired suitable candidates and a robust interview process bythe Chief Financial Officer.
led by the Chairman: Devising and keeping under review succession During the preparation of the Groups annual report, planning arrangements for Directors and senior theDisclosure Committee met to obtain the necessary executives within the business: certifications from contributors following the Ensuring the Chairman, Senior Independent Director documents review by the Audit Committee and and Non-executive Directors are able to give sufficient subsequent approval by the Board.
time to their role as required: and Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition Internal Control, Risk Management of the Board and its principal Committees and and Financial Reporting making recommendations to the Board of any The Board is responsible for the system of internal proposed changes.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis.
The system of internal control is During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Committees designed to manage, rather than eliminate the risk deliberations included the following matters: offailure to achieve business objectives and can Reviewed and made recommendations on the onlyprovide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance appointment of Ian Gibson as a new Executive against material misstatement or loss.
The concept Director and Chief Financial Officer in replacement ofreasonable assurance recognises that the cost ofTim Weller who will leave the Company on ofcontrol procedures should not exceed the 21July2011.
The Committees review included a expectedbenefits.
comprehensive external benchmarking exercise toensure that the Board had identified a suitable The Company operates a risk management process, candidate with the necessary skills and experience which identifies the key risks to its plans, their likelihood for the role: and and impact and the actions being taken to manage Reviewed the composition of the Board and those risks.
A Group-wide risk register is reviewed by considered the requirements for additional Directors.
the Directors and presented to the Audit Committee ona bi-annual basis.
Full details of the Companys risk Remuneration Committee management processes are set out below with the Membership of the Committee principal risks identified on pages 36 and 37.
The members of the Committee are the independent Non-executive Directors listed below: The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of management, significant changes in the Groups Clive Butler Chairman business and the external environment in which it Penny Hughes operates.
In addition, they provide the Board with John Barton monthly financial information, which includes key risks and performance indicators.
Membership of the Committee is determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination The Groups key internal control and monitoring Committee.
The Committee discharges its responsibilities procedures include the following: through a series of Committee meetings held throughout the year.
The Committee met eight times during the Financial reporting: each year, an annual budget is agreed and approved by the Board.
At each Board year ended 31 March 2011 and attendance at these meetings is set out on page 42.
The agenda for meeting, actual results are reviewed and reported against budget and, when appropriate, revised meetings is prepared by the Committee Chairman in conjunction with other members of the Committee, and forecasts: Investment appraisal: the Group has clear policies the Committee Secretary as appropriate.
These include annual budgets and detailed appraisal processes for such Role and responsibilities of the Committee The Committee makes recommendations to the Board, expenditure: Monitoring systems: internal controls are monitored within its agreed terms of reference, on the framework of remuneration for the Chairman, Executive Directors, through a programme of internal audits.
The internal audit function reports to the Audit Committee on its and a defined population of its senior executive management.
examination and evaluation of the effectiveness and adequacy of systems of internal control: and The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed Financial controls: the Company operates an annual controls self-assessment exercise to assist with during the year to ensure that they remained fit for purpose and were in line with the Institute of Chartered embedding controls across the business.
This requires management to assess the effectiveness Secretaries and Administrators best practice guidelines.
The terms of reference of the Committee areavailable ofits fundamental operating controls over all aspects of its operations, in addition to financial controls.
Theresults of this exercise are utilised by internal audit in planning its work for the forthcoming year.
The main responsibilities of the Committee and the activities undertaken throughout the year ended 31March 2011 are set out in detail in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 55.
