Corporate governance How the board works Board performance report BPs governance framework BPs system of governance begins with the board and continues into our subsidiaries.
The governance framework is outlined in the BP board Dear shareholder, governance principles which sets out the role of the board, its processes and its relationship with executive management.
In my letter to shareholders earlier in this report I have endeavoured to give The boards core activities include: an overview of the challenges which the company has faced in 2011 and t The active consideration of long-term strategy.
the work of the board in meeting those challenges.
t The monitoring of executive action and the performance of BP.
In this letter, and in the report which follows, my aim is to give t Obtaining assurance that the material risks to BP are identied and that shareholders, and indeed all those with whom the company interacts, systems of risk management and control are in place to mitigate such a deeper insight into the evolution of the BP board, the review which it risks.
has undertaken and the changes that have been made, and which are t Ongoing board and executive management succession.
continuing to be made, to govern your company at the highest standard.
BP has a clear system of governance based upon the BP board In all its work the board sets the tone from the top for the organization by governance principles.
This serves BP and its board well.
It is vital that the considering specic issues, including health, safety, the environment and system of governance, what the board does, evolves with the company BPs reputation and working with management to set the values of the and with the thinking of those charged with its governance.
The tragic events in the Gulf of Mexico require that the board During 2011 the board undertook a review of its corporate consider how it operates: however the substantial change in directors governance model.
A working group consisting of the chairman and three has meant there have been new views on the role of the board.
This has non-executive directors Paul Anderson, Antony Burgmans and Cynthia resulted in the evolution that I have mentioned.
In undertaking strong Carroll examined key aspects of BPs system of governance, including governance of the company, I believe that the board should provide the system of delegation, board processes, information, risk and the tasks leadership and challenge, but also support to executive management.
In its and role of the committees.
During the review, input was sought from activities this year, the board has strived to achieve this role.
board members and from executive management, both through board and The tasks of the board set out later in this report have not and will working group discussions and individually through our board evaluation not change.
It was clear though that a board which governs a company of process.
the scale and scope of BP needs to have a clear view of its role The review concluded that BPs system of governance is robust and the steps it can take to support or challenge and the information but that further clarity on board processes would help reinforce the which it needs.
boards delegation to the group chief executive and strengthen the boards The board is initiating modications in all of these areas and monitoring and assurance role.
will keep those changes under review.
The actions from this work are important as we operate a system of governance throughout the company.
The framework for how the board works is articulated in our board The composition of the board and the mix of knowledge, skills and governance principles, available on our website at bp.
experience that our directors bring to the company is a key area of focus Over this coming year we will maintain focus, discipline and follow for the nomination committee.
The committee keeps this mix under review through at the board as we continue to deal with a volume of issues.
and regularly maps the skillset of our existing board membership against Looking forward into 2012, one of our aims is to get back into a steady the likely tenure of individual directors.
This is viewed against the potential rhythm of board meetings.
We hope to do this through strengthening our demands placed on the board due to developments in our strategy and forward agenda and board planning processes.
We will also maintain our business activities.
Further detail of the current skillset of the board and focus on the skills and experience of our directors, the composition of our the skills competencies that the nomination committee has prioritized for board and succession planning.
future non-executive director appointments is outlined in the report of the Diversity within UK boards was a topic of debate in 2011 and nomination committee later in this section.
will remain so going forward.
BP is a company with global reach and we Full biographies of our board members can be found on our believe that it is important to have a board that is diverse in the widest website.
sense: the company remains committed to meritocracy as well as to diversity.
As part of the update of our board governance principles we have Succession: board and committee membership included a policy on board diversity.
At the time of writing we have 12.5% Since the beginning of 2011, the following changes have taken place to the female representation on the board.
Our goal is to increase the number composition of the board: of women on the board to three by 2013 and to work towards 25% t 1IVUIVNB IMFLP KPJOFE UIF CPBSE BT B OPO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPS PO representation by 2015.
"In the governance report which follows we have outlined key t %S %F""OOF VMJVT BOE %PVHMBT 'MJOU SFUJSFE GSPN UIF CPBSE BU UIF ""."
JO elements of the activities of the board and its committees during the year.
April 2011. t Dr Brian Gilvary joined the board as an executive director and chief Carl-Henric Svanberg financial officer CFO on 1 January 2012.
"Chairman t ""OESFX 4IJMTUPO KPJOFE UIF CPBSE BT B OPO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPS PO 1 January 2012. t 1SPGFTTPS %BNF ""OO %PXMJOH KPJOFE UIF CPBSE BT B OPO FYFDVUJWF director on 3 February 2012."
Dr Byron Grote stepped down as CFO at the end of 2011 but will remain on the board as an executive director during 2012, with responsibility for BPs integrated supply and trading operations, Alternative Energy, shipping, technology and remediation activities.
Sir William Castell has decided not to seek re-election at this years AGM and will retire from the board at the meeting.
Andrew Shilston will succeed Sir William as the senior independent director from the 2012 AGM and will be available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through normal channels.
He will work closely with 120 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Corporate governance Accountability Delegation Corporate governance Antony Burgmans who, given his length of service on the board, will committee may make recommendations to the board if it concludes that a respond to any internal board matters, act as a sounding board for the directors other commitments are inconsistent with those required by BP.
chairman and serve as an intermediary for other directors if necessary.
Sir William stepped down as chairman of the safety, ethics and Time commitment and outside appointments environment assurance committee SEEAC and Paul Anderson became its Letters of appointment for non-executive directors do not set out a xed chairman from 9 December 2011. time commitment for board duties as we believe that the time required Ian Davis stepped down as a member of the audit committee on by directors may uctuate depending on demands of the business and 3 February 2012 and Frank Bowman joined the Gulf of Mexico committee other events.
However, it is expected that directors will allocate sufficient on the same date.
time to the company to perform their duties effectively.
The chairmans Neither the chairman nor the senior independent director are appointment letter sets out the time commitment expected of him.
employed as executives of the group.
The board maintains a succession Following an approach from the Volvo Group, the chairman plan for the chairman and senior independent director, in addition to the discussed with the board, through the chairmans committee, whether group chief executive and senior management.
to take an additional post as a part-time non-executive chairman of Volvo.
During this process, our senior independent director led a discussion of Appointment and tenure non-executive directors without the chairman present to hear their views.
The chairman and our non-executive directors NEDs serve on the basis The board concluded that Mr Svanberg has sufficient time to carry out both of letters of appointment.
BP does not place a term limit on directors commitments and supported the chairman taking on this additional role.
service as we propose all directors for annual re-election by shareholders a The chairman will step down from his existing non-executive directorship practice we have followed since 2004. at Ericsson before assuming the chairmanship of Volvo in April 2012: he also confirmed to the board that he does not intend to seek any additional Tenure of board directors as at 6 March 2012 roles outside those at BP and Volvo.
Executive directors are permitted to take up one external board 0-3 years 4-6 years 7-9 years appointment, subject to the agreement of the chairman and provided such 8 NEDs 8 NEDs 3 NEDs 3 NEDs 1 NED 1 NED external appointment is reported to the BP board.
Fees received for an external appointment may be retained by the executive director and are The governance principles require our non-executive directors to be reported in the Directors remuneration report.
independent in character and judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their Diversity judgement.
The board has determined that those non-executive directors BP recognizes the importance of diversity, including gender, at all levels who served during 2011 fullled this requirement and were independent.
of the company as well as the board.
The company is committed to The board also satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the increasing diversity across our operations and has in place a wide range of independence of, or existence of conicts of interest for, those directors activities to support the development and promotion of talented individuals, who serve together as directors on the boards of outside entities or who including women.
have other appointments in outside entities.
These issues are considered During the year, the board responded to Lord Davies report on on a regular basis at board meetings.
The nomination committee keeps gender diversity and confirmed its goal to increase the number of women under review the nature of non-executive directors other interests to on the BP board to three by 2013 and work towards the recommendation ensure that the effectiveness of the board is not compromised.
The of 25% female representation by 2015.
With the appointment of Professor BP governance framework BP Board Governance Owners shareholders Principles t BP goal t Governance process Board t Delegation model t Executive limitations Monitoring, information and assurance Nomination Remuneration Chairmans Chairmans Gulf of Mexico SEEAC Audit Audit Nomination Remuneration committee committee committee committee committee co committee mmittee Ernst & Young committee committee Internal audit Finance function Safety & operational risk function Strategy group risks annual plan Delegation General counsel Delegation of authority Group compliance Group chief executive through policy with of cer monitoring External market and reputation GCEs delegations Accountability research Independent expert Assurance through monitoring and reporting Independent advice Executive management if requested RCM GPC GDC GFRC GORC Resource Group people Group Group Group commitments committee disclosures financial risk operations risk meeting committee committee committee BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 121 Corporate governance Dame Ann Dowling, BP currently has two female board members, way of building on the past years results and providing a robust, thirdequating to 12.5% of our directors.
party insight into the boards effectiveness.
To enable continuity and The board has agreed a board diversity policy which will be comparability of results over the two year period, we used the same included in our board governance principles.
The policy states that when external facilitator as for the 2010 review.
considering the composition of the board, directors will be mindful of diversity, inclusiveness and meritocracy.
As part of its workplan for this Evaluation process for 2011 year, the nomination committee will develop and agree a set of measurable t &BDI EJSFDUPS XJUI UIF FYDFQUJPO PG UIPTF BQQPJOUFE JO XBT TFOU B objectives for implementing this policy and report back on these to questionnaire and a list of discussion topics.
t 5IF GBDJMJUBUPS IFME POF UP POF SFWJFXT XJUI FBDI QBSUJDJQBUJOH EJSFDUPS using the questionnaire and discussion topics as a starting point.
Induction and board learning t &BDI DPNNJUUFF IFME JUT PXO SFWJFX VTJOH POMJOF RVFTUJPOOBJSFT UIBU On joining BP non-executive directors are given a tailored induction were developed by us using an externally generated question bank.
This programme includes one-to-one meetings with senior results from these questionnaires were then discussed with the external management, our auditors and site visits to our operations.
The induction facilitator by each committee these are outlined in the reports of our will also cover the board committees that a director will join.
"the initial induction programme for one of our recently joined non-executive t "" QBQFS PO UIF LFZ UIFNFT BOE WJFXT GSPN UIF POF UP POF SFWJFXT BOE directors is set out below."
the evaluation of the committees were sent to the board to review.
t 5IF CPBSE IFME B EJTDVTTJPO XJUI UIF FYUFSOBM GBDJMJUBUPS UP BTTFTT UIFTF views and the issues raised.
Director induction programme t 5IF CPBSE BHSFFE PO BDUJPOT GPS UIF GPSUIDPNJOH ZFBS CBTFE PO UIJT discussion.
Board and governance t #1 T CPBSE HPWFSOBODF NPEFM EJSFDUPST EVUJFT JOUFSFTUT BOE QPUFOUJBM Key conclusions of the 2011 evaluation conicts.
The review concluded the board had operated well in 2011.
It had been t $PNNJUUFF JOEVDUJPO.
an eventful year and the board continues to deal with events from t 4USBUFHZ BOE QMBOOJOH.
There was a strong view that the board had an t SPVQ JOWFTUPS FWFOU PO HPWFSOBODF BOE CPBSE BDUJWJUJFT.
open and transparent style of discussion, with good engagement and contribution from all members, particularly around strategic planning and BPs business risk management.
The board also considered that its focus, discipline t JTUPSZ PG UIF integrated oil company and BP.
and follow through had strengthened over the year, which was seen as t 6QTUSFBN FYQMPSBUJPO EFWFMPQNFOU QSPEVDUJPO PWFSWJFX PG PVS important given the events of the previous 18 months and the volume of operations.
issues dealt with by the board.
It hoped to continue this trend in 2012. t 3FmOJOH BOE Marketing.
"The review also found that there was potential for continuous t ""MUFSOBUJWF &OFSHZ."
improvement in areas such as board materials including the length of papers and agendas, and that as the board endeavours to move back Functional input into a steady state of operation, it would need to revisit its collective t $POUSPMT FYUFSOBM BVEJUPST BOE JOUFSOBM BVEJU.
expectation around governance processes and style.
Tracking issues from our previous evaluation tFHBM.
Over 2011, the board acted upon the recommendations from the 2010 t &UIJDT BOE DPNQMJBODF.
The board determined to conduct additional site visits t 4BGFUZ BOE PQFSBUJPOBM risk S&OR, BPs operating management and participate in detailed briengs in order to gain further insight into the system OMS and environmental performance.
companys operations and activities which it achieved through an active t 3FTFBSDI BOE UFDIOPMPHZ.
programme over the year attended by individual or groups of directors.
board set up a working group to review and revise the companys board governance principles to ensure that BPs governance processes were effective.
The board also reviewed BPs crisis and continuity plan, including We continue the boards learning through board and committee events.
specic focus on the process through which board involvement is triggered At our May 2011 board meeting in Houston, we ran a day-long event as part of its action to clarify the boards role in the crisis planning process.
to give our non-executive directors an insight into how BP manages Finally, the board had extensive engagement with executive management its learning and capability development, including briengs on seismic in forward-looking strategy discussions and an overview of BPs risk interpretation, the companys technical education programme and trading.
Non-executive directors are expected to attend at least one site visit per year.
During 2011, such visits included Texas City and Whiting reneries Risk management: from operations to the board with the independent expert, L. Duane Wilson, an offshore visit to the Gulf One of the boards tasks is to satisfy itself that the material risks to BP of Mexico, visits to global wells organization leadership teams in the Gulf are identied and understood and that systems of risk management, of Mexico and the North America gas business, our business centre in compliance and control are in place to mitigate such risks.
The board, Budapest and BPs ofces in Houston and Canary Wharf.
During the year through its governance principles, requires the group chief executive to our chairman visited BPs operations in Alaska and our oil sands projects in operate with a comprehensive system of controls and internal audit to Canada.
identify and manage the risks that are material to BP.
Authority for the design and implementation of this system of internal control is delegated Board effectiveness by the board to the group chief executive.
Components of our system Board evaluation of internal control which includes the risk management system are We undertake an annual review of the board, its committees and individual management systems, organizational structures, processes, standards and directors.
The chairman undertakes the evaluation of individual directors, behaviours employed to conduct the business of BP.
with the chairmans own performance evaluated by the chairmans committee led by the senior independent director.
In 2009 and 2010, we undertook an external review of the boards performance.
In 2011, we decided to continue external facilitation as a 122 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Corporate governance Corporate governance At the group level, risk is examined by the board to apply a top-down perspective.
The group risks identied as requiring particular oversight in the coming year are selected for discussion with the board.
These are then Board oversight allocated for review by the board or one of its committees.
A common Occurs periodically at board level agenda for the review is established to enable the board or committee to discuss risk in a consistent manner with executive management.
Results in allocation and The board examines group risks both on a periodic basis and as part oversight over group risks of its review of the annual plan.
The board also conducts an annual review of the risk management and internal control systems as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the year there is exibility to change Executive and functional oversight which risks have been identied as requiring particular oversight and which have been allocated to the board and its committees, in the event there are Occurs periodically at any changes to the internal or external environments or events arising.
executive and function levels Following its review of the 2012 annual plan, the risks described Results in governance above have been allocated for review by the board and its committees as over group risks follows: t 5IF CPBSE IBT CFFO BMMPDBUFE TFWFSBM TUSBUFHJD BOE TBGFUZ BOE PQFSBUJPOBM group risks, including risks associated with the macroeconomic outlook, the delivery of the 10-point plan, the groups exposure to Russia, crisis Business risk management management, reputational impact and the recruitment and development Occurs periodically at of staff.
business and function levels t 5IF BVEJU DPNNJUUFF IBT CFFO BMMPDBUFE B OVNCFS PG DPNQMJBODF BOE control and safety and operational risks, including risks associated with Results in risk reports treasury and trading activities, compliance with applicable laws and regulations and security threats against our digital infrastructure.
t 5IF TBGFUZ FUIJDT BOE FOWJSPONFOU BTTVSBODF DPNNJUUFF IBT CFFO allocated several safety and operational and strategic risks, including Day to day risk management risks associated with conducting our operations through joint ventures or associates and through contracting and sub-contracting arrangements Occurs at where BP may not have full operational control.
Other safety and operations and functions operational risks the committee have been allocated include the health, Results in risk data safety and environmental risks of incidents associated with the drilling of wells, operation of facilities and transportation of hydrocarbons.
FYJDP DPNNJUUFF IBT CFFO BMMPDBUFE B OVNCFS PG TUSBUFHJD risks, including risks associated with the extent and timing of costs and liabilities relating to the incident and the possible impact on our licence to operate.
Risk management in BP is a top-down and bottom-up process.
The bottom-up process starts at the day-to-day level with businesses and Board activities during 2011 functions identifying and managing their risks using existing company 2011 was another active year for the board, which met 15 times.
The standards and practices, e. g. OMS.
The most significant risks are organized boards focus remained on the incident in the Gulf of Mexico both to into common categories strategic risks, safety and operational risks and understand what happened and how the company can apply the lessons compliance and controls risks so they can be reported up the line in a learned.
Within the board and its committees, debate and assurance standardized form.
has been ongoing with management on key aspects such as the impact During the year a review of BPs risk management system was on the groups reputation, accounting treatment and provisioning, initiated which has built on our current system of risk management.
Using implementation of the recommendations of the Bly Report and the legal the findings of this review, BP has started to implement enhancements and communication strategy for litigation arising from the incident.
The to drive consistency and clarity in how risks are reported and understood challenge has remained for the board to ensure that it devoted enough in all levels of our organization from operations to the board.
See time to the ongoing business of the company whilst holding these Our management of risk on page 42 for further discussion of the risk important discussions.
Periodic meetings throughout the year of the nonmanagement system and 2011 review.
executive directors comprising the chairmans committee, together with Within BPs risk management system, functions set standards, liaison between the chairman and the chairs of the board committees, provide guidance and provide a view of group risks in their functional area have assisted in managing this challenge.
Areas discussed by the board of expertise, independent of line management.
Certain functions also included the following: deliver assurance that the activities to manage the risks are working as intended in the businesses.
Strategy Group risks are allocated to one of the committees established The board is engaged at the early stages of discussion on strategy and the by the group chief executive for management and monitoring.
annual plan in order to provide constructive challenge.
During the year two These executive level committees are sub-committees of our senior day-long meetings were held for strategic discussions.
After the February management team and their role includes setting policy, making decisions 2011 update to the market the board continued to develop the companys and overseeing the management of risks and performance.
The executive strategy with respect to milestones and deliverables, resulting in a further committees are: market update in October on the companys 10-point-plan.
Over the t SPVQ operations risk committee GORC for risks of a safety, year, the board considered key strategic elements, including biofuels, environment or operations nature.
Canadian heavy oil and the companys disposal programme.
The board also t SPVQ financial risk committee GFRC for finance and trading risks.
spent considerable time discussing strategic opportunities and implications t SPVQ disclosure committee GDC for financial reporting risks.
of the strategic alliance that had been proposed with Rosneft and the new t SPVQ people committee GPC for people risks.
t 3FTPVSDF commitments meeting RCM for risks related to investment decisions.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 123 Corporate governance Assurance The board undertook a number of activities as part of its assurance role, including assessing the effectiveness of the companys system of internal controls and risk management.
The groups financial performance was considered, as was a review of BPs technology function and the performance and role of the technology group within the outlook for energy demand and supply.
Governance Reputation The board received an overview of BPs activities in the US and t Board governance t Group reputation review received several updates during the year on legal issues, in particular on t Communications review t Investor audit t Reputation management litigation and enquiries resulting from events in the Gulf of Mexico.
The t Board evaluation t Crisis management board discussed the UK Bribery Act and the steps the company was taking to comply with the Act: as a result of this discussion the board endorsed the updated anti-bribery policy outlined in BPs code of conduct.
L. Duane Wilson, the independent expert appointed by the board Strategy BP board Assurance to provide an objective assessment of BPs progress in implementing the t Russia activities t Group financial outlook t Strat egy: group recommendations of the BP US Reneries Independent Review Panel, t Independen t experts in 2011 t Strat egy: biofuels: annual report presented his fourth annual report to the board where he assessed BPs Canadian heavy oil t Legal upda te t Annual plan progress against the Panels 10 recommendations.
Further details of t Technology review t Competitor analysis t US overview Mr Wilsons work are outlined in the report of the SEEAC and his report is t %JTQPTBM QSPHSBNNF t Corporate reporting published on BPs website at bp.
t UK Bribery Act Risk Risk The board discussed the progress and outcome of the review of BPs t Risk management review risk management system over the year.
The outcome of the review has t G roup risk: upstream capability t G roup risks for 2012 resulted in clearer and more consistent reporting, denitions and templates for BPs risk management activities, as well as greater alignment of these risk management activities with existing BP business processes.
Shareholder engagement The board and its monitoring committees audit, SEEAC and Gulf The company continued its open dialogue with shareholders.
Our of Mexico monitored the group risks which had been allocated following executive directors and members of our executive management team held the boards review of the annual plan at the end of 2010.
The annual plan investor meetings following our strategy and financial results.
We also held and the group strategy are central to our risk management programme as meetings on operating and non-financial issues, including presentations they provide a framework for the board to consider significant risks and on BPs Energy Outlook 2030, an update on BPs activities in Canadian manage the groups overall risk exposure as well as underpin the model oil sands, our Alternative Energy and Rening and Marketing businesses of delegation and assurance for the board in its oversight of executive and BPs environmental and social requirements for new projects.
These management and other activities.
events were intended to give shareholders a wider perspective on the companys thinking behind its strategy and an understanding of the Reputation processes and standards we use to underpin our operations.
The board considers reputation from two perspectives the reputational The chairman, senior independent director and chair of our risks to the group and the processes the company has in place to manage remuneration committee held a number of one-to-one meetings with these risks.
During the year, the board reviewed external reputation data institutional investors to discuss strategy, the boards view on the companys which looked at BPs reputation in the UK and US.
It also discussed the performance and governance and our remuneration structure.
In addition groups communications strategy and its reputation management plan.
the chairman, with two members of our senior executive team, spoke at BPs group-wide renewed values were launched in 2011 as part group investor events in the US and UK to outline the companys progress of a programme of change called We are BP, by which the renewed on the Bly Report recommendations, the remit and work of the safety and values will be reected in how employees performance is assessed and operational risk function and the work of the board.
In March 2011 we held rewarded.
The renewed values were also embedded within the updated our annual investor event with our chairman and the chairs of our board code of conduct.
We continue to receive positive feedback on this event and nd it an effective way for our largest shareholders to hear about the work of our Governance board and our committees, and for our non-executive directors to engage in As described above, over the year the board reviewed its system of board dialogue with investors.
We intend to hold a similar event in March 2012. governance and established a working group to assist in this process.
The During the year we focused on enhancing communication with main outcomes of the review were strengthened board processes around our private shareholders, including a revision of dividend materials and information, risk and revisiting the role and tasks of the board and its the shareholder information pages of our website.
We continued our lost committees.
shareholder programme which returns shares and unclaimed dividends to The board seeks to understand the views of its shareholders, and shareholders who have failed to keep their contact details up to date.
feedback from investors is given to the board either directly following Materials from our investor presentations, including information on the meetings with the chairman or other board members or indirectly through work of our board and its committees can be downloaded from the an annual investor audit undertaken by a third party.
Following our AGM in investors page of our website.
April 2011, the board examined the voting results for each resolution and considered the comments received from institutional investors to explain their voting position.
124 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Corporate governance Corporate governance Board and committee attendance in 2011 Audit Remuneration Gulf of Mexico Nomination Chairmans Board committee SEEAC committee committee committee committee ab ab ab ab ab ab ab Non-executive directors: c c Carl-Henric Svanberg 15 15 5 59 9 c Sir William Castell 15 15 9 9 16 145599 Paul Anderson 15 14 9 9 16 16 9 9 Frank Bowman 15 15 9 9 9 8 c Antony Burgmans 15 15 9 7 7 7 4499 Cynthia Carroll 15 13 9 7 4398 George David 15 14 11 11 7 7 16 16 9 9 c Ian Davis 15 15 11 10 7 7 16 165599 c Douglas Flint 8 7 5 5 1133 c DeAnne Julius 8 8 2 2 1133 c Brendan Nelson 15 13 11 11 9 8 Phuthuma Nhleko 15 13 7 6 8 8 Executive directors: Bob Dudley 15 14 Iain Conn 15 14 Byron Grote 15 15 a Total number of meetings the director was eligible to attend.
b Total number of meetings the director did attend.
Attendance for audit committee and SEEAC includes a joint meeting between the two committees.
NB: The chairman also attends meetings of the remuneration and Gulf of Mexico committees.
AGM UK Corporate Governance Code compliance We continue to have a well-attended annual general meeting, usually BP complied throughout 2011 with the provisions of the UK Corporate attracting over a thousand people.
Our shareholder base is geographically Governance Code, except in the following aspects: diverse and we offer a webcast and advance voting to make our meeting B.
3.2 Letters of appointment do not set out xed time commitments accessible to those who cannot attend in person.
since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject The voting levels for our 2011 AGM saw a moderate increase over to change according to the demands of the business and 2010 levels to 60.6% 59.6% in 2010.
Viewers of our 2011 AGM webcast other events.
All directors are expected to demonstrate their increased by vefold over the previous year.
We make our webcast, commitment to the work of the board on an ongoing basis.
This speeches and presentations from the AGM available on our website after is reviewed by the nomination committee in recommending the meeting, together with the outcome of voting on each resolution.
D. 2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is not set by the remuneration International advisory board committee.
Instead the chairmans remuneration is reviewed by In 2009, BP formed an international advisory board IAB whose purpose is the remuneration committee which makes a recommendation to advise the chairman, group chief executive and our board on geopolitical to the board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set and strategic issues relating to the company.
This group has an advisory by shareholders.
We believe this wider process lets all board role and meets twice a year although its members are on hand to provide members discuss and approve the chairmans remuneration advice and counsel to the company when needed.
rather than solely the members of the remuneration committee.
The IAB is chaired by our previous chairman, Peter Sutherland.
Its membership in 2011 included Ko Annan, Lord Patten of Barnes, Josh Bolten, President Romano Prodi, Dr Ernesto Zedillo and Dr Javier Solana.
Our chairman and chief executive attend meetings of the IAB.
Issues discussed during the year included developments in the eurozone, events in the Middle East and the world energy outlook.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 125
