Kofax achieved significant milestones across multiple strategic fronts during FY 11.
For the full year, we delivered revenue growth of 12% based on actual exchange rates, or 10% on an organic, constant currency basis.
We significantly overachieved in the first half of the year.
However, late in the second half, the license growth was dampened by deteriorating market conditions which led to underperformance.
In addition to our revenue growth, we expanded our Adjusted EBITA margins ahead of schedule to 16% of revenue, as compared to 12% in FY 10.
We exited the year in stronger financial condition than we began the year with $98.3 million of cash, an increase of $42.8 million, and essentially no debt.
Subsequent to year end, we finalized negotiations for a new $40.0 million line of credit, which we have not currently drawn against.
Strategically, we closed the sale of the hardware business and acquired Atalasoft.
We have initiated preliminary efforts to explore a U. S. listing of shares which will provide additional liquidity and drive shareholder value.
We restated our financial results for each of FY 09 and FY 10 to correct how revenue from maintenance contracts is recognized and to correct the valuation of inventory in FY 10.
After the restatement, maintenance revenue in FY 09 and FY 10 has increased by $0.6 million and $1.8 million, respectively, and cost of goods sold in FY 10 increased by $0.7 million.
As a result, our Adjusted EBITA has increased by $0.6 million and $1.1 million in FY 09 and FY 10, respectively.
In addition, we have corrected the CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS FY 10 balance sheet for deferred tax assets, other current liabilities and goodwill in connection with our acquisition of 170 REVIEW Systems.
For the FY 10 Statement of Financial Position, deferred tax assets increased by $1.7 million, other current liabilities James Arnold, Jr. decreased by $0.8 million and goodwill decreased by $2.5 million.
We believe that these accomplishments result in a stronger, more scalable foundation to support the Companys future growth.
Our mix of revenue, between license, maintenance and Operating Results professional services changed in FY 11 as compared to FY 10, Revenue generally due to significant growth in maintenance revenue over Total revenue for FY 11 increased $26.3 million, or 12% the entire year and relative weakness in license sales in the compared to FY 10.
The majority of this increase, $22.1 million, second half of FY 11.
Our license revenue decreased to 48% of or 10% is derived from organic growth at constant currency.
total revenue in FY 11 compared to 51% in FY 10, while our We define organic as the performance of our business maintenance revenue increased to 41% of total revenue excluding recent acquisitions when those acquisitions do not compared to 38% in FY 10.
Professional services remained allow for a comparable comparison of period to period results.
consistent at 10% of total revenue.
Therefore, for purposes of measuring our organic performance License revenue increased $5.5 million, or 5% in FY 11.
License in FY 11 we have excluded the entire results of Atalasoft, which revenue grew 13% in the first half of FY 11 but due to we acquired in May 2011, and we have excluded the first quarter deteriorating market conditions in the second half of the year results of 170 Systems, which we acquired in September 2009, we only achieved 5% growth for the year.
Our investment in a for both FY 10 and FY 11. direct sales force over the past few years has provided us a balance to our historically proportionally larger sales through Chief Financial Officers Review 7 indirect channels.
During FY 11 and FY 10, 44% and 46%, respectively, of our license revenue was attributable to our direct sales teams efforts.
Maintenance revenue increased $17.6 million, or 21%, in FY 11.
The increase is attributable to a combination of our efforts to standardize maintenance pricing across our customer base, improve renewal rates to approximately 85%, re-enroll customers who had not been current on their maintenance, and also to our expanding customer base.
Professional service revenue increased $3.3 million, or 15%, in FY 11 as a result of our customers increased demand for our application development and training services.
Based on the location of our customers, our revenue was relatively consistent between years, as shown in the table below.
Our gross margin improved primarily due to economies of scale and growth in overall revenue.
8 Chief Financial Officers Review LTIPs, and was offset in part by expenses associated with share Research and Development Expenses based awards issued in FY 11.
Research and development expenses for FY 11 decreased $1.5 million, or 5%, compared to FY 10.
In FY 11, we continued to invest Finance and Other Income Expense in our market leading software products but were able to reduce our Finance and other income expense consists primarily of foreign research and development expenditures as we moved the exchange gains or losses and interest income and expense.
The development for certain of our more mature products to international primary component of our FY 11 net finance and other expense sites with lower labour costs.
These efforts have allowed us to of $1.7 million was foreign exchange losses, while in FY 10, we maintain or increase the number of personnel devoted to research realized foreign exchange gains, which composed the majority and development while reducing our cost structure.
of our $1.2 million net finance and other income in that year.
Exchange gains or losses fluctuate depending on the movement Sales and Marketing Expenses of exchange rates relative to our assets and liabilities in various Sales and marketing expenses for FY 11 increased $12.8 million, or geographies.
The yields on our bank deposits are very low, so 16%, compared to FY 10.
The increase is due to our strategy of despite our growing cash balances interest income is minimal, diversifying our sales and marketing activities as part of our hybrid having contributed only $0.3 million and $0.1 million in each of go to market strategy.
These efforts include continuing to grow our FY 11 and FY 10, respectively.
direct sales team and at the same time augment our support of the existing indirect sales network.
In addition, we have expanded Tax Expense our marketing programs around certain of our product lines.
The tax expense of $8.7 million for FY 11 reflects a tax rate on continuing operations of 34%, as compared to 52% in FY 10.
The General and Administrative Expenses reduction in the tax rate reflects the utilization of previously incurred General and administrative expenses for FY 11 increased $1.6 losses, enhanced research tax credits in the United States, and million, or 5%, compared to FY 10.
We have invested in the increased tax relief in respect of share based payments.
necessary infrastructure, hired experienced personnel and centralized certain of our administrative functions in a single When assessing the tax expense as a percentage of Adjusted shared services center for EMEA to support a growing and EBITA, including having adjusted the tax expense for the impact diverse global business.
Despite the increase in total dollars of the items included in the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITA, spent for general and administrative purposes, our general and the current year tax rate is 32% as compared to 41% for FY 10. administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue $ millions FY 11 FY 10 decreased by 0.8% in FY 11 compared to FY 10.
Adjusted EBITA $ 40.2 $ 26.0 Acquisition and Other Transaction Related Costs Tax expense per income statement $ 8.7 $ 9.4 We incurred costs with third party service providers such as Tax impact of adjustments to calculate attorneys, accountants and other advisors in connection with our Adjusted EBITA 4.2 1.3 financing and acquisition related activities.
These costs relate to Adjusted tax expense $ 12.9 $ 10.7 our longer term strategy, and do not have direct bearing on Adjusted tax expense as a percentage supporting our existing day-to-day operations.
Under IFRS, these of Adjusted EBITA 32.3% 41.3% costs are expensed as incurred.
We have presented these Loss from Discontinued Operations expenses on a separate line to enable the users of our financial Total loss from discontinued operations was $10.2 million in FY 11, statements to better understand our operating results including compared to a loss of $0.4 million in FY 10.
This increase in the comparing our performance with other global software companies.
loss is principally due to a $9.1 million loss recorded on the Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets disposal of the hardware business.
In addition, the loss from Amortization of acquired intangible assets in FY 11 decreased from operating the hardware business increased by $0.7 million in FY 11 FY 10, as a result of certain intangible assets relating to acquisitions compared to FY 10, primarily due to lower revenue.
that we consummated historically having reached the end of their Statement of Financial Position initially estimated lives.
The end of that amortization was partially Our financial condition remains strong, and in fact improved, offset by our having a full year of amortization relating to 170 during FY 11.
We grew our cash balances by 77%, and had Systems in FY 11, and our recording approximately one month $98.3 million of cash on hand at year end.
Our net funds of amortization relating to our May 2011 acquisition of Atalasoft.
position was $98.0 million at year end, an increase of 136% Restructuring Costs from a net position of $41.5 million as of June 30, 2010.
Our Concurrent with the announcement of the sale of the hardware shareholders equity increased by 19% during FY 11, to $213.7 business, we restructured our business in EMEA and recorded million, compared to $180.3 million at the end of FY 10.
Our a charge in the amount of $3.2 million.
Under this restructuring, working capital of $52.4 million at the end of FY 11 represents we have consolidated our finance, accounting and other back an increase of 104% from the FY 10 ending position of $25.7 office operations into a single shared services center in Switzerland million due to strong cash flow from operations.
to improve the timeliness and quality of our reporting and Cash Flow recorded a charge for excess facilities located throughout EMEA.
Cash flow from operations, contributed $35.6 million during FY Share based Payment Expense 11, which is largely in line with our Adjusted EBITA for the Share based payment expense for FY 11 decreased $0.7 million, period.
Our operations, led by our revenue growth, continue to or 15%, compared to FY 10.
The decrease is due to a one-time provide us significant cash to invest in our continued growth, charge that we recorded in FY 10 due to the cancellation of and in our acquisition strategy.
Chief Financial Officers Review 9 Investing cash flow generated $1.3 million in FY 11, and was the Management and the board utilize this non IFRS financial result of $8.9 million in net cash inflow relating to the sale of information to compare our results of operations to our results our hardware business partially offset by $4.6 million of net cash for comparable periods in prior years and against our budget.
paid relating to our acquisition of Atalasoft, plus $3.2 million In particular, we review the adjusted operating profit in terms invested in property and equipment.
of dollars and as a percentage of total revenue: we assess our tax expense based against this non IFRS financial measure Cash outflows from financing activities amount to $2.9 million that excludes certain items that dont affect the tax expense composed primarily of $8.7 million related payments of calculation: and we measure our adjusted net profit in terms of borrowings, including deferred payments relating to our acquisition dollars and earnings per share.
of 170 Systems, partially offset by $6.1 million received from the stock options exercised by employees during the year.
Adjusted EBITA We use a metric of Adjusted EBITA, or IFRS operating profit The majority of our cash is held in U. S. dollars and euros, and to adding back acquisition and other transaction-related costs, a lesser extent in pounds sterling.
amortization of acquired intangible assets, restructuring costs Treasury Management share based payment expense and other income and expense.
The Company has continued to generate solid cash flows, See below for a schedule reconciling Adjusted EBITA from the including through its operating activities.
Kofaxs policy has been Income Statement under IFRS.
In FY 11, Adjusted EBITA was to fund its operations internally through the use of retained $40.2 million, or 16% or total revenue, and in FY10, Adjusted earnings, equity and bank facilities.
Material bank borrowing EBITA was $26.0 million or 12% of revenue.
arrangements are negotiated by management and approved by We believe that this non IFRS financial measure facilitates periodthe Board of Directors.
Positive cash balances earn floating rate to-period comparisons, and provides investors with additional interest based on relevant national interbank rates.
information to evaluate our operating performance.
We also We terminated our $16.0 million credit facility with a major present this non IFRS measure because we use it internally as European bank effective June 30, 2011.
The credit facility had a benchmark to evaluate our operating performance, including been unsecured and we did not draw on the facility in FY 11. actual to budget results, and in terms of growth in EPS, and to Subsequent to year-end, we completed a new, three-year $40.0 compare our performance to that of our competitors.
million revolving line of credit facility with Bank of America Adjusted Profit Attributable to Equity Holders, including Merrill Lynch that is secured by certain assets of the Company.
Adjusted Diluted EPS The credit facility is available for general corporate purposes, Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders is Adjusted including acquisition, and subject to certain conditions can be EBITA, less a reduction for tax expense from Adjusted EBITA.
denominated in multiple currencies, is available to drawn in A reconciliation of profit attributable to equity holders to the multiple countries and can be increased by $10.0 million.
adjusted profit attributable to equity holders follows: The Company has significant overseas subsidiaries, which operate principally in their local currencies.
Where appropriate, $ millions, except EPS FY 11 FY 10 intra group borrowings are arranged in local currencies to Profit attributable to equity holders $ 7.1 $ 8.3 provide a natural hedge against exchange rate movement risks.
Discontinued operations, net of taxes 10.2 0.4 During FY 11, we entered into a forward contract arrangement Profit from continuing operations 17.3 8.7 locking in the exchange rate on 17.2 million euros with dates tied Acquisition and other transactionrelated costs 2.5 0.2 to the sale of the hardware business.
Amortization of acquired intangible Ordinary Share Matters assets 3.2 4.6 At the Annual General Meeting on November 4, 2010 the Restructuring costs 3.2 - shareholders approved the Boards authority to buy back up to Share based payment expense 3.7 4.4 ten percent of Kofaxs issued share capital for a period of one Finance and other income and expenses 1.5 1.3 year or the next Annual General Meeting should it occur at an Tax effect of above 4.2 1.3 earlier date.
During this past financial year the Company bought Adjusted profit attributable to equity none of its ordinary shares.
holders $ 27.2 $ 15.3 At the beginning of FY 11 Kofax had 91.3 million ordinary shares issued.
During the year 2.2 million shares were issued to satisfy the exercise of stock options.
On June 30, 2011, the Company had 93.4 million ordinary shares issued, of which 5.1 million were held in treasury and 4.5 million were held in the Companys employee benefit trust.
Reconciliation of Non IFRS Measures Although IFRS disclosure provides investors and management with an overall view of the Companys financial performance, Kofax believes that it is important for investors to also understand the performance of the companys fundamental business without giving effect to certain specific, nonrecurring and or non-cash charges.
10 Chief Financial Officers Review principally in U. S. dollars, euro and Swiss francs.
Fluctuations in $ millions, except EPS FY 11 FY 10 exchange rates between these currencies relative to the dollar Calculation of Adjusted EBITA: may cause fluctuations in financial results of the Company as Adjusted profit attributable to equity the results of overseas operations are translated into dollars holders $ 27.2 $ 15.3 for consolidation.
The Company does not hedge the foreign Add-back: exchange exposure arising on net investments in or assets and tax effect from above reconciliation 4.2 1.3 liabilities of overseas subsidiaries.
The Company does hedge Add-back: certain net foreign currency cash flows relating to transactions taxes on face of income statements 8.8 9.4 in accordance with policies set by the Board.
Assessment of Adjusted EBITA $ 40.2 $ 26.0 the credit risk profile of the Companys key customers and resellers is another key area of attention.
Adjusted EPS from Continuing Operations: Acquisition Risk Adjusted Basic EPS from Continuing As part of the Companys strategy, we may acquire additional Operations $ 0.329 $ 0.187 enterprises or technology.
We may not be able to continue to Adjusted Diluted EPS from Continuing grow through such acquisitions which could lead to our revenue Operations $ 0.310 $ 0.181 not growing at an acceptable rate and may in turn harm our Business Risks and Uncertainties business.
We may need to raise additional capital to finance Under current European Union reporting requirements, the Board future acquisitions, and such financing may not be available is required to comment on risk factors facing the business.
As on acceptable terms, or at all, and may be on terms that are with any business, various risks may affect the Company, its dilutive to our shareholders.
results and managements ability to execute.
The board has Compliance Risk implemented systems to identify risks, to assess them and to Our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements ensure that reasonable mitigation and action plans are in place.
could be impaired and investors views of us could be harmed The board is paying particular attention to the operational risks if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls.
To and uncertainties surrounding economic conditions in many of build out and maintain an internal audit function we may need the Companys markets.
Furthermore the following general risk to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate categories have been identified by the Company: experience.
If we do not maintain proper and effective internal Rapidly Changing T echnology controls or remediate deficiencies in our internal control, the As a technology based company, we are subject to rapid market price of our common shares could decline and we could changes in the marketplace in which we compete.
We seek out be subject to sanctions or investigations.
strategic acquisitions as well as make significant investments General Economic Risks in research and development to ensure that we remain The economic and trading environment has been challenging competitive in the markets we serve.
The Company has an extended Structural Transition geographic presence, necessitating a number of local banking A particularly challenging area for the Company has been its relationships, and local cash holdings.
While the Company complex legal structure and outdated corporate infrastructure.
operates a cash pooling system, and has adopted treasury policy We continued to reduce the number of legal entities we have designed to ensure that it is not over-exposed to any particular in place as well as updating our corporate infrastructure.
We bank failure, the risk remains that such a failure could adversely will continue to refine our legal structure throughout the current impact the Companys assets.
Recessionary trading environments financial year.
have had a significant impact on many previously financially stable businesses.
While the Company seeks to minimize the risk of Identification of Key Employees and Retention Program being adversely affected by the failure of a supplier, a reseller or Recruiting and retaining highly skilled personnel is another risk a customer, the volatility of trading and its impact on our trading to our ongoing success.
Weve made a number of important partners represents a potential risk to the business.
additions to our staff during the past financial year and now have an even more professional employee base in place.
Go to Market Model During the year we have continued our hybrid go-to-market model to expand our market reach by selling direct to end users in addition to relying on channel sales through value added resellers and system integrators.
This balanced approach has helped us maintain and grow our revenues during the year James Arnold, Jr. despite global economic challenges.
Chief Financial Officer September 5, 2011 Financial Risks One of the principal financial risks facing the Company relates to the movements in exchange rates.
The Company derives its revenues from a variety of currencies including the U. S. dollar, euro and pounds sterling.
Expenses are denominated Chief Financial Officers Review 11
