Our business model Inside front cover Risk page 20 At a headline level, turnover grew by 6.6 per cent to 2.85 billion, Governance page 28 although on a like-for-like basis excluding acquisitions, turnover Directors report page 43 growth was 2.2 per cent.
The overall Group performance resulted from a mixed performance across our main geographies.
Our German business was the main growth driver with a buoyant market and share gains driving revenue growth in all business lines, however weak infrastructure spending in the UK drove a contraction in the UK supply chain and Tony Conophy professional services revenues.
Finance Director Adjusted profi t before tax improved by 12.4 per cent from 66.1 million to 74.2 million.
This increase was achieved despite additional depreciation and amortisation charges of approximately 3.4 million following the go-live of our German and UK businesses onto our new ERP platform and related infrastructure.
After taking account of exceptional items and increased amortisation of acquired intangibles following our acquisitions in the year, statutory profi t before tax increased by 10.3 per cent from 65.4 million to 72.1 million.
Adjusted operating profi t Statutory operating profi t increased from 65.9 million to 71.9 million.
However, management measure the Groups operating performance using adjusted operating profi t, which is stated prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles, exceptional items, and after charging fi finance costs on customer specifi c fi nancing CSF for which the Group receives regular rental income.
Gross profi t is also adjusted to take account of CSF fi finance costs.
The reconciliation of statutory to adjusted results is further explained in the segmental reporting note note 3 to the fi financial statements.
For the purposes of this statement, all subsequent references are to adjusted measures.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 Restatement and classifi cation of costs France In the prior year fi financial statements, distribution costs were The revenue in the French segment increased by 33.1 per cent shown below gross profi t, however, management monitor the in the year.
In April 2011, the Group acquired Top Info SAS, which performance of the business by including such costs within gross contributed revenues of 90.7 million in the year.
Encouragingly, profi t. As a result, these costs have been included in cost of sales like-for-like revenues from our existing French business grew by in 2011, and 2010 has been restated accordingly.
Supply chain revenue increased by 8.4 per cent prior to acquisitions, mainly due to growth in software and enterprise From 1 January 2011, the management of Computacenter product sales.
Services revenue grew by a more modest 5.2 per Luxembourg has been transferred from Belgium to Germany.
cent consolidating the gains made in 2010.
As a consequence, Luxembourg is reported as part of the German segment.
The comparative segmental information in 2010 has Following a reduction in 2010, the gross profi t return in France been restated to refl ect this change.
recovered in 2011 to 10.6 per cent, due largely to a focus on margin management in services together with the improved mix UK of enterprise product sales.
SG&A grew in France principally Due to weak demand for infrastructure spending, particularly from due to the Top Info acquisition, with SG&A in our existing French Financial Services and Government customers, UK revenues business increasing by 4.9 per cent, mainly due to increased contracted in 2011 by 12.9 per cent, reducing to 1,102.2 million.
commission payments linked to the improvement in gross margin.
Supply chain sales decreased by 17.7 per cent, although the rate The operating profi t of the combined business increased from of decline slowed progressively in each quarter of the year.
A 1.0 million to 6.0 million, with the contribution from Top Info similar contraction in professional services revenues resulted in a largely matching the organic growth in profi ts in the existing reduction in overall services revenues, by 1.7 per cent.
The growth Computacenter France business.
in support and managed services revenues of 3.3 per cent does not fully refl ect the progress made in 2011, with a number of As a result of the improved profi tability of the business, and an signifi cant contracts won in Q4 that will not contribute to our improvement in managements view of the future performance of the revenues and contract base until 2012. combined entity, a deferred tax asset of 2.0 million in respect of losses has been recognised, and disclosed as an exceptional gain.
Despite the reduction in revenues, gross margins remained robust, with our adjusted gross profi t margin increasing from 14.0 per cent At the end of 2011, the Computacenter and Top Info businesses to 15.2 per cent mainly due to a higher mix of services sales and were merged, and no longer generate independent cash fl ows.
an improved supply chain margin rate due to the absence of some The goodwill arising from the Top Info purchase has therefore large, low margin deals, particularly in software.
Robust been assessed on the combined cash fl ows of the enlarged management of our adjusted operating expenses SG&A led to Computacenter France business.
a reduction of 3.1 per cent in 2011.
This, together with our focus During 2011, the French business committed to move to a new on margin return, has ensured that overall adjusted operating profi t warehouse and offi ce premises and the combined business reduced broadly in line with revenue, by 14.0 per cent from is expected to move during the fi first half of 2012.
Belgium Germany Reported revenue increased by 0.9 per cent to 43.0 million The pace of growth in our German business increased in 2010: 42.6 million.
It is pleasing that the mix of revenue in 2011 2011.
Revenue, as reported, grew in 2011 by 21.8 per cent generated healthy gross margin 2010 included a very large low to 1, 228.6 million 2010: 1, 008.9 million.
The revenue impact margin supply chain deal with a single customer.
of acquisitions HSD in Germany and Damax in Switzerland and Gross margin return on sales for Belgium overall improved from currency movements were not signifi cant.
SG&A, however, increased by Overall, supply chain revenues increased by 25.9 per cent 7.8 per cent mainly due to increased commission costs on the including acquisitions, with services revenues growing by 13.7 increased gross margin performance.
Whilst the market in Germany was particularly buoyant Overall, therefore, operating profi t improved from 0.4 million in in 2011, our share of the market has also increased.
Although approximately 0.3 million margin return of the business reduced, partly due to the increased of this profi t growth was due to factors that are not expected to mix of supply chain revenues, and partly due to margin erosion recur, the majority of the growth represents underlying in services, where the pace of growth impacted our effi ciency improvement in the business.
Exceptional items SG&A increased by 20.3 million to 129.6 million In line with the requirements of IFRS3 Revised, acquisition-related 2010: 109.3 million.
Approximately 7 million of this increase costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
is due to reclassifi cations between cost of sales and SG&A from The Group has recorded 1.0 million acquisition-related costs for alignment arising from our ERP project.
Approximately 5 million both successful and aborted acquisitions within exceptional items.
arises from the impact of acquisitions and expenses relating to amortisation of the new ERP platform.
The underlying growth in Due to circumstances arising after the acquisition date, the the German SG&A cost base of 8 million relates to investments performance criteria required to trigger deferred consideration of in the pre-sales and business take-on teams to support the 1.0 million that were previously expected to be achieved, were growth in the services business.
Overall, the German segment not met.
As a result, the deferred consideration liability recognised operating profi t increased by 40.9 per cent from 19.7 million has been reversed and the 0.9 million gain in the income to 27.7 million, with the organic growth in our German business statement has been recorded as an exceptional item.
augmented by the profi t generated by our acquisitions HSD in Germany and Damax in Switzerland.
Financial statements Governance Business Business re revie view w Ov Over ervie view w Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18 Finance Directors review continued The Board is recommending a fi final dividend of 10.5 pence per Table 4 share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 15.0 pence Adjusted operating profi t by country m 2010: 13.2 pence.
Subject to the approval of shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 May 2012, the proposed Half 1 % Half 2 % dividend will be paid on 15 June 2012 to shareholders on the UK 16.7 3.0 20.6 3.7 register as at 18 May 2012.
Germany 8.4 1.4 19.3 3.0 Acquisitions France 0.2 0.1 5.8 2.2 During 2011, the Group acquired three subsidiaries.
On 1 April Belgium 0.3 2.0 1.2 4.8 2011, the Group acquired 100 per cent of Top Info SAS in France.
Total 25.6 1.9 46.9 3.2 The Top Info business was merged with our Computacenter France business on 30 December 2011, and as a consequence 2010 no longer has its own separable cash fl ows.
Accordingly the Half 1 % Half 2 % goodwill arising on the acquisition has been tested against the UK 18.1 2.8 25.2 4.1 combined Computacenter France cash generating unit CGU.
Germany 3.4 0.8 16.3 3.0 On 11 April 2011, the Group acquired 100 per cent of HSD France 1.2 0.7 2.2 1.1 Consult GmbH, which has been combined in the year within the Belgium 0.3 1.8 0.1 0.5 Computacenter Germany CGU.
Total 20.6 1.6 43.8 3.2 On 21 July 2011, the Group acquired 80 per cent of Damax AG in Switzerland, and agreed to purchase the remaining 20 per cent by Additionally, the statutory tax charge benefi ts from two items of mid-2015 for a consideration dependent upon the achievement of an exceptional nature.
Firstly, the deferred tax asset in respect of agreed performance criteria over the next three and a half years.
losses in Germany was reassessed in line with managements Due to the nature of the transaction, the Group has present access view of the entitys future performance.
Where the reassessment to the benefi ts associated with the remaining 20 per cent of exceeds the losses utilised in the year, the change in recoverable Damax.
The Group has recorded this acquisition as a linked amount of the deferred tax asset is shown as an exceptional transaction, and has accordingly consolidated 100 per cent of item.
Secondly, the improved profi tability in France, together the results of Damax since the acquisition date and estimated with an improved outlook for the combined French entitys future the fair value deferred consideration payable.
performance has resulted in the initial recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect of losses.
The combined impact in the income Cash fl ow statement is shown as an exceptional item.
The Groups trading net funds position takes account of factor fi nancing and current asset investments but excludes customer Finance income and costs specifi c fi nancing.
There is an adjusted cash fl ow statement Net fi finance income of 0.2 million was earned on a statutory provided in note 30 that restates the statutory cash fl ow to take basis in 2011 2010: net fi finance costs of 0.5 million.
account of this defi nition.
This takes account of fi finance costs on CSF of 1.5 million 2010: 2.1 million.
On an adjusted basis, prior to the interest Net funds excluding CSF reduced marginally from 139.4 million on CSF, net fi finance income increased from 1.6 million in 2010 to 136.8 million by the end of the year.
The Group continued to to 1.7 million in 2011. deliver strong cash generation from its operations in 2011, with adjusted operating cash fl ow of 95.5 million 2010: 108.2 million.
Taxation In the year our outfl ow of cash included over 40 million The effective adjusted tax rate for 2011 was 21.7 per cent on specifi c strategic cash investments, such as the remaining 2010: 23.1 per cent.
The Groups tax rate continues to benefi t expenditure on our ERP implementation, the purchase of a new from losses utilised on earnings in Germany and this year in freehold facility for our RDC recycling business for approximately France and further benefi ts from the reducing corporation tax rate 11 million, and net cash outfl ow on acquisitions of 25.3 million.
When taking these investments into account together with tax Deferred tax assets that have been recognised in respect of losses and dividends, our net funds excluding CSF reduced marginally carried forward increased to 15.4 million 2010: 11.3 million.
In addition, at 31 December 2011, there were unused tax losses across the Group of 125.6 million 2010: 171.2 million for Whilst the cash position remains robust, the Group continued which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Of these to benefi t from the extension of a temporary improvement in losses, 68.5 million 2010: 99.4 million arise in Germany, credit terms with a signifi cant vendor, equivalent to 45 million albeit a signifi cant proportion have been generated in statutory at 31 December 2011, an increase of approximately 7 million entities that no longer have signifi cant levels of trade.
The remaining unrecognised tax losses relate to other CSF reduced in the year from 28.4 million to 23.1 million partially loss-making overseas subsidiaries.
due to a decision to restrict this form of fi nancing in the light of Earnings per share and dividend the credit environment and reduced customer demand.
Taking The adjusted diluted earnings per share has increased in line CSF into account, total net cash at the end of the year was with profi t growth by 13.3 per cent from 33.0 pence in 2010 to 113.6 million, compared to 111.0 million at the start of the year.
The statutory diluted earnings per share Customer specifi c fi nancing growth of 20.6 per cent was greater due to exceptional tax In certain circumstances, the Group enters into customer contracts items in 2011. that are fi nanced by leases or loans.
The leases are secured only Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 on the assets that they fi finance.
Whilst the outstanding balance Foreign currency risk of CSF is included within the net funds for statutory reporting The Group operates primarily in the UK, Germany, France and purposes, the Group excludes CSF when managing the net funds with smaller operations in Belgium, Switzerland, Spain and South of the business, as this CSF is matched by contracted future Africa.
The Group uses a cash pooling facility to ensure that its receipts from customers.
operations outside of the UK are adequately funded, where principal receipts and payments are denominated in Euros.
Whilst CSF is repaid through future customer receipts, In each country a small proportion of the sales are made to Computacenter retains the credit risk on these customers and customers outside those countries.
For those countries within ensures that credit risk is only taken on customers with a strong the Eurozone, the level of non-Euro denominated sales is very credit rating.
small and, if material, the Groups policy is to eliminate currency The committed CSF fi nancing facilities are thus outside of the exposure through forward currency contracts.
For the UK, normal working capital requirements of the Groups product resale the majority of sales and purchases are denominated in and service activities.
Sterling and any material trading exposures are eliminated through forward currency contracts.
Capital management Details of the Groups capital management policies are included The value of contracts where service is provided in multiple within note 26 to the fi financial statements.
The Group aims to minimise this exposure by invoicing the customer in the same currency in Financial instruments which the costs are incurred.
For certain contracts, the Groups The Groups fi financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash committed contract costs are not denominated in the same and liquid resources, and various items that arise directly from its currency as its sales.
In such circumstances, for example where operations.
The Group enters into hedging transactions, principally contract costs are denominated in South African Rand, the Group forward exchange contracts or currency swaps.
The purpose of eliminates currency exposure for a foreseeable future period on these transactions is to manage currency risks arising from the these future cash fl ows through forward currency contracts.
In Groups operations and its sources of fi finance.
The Groups policy 2011, the Group recognised a charge of 0.5 million through other remains that no trading in fi financial instruments shall be undertaken.
comprehensive income in relation to the changes in fair value of The main risks arising from the Groups fi financial instruments related forward currency contracts, where the cash fl ow hedges are interest rate, liquidity and foreign currency risks.
The overall relating to fi rm commitments were assessed to be highly effective.
fi financial instruments strategy is to manage these risks in order Credit risk to minimise their impact on the fi financial results of the Group.
The Group principally manages credit risk through management of The policies for managing each of these risks are set out below.
The credit limits are set for each customer Further disclosures in line with the requirements of IFRS 7 are based on the creditworthiness of the customer and the anticipated included in note 25 to the fi financial statements.
These limits are initially determined when Interest rate risk the customer account is fi first set up and are regularly monitored The Group fi nances its operations through a mixture of retained thereafter.
In France, credit risk is mitigated through a credit profi ts, cash and short-term deposits, bank borrowings and fi finance insurance policy which applies to non-Government customers and leases and loans for certain customer contracts.
The Groups bank provides insurance for approximately 50 per cent of the relevant borrowings, other facilities and deposits are at fl oating rates.
interest rate derivative contracts have been entered into.
There are no signifi cant concentrations of credit risk within the Liquidity risk Group.
The Groups major customer, disclosed in note 3 to the The Groups policy is to ensure that it has suffi cient funding and fi financial statements consists of entities under the control of the facilities in place to meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing UK Government.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to requirements.
The Groups positive net funds position fi financial assets is represented by carrying value as at the balance was maintained throughout 2011, and at the year-end was sheet date.
136.8 million excluding CSF, and 113.6 million including CSF.
Going concern Due to strong cash generation over the past three years, the As disclosed in the Directors report, the Directors have a Group is now in a position where it can fi finance its requirements reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to from its cash balance.
As a result, the Group has not renewed a continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they number of overdraft and factoring facilities during 2010 and 2011, continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the but has implemented a cash pooling arrangement for the majority consolidated fi financial statements.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had available uncommitted overdraft of 15.9 million 2010 uncommitted overdraft and factoring facilities of 15.5 million.
The Groups committed facility expired in May 2011, and was not renewed.
Tony Conophy The Group manages its counterparty risk by placing cash on Finance Director deposit across a panel of reputable banking institutions, with no 12 March 2012 more than 50.0 million deposited at any one time except for UK Government backed counterparties where the limit is 70.0 million.
Customer specifi c fi nancing facilities are committed.
Financial statements Governance Business Business re revie view w Ov Over ervie view w
