bacon as it used to taste Chris Battles passion for traditional bacon being produced to his authentic recipe is as strong today as it was when his family introduced the original hand cured, air-dried method over 100 years ago for a mild taste.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 9 10 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc group operating and Mark Bottomley financial review Finance Director end of the markets in which it operates, to establish meaningful and longNature, objectives and strategies lasting relationships with its major customers by a combination of product development and high service levels and to invest in quality facilities and The Groups business the latest equipment to enable it to operate as efficiently as possible.
Operational management is given responsibility for developing plans to The Groups operations are focused on the production and supply of deliver the objectives of the Group with particular emphasis on growing sales food products.
The business operates entirely in the UK, although a small through product innovation and high service levels, improving operational proportion of sales are exported.
It produces a range of high quality, efficiency and securing employee health and safety.
The role of the Board in predominantly fresh products including fresh pork, sausages, bacon and achieving Group objectives is to support operational management and to cooked meats for sale to the high street food retailers.
It also supplies a range identify suitable acquisitions that will take the Group into new and growing of pre-sliced, pre-packaged charcuterie products for sale into these same areas of the market, will open up new customer relationships to the Group customers, together with a range of pre-packed sandwiches predominantly or will consolidate existing market positions.
for sale into food service outlets.
The markets in which the food business operates are competitive both in terms of pricing from fellow suppliers and Current and future development the retail environment in general.
The UK food retail market is known to be amongst the most competitive in the world.
Despite this, Cranswick and performance has a long record of increasing sales and profits through a combination of investing in modern efficient factories, developing a range of quality Business development and performance products and making sound acquisitions.
The businesses are under the control of stable, experienced and talented operational management teams The key features of the year have been the record profit before tax for the supported by a skilled workforce.
The performance of the business in the Group, record levels of capital investment and the continuing strong cash year is discussed in the Review of Activities.
The trading environment in which the Group operates has remained challenging.
The Group has experienced Business objectives continuing competitor pressure although the efficiencies achieved through on-going capital investment and as extra volumes are put through its It is the Boards view that meeting the following business objectives is key factories have mitigated to some extent against those pressures.
to achieving the financial and non-financial measures that increase value to Shareholders and other stakeholders: Revenue Delivering innovative, quality products to our customers Reported sales were 2 per cent ahead of last year.
The Deeside cooked Maintaining the highest level of service to our customers meats business was transferred into Farmers Boy Deeside Limited FBD on Improving operational efficiency 9 July 2010 and from this date onwards sales from FBD have been excluded Securing employee health and safety from Group total sales.
Adjusting for this and the benefit of a full year Maximising returns on investment contribution from CCF Norfolk compared to nine months in the previous year, underlying like-for-like sales increased by 4 per cent.
Sales of fresh Business strategies pork, which benefited from the additional contribution from CCF Norfolk, increased by 17 per cent.
Sausage sales grew by 7 per cent, bacon by 17 The Groups market strategy is to focus primarily on the growing quality per cent and sandwiches by 13 per cent.
Sales of charcuterie products Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 11 were 14 per cent lower, following the decision by one retail customer to of 8.1 million.
The 21.9 million of net cash used in financing activities move to a direct sourcing policy.
Reported cooked meat sales were 8 per in 2011 is largely due to interest paid of 1.7 million, dividends paid of cent lower reflecting the transfer of the Deeside cooked meats business 10.5 million, loan repayments of 10.0 million and proceeds from issue of into FBD.
Adjusting for this, cooked meats sales were 8 per cent ahead on share capital of 0.6 million.
The prior year cash outflow from financing of a comparable basis.
8.4 million was largely due to interest paid of 2.7 million, dividends paid of 8.8 million and proceeds from issue of share capital of 2.9 million.
The overall result is a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of 6.6 Operating profit million 2010: increase of 12.0 million.
Net debt reduced by 6.4 million to 48.3 million 2010: 54.7 million at the year end, and gearing reduced Operating profit at 48.7 million increased by 6 per cent and at 6.4 per from 28 per cent to 22 per cent.
The Company replaced its existing bank cent of sales was 0.2 per cent ahead of the level achieved last year.
The facilities during the year.
The new facility runs to July 2015 and comprises increase in operating profit is attributable to a combination of sales growth a revolving credit facility of 100 million including a committed overdraft and improved operational efficiency, particularly at CCF Norfolk where facility of 20 million.
This unsecured facility provides the business with significant improvements have been made in the period since acquisition.
Finance costs Pensions Finance costs of 1.6 million 2010: 2.1 million were lower than the The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes, whereby previous year reflecting the strong cash generation in the year.
Interest contributions are made to schemes operated by major insurance companies.
cover improved from 21.3 times to 30.0 times.
Contributions to these schemes are determined as a percentage of Taxation employees basic salary.
CCF Norfolk operates a defined benefit scheme which has been closed to further accrual since 2004.
Under International The tax charge as a percentage of profit from continuing operations before Accounting Standard IAS 19, the deficit at 31 March 2011 was 2.9 taxation was 25.0 per cent in the current year and 25.8 per cent in 2010. million 2010: 5.3 million.
The present value of funded obligations was The standard rate of UK Corporation Tax was 28 per cent for 2011 and 16.5 million 2010: 17.1 million and the fair value of plan assets was 2010.
The lower than standard rate of tax in the current year primarily 13.6 million 2010: 11.8 million.
relates to a deferred tax credit of 1.0 million on the transfer of assets from the Deeside cooked meats business to FBD and a further deferred tax Investment in associate credit of 0.7 million following the substantial enactment of the Finance Act 2011 which reduces the Corporation tax rate from 28 per cent to 26 On 9 July 2010, the principal assets and trade of the Deeside cooked meats per cent in the year to 31 March 2012. facility were transferred to Farmers Boy Deeside Limited, a company within the Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC group, to provide them with Earnings per share a dedicated facility in return for a 49 per cent stake in that company.
The transaction gave rise to a profit before tax in the period of 0.3 million, Basic earnings per share increased by 7 per cent to 74.5 pence, reflecting together with an associated deferred tax credit of 1.0 million.
The Groups the increase in profit before tax and slightly lower effective tax rate, offset share of the post-tax results of the business in the period to 31 March 2011 by an increase in the average number of shares in issue during the year to was a loss of 0.4 million.
Further details are set out in note 15.
Capital structure Cash flow and net debt The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure The Group has continued to generate strong operational cash flows.
Cash that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order generated from operating activities was 51.6 million 2010: 32.2 million to support its business and maximise value for Shareholders and other reflecting higher Group profit, a reduction in working capital and lower stakeholders.
The net cash outflow from investing activities of 36.3 million reflects capital additions, net of fixed asset sale proceeds and grants The Group regards its Shareholders equity and net debt as its capital and received, of 33.9 million.
The previous years outflow was 11.8 million manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes and comprised of capital additions, net of fixed asset sale proceeds, of in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the 19.9 million together with the net inflow from acquisitions and disposals 12 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc Group may adjust the dividend payment to Shareholders, return capital to business and in particular at CCF Norfolk.
Operating margin at 6.4 per cent Shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, was 0.2 per cent higher as a result of the revenue growth and efficiency policies or processes during the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March improvements.
Principal cash flows are discussed on page 12.
Future development The Groups capital structure is as follows: 2011 2010 The Group will continue to seek to increase sales through a combination of m m product development with existing customers and business gains with new ones.
The standard of the Groups factories will be maintained at the highest Net Debt note 27 48.3 54.7 level and further suitable acquisition opportunities will be pursued.
Cranswick plc Shareholders equity 220.9 193.6 Capital Employed 269.2 248.3 Resources, risks and relationships Distributions, capital raising and share repurchases Resources The proposed final dividend for 2011 together with the interim paid in The Group aims to safeguard the assets that give it competitive advantage, January 2011 amount to 27.5 pence per share which is 10 per cent higher being its reputation for product innovation, product quality, food safety than the previous year.
The increase in the share capital of the Group and service levels: its modern well-equipped factories: its operational comprises 105,514 of shares issued relating to share options exercised management and its skilled workforce.
during the year and 200,554 of shares issued in respect of scrip dividends.
There were no share repurchases during the year.
Reputation Business KPIs It is the responsibility of local operational management assisted by their own product development team, Group Technical and Group Health & The Board has assessed that the following KPIs are the most effective Safety to maintain and where possible enhance the Groups reputation for measures of progress towards achieving the Groups objectives: product innovation, product quality, food safety and service levels.
Underlying sales growth year on year increase in sales revenue Factories excluding the impact of acquisitions and disposals Gross margin gross profit as a percentage of sales revenue The Group has some of the best-invested, modern facilities in the industry, Operating margin operating profit as a percentage of sales having invested over 100 million over the past five years, and it intends to revenue continue investing to ensure that it maintains its competitive edge.
Free cash flow cash generated from operations less tax and interest paid Employees Performance against KPIs The Group aims to recruit, train and retain employees who are valued for 2011 2010 their contribution and able to fulfil their potential in meeting the business Underlying sales growth 3.8% 11.2% objectives of their operating unit.
The Group companies each have their Gross margin 13.4% 13.1% strategies for retaining staff, including the provision of competitive terms Operating margin 6.4% 6.2% and conditions, share options and a stimulating and challenging working Free cash flow 50.0m 29.6m environment.
The Group has had a savings-related share option scheme in place for over 10 years, which is open to all employees with 2 years service The Group has seen sales growth in the underlying business of 3.8 per cent and has proved very successful with many staff now also Shareholders.
over the past year driven by its expertise in product development, service levels, quality and value with further sales growth anticipated in the next twelve months.
Gross margin was 13.4 per cent of sales compared to 13.1 per cent a year ago reflecting improved operational efficiency across the Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 13 Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties, which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
The Group annually carries out a formal exercise to identify and assess the impact of risks on its businesses.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing Cranswick and the actions taken to mitigate their impact are set out below: Risk area Nature of risk and potential impact Risk mitigation Industry risks State of economy A deterioration in the world and, in particular, UK economies Although Cranswick is unable to influence general economic may adversely affect the activity levels of consumers and the conditions, the business offers a range of products across Groups immediate customers, leading to a fall in demand for premium, standard and value tiers which it is able to flex in the Groups products and ultimately lower profitability and cash response to consumer and market trends.
Competition and customer The Group trades in highly competitive markets which tend The Group manages the risk of operating in a consolidated retention to operate without long term contracts.
Product innovation sector by maintaining strong customer relationships.
This and changing consumer trends provide a constant challenge process is supported by delivering high levels of service and to the future success of the Group and its ability to compete quality and by continued focus on product development and effectively.
Raw material price The major exposure the Group has to raw material price Purchasing of pigs and pig meat is co-ordinated centrally and fluctations fluctuations is pig meat, part of which is as a result of currency whilst the Group does not generally seek to hedge against pig movements.
An increase in raw material input costs may impact price movements because of the downside risk, longer term Group profitability.
contracts have been negotiated in certain instances with key pig suppliers.
Environmental matters The industry is subject to a range of UK and EU legislation.
The Directors believe that good environmental practices support Environmental standards are being tightened on a regular basis the Boards strategy by enhancing the reputation of the Group, and require increasing levels of investment.
Compliance imposes the efficiency of production and the quality of products.
Further costs and prolonged failure to comply could materially affect the details of these initiatives are set out in the Groups Corporate Groups ability to operate.
Social Responsibility report and on the Groups website under the Greenthinking banner.
Food scares and product As a food producer, Cranswick is subject to industry related risks The risk of such events is mitigated by ensuring that all raw contamination of contamination of products and or raw materials.
Such an materials are traceable to source and that the manufacturing, incident may lead to product recall costs, reputational damage storage and distribution systems of both Group sites and those of and regulatory penalties.
suppliers are continually audited and monitored by experienced and well qualified site based and Group technical teams.
14 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc Risk area Nature of risk and potential impact Risk mitigation Operational risks Food safety A breach of food safety legislation or the introduction of Cranswick conforms to all relevant food safety regulations and more stringent regulations may lead to reputational damage adopts best practice across its production facilities.
and regulatory penalties including restrictions on operations, damages or fines.
Business continuity The Group faces the risk of incidents such as a major fire, Business continuity plans are in place across the Groups manuwhich may result in significant and prolonged disruption to facturing facilities and appropriate insurance cover is in place to its operating facilities and ensuing loss of sales and reduced mitigate any financial loss.
Business continuity has been further profitability.
enhanced by the acquisition of a second pork processing site in Norfolk.
Legislation Legislation in all the markets the Group serves changes on Cranswick is committed to responding positively to new a regular basis, and interpretation of existing laws can also regulation and ensuring that the Groups views are expressed change to create ever tightening standards, often requiring during consultation exercises.
additional human resources and the provision of new assets and systems.
Failure to comply with existing or new legislation may adversely affect the Groups results.
Human resource risks Health & Safety A breach of health & safety regulations would leave the Group A dedicated Group health & safety team supported by site exposed to reputational damage and regulatory penalties.
based co-ordinators proactively monitor, manage and improve performance.
All team members receive continual training to industry approved standards.
Quarterly reports on performance against KPIs are issued to site management and the Group Board.
Staff recruitment and The success of the Group is dependent on attracting and The Group mitigates the risk associated with loss of key personnel retention retaining high quality senior management and staff.
through robust succession planning, strong recruitment processes, effective incentives and retention initiatives and ongoing training and development.
Financial risks Interest rates, currency, The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings and Interest rate and foreign currency risks are managed using liquidity and credit foreign currency risk on purchases, particularly of charcuterie effective hedging policies, which are coordinated and controlled products.
In addition the Group needs access to funding for by the Groups treasury function.
Each business has access to the current business and future growth.
Groups overdraft facility and bank positions are monitored on a daily basis.
All term debt is arranged centrally and appropriate headroom is maintained.
Treasury polices are discussed in more detail on page 16.
