Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Financial review Dividend Croda has continued to The increased final dividend of 30.25p per share 2010: 25.25p will be paid deliver strong growth on 1 June 2012 to shareholders on the in profits and earnings, register at the close of business on 4 May 2012, subject to shareholder and to improve approval.
performance against our Debt and Liquidity main financial KPIs.
Our As a result of the continuing strength of the Groups cash flow, net debt at strong cash generation the year-end stood at 231.1m 2010: has enabled us to return 220.3m, an increase of less than 11m despite the return of 118m to 118m to shareholders shareholders through dividends and through dividends and share buybacks during the year.
This compares with our committed facilities share buybacks, while of 472.0m 2010: 473.8m.
significantly increasing All our debt ratios continued to improve, with our main banking ratio investment in the of net debt to EBITDA falling to 0.8x business and further 2010: 1.0x and EBITDA interest cover improving to 33.5x 2010: 26.9x.
improving our debt Capital Expenditure ratios.
We have worked hard to increase the rate of internal investment in Croda, spending 58.6m 2010: 41.7m on capital expenditure, 82% higher than Pre-tax Profit our depreciation figure of 32.2m.
Our strong operating profit performance The most significant project during was further enhanced by slightly lower the year was a 12m investment in net interest costs of 8.2m 2010: a new acrylic polymers plant at our 8.6m and a significantly increased Rawcliffe Bridge site in East Yorkshire, IAS 19 pension funding credit of 8.0m enabling us to meet growing demand 2010: 2.3m.
This meant that pre-tax from customers in the Personal Care, profit increased 25.9% to 242.2m Crop Care and Home Care sectors.
In addition, the Group undertook numerous expansion projects to Exceptional Items increase capacity at its facilities around There was an exceptional credit of the world, although none of these were 1.6m in 2011, comprising the profit individually material.
on the disposals of the Groups Korean We are targeting a capital spend for joint venture and our Bromborough 2012 of 65m.
site, compared with pre-tax exceptional credits totalling 3.9m in 2010.
All exceptional items relate to discontinued operations.
Earnings per Share The share buyback was the main reason for the fall in the average number of shares outstanding from 136.0m in 2010 to 135.3m in 2011.
Our tax rate fell one percentage point to 31.5% as underlying corporate tax rates were reduced in the UK and elsewhere in the world.
As a result, earnings per share from continuing operations increased faster than pre-tax profit, growing by Sean Christie, Group Finance Director 28.4% to 122.5p 2010: 95.4p.
8 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information During 2011 construction began on a new Acrylic Polymers plant at our Rawcliffe Bridge manufacturing site in the UK, a 12m investment for the Group.
The plant will enable us to produce products which improve the rheology, dispersion and suspension profile of formulations.
The initial focus of the plant will be on Personal Care, Crop Care and Home Care products, however, Acrylic Polymers have performance benefits across all market sectors, with an overall target market of 500m.
Croda has a dedicated business team in place and has several patented products planned for launch in the second half of 2012.
The market value of our pension fund Retirement Benefits assets increased to 647.5m 2010: The gross IAS 19 deficit on our We have worked 641.9m.
We feel comfortable with pension scheme increased by 51.1m the current level of the deficit as it will hard to increase to 198.9m 2010: 147.8m and require only a small movement in the the post-tax deficit rose by 36.7m the rate of internal discount rate to achieve a significant to 141.6m 2010: 104.9m.
This reduction in our liability.
reflected an increase in the net present investment in value of our pension payment liabilities Financial KPIs Croda as a result of the continuing decline in Performance against our five main KPIs corporate bond interest rates.
before exceptional items is shown in the following table: Target 2011 2010 Return on sales 15% 22.7% 19.8% EPS growth 5-10% 28.4% 77.3% Post tax ROIC WACC 23.7% 19.3% Debt EBITDA 3x 0.8x 1.0x EBITDA interest cover 4x 33.5x 26.9x excluding IAS 19 credit WACC: Weighted average cost of capital, 2011 average 7.8% 2010: 7.5% 9 Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Financial review The framework comprises a standard The output from the risk reviews Risk Management set of risk categories and definitions, are consolidated and reported to Effective management of risks and together with the process and risk the Risk Management Committee opportunities is essential to the register format to be used in analysing to identify Group wide impacts delivery of the Groups financial and and managing risk.
Risks are ranked by and trends including external and non-financial objectives, thereby combining the economic, operational emerging risks.
In addition, a top ensuring the Group delivers value or environmental impact rated by down review is performed to identify to the shareholders, protects its value and the likelihood of occurrence, Group level risks that will not have reputation and meets the requirements both before and after identification of been identified at regional or site of good corporate governance.
mitigating controls, and any actions level.
The most significant risks are Croda is committed to the effective required to address weaknesses.
collated into the Group risk register management of all key risks identified.
The responsibility for risk identification, using the same risk management The Group coordinates its global analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests framework, which is reviewed at each approach through the Risk Management with management at regional and site meeting.
The Committee evaluates Committee which meets quarterly level.
All regions and key functional the controls and procedures which are and reports directly to the Board.
This groups are required to undertake a full in place to mitigate these risks, and a Committee is chaired by the Group review of risks and their mitigating nominated member of the Committee Finance Director and comprises the strategies at least half yearly, with sites is responsible for ensuring that best regional Presidents, the Group Financial required to undertake the same review practice is followed in tackling each Controller and the Company Secretary at least annually.
Each risk is allocated area and that continuous progress is with the Group Risk and Control an owner who has the responsibility for made in managing the risks.
The key risks identified by the Group A structured risk management system is are summarised below.
implemented across the Group which is defined in the Groups risk management framework.
Risk Description and impact Mitigation Strategic Product and Croda operates in competitive markets in which We have 18 R&D laboratories around the world.
technology product and technology innovation are key to We have unrivalled customer contact, ensuring innovation success.
Innovation failing to deliver could result in a that our innovation is market led and relevant lack of competitive products and erosion of margins to their needs.
We have just appointed our Chief and or loss of market share.
Technology Officer to the Board.
Merger and The Group has experienced growth through The Group has established policies and processes in acquisition strategy acquisitions and continues to pursue acquisitions place to manage the acquisition process, integrate to meet its strategic objectives.
Whether the acquired businesses and monitor performance.
Group realises the anticipated benefits from these acquisitions depends on the integration of the acquired businesses and their performance in relation to the Groups acquisition expectations.
External environment Product liability Croda sells into a number of highly regulated Quality management procedures are in place markets.
Non-compliance with quality regulations for each site, and all manufacturing sites hold could expose the Group to liability and reputational ISO9001 standards.
Major sites have also been damage.
audited against GMP Good Manufacturing Practice standards.
Regulatory As a global chemical producer and supplier, Croda The most significant chemical legislation currently compliance operates in a highly regulated environment.
facing the Group is the implementation of REACh Violation of these regulations could limit the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and markets into which we can sell, or subject the restriction of Chemicals in Europe.
We have Group to fines or penalties.
introduced a range of procedures in order to maintain compliance with this regulation and have successfully completed the necessary registrations to date.
10 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information Risk Description and impact Mitigation People and process Major site event Significant operational problems could have an We maintain strictly audited internal safety and involving the loss of adverse effect on Crodas financial position.
We maintenance programmes and have business a site are reliant on the continued operation of our continuity plans in place.
Major Violations of safety, health and environmental In addition to maintaining compliance with environmental regulations could limit operations and expose the national and international safety standards, we incident Group to liability, cost and reputational impact.
maintain strictly audited internal safety, health and environmental programmes.
Interruption of raw Interruption in the supply of key raw materials Wherever possible, we try to multi source our key material supply would significantly impact operations and our raw materials and or we purchase them under financial position.
Interruption of supply could arise medium to long term contracts.
We manage from the implementation of new, more rigorous our raw material stock levels taking these legislation or from market shortage.
Loss of key We rely on employees such as divisional board We have global procedures in place to identify and personnel members and technical experts whose vision and retain key employees and to develop succession knowledge is critical to maintaining the Groups plans for key positions.
Business systems IT systems and Croda relies heavily on IT systems to operate We have a global IT group who are very security failure effectively and efficiently and to facilitate experienced.
During 2011 we moved to a high communication globally.
Failure of these systems for availability mirrored system to further strengthen a prolonged period of time would have an impact the IT infrastructure.
on operations and ultimately our financial position.
Financial Management of Croda has legal commitments relating to the The Groups pension schemes are overseen by pension fund assets provision of pensions and the operation of our the Trustees of the funds who take professional pension schemes.
In current market conditions, actuarial and investment advice as necessary.
increased future funding requirements may have an Trustees have the required skills as a result of adverse effect on Crodas financial position.
experience and training, and where appropriate the Group will appoint professional trustees to its schemes.
Working capital Cash flow generation from the effective The Group operates a well embedded working management management of working capital is required to capital programme which is managed on an support the cash outflows arising from capital individual business basis with central monitoring.
investment programmes, servicing of debt, taxation, and pension fund requirements.
Currency exchange The global nature of the Groups business exposes We maintain a strategic spread of manufacturing rate movements it to volatility in currency exchange rates which and selling locations globally which itself limits could have an adverse impact on Crodas financial currency exposures.
The Group hedges its currency position.
exposure on trade debtors and creditors where appropiate.
Sean Christie Group Finance Director 11
