Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 22 FINANcIAL REVIEw Operating results The Group has reported another year of record results with revenue growing to 314.1 million, 5 per cent ahead of last year 300.0 million and underlying pretax profit increasing to 59.5 million 2010: 54.7 million.
Underlying returns on sales, which reached 18.2 per cent in 2010, were improved again to 18.9 per cent.
Movements in exchange rates had no material effect on reported sales growth.
There is a marked contrast in the results of the Group between the firstsix months of the year to 30 April 2011 and the second six month period to 31 October 2011.
In the interim statement we reported salesgrowth in the first six months of 8 per cent including a 6 per cent growth in the volume of printer shipments.
This was against what wefeltto be a strong comparative.
In the second six months sales growth was just 2 per cent with printer shipments at a similar level tothe comparative period.
After market revenues, which comprise ANDREw HERBERT GrOUP FINANCE DIrECTOr approximately 60 per cent of total revenue, remained strong: growth atthe half year was an exceptional 9 per cent, benefiting from a weaker comparative.
Growth in the full year was 6 per cent.
The rate of gross margin was 50.1 per cent in the year, an increase of 0.4 percentage A slow down in printer orders was seen in many markets during the second half year, in particular from the end of July.
We believe this to points compared to prior year.
be primarily a result of uncertainty surrounding European sovereign debt and the return to slow or no growth in many economies.
The rate of gross margin was 50.1 per cent in the year, an increase of0.4 percentage points compared to prior year.
The global pricing of our products has remained relatively stable and while there are cost pressures in some commodities, efficiency gains coupled with the continuing benefit arising from the rationalisation of factories in 2009 has enabled a further small improvement in gross margins.
We have continued to invest in additional sales and service capacity in the business, in particular in those regions where economic indicators remain positive.
We increased sales and marketing headcount by 60 over the course of the year taking the total to approximately 130 new heads since the beginning of 2010.
This has led to growth in selling and distribution costs in the year of 11 per cent.
Administrative expenses were reduced by 5 per cent, primarily a result of reduced bonus provisions compared to prior year.
Our investment in research and Development r&D of 15.3 000 2011 2010 grOwth million was slightly below last years level 15.6 million.
We remain Operating prOfit befOre committed to a full r&D programme but timing of costs associated aMOrtisatiOn Of acquired with the launch of a substantial range of new products, which spanned intangible assets 59,352 54,508 9% the prior year end and the current year, has slightly skewed the year INVESTMENT INCOME 608 418 on year comparison.
In total operating costs, including r&D expenses, FINANCE COSTS 443 258 were increased by 4 per cent when compared to 2010. underlying pre-tax prOfit 59,517 54,668 9% ExCEPTIONAL COSTS Operating profit before the effect of amortisation of acquired AMOrTISATION OF ACqUIrED intangible assets was 59.4 million, a growth of 9 per cent on prior INTANGIBLEASSETS 1,805 2,092 year 54.5 million and at an operating return on sales of 18.9 per INTErEST ArISING ON ACCOUNTING FOr cent 2010: 18.2 per cent.
We stepped up the operating returns of DISCOUNTED DEFErrED CONSIDErATION 266 430 the business in 2010 through permanent changes to the structural prOfit befOre tax 57,446 52,146 10% cost base of the business and we are pleased to report continued progress in 2011. taxatiOn The tax charge of 16.7 million reflects an effective tax rate of interest and financing cOsts 29.0per cent, an increase of 0.4 per cent compared to prior year.
The Group has remained in a positive net cash position throughout TheGroup earns profits in many jurisdictions where the effective the year, using bank debt facilities only as necessary to fund specific rateof taxation remains above the Uk marginal rate.
Investment income from cash deposits was 0.6 million long-term tax rate of the business is expected to remain above the 2010: 0.4 million.
Interest on debt was 0.4 million 2010: 0.3 prevailing Uk rate.
The investment made in TEN Media was initially financed in part through US dollar debt at an interest cost below interest earned earnings per share on sterling deposits.
This debt was later transferred to sterling and Basic earnings per share were 37.20 pence.
Underlying earnings per the balance reduced as deposits matured and cash was liberated.
share note 13 were 38.66 pence, an increase of 7 per cent 2010: 36.05 pence.
This increase reflects improvement in pre-tax profits, pre-tax prOfits offset by increases in the tax rate and the weighted average number We measure performance of the Group on both a statutory and of shares from 108.4 million in 2010 to 109.5 million in 2011. underlying basis.
The underlying basis excludes the effect of one-off exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and dividends interest arising on accounting for discounted deferred consideration The Board is recommending a final dividend of 12.17 pence, which associated with acquisitions.
Underlying profits are reconciled to together with the interim dividend of 6.58 pence makes a total of statutory profit before tax as follows: 18.75 pence for the year as a whole, a 20 per cent increase on prior year 15.62 pence.
Dividend cover is 2.0 times basic earnings and 2.1 times underlying earnings.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 24 FINANcIAL REVIEw cONTINUED The Board is recommending a final dividend of 12.17 pence, which together with the interim dividend of 6.58 pence makes a total of 18.75 pence for the year as a whole, a 20 per cent increase on prior year.
ANDREw HERBERT GrOUP FINANCE DIrECTOr cash The Group has invested in two businesses during the year.
In April Net cash inflow from operating activities before taxation and movement weannounced the investment of $50 million in cash in TEN Media, in working capital was 67.1 million 2010: 60.1 million.
Working apartnership with NewMarket Impressions LLC, established to capital increased by 16.0 million 2010: an increase of 0.4 million.
exploit the legislation backed opportunity for compliance coding in the US egg industry.
Domino owns 15 per cent of the equity of TEN Inventory levels have risen by 5.8 million as production of the new Mediaand has exclusive rights to supply coding systems to TEN.
The product ranges in CIJ, laser and TTO were introduced.
The Group is business was embryonic at the time the investment was made but has in a transition stage as we gradually replace existing products with the the potential to enhance significantly Dominos position and market new i-tech range of printers.
This in turn has led to duplication of share in the USA.
We expect first orders during 2012. raw material inventories in some areas as the new and the existing In October we acquired a further 88 per cent of the equity of printers continue to be manufactured side by side.
We expect these kameleon Source Codes AS kameleon for a cash consideration inventories to reduce once the programme of replacement of the of1.3 million, taking the Groups total stake to 98 per cent.
kameleon older technology is completed.
owns the intellectual property in a software solution the Group has developed to provide integration of its coding equipment with The recent spate of natural disasters and knock on impact on supply manufacturing and production systems.
The remaining two per cent chains has also led us to increase our strategic stocks of components ofthe equity is held by one of the founders of the business.
The Group and chemicals where we are only able to operate with single sources.
has an obligation to acquire the minority stake for a price between nil This helps us ensure continuity of supply to customers.
and 0.3 million prescribed by a formula related to sales of the product over a three year period.
Trade debtors increased by 3.1 million.
There have been no material bad debt issues experienced during the year and while we continue to A total of 3.3 million contingent deferred consideration was paid see pressure on credit terms, our focus on cash collection has helped incash during the year to former shareholders of Citronix, Easyprint, avoid significantly extended debtors.
We maintain credit insurance, On-line Coding and Control under the terms of earn-out agreements.
where it is available, providing cover against distributor default.
The Group has structured certain of its acquisitions to include an element of consideration contingent upon performance of the Trade creditors continue to be paid in line with standard terms.
remaining earn-out arrangements still in place are Other creditor balances reduced in the year by 4.8 million.
This allexpected to complete during 2012, other than that associated with wasin large part a result of reduced bonus accruals.
Latest estimates of the remaining liability based on current performance related bonus schemes that are linked to growth in forecast performance amounts to 7.4 million.
Bonus accruals in 2010 were exceptional based on profit growth in excess of 50 per cent.
Accruals in 2011 reflect more The Group has used further cash in the year in the payment of normal bonus levels.
dividends 18.4 million and in paying down certain short-term loans.
Gross cash at 31 October 2011 was 39.1 million: bank debt was Capital expenditure in the year was 9.3 million 2010: 5.7 million, 16.3 million leaving a net positive cash position of 22.8 million.
The acombination of new product tooling, IT system upgrades in our remaining bank debt primarily comprises 5.0 million used to finance factories and r&D function, investment in extended manufacturing the acquisition in earlier years of businesses in Germany and 11.0 facilities in Sweden and a new office and workshop facility in korea.
million representing the balance of the loan used to finance the TheGroup does not typically have a significant requirement for fixed investment in TEN Media.
The euro loan is being paid down as asset investment besides normal replacement.
However, continued cashisreleased from the German businesses.
expansion and growth in demand for our products does require somelevel of investment in capacity.
In addition to the extra space for treasury and credit risK expansion noted above, the Board has approved further investment in The Group is exposed to interest rate movements and changes in the our Chinese and Indian operations, in both cases increasing factory and value of sterling relative to a number of foreign currencies.
The total cost of these is likely to be in the order of is to manage these exposures in a manner that provides certainty as 10 million commencing in 2012 and spread over the ensuing two years.
far as possible and guards against the effects of speculation.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 25 accOunting pOlicies Cash is placed on short-term deposit with approved banks, all of whom The Group prepares its accounts in accordance with International are required to meet specific credit rating requirements.
The absolute Financial reporting Standards.
The Groups accounting policies amount on deposit with any one bank is limited to a maximum amount aresetout in note 1 of the statutory accounts for the year ended of 20 million but our practice is to spread deposits between two or 31October 2011.
There have been no material changes in the basis more banks at a lower level.
Bank debt mainly reflects three month or ofpreparation of the accounts between 2010 and 2011. less draw down on Group facilities, renewed as necessary.
This enables us to maintain flexibility and minimise net interest costs.
The Group has recently renegotiated bank facilities and has committed debt facilities of 50 million to the end of 2016 sufficient to meet expected requirements for working capital and other corporate activity.
Pricing is relative to LIBOr at a margin slightly higher than the ANDREw HERBERT GrOUP FINANCE DIrECTOr previous three year facility.
Total cost of debt in 2011 was 1.65 per cent.
12 December 2011 We operate in many countries and have revenues and costs in a range of currencies.
This exposes us to movements in exchange ratesat both the transactional and translational level.
We manage transaction exposure through the use of forward contracts, selling or buying expected net cash in outflows on a rolling 12 or in some cases three month basis.
Principal exposures are the US dollar and euro: these are both sold forward on a rolling 12 month basis.
Currencies such as the Swedish krona, Swiss franc and Canadian dollar are purchased or sold on a rolling three month basis.
These contracts provide us with certainty and fix a significant proportion of the Groups transaction based exposure.
Certain currencies such as the Chinese renminbi and Indian rupee are significant to the Group but cannot be traded.
In these cases cash is converted to sterling at the prevailing spot rate and remitted to the Uk.
Forward contracts in place and maturing during the year have theeffect of increasing net sterling receipts by 0.7 million when compared to rates prevailing in the prior year.
Contracts in place covering expected cash flows in 2012 will realise losses of 0.2 million when compared to rates applicable in 2011. reported results are subject to translation from local currency.
Noaction is taken to hedge the effect of translation on the income statement.
In 2011 the impact of movements in exchange rates was toreduce reported profits by 1.0 million compared to translation at rates prevailing in 2010.
No action is taken to hedge the impact of translation effects on thevalue of Group investments denominated in foreign currencies.
The value of any gain or loss is taken directly to reserves.
In 2011 thisresulted in a decrease in the value of reserves of 0.5 million.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 26 Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 27 AccELERATING OPERATIONAL SYNERGY DOMINO IS REALISING SIGNIFIcANT BENEFITS FROM OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS INTEGRATION PROGRAMME In 2011 we have approved the construction of new factories in china and in India for machine and fluids production.
In addition we have concluded a major part of our system integration plan by implementing common supply chain planning tools in our key plants.
RAcHEL HURST GROUP OPERATIONS DIREcTOR
