The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee, as summarised on the previous page, were reviewed during 2011.
Part of that review involved WHAT DID THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DO DURI N G consideration of developments in governance matters and good practice THE YEAR?
The Terms of Reference of the Committee During the year the Audit Committee considered the following are available on the Companys website www.
main items of business: MEM BER SHIP Financial and business reporting All members of the Audit Committee, including the Chairman, are Review and approval of the financial statements, review of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Other members of the Board Annual Report and Accounts and half yearly report, Budget report may be invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
KPMG review and approval, working capital report and variances to budget Audit Plc regularly attend Audit Committee meetings and the Audit and use of GRI Index for CSR reporting.
Committee also meets with KPMG Audit Plc, the external auditors, without management present from time to time.
Risk and internal control Assessment and review of risks, mitigation for weaknesses, review The Chairman of the Company, Michael Hibberd, is a member of, of internal controls and procedures report, upgrade of accountancy and chairs, the Audit Committee which is not in line with the systems, review of whistle-blowing policy and reports, review of recommendations made in the 2010 Code.
However, the Board anti-bribery programme and the Audit Committees role in this continues to believe that his recent and relevant financial experience, respect.
including his experience in corporate financial matters is invaluable in supporting the Audit Committee in performing its role.
Audit H OW THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OPERATE S Review of audit findings report, audit plan and management The Audit Committee meets formally at least twice a year to discharge representation letter.
its responsibilities and also engages in numerous ad hoc discussions.
The Audit Committee has a planned annual cycle with scheduled External auditor meetings fixed at appropriate times during the financial reporting Consideration of tax filings by KPMG, review of ethical standards, calendar.
The agenda is agreed with the Audit Committee Chairman engagement letter and fee proposal.
and includes a number of standard items, such as consideration of the financial statements and audit process.
Other items may be added to Other the agenda by the Chairman, CFO, auditors or other members of the Related party disclosures, conflicts disclosures, implications committee.
An aide memoire checklist is used to ensure that the of the Ugandan tax dispute, review of the Committees Terms Committee fully covers its remit during the year.
of Reference, consideration of internal audit function and treasury management.
The Chairman ensures that there is adequate time for discussions and members receive full briefing papers before each meeting.
FI N A NCIA L A ND B U S I N ESS REPORTI N G The performance of the Audit Committee was reviewed during the year Financial reporting procedures were reviewed as part of the as part of the external Board performance review and the operation of process to become listed on the Main Market of the LSE and a Board the Audit Committee was considered to remain effective.
memorandum was prepared which is reviewed and updated on an annual basis.
The review enabled the Directors to confirm that the financial reporting procedures in place provide them with a reasonable basis on which to make proper judgments on the financial position and prospects of the Company on an ongoing basis.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance
