Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 Review of operations and finance FINaNCIal ResUlTs FOR 2011 Selling and distribution costs, and The net interest charge fell by administrative and other operating 2.2m to 4.3m, due mainly to The financial performance of the expenses, increased by 18.4m to the reduced finance expense in Group during 2011 benefited from 394.0m.
This reflects the costs of respect of pensions and the lower the Groups competitive position and new depots, investment in growth, level of debt during 2011.
The net actions taken to improve performance.
including additional staffing in result was profit before tax from Total Group revenue increased by existing depots, new product continuing operations rising by 45.9m to 853.8m.
For 2012, the marketing expenditure, and the finance expense in respect of 2011 2010 impact of inflation, particularly pensions will increase by 4m.
Howden Joinery UK Profit before tax m depots 838.7 795.1 Gross profit m Change Howden Joinery 9.1m Change French depots 15.1 12.8 25.3m Group 853.8 807.9 Howden Joinery UK depot revenue rose by 5.5% to 838.7m, increasing 3.1% on a same depot basis.
In demanding market conditions, this 19 growth was achieved through a number of factors, including a significant increase in the number of There was an exceptional loss customer accounts.
The value of It should be noted that within attributable to discontinued kitchen furniture, worktops, sinks & operating costs there were certain operations before tax of 8.3m, taps and appliances sales rose partly credits in 2011 totalling around in respect of the provision as a result of a higher proportion of 5m that were one-off in nature.
relating to legacy properties mid and higher priced ranges being For example: improved debt and associated costs.
Also, the value of door sales collection has allowed us to revise increased as the mix changed and the The tax charge on profit before tax our provisioning policy for bad volume of sales of joinery and flooring from continuing operations was debt: in a number of instances, we increased substantially.
In addition, 28.9m, an effective rate of tax of achieved better than expected selling prices were increased to help 26.3%.
There was a tax credit of terms when negotiating revised offset higher input costs.
0.5m in respect of the loss from property leases: and a change of discontinued operations.
electricity supplier to our depots Sales by our ten French depots of and the introduction of smart 15.1m were up over 15% in Basic earnings per share from meters means that we can more constant currency terms.
continuing operations were 13.4p precisely account for energy costs.
Basic earnings per Gross profit rose by 25.3m to share from continuing and Operating profit from continuing 508.3m.
As a result, the gross profit discontinued operations were operations increased by 6.9m to margin for the year of 59.5% was 12.1p 2010: 11.1p.
2010 483.0 Volume & mix 14.9 Price 19.0 Cost pressures -8.6 2011 508.3 2010 100.9 Gross profit 25.3 Operating costs -18.4 Interest 2.2 2011 110.0 Review of operations and finance continued At 24 December 2011, the pension Reflecting the above, there was a the opening of new depots and deficit shown on the balance sheet net cash inflow of 22.1m in 2011, investment in our UK manufacturing was 136.9m 25 December 2010: the Group having net cash of 57.1m operations, and fund deals to 135.7m.
The impact of a decrease at the end of the year 25 December terminate leases on legacy in the discount rate and lower than 2010: 35.0m net cash.
Excluding properties, both of which should expected asset returns was mostly the payments relating to legacy deliver good returns: the need to offset by the Companys properties and the pension deficit contribute to the legacy pension contribution made as part of the contribution, there was a cash inflow deficit: and our desire to maintain 2009 agreement to clear the of 84.8m.
a strong balance sheet given actuarial deficit.
The triennial prevailing economic conditions, dividend actuarial review of the pension all of which the Board believes to be As a growing business in an scheme as at 1 April 2011 is being in the best interest of shareholders.
increasingly complex and undertaken currently on behalf of sophisticating market, reinvestment It is expected that similar the trustees.
is a strategic priority for Howdens.
considerations will influence the There was a net cash inflow from At the same time, the Group still has Boards approach to the dividend in operating activities of 40.2m.
This significant, ongoing legacy respect of the current financial year.
included payments relating to legacy commitments relating both to properties totalling 29.4m and a pension deficit funding and to the OPeRaTIONal RevIeW cash contribution to the Groups rent and rates associated with a The business model of Howden pension schemes, in excess of the diminishing number of leases of Joinery is To supply from local operating charge, of 33.3m.
Taken stock nationwide the small 20 together, these legacy builders ever-changing routine Excluding the legacy property commitments, together with sums kitchen and joinery requirements, payments, underlying working paid to terminate leases, required a assuring no-call-back quality and capital movements caused a cash 62.7m cash contribution from the best local price.
Within this, business during 2011. stock levels at the end of the year In July 2010, in our Half Yearly were 13.0m higher than at the Against this background, the Board Report, we said that the opportunity end of 2010.
This was partly offset has decided to resume payment of to transform the scale of the by an increase in creditors of the dividend, and is recommending business was apparent and that, 3.9m, the level of debtors being a final dividend of 0.5p per share.
as the performance of the business virtually unchanged despite sales was improving and legacy issues In reaching this decision, the Board growing in the year.
In respect of were diminishing, we were stepping has taken account of a number of debtors, we have seen an up investment in the future growth of factors, including its desire to signal improvement in the age-profile of Howden Joinery.
its confidence in the longer term debtors and a reduction in the prospects of the business and to level of bad debt write-off.
Since then, this investment in reward shareholders.
In growth has not only seen a step-up Also included within net cash flows recommending this prudent level of in capital expenditure but also from operating activities was tax dividend, it has taken into account: increased expenditure in a number paid totalling 22.5m.
the opportunities we see to invest in of other areas to support the growth the growth of the business, through of the business and its performance Payments to acquire fixed and in demanding market conditions.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 depot network In our door and joinery collection, the versatility of our Lamona During the course of 2011, 20 new we introduced a number of appliances by showing them depots were opened, bringing the total products based on our best selling being used by a top chef.
trading at the end of the year to 509.
In Burford and Greenwich ranges.
In manufacturing and addition, two depots were relocated our flooring collection, we logistics operations and seven depots were extended.
enhanced this further with As part of a 20m two-year improvements to the laminate Staffing levels were increased in programme of investment in our and timber offering.
existing depots of all ages to manufacturing sites in Runcorn and facilitate their growth, numbers To support the upgrading of our Howden, orders were placed for a growing by over 170 during the year.
joinery products, early in the year new cabinet production line at each A significant proportion of these we introduced a small number of site.
Work has begun on these at the were related to the introduction of hardware and flooring vans that suppliers plant, with the first phase hardware flooring vans see below.
can display products and support of assembly in our factories due to the depots in the field.
After the begin in the second quarter of 2012.
Product and marketing initial trial, the vans were combined In addition, a project automating We continue to enhance our product and the fleet of vans was increased assembly lines at Runcorn, begun offering.
During the course of the in two phases, so that now over 110 in 2010, has been completed.
year, we introduced five new kitchen depots have a hardware flooring ranges: the popular Burford range Implementation of a new warehouse van supporting their sales and was extended with two new management system in all three marketing.
This means that, along colourways, Grey and Maple: two of our distribution centres was with depot sales representatives, integrated handle designs were 21 completed with the installation we now have 700 field employees introduced: and a new colourway, at our Howden site.
servicing our more than 250,000 Skye, was added to the Tewkesbury account holders and looking for General family.
In addition, we updated a new business opportunities.
New central computers and data number of existing ranges.
storage systems were installed in our Throughout the year, we held a In response to the increasing main data centre in Northampton and proactive series of roadshows with sophistication of kitchens, we back-up data centre in Harrogate.
our kitchen designers and other enhanced our kitchen cabinetry.
depot staff to help inform our new A major IT project to simplify and Foremost amongst a number of product development programme.
upgrade SAP systems dealing with developments were the introduction These roadshows considered how financial control, credit control and of extra tall wall units and a light oak sales of various product categories supply chain management, that had cabinet to replace the previous could be improved, learning from been introduced originally in 2004, beech cabinet.
successful existing products and was successfully completed.
identifying gaps in our offering.
Supporting sales of our Lamona New products were presented to kitchen appliances, we introduced a our depot staff at a series of major two-year guarantee across the range.
events, prior to their introduction.
These events included demonstrating Review of operations and finance continued leGaCy PROPeRTIes Estimated future costs associated For the rest of 2012, we expect with these properties were originally market conditions to continue to be The Group continues to reduce its provided for in 2009 and previous challenging and we remain cautious legacy property portfolio.
An additional amount of about the outlook.
As in recent During 2011, the leases of 17 7.7m was provided for in 2011. years, we will quickly and properties were terminated, at a appropriately adapt our business cost of 17.9m, mitigating future CURReNT TRadING aNd model to the market and economic liabilities that would have totalled OUTlOOK FOR 2012 conditions we encounter.
In addition, two leases Howden Joinery UK depot sales in The Group remains committed to its expired during the year.
Since the the first two periods of 2012 to view that the number of depots in year-end, the leases of two 17 February were up 1.6% on the the UK can be increased from its properties have been terminated at same periods last year, with sales current level of 509 and now a cost of 7.6m, mitigating future on a same depot basis up by 0.1%, believes that this number could be liabilities that would have totalled the pattern and volume of sales in at least 700.
During the course of nearly 20m.
the two periods being in line 2012, we are currently planning to with our expectations.
As a result, the number of legacy open around 20 depots as part of properties now stands at 19, our investment in the next stage of Taking into account last years compared with 40 at the end of Howdens longer term growth and initiative to target the busy post- 2010.
Included within this are nine development.
Christmas trading period of the properties that are fully or part non-trade kitchen market, which Since its inception in 1995, Howden occupied by tenants.
pulled sales forward in to the first 22 Joinery has grown rapidly and has two periods of 2011, and forward The profile of properties remaining gained a significant share of the UK looking indicators of depot activity, and the net annual rent and rates kitchen market.
Today, it sells some it seems that trading conditions and current values for the associated 400,000 kitchens a year.
Even in our performance remain much as leases going forward, before these challenging market conditions, they were in 2011, at this early any mitigating action is taken, we would expect our market share stage of the year.
is shown below: growth to continue, as the business continues to benefit from the growth of our depots that have yet to reach 2 maturity and we open new depots.
Reducing our legacy property liabilities net annual rent and rates Note: The 2012 financial year will include a 53rd week, ending 29 December 2012.
It is estimated 100 that the impact of the additional week will be to increase operating costs by around 6m, revenue 80 remaining unchanged as our depots are closed 24.5m between Christmas and the New Year.
Because of 60 the timing of month-end creditor payments, the 18.0m impact on cash flow is estimated to be 25m.
2 Gross rent & rates less payments by tenants.
3 All remaining leases expire during the course of 2025.
1 Number of properties Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 Key FINaNCIal PeRFORmaNCe localities is therefore key to the market conditions could impact on INdICaTORs Groups growth prospects.
We our ability to achieve our sales and have the ability to adjust the profit forecasts.
This could in turn The Group uses a number of rhythm of the opening programme put pressure on our cash availability financial performance indicators to in line with economic conditions.
measure operational and financial activity in the business.
These are We monitor the market closely and PRINCIPal RIsKs aNd shown in the financial highlights on can take swift management action UNCeRTaINTIes the first page of this Annual Report.
as necessary in response to adverse Non-financial indicators are The process for identifying and changes, with the aim that the discussed further in the corporate managing risks is set out on pages business is aligned to market social responsibility report on 56 to 57.
The Board considers that conditions and, consequently, that pages 27 to 32. the Groups principal risks and we should have sufficient cash uncertainties, together with an facilities for business needs and Total sales growth indication of actions taken to adequate covenant headroom.
Growth in sales of the UK Howden manage and mitigate them, are as Joinery depots is key to enhancing detailed below.
They do not Failure to implement the Groups shareholder value.
This measure, comprise all risks associated with business model and culture along with monitoring our the Group, and are not set out in The future success of the business programme of depot openings, any order of priority.
Additional depends on the successful tracks the ability of the Group to risks not presently known to implementation of the Groups grow the business.
management, or currently deemed business model and locally-enabled, to be less material, may also have 23 entrepreneurial culture.
Operating profit an adverse affect on the Groups The Group targets steady growth in business in the future.
In particular, if the Group fails to operating profit before exceptional implement its business model in the items over the medium term.
market conditions locally enabled, decentralised The Groups products are manner envisaged, there may be an earnings per share ePs predominantly sold to small local adverse affect on the Groups future We believe that EPS, while not builders for installation in public financial condition and profitability.
perfect, is an accessible measure and private housing, mainly in of the returns we are generating as the repair, maintenance and Led by the actions of the Board a Group for our shareholders, and improvement markets.
and Executive Committee, the also has the merit of being auditable business model and the Howdens and well understood.
The key The Groups results are culture are at the centre of the measure of short-term financial consequently dependent on levels activities and the decision-making performance is basic earnings of activity in these markets, which processes of the Group, and are per share before exceptional items.
are impacted by many factors continually emphasised.
The including general economic Executive and senior management depot openings conditions, consumer confidence, regularly visit our depots and The business model is based interest rates and credit availability, factories, and hold regular events on individual depots providing unemployment, demographic during which they reinforce the kitchens to small builders within trends and, in the short term, importance of the Groups a local community.
A severe downturn in business model and culture.
drive to open new depots in new Review of operations and finance continued Throughout the business, With suppliers, the Group tries to and incentivised to continue their successful implementation of maintain dual supply wherever careers with the Group.
the Groups business model possible to mitigate the effects if a Input price pressure and culture forms the basis of key supplier was unable to deliver The Groups gross margin the incentive structure.
We also enter performance drives profitability.
into long-term contracts to secure Failure to maximise exploiting the supply of our key materials.
Good The Groups financial success could growth potential of the business supplier relations are maintained be adversely affected by increasing The Group considers that there is by prompt settlement of invoices, commodity prices, inflationary significant potential for growth, and regular communication, and an pressures and currency fluctuations.
has identified this as a strategic annual supplier conference.
our manufacturing operations, we The Group adopts a number of adopt best practice health & safety measures to mitigate input price If the growth opportunities are not and fire prevention procedures.
As well as conducting understood and exploited in line Business continuity plans are in regular reviews of the market and with our business model, or if place for key production of price trends, these measures current structures and skills within processes.
The Group continues to include negotiation with suppliers, the Group are not aligned to meet make significant investment in its consideration of longer-term supply the challenges of growth, there manufacturing facilities, to enable deals, make vs. buy decisions may be an adverse affect on the manufacturing capacity to match where appropriate, and product Groups ability to obtain maximum our expected growth as well as pricing decisions.
The Group also has benefit from this growth potential.
providing further cabinet an ongoing review process to drive 24 production capacity which will The Group places continuing focus efficiency and identify opportunities to provide additional cover in the on the opportunities, challenges reduce costs in the supply base to event of an interruption to and additional requirements related protect margin and profitability.
The potential for growth Financial position is incorporated into Group strategic loss of key personnel The growth of the business relies in plans and budgets, and existing The skills, experience and some part on our ability to open new structures and skills are reviewed in performance of key members of depots, develop and introduce new the context of growth and adjusted the Groups management team product, and to invest in where necessary.
make a large contribution to the manufacturing capacity.
Continuity of supply If the Groups financial position was The Groups business model The loss of a key member of to deteriorate, limiting financial requires that every depot can supply the Groups management team resources to meet its obligations product from local stock.
could adversely affect the and to fund the growth and Groups operations.
Any disruption to the relationship development of the business, this with key suppliers or interruption to would impact on future growth.
The Group uses the Remuneration manufacturing operations could Committee to ensure that key team The Group regularly forecasts its cash adversely affect the Groups ability members are appropriately availability and its compliance with to implement the business model.
compensated for their contributions, banking covenants, with the aim that Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 there is sufficient cash and or a balance sheet structure that is projections have been stress-tested available credit under our banking both efficient in terms of providing for reasonably possible adverse facility to meet planned future long-term returns to shareholders variations in trading performance expenditure and investment and safeguards the Groups ability and show that the Group will requirements.
These forecasts are to continue as a going concern.
As operate within the terms of its closely monitored throughout the appropriate, the Group can choose borrowing facility and covenants year, reviewed against actual to adjust its capital structure by for the foreseeable future.
performance, and actions are taken to varying the amount of dividends The cash drawdown against the realign the position where necessary.
paid to shareholders, returns of bank facility at the year-end was capital to shareholders, issuing 3.8m and, after taking into Use aNd maNaGemeNT OF new shares or the level of account other utilisation of the FINaNCIal INsTRUmeNTs, aNd capital expenditure.
facilities for terminable exPOsURe TO FINaNCIal RIsK During 2011, the Group had a 160m indemnities, the Group was left The Group holds financial asset-backed bank facility which is with 144.7m of available funds.
instruments for one principal due to expire in May 2014. purpose to finance its operations.
Interest rate risk The Group does not currently use The Groups committed borrowing The Groups exposure to interest derivative financial instruments to facility contains certain financial rate fluctuations on its borrowings reduce its exposure to interest or covenants which have been met may be managed when necessary exchange rate movements.
The by borrowing on a fixed rate basis Group finances its operations covenants are tested every four and entering into rate swaps, rate by a mixture of cash flows from 25 weeks and are based around: caps and forward rate agreements.
operations and longer-term loans i fixed charges: ii tangible net The Groups policy objective has from banks.
Treasury operations worth: and iii earnings before been to undertake transactions of are managed within policies and interest, tax, depreciation and this nature only when net debt procedures approved by the Board.
amortisation EBITDA for Howden exceeds 150m.
Net debt has not Joinery Limited.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are In addition, our pension trustees, Counterparty risk funding and liquidity risk, interest rate who carry a charge over the share Group Treasury policy on risk, counterparty risk and foreign capital of Howden Joinery Limited, investment restricts counterparties currency risk discussed below.
have a separate covenant test to those with a minimum Standard around the EBITDA of Howden and Poors Moodys long-term No speculative use of derivatives, Joinery Limited.
credit rating of AAand a short currency or other instruments is term credit rating of A-1 P-1.
The Treasury function The current economic conditions Investments mainly consist of bank does not operate as a profit centre create uncertainty around the deposits and certificates of deposit.
and transacts only in relation to the Groups trading position, particularly The Group continuously reviews the underlying business requirements.
over the level of demand for the credit quality of counterparties, the Groups products and the exchange limits placed on individual credit Funding and liquidity rate between sterling and both exposures and categories The Groups objective with respect the Euro and the US dollar.
to managing capital is to maintain Groups latest forecasts and Review of operations and finance continued Principal exchange rates 2011 2011 2010 2010 versus UK pound average year-end average year-end United States dollar US$ 1.60 1.57 1.55 1.54 Euro 1.15 1.20 1.17 1.18 Foreign currency risk CaUTIONaRy sTaTemeNT The most significant currencies Certain statements in this Annual for the Group are the US dollar Report are forward-looking.
It is difficult to pass Although the Group believes that the prescribed tests under IAS 39 the expectations reflected in these Financial Instruments: Recognition forward-looking statements are and Measurement to ensure the reasonable, we can give no ability to hedge account for assurance that these expectations derivative currency transactions.
will prove to have been correct.
As the resultant volatility cannot Because these statements contain be avoided in the profit and loss risks and uncertainties, actual account, it is the view of the Board results may differ materially from that routine transactional those expressed or implied by conversion between currencies these forward-looking statements.
are completed at the relevant We undertake no obligation to 26 spot exchange rate.
This policy update any forward-looking is reviewed on a regular basis.
statements whether as a result of new information, future events The net impact of exchange rates or otherwise.
on currency transactions in the year, compared to the previous By order of the Board year, was nil.
The Group does not have many overseas assets mark Robson liabilities, so the impact of currency Chief Financial Officer translation is not material.
29 February 2012 Set out in the table above are the principal exchange rates versus the UK pound affecting the Groups profits.
NeW aCCOUNTING sTaNdaRds No new accounting standards which have an implication for the Group came into effect during the year.
