Introduction Treasury Facilities Financial Profit before tax increased by 17.2 million to The 70 million bank syndicated facility which and Risk 78.6 million in the year.
This improvement was agreed in October 2006 was due to expire in was achieved through: October 2011.
This facility included a 60 million Review revolving credit facility.
Its availability provided the Sales growth, both organic and from net new Group with the funds to make major investments space opened, in both the Sports and Fashion should the appropriate opportunity have arisen.
Retail Fascias The Board are keen to maintain this ability to move Improvement in gross margin achieved in all quickly and so a new syndicated facility has been segments agreed.
This facility is for 75 million over 54 months to October 2015.
The 60 million revolving credit Improved net cash position leading to net interest facility has been maintained but the working capital received rather than paid facility has been increased to 15 million.
The Board believe that this mix of facility is appropriate as the cash flows are still cyclical in nature, particularly Taxation around the trading peak at Christmas, although we continue to try and remove the quarterly peaks from The effective rate of tax on profit has decreased the store rent payments by negotiating monthly rent by 1.5% to 28.9% primarily due to a decrease payments wherever possible at no additional cost.
in non-qualifying impairments within exceptional items, combined with the utilisation of previously The terms of this facility are disclosed in note 35 to unrecognised deferred tax assets.
The previous facility was negotiated in 2006 when margins on bank facilities were Excluding both exceptional items and prior year at a different level.
Accordingly, the margin that adjustments, the effective core tax rate has will be payable on the new facility has increased decreased from 30.2% to 28.9%.
This core effective from 0.75% to 1.25%.
This new rate is in the tax rate continues to be above the standard rate lower quartile of margins that are being agreed due to the depreciation of non-current assets and on bank facilities at the current time.
Significant the incurrence of professional fees on corporate improvements in other areas of the new facility transactions, both of which do not qualify for any pertaining to the Groups ability to make investment form of tax relief.
decisions have been obtained during the negotiation process.
The Board therefore believes that the new facility enables the Group to make quick decisions Earnings per Share on significant investments, whilst giving increased flexibility in the shorter term working capital cycle.
The basic earnings per share has increased by 30% from 88.16p to 114.84p.
However, the Directors Interest rate hedging has not been put in place on consider the adjusted earnings per share to be a the new facility.
The Directors continue to be more appropriate measure of the Groups earnings mindful of the potential volatility in base rates, but performance since it excludes the post-tax effect of at present do not consider a long term interest rate exceptional items other than the loss on disposal hedge to be necessary given that the facility is not of non-current assets.
The adjusted earnings per used during substantial periods of the year.
share increased by 25% from 93.64p to 116.86p.
This position is reviewed regularly, along with the level of facility required.
Dividends The Groups principal foreign exchange exposure continues to be on the sourcing of own brand A final cash dividend of 19.20p per share is merchandise from the Far East which usually has proposed which, if approved, would represent an to be paid for in US Dollars.
A buying rate is set at increase of 31% on the final dividend from the prior the start of the buying season typically six to nine year.
Added to the interim dividend of 3.80p per months before product is received.
At this point, share, this takes the full year dividend to 23.00p, the Group aims to protect the anticipated US Dollar which is an increase of 28% on the prior year.
requirement at rates at, or above, the buying rate The full year dividend has therefore grown by 92% through appropriate foreign exchange instruments.
The dividend is covered 5.0 times by basic earnings per share and 5.1 times by the The Groups forecast requirement for US Dollars adjusted earnings per share.
in the period to January 2012 is $86 million.
Cover is now in place for 2011 for $83 million meaning Net Cash that the Group is currently exposed on exchange rate movements for $3 million of the current years The year end net cash position has increased by estimated requirement.
The anticipated requirement 25.6 million to 86.1 million.
Net capital for the period to January 2013 is $95 million with expenditure including disposal costs and premia $10 million of cover in place at the current time.
received increased in the year by 9.4 million to 32.4 million with a further 9.6 million spent on the acquisition of intangible assets brands and licences in the year.
In spite of the heavy level of capital expenditure, the continued improvement in the net cash position has enabled the Group to deliver a further substantial enhancement in the dividends to shareholders.
The strong net cash position also means that we are likely to fund the approximately 20 million fit out of the new 866,250 sq ft 616,250 sq ft footprint warehouse in Rochdale from available cash.
This expenditure on the warehouse will not affect the investment that we are making in the store portfolio, both in terms of taking on new space and refurbishing existing space, as this spend continues to drive improved returns from the core retail businesses.
The net cash position has continued to benefit from improved merchandising controls over stocks in the retail fascias.
Trade creditors continue to be paid to terms to maximise settlement discounts with the period end creditor days being 33 2010: 36.
19 Chausport, Houdemont, Nancy, France 20 IT Intellectual property Risk Factors The Groups trademarks, patents designs and other The Group relies on its IT systems and networks and those of the banks and the credit card companies intellectual property rights are critical in maintaining Any business undertaking will involve some risk the value of the Groups own brands and ensuring with many risk factors common to any business no to service its retail customers all year round.
matter what segment it operates in.
The Directors that the Groups businesses can use these brands exclusively is critical in providing a point acknowledge however that certain risks and The principal legacy enterprise system is ideally uncertainties are more specific to the Group and suited to the operations of the business but it is of differentiation to their customers.
The Group the markets in which its businesses operate.
The therefore works with third party organisations to heavily reliant on a very limited number of key principal risk factors are assessed below: development staff.
This risk is being mitigated ensure that the Groups intellectual property is registered in all relevant territories.
The Group also by improving documentation of the system and increasing the development team.
At some time actively works to prevent counterfeit product being Retail Specific passed off as legitimate.
in the future the risk could be further mitigated by moving to third party enterprise systems but not Brands Personnel without additional risk and significant additional cost.
The retail fascias sell a mixture of third party and The success of the Group is partly dependent own brand product includes exclusive licences.
upon the continued service of its key management Any long term interruption in the availability of the Therefore, it is heavily dependent on these brands core enterprise system would have a significant personnel and upon its ability to attract, motivate being desirable to the customer.
The Group needs and retain suitably qualified employees.
To help impact on the retail businesses.
The Group all of its third party and own brands to maintain manages this risk by the principal IT servers being achieve this continued service, the Group has their design and marketing prominence.
The Group competitive reward packages for all of its staff.
housed in a third party location which has a mirror also seeks to ensure it is not overly reliant on a back up available should the primary servers or small number of brands by offering a stable of More specifically for the retail businesses, the links fail.
brands which is constantly evolving.
This includes Group also has a long established and substantial actively seeking additional brands which it can training function which seeks to develop training either own or license exclusively.
Distribution Specific for all levels of retail employees and thereby increase morale and improve staff retention.
Retail property factors Credit risk This then ensures that knowledge of the Groups The retail landscape has seen significant changes The distribution businesses could have a credit differentiated product offering is not lost, thereby in recent years with a number of new developments risk if credit evaluations were not performed on all enhancing customer service.
opened and a high volume of retail units becoming customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
The Group can be exposed where it has If the credit report presents an adverse picture the Treasury committed itself to a long lease in a location which, management of the business concerned take a Whilst the Group does not have any borrowings as a result of a more recent retail development, is commercial decision as to whether credit should from its core syndicated facility currently, any no longer as attractive to the customer so suffers be given.
All customers are monitored closely with borrowings that will be made are at variable rates from reduced footfall.
Wherever possible, the Group outstanding amounts chased rigorously and future linked to LIBOR.
Further details of the Groups will seek either to take out new leases for a period supplies stopped where necessary.
Provisions are interest rate risk are provided in note 24 on page 88. not exceeding 10 years or to negotiate lease made for customer debts where there is a probable breaks, thereby limiting this potential exposure and risk of non-payment.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed affording the Group increased flexibility to respond to such changes.
to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures but primarily with respect to the All Businesses When the Group determines that the store US dollar.
As described earlier, this risk is managed performance is unsatisfactory it approaches the through the use of appropriate foreign currency Economic factors landlords to agree a surrender of the lease.
Further information is also provided in As with other retailers and distributors into retail this is not possible, the Group would seek to note 24 on page 88. businesses, the demand for the Groups products assign the lease or sublet it to another retailer.
In is influenced by a number of economic factors, many cases, this necessitates the payment of an notably interest rates, the availability of consumer incentive to the other retailer.
The Group is mindful credit, employment levels and ultimately, disposable of current economic factors and the adverse impact incomes.
This is particularly relevant at the current on the potential for disposal from the high volume time, where there are significant cutbacks within of vacant units already available as a consequence national and local government and so many of a number of retailers going out of business in consumers have had to cut back on non-essential recent years.
The Group seeks to manage this risk by offering a highly desirable and competitively priced However, assigning the lease or finding a subproduct range, which is differentiated to that of the tenant is not without risk because if the other Groups competitors.
retailer fails then the liability to pay the rent usually Brian Small reverts to the head lessee.
The Group monitors Group Finance Director Reliance on non-UK manufacturers the financial condition of the assignees closely for 13 April 2011 The majority of both third party branded product evidence that the possibility of a store returning is and the Groups own branded product is sourced more that remote and makes a provision for the outside of the UK.
The Group is therefore exposed return of stores if this risk becomes probable.
The Board reviewed the list of assigned leases as at 29 to the risks associated with international trade and transport as well as different legal systems and January 2011 and does not feel that there are any situations where the risk of the lease returning is operating standards.
Whilst the Group can manage either more than remote or probable.
the risk in the supply chain on its own and licensed products, it has little control over the supply chain Warehouse operations within the third party brands.
As such, the Group is Warehousing operations in the UK are currently exposed to events which may not be under its control.
split across two main sites.
The Group has now taken possession of the new warehouse in The Group works with its suppliers to ensure that Rochdale and whilst the consolidation of activity the products being sourced satisfy increasingly and increased automation within the picking stringent laws and regulations governing issues process will bring significant operational and cost of health and safety, packaging and labelling and benefits, there is an increased risk from both other social and environmental factors.
equipment and system failure, together with the inherent risk of having all the stock in one location.
The Group is working with its insurers on a robust Business Continuity Plan which will come into effect once the new warehouse becomes operational in mid 2012.
The Group is also working on a robust change management plan to ensure that there is no interruption to supply to stores during the transition phase from the current warehouses to the new facility.
Seasonality The Groups core retail business is highly seasonal.
Historically, the Groups most important trading period in terms of sales, profitability and cash flow has been the Christmas season.
Lower than expected performance in this period may have an adverse impact on results for the full year, which may cause excess inventories that are difficult to liquidate.
21 Profit before tax and exceptional items improved by 21% to 81.6 million Pure Simple Sport hoody and leggings, both exclusive to JD 23 24 25
