Performance, risk and sustainability Sustainability A responsible employer 3i is committed to achieving its strategic and investment Recruiting, developing and retaining objectives while behaving responsibly as an employer, our talent is one of our most important asan investor and as an international corporate citizen.
We work towards that objective by communicating openly and consistently We take responsibility for our actions, carefully consider with our employees, providing training and how others will be affected by our choices and ensure opportunities for career advancement, rewarding our employees fairly and that our values and ethics are integrated into our formal encouraging employees to give direct business policies, practices and plans.
We believe that feedback to senior management.
We are a meritocracy and our employees are encouraging this approach to our portfolio is a driver recruited, promoted and remunerated of long-term outperformance.
strictly on the basis of merit, ability and performance.
We recognise the importance of providing Our sustainability strategy is defined a supportive working environment and of providing a healthy work life balance by three key priorities: for all our employees.
3i has a suite of human resources policies and procedures 1.
Recruit and develop a diverse pool of talent covering areas including recruitment, vetting and performance management, equal 2.
Invest responsibly opportunities and diversity, family-friendly policies, medical insurance and health 3.
Embed responsible business practices screening, health and safety and flexible working, and appropriate processes to throughout the organisation monitor their application.
Summaries of a We are committed to communicating both financial and non-financial performance in a clear, number of these policies can be found on open and comprehensive manner and to maintaining an open dialogue with stakeholders.
Accordingly, we welcome the publication of the Recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures TCFD.
We made our preliminary disclosures under Human rights that framework in our Sustainability report 2018, with a view to incorporating relevant aspects Whilst 3i does not have a formal human in our Annual report from next year.
rights policy, our policies are consistent with internationally proclaimed human rights principles.
We comply fully with applicable human rights legislation in the countries in which we operate, for example covering areas such as freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, equal This section aims to provide a brief remuneration and protection against summary ofourapproachto sustainability.
3i is an equal opportunities For more information, please see employer and has clear grievance and , availableon disciplinary procedures, an employee our website.
assistance programme and an independent, Further information on our approach external whistle blowing hotline service.
to corporate responsibility, including summaries of relevant policies, We are committed to ensuring that the canalsobe found on our website.
businesses we invest in comply with all For more information, visit applicable laws in relation to their employees www.
com sustainability amongst other things and, where appropriate, that they work towards meeting relevant international standards such as the ILO Fundamental Conventions where those are more stringent.
We also encourage our business partners and suppliers to adopt the same standards with respect to human rights.
52 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Performance, risk and sustainability Equal opportunity and diversity Employee engagement A responsible investor 3i is fully committed to being an equal We encourage a culture of open With fewer than 250 employees globally, as opportunities employer, and prohibits communication between our employees a company we have a relatively small direct unlawful and unfair discrimination.
and senior and executive management.
impact in terms of the environment and We believe that there are great benefits to We benefit from being a small organisation, other sustainability issues.
However, with be gained from having a diverse and varied operating in a relatively flat structure, assets under management of approximately workforce.
Although we do not set specific with few hierarchies.
The members of our 12 billion we recognise that our decisions diversity targets, we seek to ensure that our Executive Committee have an open-door as an investor potentially impact a broad corporate culture and policies create an policy and know most employees by name.
We are committed to inclusive work environment that helps investing responsibly and believe that: We promote and facilitate the ownership to bring out the best in our employees.
of 3i shares among employees through it is vital that we seek to identify all 3is Equal Opportunities and Diversity policy variable compensation or share investment material ESG risks and opportunities establishes that all 3i employees temporary plans.
As a result, most of our employees through our due diligence at the point and permanent, contract workers and are shareholders in the Company and feel we invest and manage those risks and job applicants are treated fairly and are invested in the success of the organisation.
opportunities effectively during the period offered equal opportunity in selection, of 3is investment: We pride ourselves on the engagement and training, career development, promotion the effective assessment and management the sense of ownership we have fostered and remuneration.
of ESG risks and opportunities has a over the years.
positive effect on the value of our investee Achieving better gender diversity is important 1 84% Participation in UK SIP companies and of 3i Group itself: and to 3i, and we believe we are making good 2 8% Unplanned employee turnover rate progress in that respect, within the constraints compliance with local laws and regulations imposed by being a small organisation with may not be enough to meet global 1 Proportion of UK-based employees who subscribe to limited staff turnover.
At 31 March 2018, 3i a Share Incentive Plan available to UK employees only.
expectations, deliver value and enhance had a total of 244 employees of which 158 our reputation and license to operate.
2 During the year, 3i closed its Madrid operations.
The breakdown by The impact of this change is excluded from the We are uniquely well positioned to make calculation of the employee turnover rate.
gender was as follows: a difference as a responsible investor: number Total Male Female Graduate training scheme for more than a decade we have carried All 3i employees 244 145 99 Our graduate recruitment scheme, designed out our investment activities under our 1 to develop our next generation of worldResponsible Investment policy, which is 3i Group Directors 8 6 2 2 class investment professionals and business embedded in our investment and portfolio Senior managers 39 29 10 leaders, was launched in 2015.
We are a management processes and is considered 1 Includes non-executive Directors who are not 3i employees.
small organisation, however we believe rigorous by industry standards.
We have 2 Senior managers excludes Simon Borrows and this programme is important in fostering a been signatories of the UN Principles for Julia Wilson who are included as Directors of 3i Group distinctive 3i culture.
Our first five graduate Responsible investment since 2011: plc and includes 23 people who were directors of analysts joined us in 2015 and we have since undertakings included in the consolidated Group we have a medium to long-term been joined by five in September 2016 accounts, of whom 20 were male and three were female.
investment horizon, typically buying and three in September 2017.
A further controlling stakes in our portfolio three are due to join us in September 2018. companies and being represented Since we started the programme, only 14% on their boards.
We are therefore well of total applications have been from female placed to drive sustainable growth candidates.
However, out of the 16 graduate in our portfolio.
This involves the positions offered since 2015, six, or 37.5% of continuous assessment, monitoring and the total, were offered to women.
The top management of ESG risks, as well as performers on the programme are offered making targeted investments through the opportunity to be fast-tracked directly new or existing portfolio companies in into our business.
opportunities arising from developments such as climate change regulation, Further information on our performance as changes to consumer preferences in a responsible employer is available in our response to environmental issues and Sustainability report 2018. the development of business solutions to global sustainability challenges.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 53 Performance, risk and sustainability Sustainability continued 3i commits to use its influence as an investor Our Responsible A good corporate citizen to promote a commitment in our investee Investment policy As a company, we strive to embed companies to: responsible business practices throughout We have a clear and comprehensive comply, as a minimum, with applicable the organisation.
Good corporate Responsible Investment RI policy which is local and international laws and citizenship is achieved by having robust embedded into our investment and portfolio regulations and, where appropriate, policies and processes in place and by monitoring processes.
In our experience, relevant international standards such promoting the right values and culture there is a strong link between companies as the IFC Performance Standards and withinour organisation.
that have high ESG standards and those the ILO Fundamental Conventions, that are able to achieve sustainable business All employees are assessed annually against where these are more stringent than growth.
This policy sets out the businesses our corporate values of ambition, rigour and applicable laws: in which 3i will not invest, as well as minimum energy, integrity and accountability and have standards in relation to ESG matters which mitigate any adverse environmental and a responsibility to be aware of, and abide by, we expect new portfolio companies to meet, social impacts and enhance positive 3is compliance, behaviour, environmental, or to commit to meeting over a reasonable effects on the environment, workers ethical and social policies and procedures.
The policy applies to all our and relevant stakeholders: and For more information on our corporate investments, irrespective of their country values, policies and processes, please see uphold high standards of business or sector.
integrity and good corporate governance.
The Board of Directors is responsible For more information on our approach Governance for the RI policy, including for the review to responsible investing, please see our Sustainability report.
A summary of our and approval of any material changes.
Good corporate governance is fundamental Responsible Investment policy is available The Investment Committee is responsible for to 3i and its activities and is critical to on www.
com the implementation of the RI policy, and for the delivery of value to our stakeholders.
ensuring that it is executed in a meaningful For full details of our governance structure way by 3is investment teams in all investment and processes, please see the Corporate and portfolio management processes.
Governance section of this report.
Our RI policy has been integrated into our Transparency investment and portfolio management As a publicly-listed company, 3i operates processes and procedures, which are within a framework of formal legal and described in the Risk management section regulatory disclosure requirements.
on page 46, and is supported by detailed It also meets the high expectations for guidance notes, a global network of transparency of our shareholders, fund specialist external advisers and dedicated investors, staff and the media.
Anti-bribery and corruption 3i does not offer, pay or accept bribes and we only work with third parties whose standards of business integrity are substantively consistent with ours.
We expect the businesses we invest in to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and, where appropriate, work towards meeting relevant international standards where these are more stringent.
This includes, in particular, upholding high standards of business integrity, avoiding corruption in all its forms and complying with applicable anti-bribery, anti-fraud and antimoney laundering laws and regulations.
54 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Performance, risk and sustainability We consolidate our organisational boundary Modern slavery Environmental impact according to the operational control 3i updated its slavery and human trafficking This section has been prepared in approach, which includes all our offices.
statement for the financial year ending accordance with our regulatory obligation to We have adopted a materiality threshold of 31 March 2017, as required by section report greenhouse gas GHG emissions 5% for GHG reporting purposes.
The GHG 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, in pursuant to section 7 of the Companies Act sources that constituted our operational September 2017.
The slavery and human 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report boundary for the year to 31 March 2018 are: trafficking statement for the financial year Regulations 2013. ending 31 March 2018 will be published Scope 1: natural gas combustion within During the year to 31 March 2018, our in September 2018.
3i is committed to boilers and fuel combustion within leased measured Scope 1 and 2 emissions locationensuring that: vehicles: and based totalled 750.8 tCO e. This comprised: 2 Scope 2: purchased electricity and heat there is no slavery and human trafficking Scope FY2018 FY2017 consumption for our own use.
in any part of its business or supply chains: 1 156.4 191.0 and In some cases, where data is missing, 2 Location-based 594.4 768.8 values have been estimated using either the companies in which it invests are extrapolation of available data or data from similarly committed to ensuring that there 2 Market-based 137.4 174.8 the previous year as a proxy.
is no slavery or human trafficking in any 1 Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside part of their business or supply chains.
The new Scope 2 Guidance requires that the UK and emissions from purchased electricity are calculated using the market-based approach using we quantify and report Scope 2 emissions Our latest Modern Slavery disclosure is supplier-specific emission factors are reported in available on our website at www.
com according to two different methodologies tCO2 rather than tCO2e due to the availability of media 3436 .
pdf dual reporting : i the location-based emission factors.
method, using average emissions factors for This is equivalent to 3.1 tCO e per full-time 2 the country in which the reported operations Data protection equivalent employee, based on an average take place: and ii the market-based method, We are reviewing our data protection of 241 employees during the year 2017: 3.4 which uses the actual emissions factors of the policy and procedures in the light of the tCO e: 281 employees.
General Data Protection Regulation, which 1 and 2 emissions decreased by 21.8% comes into effect in May 2018.
3i maintains Whilst we have a very low footprint on the in the year due to the sale of our Debt an Information Security Management Management business in March 2017 environment, we are committed to reducing System that: i ensures that risks to the it further.
In our London and Luxembourg and the full impact of the closure of our confidentiality, integrity and availability of Stockholm office.
offices, which account for over 80% of information are managed to an acceptable our overall electricity consumption, we Our emissions have been verified to a level using a standard risk management purchase all of our electricity from 100% reasonable level of assurance by an framework: ii protects information from renewable sources.
external third party according to the accidental or intentional damage, loss, ISO 14064-3 standard.
unauthorised disclosure or modification: iii provides secure and reliable information We quantify and report our organisational to enable 3i employees to conduct their jobs GHG emissions in alignment with the effectively: and iv ensures compliance with World Resources Institutes Greenhouse legal and statutory obligations.
Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and in alignment with the Scope 2 Guidance.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 55 Performance, risk and sustainability Sustainability continued Community External benchmarking We focus our charitable activities on the We believe that it is important to disadvantaged, on the elderly, on young evidence our commitment to operating people and on education, aiming to equip responsibly and to show how we are young people from all backgrounds with performing.
Accordingly, we provide the tools and opportunities to pursue a information to shareholders and other successful career.
The charities we partner with are supported Sustainability indices on the basis of their effectiveness and We have been a member of the Dow Jones impact.
We also support staff giving and Sustainability Europe Index and of the sponsorship through matching donations.
FTSE4Good Index Series since 2002 and Our charitable giving for the year to 31 March 2011 respectively.
In addition, 3i became a 2018 totalled 390,000 2017: 288,000. member of the Ethibel Sustainability Index Further details of the charities we support ESI Excellence Europe in September 2016 are available in our Sustainability report 2018. and was reconfirmed as a constituent of that index in March 2018.
Further information on our corporate citizenship performance is available in our For more information, please see www.
org content ethibel sustainability index excellence europe.
html Carbon Disclosure Project CDP formerly Carbon Disclosure Project is an international, not-for-profit organisation providing a framework which enables businesses to disclose their greenhouse gas emissions and other metrics voluntarily.
3i has been making annual submissions to CDP since 2006.
3is score in the 2017 CDP assessment was A-.
For more information, please see www.
net For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Strategic report of 3i Group plc comprises pages 2 to 56.
By order of the Board Simon Borrows Chief Executive 16 May 2018 56 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance Sets out how we maintain strong and effective oversight with rigorous controls to ensure the long-term health of the business 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 57
