Financial review, risk and sustainability Sustainability Investing responsibly Environmental and The Board is committed We aim to invest responsibly.
Our social impact to running the Company Investment Adviser is a signatory We use our influence, as an investor, in a sustainable way.
To tothe UN Principles for Responsible to promote a commitment in our Investment, and has embedded us, sustainability includes portfolio companies to mitigate any responsible investing policies in its adverse environmental and social having an appropriate investment and asset management impacts and enhance positive effects processes.
and long-term business on the environment, workers and relevant stakeholders.
We aim to For more information on 3i Groups model, supported by the manage effectively environmental, corporate responsibility policies, right advisers and service social and governance ESG please refer to its website: matters at portfolio companies providers who are aligned www.
com corporatethrough our engaged asset responsibility.
The Board believes with this commitment.
management process, and ESG that these policies meet the considerations are embedded in Companys objectives in this area.
our process for evaluating new investments.
com to view 3is statement under section 54 ofthe Modern Slavery Act 2015 in Low carbon economy respect of the financial year ended We support the transition to a 31 March 2017. low carbon economy, investing in businesses such as Valorem and Infinis which contribute towards sustainable energy generation see case study.
Our most recent investment, Attero, is the leading Dutch player in the waste treatment market.
This business sorts and treats waste for recycling, alongside composting and anaerobic digestion For further information, see our website facilities, and produces sustainable www.
com about-us electricity for 350,000 households  byconverting waste to energy.
Committed to low carbon We own 28.5% of Valorem, one of Such a sizeable shift in energy generation the largest wind farm developers in presented an attractive investment France.
Over the last decade, successive opportunity aligned to our sustainability governments have publicly committed to commitment.
Since our investment reduce Frances reliance on nuclear power, inSeptember 2016, Valorem has grown driven both by safety and cost reasons.
its existing onshore wind asset base Climate change and decarbonisation by over 50%, and is also developing have also become increasingly important solar photovoltaic PV projects.
The issues in France, especially in light onshore wind asset base is expected to of Frances pivotal role in the United continue to grow through development Nations COP 21 meeting held in Paris of our advanced pipeline of new projects.
The reduction in the share of TheFrench Government plans to triple electricity generation from nuclear power the current installed PV capacity by 2023, is to be achieved by increasing the share andValorem is developing a pipeline ofrenewable energy to 32% by 2032. ofnew projects to support this plan.
52 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Financial review, risk and sustainability Benefits for communities Cyber security Investing in infrastructure assets has Cyber security is a critical issue for economic and social sustainability allbusinesses.
We conducted a specific benefits for communities in our review of cyber risk in ourportfolio target markets.
We act as a conduit companies.
This review was informed by for institutional and retail savings the use of a specialist consultancy firm appointed by the Investment Adviser to into these assets, helping our assess cyber risks and controls across shareholders to achieve their own the portfolio.
A number of actions were return objectives in a sustainable way identified toimprove resilience, and the with low levels of volatility and little delivery ofthese actions is monitored correlation to wider equity markets.
through ourengaged asset management process.
Governance By engaging with our portfolio We govern the Company and, companies on ESG matters in a consistent, structured, and informed through the Investment Adviser, the way, utilising specialist resources where assets in which we invest so as to appropriate and sharing best practice, support our sustainability objectives.
we can improve the sustainability More detail on the Companys ofthe companies and of the portfolio governance can be found in the asawhole.
Governance section of this report.
The Investment Advisers engaged asset management approach Regulation and tax Relationships seeks to improve and enhance the We aim to act lawfully and with We value our relationships with our governance of businesses that we integrity, including complying shareholders and lenders, and ensure acquire, through implementing with all regulatory and statutory time and effort is spent in building and upgrading policies and obligations and disclosure and maintaining these relationships.
procedures as a priority following requirements.
We maintain open Further detail can be found in a new investment, working with and constructive relationships with the Relations with shareholders management teams to define long regulators, including the Jersey section on page 67 of this report.
term sustainable business plans, Financial Services Commission and On 30 April 2018, we put in place and working with lenders and other the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
a new revolving credit facility with our providers of finance to put in place We encourage our portfolio existing bank group demonstrating sustainable financing.
Details of the companies to comply with their their support for the Company and Companys policies relating to the respective statutory obligations, the long-term relationships that we UK Bribery Act, Modern Slavery Act, and monitor this through our have built with our lenders.
procurement, prompt payment, engaged asset management and the environment can be found process.
We intend to move the on our website.
tax domicile and management ofthe Company to the UK with effect from 1 October 2018, with an application to HMRC for UK approved investment trust status.
This Strategic report is approved byorder of the Board.
Authorised signatory Link Alternative Fund Services Jersey Limited Company Secretary 10 May 2018 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 53 Governance and accounts 55 Introduction to Governance 56 Leadership 62 Effectiveness 67 Relations with shareholders 68 Accountability 73 Remuneration 75 Directors statement 78 Independent auditors report tothe members of 3iInfrastructure plc 84 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 85 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 86 Consolidated balance sheet 87 Consolidated cash flow statement 87 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 88 Significant accounting policies 93 Notes to the accounts 108 Investment policy 109 Portfolio valuation methodology 110 Information for shareholders
