888. com Corporate Responsibility BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Environmental impact Employees As an online business, 888s activities 888s success depends on the quality and have a relatively small impact on the commitment of its people.
However, we remain responsibilities to our employees around committed to ensuring that wherever the world seriously and we aim to provide possible we minimise what little effect an enjoyable work environment where we have with the following areas being employees are challenged and motivated the key focus points: to excel, where flair is rewarded, compensation is fair and the balance energy consumption: we continuously between work and family is respected.
monitor our energy consumption to help us ensure we are being as energy Some highlights from 2018 include efficient as possible: the following: water: we use only ecological Focus on talent detergents in our offices and use water The acquisition of technological and saving devices in most of our locations: online marketing talent continues to and be competitive.
Under our employer travel: to minimise the impact of travel 888 branding which positions 888 on the environment we encourage as an employer of choice, this year employees to either cycle to work and, we focused our various recruitment in certain locations, provide buses for marketing initiatives, developing our commuters.
We also continue to invest talent acquisition channels.
Our efforts in the state-of-the-art technology to were invested in social network presence help meetings occur remotely.
and campaigns, intense sourcing and headhunting, the development of a 888 commissioned a study by revamped employee referral program, AVIV AMCG to provide quantitative and new career websites per location.
information regarding its environmental impact, as reflected through 888s Managing employee performance is greenhouse gas emissions for the period an important topic on the Companys 1 January to 31 December 2015, and agenda, and in 2018 we conducted a to assist it in finding ways to further performance-based evaluation process reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
focusing on our performance values to Details of the results were set out in align our focus on excellence and team the Companys 2015 Annual Report.
Ultimately this process is aimed Whilst 888 is committed to complying at achieving a more agile and goalwith UK disclosure requirements and oriented dialogue between managers appropriately managing its greenhouse and employees and is intended to allow gas emissions, given that 888 has low us to better link our compensation $90.1 m emissions, that little has changed in the approach to performance.
way it conducts its business, and in light total fiscal contribution of the costs involved in monitoring and measuring such emissions, the Board has concluded that a review will be carried out once every several years rather than annually.
The Board acknowledges its 42% overall responsibility for environmental female Group employees issues and monitors 888s environmental performance in light of internal targets.
38 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 S Str tra at tegic R egic Report eport Managerial development: Throughout To support these organizational 2018 we heavily invested in growing changes, we devised a new crossmanagerial skills and capabilities by company nomination process based on addressing professional development standardization of roles and selection using external managerial experts.
This methodology will continue levels of the Companys management to serve us through the years to maintain received attention.
We deployed new our managerial balance and efficiency.
managerial workshops Leading in a Global Environment to all managerial HR Tools levels across sites, and this bespoke During the year we prepared for workshop was led by our global vendor the launch of a new HR system, and HR team.
SuccessFactors, which will allow us to streamline all HR data across sites.
Another focus of ours is growing site management in each of our locations.
In addition, and as part of our efforts This year we focused on Romania and to automate HR processes, we also built a continuance program for all levels introduced a new cloud-based global to build and strengthen local leadership.
recruitment system, providing related analytical insights with the click of Global innovation program: During a button.
2018, we ran our first global Firestarter program, giving Group employees the 888 takes its employees health and opportunity to propose innovative safety seriously and has written policies in solutions to the big questions within place with regard to occupational health our business.
The winning participants and safety issues in its major offices.
will represent the Company at a major The Board will consider setting targets innovation conference in Silicon Valley, with regard to occupational health and even more importantly the top and safety issues in order to monitor ideas have all been included in the performance.
The Board acknowledges Companys roadmap for delivery in 2019. its overall responsibility for human resources issues within 888, including for To encourage our employees professional human resources and labour standards, growth and personal development, in implementing management structures 2018 we continued to focus on internal and systems to monitor and evaluate mobility and career development.
employee performance and satisfaction, Our internal mobility program in 2018 promoting diversity at all levels of 888 included over 87 employee career moves.
and within 888s supplier base, providing Finally, we continue to invest in new employees with the opportunity to have managers promoted for their first formal input into matters that affect managerial role with dedicated programs them, oversee and allocate resources to in all sites.
employee training, and to monitor key health and safety performance goals Employee experience and indicators.
During 2018, there were no material labour disputes, litigation, Throughout 2018, we aligned our welfare or health and safety related fines or plans across all 888 sites, celebrating sanctions imposed on 888.
888 has special events reinforcing our warm adopted a written Board diversity policy, and friendly organizational climate.
in addition to statutory requirements in In addition, in 2018, we initiated global this respect in certain of its locations.
site gatherings throughout the year, During 2018, steps were taken to maintain sharing the Groups vision.
and develop arrangements to provide information to employees regarding Organisational development financial and economic factors affecting As our business landscape continues 888s performance, including divisional to change and adapt, so does our and Company-wide seminars, email organizational structure.
2018 included communications and publication of many changes to our divisional working pertinent public financial information on structures allowing us to maintain our the 888 internal portal.
makes contributions to employee pensions in accordance with applicable During 2018 our B2C marketing law and practice.
division implemented a top-down restructuring to address the market and operational needs.
This process included the formation of a new divisional management and brought along with it changes in all divisional levels.
888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 39 39 Corporate.
888. com Corporate Responsibility Continued Improved the Observer tool 888s Protecting minors Social, community and proprietary customer behaviour human rights issues Underage activity on our sites is strictly tracking system so that it captures prohibited and 888 takes the matter of a broader range of changes in player Our values underage gaming extremely seriously.
The algorithms used by Our offering is not designed to attract At 888 we are fully committed to the Observer platform are periodically minors.
We make every effort to prevent maintaining a high standard of corporate updated to improve accuracy, minors from playing on our sites and use and social responsibility.
This ethos is part implement learnings from real-world sophisticated verification systems as well of our culture and permeates throughout examples, and meet the evolving as a third-party verification supplier GB our business into the everyday business regulatory requirements.
This resulted in Group to identify and track minors if they decisions we make on a day-to-day basis.
improvement of the scope and type of log into our software.
players that have been flagged for RG We also recognise that a responsible review and interactions: We train our staff to be highly sensitive approach is not only the correct way to to the possibility of underage activity do business but one that enhances our Improved UK responsible gaming and make sure we suspend any account credibility amongst all our stakeholders related processes and procedures, suspected to be an underage account.
and thereby supports the development under which maximum cash-out of 888.
The Board acknowledges its timeframe has been shortened, Community overall responsibility for social, community withdrawal restriction for Jackpots and human rights issues within 888. and other big wins has been removed 888 is committed to supporting both and self-excluded players who request the various local communities in Responsible gaming to return to gambling following the which it operates and also the broader lapse of the respective self-exclusion global community.
Our community 888 is constantly developing new and period are required to provide certain investment programme includes innovative ways to deliver a responsible information as per the Companys charitable donations and long-standing gaming environment.
Our goal is to ensure policy: community involvement in our key areas that all those who visit our sites can do so across the world.
with confidence and that those for whom 888 continued its review of marketing our games are not intended, notably practices for various marketing In line with the Groups increased underage and vulnerable individuals, materials published in the UK, which awareness and focus on social will not be drawn into the gaming included an extensive review and responsibility, in 2018 we continued our environment and those few customers monitoring of marketing affiliates internal program named GR8 PEOPLE, who develop a gambling problem are and B2B partners websites, as well as allowing 888 employees to spend quickly identified and helped.
Conducting reducing the number of affiliates so that time giving back to underprivileged business responsibly is fundamental to we can better monitor and supervise sectors of the community for example, the future success of 888, and we are those affiliates that remain engaged: people from minority groups or people absolutely committed to a proactive policy with disabilities with employees of corporate and social responsibility that 888 updated the terms and conditions volunteering to join one of the ongoing reflects the high professional and ethical that apply to UK customers with a view activities dedicating their time and standards we set for ourselves across to improving the level of clarity and effort throughout the year.
enhancing compliance with consumer employees in the Groups Israeli office protection regulations: dedicated working hours to sharing their Steps taken in 2018 included: unique knowledge, whether in the field Extended responsible gaming related Decreased the amounts customers can of online marketing, technology or other training programs and sessions, deposit during various periods, through areas, with charitable organisations.
through an internal annual training the imposition of lower deposit limits: session focusing on interactions with Anti-Modern Slavery VIP players and an additional training Improving anti-money laundering and session conducted by external Know Your Client checks, including an 888 has adopted an Anti-Modern Slavery representatives from a responsible increase in the amount of information Policy, in the context of which the Group gaming related organisation: and supporting documentation carried out a detailed risk assessment requested from customers or obtained and is implementing various measures to 888 joined responsible gaming forums from third parties earlier in the prevent Modern Slavery practices both to extend its involvement in initiatives customer life-cycle and updates to the in its operations and through its supply led by the UK Gambling Commission various circumstances which trigger chain including, but not limited to, the and the online gambling industry.
enhanced customer due diligence: provision of a letter to suppliers outlining During 2019, 888 intends to further the Groups policy, inclusion of relevant Implementing organizational changes improve the Observer system, representations and provisions in supplier in order to strengthen regulatory improve research into effect of contracts and satisfactory completion of compliance oversight as well as to customer interactions on customer due diligence questionnaire if deemed improve co-operation between the behaviour, improve customer interaction required in the circumstances.
During different departments and streamline communication, analyse and assess 2018, no red flag events were reported the process of settling any conflicts possible ways to increase consumer under the Anti-Modern Slavery Policy.
between them, ensuring that 888s awareness and continue to strengthen regulatory requirements and duty to technological quality assurance and uphold the licensing objectives always processes which relate to regulation take priority over commercial interests: and compliance.
40 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Fiscal contributions Diversity During the year the Group made fiscal contributions totalling US$90.1 million Diversity is important to us as we believe that 2017: US$ 92.1 million comprising of only through access to the most diverse pool corporation tax of US$13.9 million of people will we recruit and retain the most 1 2017: US$6.2 million, VAT of US$6.3 talented individuals to serve our customers.
million 2017: US$ 10.7 million and We actively seek to recruit and advance women gaming duties of US$69.9 million into our top levels of management.
When seeking to recruit new Non-Executive Human rights Directors to the Board, the Nominations Committee considers the benefits of all aspects 888 ensures that its policies comply of diversity including, but not limited to, age, with local law, in addition to reflecting gender and educational and professional 888s values.
These policies set clear backgrounds, in order to enable it to discharge standards of behaviour to which all its duties and responsibilities effectively.
Board Group personnel are expected to adhere, appointments are made on merit by assessing including as regards social, ethical and candidates against objective criteria in the context environmental matters.
"In this respect, of the overall balance of skills and backgrounds 888 is guided by the ten principles that the Board needs to maintain in order to of the United Nations ""UN"" Global remain effective."
Where appropriate, steps are Compact, which encourages companies taken to identify and remove unnecessary to make human rights, labour standards, or unjustifiable barriers.
environmental responsibility and anticorruption part of their business agenda.
A summary of the breakdown of men and women Anti-bribery and corruption across 888 as of 31 December 2018, is as follows: We are committed to operating with integrity and complying with Men Women all relevant laws, including all applicable anti-corruption legislation.
888 has Number Percentage Number Percentage a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption: a position clearly set Board of Directors 5 84% 1 16% out in our Anti-Bribery and Corruption COO Senior Vice Presidents 6 75% 2 25% Compliance Program which applies to all 888 Group personnel.
During 2018, Vice Presidents 15 75% 5 25% the internal approvals process was implemented as regards gifts given Other Group Employees 771 58% 562 42% and received as required pursuant to the programme.
Recognition In January 2019, in recognition of 888s transparent management and clearlydefined environmental, social and governance criteria, 888 was admitted to the FTSE4Good index.
888 is proud to have been recognized for its efforts in these areas.
On behalf of the Board: Brian Mattingley Chairman 12 March 2019 1 Excluding US$10.7 million VAT accrual release.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 41
