1 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW Sustainability & partnerships Our approach 1 Sustainable We continue to develop our The Acacia Group has put in communities sustainability practices for the benefit place Community Relations, Community of our stakeholder group as a whole.
Investment, Environmental, Human We aim to maintain and improve our Rights, Responsible Supply Chain, Safety 5 2 social licence to operate through and Health and Security policies, all of Security Environment acting responsibly in relation to our which are available on our website.
These and human people, the environment and the policies are in addition to our Business rights communities in which we operate.
Ethics Policies, which include our Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud and AntiBribery and Anti-Corruption policies, which are also available on our website: 4 3 http: www.
com about-us Safety Employees corporate-policies.
aspx 1 A ll figures in the Sustainability Review are unaudited 56 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 PERFORMANCE REVIEW We aim to contribute to socio-economic development in the areas in which we operate through ongoing stakeholder engagement and participation.
The Groups direct economic contribution is However, our true economic contribution is far stamp duties, local service levies and made up of the economic value we add by greater once the wider effects of our presence environmental levies.
Geographically, the paying our employees, governments, suppliers, are considered.
These include the indirect majority of our taxes are paid in Tanzania, shareholders, contractors and communities.
effects of people spending their wages, which is where our operating mines are located.
Our overall direct economic contribution in governments distributing tax and royalty Our net taxation contribution in Tanzania 2018 was US$623 million compared to revenues, and neighbouring communities using was US$127 million in 2018, compared to US$926 million in 2017, with US$441 million the infrastructure developed for our operations.
The drop was a result being contributed to the Tanzanian economy The distribution of Group taxes includes of lower production and lower sales revenues, directly through local suppliers, employees and royalties, indirect taxes withholding taxes and following the transition of Bulyanhulu to taxes.
The reduction is largely due to the non-claimable VAT, payroll taxes inclusive of reduced operations and Buzwagi to a low grade transition of Bulyanhulu to reduced operations.
social security payments and other taxes, stockpile processing operation.
2017 Net tax contribution to Tanzania 2018 Net tax contribution to Tanzania US$million unaudited US$million unaudited 9.8 18.8 44.9 50.8 42.4 35.7 43.7 23.8 Royalty Government 44.9 Royalty Government 50.8 Payroll taxes including social security 43.7 Payroll taxes including social security 23.8 Corporate income tax incurred 35.7 Corporate income tax incurred 42.4 Other taxes 18.8 Other taxes 9.8 Total taxes incurred 143.1 Total taxes incurred 126.8 Distribution of revenues Direct economic contribution Financing 2018 US$million unaudited US$million unaudited 2017 500 200 100 400 300 0 200 -100 100 -200 0 -300 International Suppliers Indirect taxes Taxes and Employees, Dividends Available for Interest Repayment suppliers based in not refunded Government net of tax reinvestment payments of borrowing Tanzania royalties Total 2018 622.5 Total 2018 86.2 Total 2017 926.7 Total 2017 167.4 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 57 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Acting responsibly for the whole community 01 02 Sustainable Environment communities Context As a long-term partner for Tanzania, the The Group remains committed Group invests in its local regions to support to environmental protection and minimising the creation of Sustainable Communities.
We are aligned with Tanzanias Development Our environmental priorities are under Vision 2025 and regional development continuous review.
plans including Kiwanda Changu, Mkoa Ongoing projects to improve water Wangu, My Industry, My Region.
reprocessing and reduce GHG emissions.
Achievements We completed the US$600,000 upgrade We recorded a 29% reduction in GHG of the Nyamwaga Hospital in Tarime district, emissions compared to 2017 levels.
Our energy usage per tonne of ore milled Work began on the Joint Water Partnership was 39% lower than 2017.
Project pipeline in Kahama that will provide We completed phase 2 of our water water to around 60,000 local residents.
management infrastructure upgrade We provided support in education and at Bulyanhulu.
health to bring value-add services to our We improved water conservation across infrastructure.
We set up Sustainable Community Reference Groups for structured stakeholder consultations on future projects in Tanzanias extractives sector.
Future objectives Continue to be a partner for Tanzania Embed Environmental Management and its Vision 2025 agenda.
Progress our local content strategy.
Continued reduction of our environmental impact.
Further develop Sustainable Community Reference Groups as focal points for our Planning for Buzwagi mine closure community relations.
in consultation with the GoT.
Our Sustainable Communities programme Address water management challenges will support Small and Medium Enterprises at North Mara.
and further value-add initiatives to help improve service delivery around our mines.
58 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 PERFORMANCE REVIEW 03 04 05 Security and Employees Safety human rights We have reduced international employees The Group targets zero injuries The Group operates its own Human Rights in our workforce by 87.5% over the last and every person going home safe Policy and Procedures alongside voluntary six years.
The planned closure at Buzwagi in Regrettably, an operator for one of our Our approach is in line with the United mid-2021 and continuation of reduced contractors at North Mara passed away as Nations Guiding Principles on Business and operations at Bulyanhulu led to higher-thana result of an accident which involved a Human Rights UNGPs.
reversing vehicle at the Gokona deposit.
Tanzanian employees currently make up We recorded a 58% improvement in Total We recorded a 25% reduction in the 96.2% of our workforce.
Reportable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR number of illegal incursions at North Mara in 2018. compared with 2017.
Approximately 70% of management positions are held by Tanzanians.
The number of Lost Time Injuries LTI We supported more extensive human rights decreased from 18 in 2017 to 4 in 2017, a training targeting the Tanzanian police in the We increased the percentage of women in 78% reduction.
The number of High Potential Incidents 198 staff graduated from our Rainbow decreased from 36 to 23 in 2018.
Leadership programme during the year.
We progressed occupational health and safety initiatives including malaria control assessments.
Continue to reduce the number Continue to target zero injuries.
Launch of revised Community Grievance of international employees.
Progress occupational health and safety Training of Tanzanian staff to fill initiatives including malaria control Continued review of our safety and management roles and increasing the assessments.
security arrangements to minimise the proportion of management roles held by risk of secuirty incidents.
Increase overall employment numbers in Tanzania in the event that the export ban is lifted and Bulyanhulu mine can resume its underground operations.
Attract and retain the best talent.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 59 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Sustainable Communities Our social investment focuses on education, Social infrastructure and improving Kagongwa wards attended this training which health, water, roads, and energy, as well as a service delivery was facilitated by the Tanzania Deaf number of economic development activities, Our community-related investments evolved Development Organisation.
and is aligned with the development agenda significantly in 2018.
We continued to deliver North Mara: As elsewhere, our Sustainable of our host countries, including the Tanzania on our legacy commitments while also Communities strategy has seen our North Mara Development Vision 2025, as well as the United building the foundations for more sustainable mine shift from supporting the construction of Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Under the strategy, we physical infrastructure to adding value through Tanzania in 2018 we made significant progress also took active steps to add value to physical supporting improvements to public services at in delivering against the three central pillars of infrastructure and improve service delivery for the local level.
The upgrade to the Nyamwaga our Sustainable Communities strategy.
This included the completion Health Centre was completed in April 2018 and or initiation of the following projects: building strong and trusting relationships following an investment of US$600,000.
Two with our communities through regular Bulyanhulu: The construction of a 55-kilometre community libraries were also completed during stakeholder engagement.
water pipeline from Lake Victoria to local the year.
villages began in the second quarter of the adding value to the social infrastructure in We contributed to training over 60 healthcare year at an estimated cost of US$6.3 million our communities by moving beyond the workers from six health centres and TZS14billion.
Bulyanhulu is contributing construction of several public facilities we dispensaries near our North Mara mine.
US$2 million to this Joint Water Project have invested in over the last five years and Athree-day workshop at the end of December Partnership which is jointly funded by the ensuring that their intended benefits, as 2018 supported ongoing efforts by local Ministry of Water and Irrigation and four local well as associated service delivery, are fully government to improve maternal health and district councils.
The new pipeline will help realised and long lasting.
reduce child mortality rates and complemented improve access to clean water and sanitation the Tanzanian administrations efforts to contributing to the development of a thriving for an estimated population of 60,000 living in improve services in the health sector.
local economy that is not solely dependent 14 villages near the mine.
In February 2018, North Mara also continued its support for on the mine and can continue to grow Bulyanhulu also completed a landmark water the development of the education sector in beyond the life of mine.
project in the village of Kakola, Msalala District, Tanzania and supported a teacher training to install an electric water pump and a water Stakeholder engagement programme for more than 200 teachers in tower to channel clean water to the local During the year we focused on establishing Tarime district aimed at improving standards residents.
"Sustainable Communities Reference Groups in core subjects such as mathematics, ""SCRG"" as platforms for consultation and During the year construction of upgraded science and English language."
engagement with communities and the local facilities at the Bugarama Health Centre Building a thriving local economy government around our mine sites.
This second phase of investment In 2018 we continued to focus on our goal of comprise representation from regional, district in the health centre will see the addition of a helping to boost sustainable livelihoods within and village authorities, as well as community surgical theatre, general and specialised the communities around our mines.
As such, interest groups and special representatives for maternity wards, an outpatient department, small businesses and agriculture remain women and youth.
The groups are responsible and mortuary facilities.
The facility is scheduled important economic opportunities and means for identifying further priorities for development to be completed in 2019 and will serve as a of diversifying the local economy.
Based on in their regions, tracking progress of ongoing district hospital for up to 60,000 people.
studies that were conducted specifically to projects and, in tandem with the mine, liaising Bulyanhulu has also entered into agreements to identify viable options for reducing local with and channelling information to the support government efforts to build around 30 dependency on our mines, each of our sites communities.
Bulyanhulu has set up two such drug dispensaries in Geita region at a cost of embarked on various initiatives to grow the groups one in each of the two districts it US$250,000.
Both Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi economy within their zone of influence.
At covers and Buzwagi has also established also supported the governments drive for the Bulyanhulu we completed an income-raising a group in Kahama District.
Several meetings construction of additional school classrooms project under the mines two-year partnership were held at both sites in the latter part of at local schools, contributing US$320,000 with Africare.
The project which aimed to 2018.
North Mara has identified members towards new infrastructure during the year.
develop sustainable small businesses and of its SCRG and its first meeting was held Buzwagi: The mine supported the local council improved value chains for poultry and high-value post year-end in January 2019. with upgrading and refurbishment of the horticultural crops reached 374 beneficiaries Further efforts to promote community cohesion Kahama stadium, a popular venue for major 50% above its target and has enabled at least and engage local stakeholders during the year sporting events in the town.
four individual beneficiaries to access loans included the hosting of 23 mine tours across all from microfinance banks for their businesses.
Our Buzwagi mine also supported a three-day three sites which reached over 580 community Afurther 14 groups with a total of 50 sign language workshop to assist healthcare members.
The mines also each organised members were able to access inputs chicks, staff to communicate more effectively with outdoor public screenings of matches at the feed, and seeds on credit to grow their patients with hearing disabilities and thereby 2018 FIFA football World Cup in Russia.
improve the treatment provided by local health centres.
Over 60 medical staff from two health centres situated in nearby Mwendakulima and 60 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Case study During the year Buzwagi entered into a partnership with the non-governmental Construction Begins on organisation Farm Concern International FCI on a three-year agricultural commercial farming project to the value of US$1.1 million.
The Water Pipeline from Lake programmes objective is to improve the income and productivity of 3,000 farmers in Victoria to our Communities Mwendakulima and Mondo villages.
The project is based on an innovative business model that is designed to support smallholder In October 2018 an agreement was signed between our commercialisation, aggregation and market Bulyanhulu mine, Tanzanias Ministry of Water, the local water access through enhanced logistics and supply chain management.
Significant progress has authority, and three district councils to support the construction been made since the project began in June, of a 55-kilometre water pipeline in Geita and Shinyanga.
with 18 demonstration plots in nine villages currently at varying stages of operation.
The project is an important part of the mines The pipeline will closure plan as operations are expected to pass from Lake complete in mid-2021.
Victoria through 14 villages During 2018 North Mara continued to support the Matongo Rice and Kemnyage Bakery projects which have been running for more than three years.
We also dedicated much of the year to laying the ground work for new agricultural projects and other initiatives to develop small to medium sized businesses in the surrounding Tarime district.
During the year we conducted engagement and awarenessraising activities for the communities that were aimed at changing peoples mind sets and persuading them of the feasibility of viable economic projects that present an alternative to illegal mining.
Implementation of the projects began post year-end in early 2019.
Sustainable Communities investment Under the Joint Water Project Partnership JWPP A ready water supply is also expected to US$million unaudited Bulyanhulu is investing US$2 million TZS 4 reduce incidences of vandalism to an billion into a joint project to provide a vital water existing transmission pipeline from which 12.9 supply and sanitation services to approximately local residents seek to tap-off potable water.
10.8 10.7 60,000 people living in 14 villages in Kakola 8.8 Access and quality of water supplies and 8.2 and its surrounding areas.
The pipeline will sanitation services in rural Tanzania currently pass from Lake Victoria through the 14 lag behind those found in urban areas, villages located in the vicinity of the mine largely due to a lack of infrastructure.
and is scheduled to be completed during 2019.
"2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Bulyanhulu 1.7 Under its current development plans, the Access to safe drinking water is one of the Buzwagi 0.8 Government of Tanzania ""GoT"" aims to major challenges facing people who live in the North Mara 1.6 improve access to safe water in rural areas villages throughout Kahama and Shinyanga Local Service Levies 2.0 to 85% by 2020."
The construction of where the prevalence of water-borne diseases Corporate projects & other 2.7 transmission pipelines such as that to be has led to serious health problems among delivered by the JWPP is a significant the local population.
contribution to the GoTs plans to increase The new pipeline will help to reduce the amount the accessibility of clean water supplies in of time women and families spend sourcing rural areas and thereby provide a platform clean drinking water every day, whilst it will also for a higher standard of living and increased help to raise household incomes and quality of economic growth in life on account of better health and increased the local region.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 61 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Environment The Acacia Group remains committed to The Group recognises that water is a precious At Bulyanhulu, rehabilitation earthworks responsible mining and environmental resource and its conservation and the continued at the TSF wall where more than protection in order to minimise harm to the protection of the surrounding water resources 10,000 trees were scheduled to be planted at natural surroundings in which we operate.
are therefore key pillars of our mines water the beginning of 2019.
At North Mara, profiling During 2018 we conducted a review of our management efforts.
Our understanding of our of the Airstrip PAF dump was done at one of the environmental priorities and objectives for the water balances across our sites is being two cells.
In order to enhance biodiversity in short to medium term to ensure they remain enhanced through the use of well-designed the areas we operate only native tree species valid and meet the overall Company strategy.
water balance models and reliable records of are used for rehabilitation programmes.
our water flows and usage.
Our total water Thedisturbed areas that are not rehabilitated Our overall performance during 2018 was usage in 2018 was in line with 2017 with all include areas where active operation still good, with the Group initiating and progressing sites maintaining the same level of fresh water takes place.
We maintain active rehabilitation key initiatives and improvement programmes usage despite an increase in ore tonnes milled programmes for areas as soon asthey for the year.
Key milestones included the compared to the previous year.
This was due to becomeavailable.
following: completion of Phase 2 of the water improved water conservation and our continued management infrastructure upgrade at our Incident Reporting focus on the use of reclaimed water from our Bulyanhulu mine which involved the installation We keep records of all environmental incidents tailings storage facilities which accounted for of a concrete lining at a Mine Water Settling occurring at our sites.
Our Environmental 61% of total water used: a slight decrease Pond: the development of a new water balance Incident Management standard provides for compared to the 2017 ratio 64% because of model at North Mara mine: and the completion three classes of incidents, namely: High maintenance and upgrade work at our Buzwagi of a rehabilitation trial at our Buzwagi mine.
reportable incidents, Moderate or Low.
The tailings storage facility that prevented pumping incidents classified as High require a detailed Bulyanhulu mine was audited for its ICMI of reclaimed water for a short period.
investigation and subsequent reporting to the Cyanide Code recertification and the results At North Mara, no fresh water was drawn from GoT while Moderate and Low are only recorded were still under final review at year-end.
North Mara River during 2018, making the site fully internally and are reported to the Government Mara mine continued to implement various reliant on the water generated from the open through the annual environmental report water management projects which are starting pits and the underground mine, of which some submitted to the GoT each year.
Implementation of the Acacia is treated via the Reverse Osmosis and EMS in line with ISO 14001 was further One reportable incident was recorded Microfiltration processes to make raw water.
progressed during the year, with all three sites during the year compared to two in 2017 at Buzwagis usage of purchased water reduced advancing programmes to manage their top Bulyanhulu mine.
A total of 103 non-reportable during the year as a result of a normal rainfall environmental risks.
incidents were recorded across our three regime which allowed the mine to collect more sites during the year, a 13% increase on As part of efforts to improve our energy water from the 75 hectare water harvesting 2017.
Further awareness programmes will be efficiency and reduce our GHG emissions we area on site.
We will look to enhance our water carried out in 2019 to ensure the necessary maintained the use of the static device Static balance models and identify areas of additional preventive measures are put in place to avoid Synchronous Compensator at Bulyanhulu mine water conservation in 2019 as part of overall such incidents.
that controls voltage fluctuations and stabilises Group water management programmes.
the power supply from the national grid.
The Post year-end our North Mara mine received Biodiversity benefits of this system reach beyond the mine an Environmental Protection Order EPO from Our responsibility towards biodiversity was itself, as it stabilizes the power supply in the National Environment Management maintained during the year by maintaining communities as far as Kahama as well as at Council NEMC requiring payment of a fine strict controls on land disturbances.
The project which meant ofUS$130,000 in relation to alleged breaches applies to all our sites that prohibits we could decommission 15 1MVA Diesel of environmental regulations in Tanzania.
unauthorised land disturbances unless the Generators at Bulyanhulu in 2017 ensures NEMCs reported findings allege discharges Environment Department has reviewed the need both the stability of our electricity supply and of ahazardous substance at the North Mara and approved disturbances to take place.
Our more effective utilisation of low carbon mine.
The mine has not received any supporting ultimate goal for biodiversity management emission electricity from the grid, thus resulting reports, findings or testing data in relation remains to protect and minimise land in the overall reduction of GHG emissions at to the matters set out in the EPO.
Pending disturbance as much as possible, and Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi mines.
Overall, 2018 further factual clarification from the GoT and eventually rehabilitate disturbed land to achieve GHG emissions equalled 176,939 tonnes of NEMC, however, and to dispose of all regulatory land productivities of higher value than those CO2e, which is 29% lower than 2017 levels.
or other legal action, North Mara mine has that existed prior to disturbance.
While there Meanwhile, our energy usage per tonne of ore decided to pay the fine.
"At the same time the was no new disturbance made during the year milled decreased by 39% on 2017 levels GoT issued adirective to the mine to construct atany of our sites, progressive rehabilitation primarily on account of reduced operations at a new tailings storage facility ""TSF""."
North ofdisturbed land was undertaken for areas that Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi transitioning primarily Mara has commenced planning and design for were available.
At Buzwagi, about 60 hectares to a low grade stockpile processing operation.
a new TSF, and is working with the Government of the Waste Rock Dump was profiled and five Further information on Group GHG emissions is to progress the construction ofanew TSF to hectares re-vegetated using native tree species.
provided on page 102. support its future mine productionplans.
62 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 PERFORMANCE REVIEW 176,939 2018 249,112 2017 291,649 2016 285,473 2015 298,633 2014 308,181 2013 297,595 2012 Case On 8 March 2019 the GoT directed the North study Mara mine to resolve an incident that had resulted in the spillage of water into the local Looking to the Future: environment.
The spillage resulted from a security incident in which sections of the pipe Training Tomorrows Talent used to transport water from the polishing pond to the TSF were either vandalised or stolen.
in the Mining Industry Theincident led to the switching off of the pump used to transport water to the TSF, andthe water level in the polishing pond During 2018 we further developed our relationships with two subsequently overflowed.
Following North Mara mines remedial actions, the temporary overspill renowned academic institutions in Tanzania as part of our from the pond was stopped.
North Mara mine commitment to the future of the mining industry in the country welcomed the support of the GoT on resolving aswell as our ongoing efforts to boost the skills of Tanzanians the issue, and is working closely with the authorities to implement improvements to studying or working in the sector.
security measures around the polishing pond inorder to help prevent any reoccurrence.
This year we have sponsored a post-graduate student from the University of Dar es Salaam to The Mines technical team is currently working pursue a Masters degree in Mining Engineering with the GoT within an agreed timeframe to at the University of Alberta in Canada.
The study address their concerns regarding seepage from bursary is worth US$60,000 over two years and the TSF.
North Mara has undertaken to manage forms part of an ongoing partnership with the all seepage through the use of additional University of Dar Es Salaam that is now in its pumps and construction of other containment Acacia signed a new Memorandum tenth year.
Meanwhile in August we extended of Understanding with Muhambili facilities to return any seepage to the TSF and our relationship with Muhimbili University for University for Health and ensure it is confined to the mine site.
Health and Allied Sciences MUHAS for another All seepage will be contained on the site, two years, enabling us to continue to provide notflow into the surrounding environment or structured support to the universitys students present a risk of contamination to any public and graduates in the field of Environmental and internships at our mine sites in the Lake Zone water source.
Operations at North Mara mine Occupational Health EOH.
where they are equipped with the right technical remain unaffected.
capabilities and gain a unique understanding Each year we provide practical industrial training ofoccupational health and safety and to approximately 70 second and third year environmental health within the mining sector.
Mining Engineering and Mineral Processing Engineering students at the University of Our partnership with MUHAS and the DaresSalaam.
The focus of our eight-week University of Dar es Salaam is part of our programmes is to expose students to drive to advance the mining industry in operational activities, including working as Tanzania and up-skill Tanzanians with a firm trainees within the mine or the process plant eye on the future of the sector.
In addition, a further 30final year students Companys efforts in this regard over the last conduct work placements and complete their ten years seek to help create a platform for academic projects at one ofour three mines.
the countrys economic advancement and the realisation of its development goals, Under the programme with MUHAS including Development Vision 2025. whichbegan in 2008 students benefit from Average energy intensity GHG emissions Total water used megajoule per tonne of ore milled total 000 tonnes CO e 2 Litres per tonne of ore milled 569 511 486 464 468 447 451 446 424 309 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Bulyanhulu 244 Bulyanhulu 604 Buzwagi 148 Buzwagi 427 North Mara 609 North Mara 371 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 63 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Employees We continued to make noticeable progress companies or while setting up self-employment, The latest crop of graduates brought the total across a variety of employee initiatives as well as how to manage personal finances number of apprentices who have completed the throughout 2018, although due to the during a potential period of unemployment.
training since its inception to 382. continuation of reduced operations at Bulyanhulu The Groups Life Beyond Buzwagi training Approximately 11% of our overall workforce are and with the planned closure date of our programme was recognised for a continent-wide women 2017: 10%, something which is reflective Buzwagi mine approaching we saw Group-wide award, winning the Reward and Recognition prize of gender diversity generally within the mining annual turnover of 33.9% 2017: 55%.
at the 2018 Employee Engagement Awards that industry.
We are focused on continuing to grow One of our key focus areas over the last six years took place in Johannesburg in June 2018. the proportion of women in our workforce, and the has been on reducing the number of expatriate prportion of management roles held by women.
We continued to invest in training and employees and contractors within our business development programmes throughout the year, Female representation and ensuring that our Tanzanian assets are notably through the launch of our Future Leaders Percentage of overall workforce increasingly led and operated by Tanzanian programme where in 2018 two of its members 11 employees.
Since 2013, we have reduced the 10 completed a leadership training programme and 9 number of expatriate employees within our 8 8 one completed her Msc.
business by 87.5%: currently 96.2% of our people are Tanzanian 2017: 96.2%.
In terms of We maintained our focus on longer-term training leadership, approximately 70% of management initiatives, such as our Rainbow Leadership positions are held by Tanzanians.
Training programme for first line leaders which we 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 first launched in 2016.
To date, 307 employees Since the third quarter of 2017 we have been have completed the training.
A further 19 conducting life skills and entrepreneurship Localisation of workforce apprentices graduated from the Groups training for employees affected by the movement Percentage of Tanzanian nationals in workforce Integrated Mining Technical Training IMTT 96.2 96.2 95.3 to reduced operations at Bulyanhulu, and the 94.5 94.6 programme during the year.
We have jointly run planned closure of Buzwagi in mid-2021.
The IMTT since 2009 alongside the GoT through the training is aimed at enabling our employees to Vocational Education Training Authority VETA and manage change during their transition to other the Tanzania Chamber of Minerals.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Group-wide turnover Our staff on the ground: Percentage within operations Name: Sarah Cyprian 55% Job title: Environmental Officer at North Mara 33.9% Tenure: 4 years 27% 27% 26% Role with Acacia: Sarah is part of the team that oversees the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Environmental Management System and Compliance programme Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR at North Mara.
She is a qualified Frequency rate Environmental Engineer and is 0.86 currently working towards her 0.74 registration as a professional 0.68 engineer with the Engineers 0.45 Registration Board.
0.19 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Bulyanhulu 0.10 North Mara 0.25 Buzwagi 0.16 64 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Safety Case study The group-wide Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR was 0.19 compared to North Mara Helps Train 0.45 in 2017, a 58% improvement.
There was a significant reduction in the number of recordable injuries from 45 in 2017 to 13 in Local Health Workers 2018.
The number of Lost Time Injuries LTI decreased from 18 in 2017 to 4 in 2018, a 78% improvement.
The injury severity rate In late 2018 North Mara sponsored a training programme decreased by 46%.
Our safety vision is to have every person going home safe and healthy for approximately 60 health workers from six health centres every day.
Regrettably, however, on 11 June and dispensaries near the mine.
2018, Sadock Crispin Tindahenile, an operator for one of our contractors at North Mara, passed away as a result of an accident which The workshop was involved a reversing vehicle at the Gokona part of North Mara's deposit.
We completed an investigation into the efforts to support improvements to incident and have implemented the relevant service delivery in recommendations at all our operations.
Acacia's 11 Critical Risk Control Standards have now been fully implemented at all sites and contributed to a reduction in the occurrence of High Potential Incidents during the year these are incidents that could under slightly different circumstances have led to a fatality or permanent disability.
The number of High Potential Incidents fell from 36 in 2017 to 23 in 2018.
We continued to build a positive safety culture which is essential to improving our overall safety performance.
The safety interactions The three-day workshop supported ongoing Alphonse, the acting medical officer for process visible felt leadership was further efforts by local government to improve Tarime District.
We thank the mine for enhanced during the year with more than maternal health and reduce child mortality sponsoring this training programme.
100,000 safety interactions recorded across rates and complemented the Tanzanian our three mines.
The safety interactions and Tarimes district health coordinator, Beatrice administrations efforts to improve services in stop-and-fix philosophy is now well embedded Loumba, who was one of the facilitators of the health sector in line with the national as part of our safety culture and is successfully the training, said the programme was a Development Vision 2025. practised by all our employees on a daily basis.
timely one since the district is currently Every person is empowered and encouraged Training participants benefited from an focused on improving local health services to stop any potentially unsafe activity.
opportunity to boost their knowledge within and, in particular, reducing maternal and their field of expertise, including learning best child mortality rates.
Each site has a detailed Industrial Hygiene practice around feeding and vaccinations for Monitoring Programme in place which is Our training modules focus on quality infants.
Anita, a health worker from Nyarwana, reviewed at least annually.
After the training, we will noted the benefits for both her and her improvement was observed in compliance to be visiting various health centres and colleagues.
the annual periodic medical process and dispensaries and make a follow-up on whether industrial hygiene monitoring, both of which are The training was an eye-opener for us, participants put in practice what they have key to being proactive in identifying potential especially for maternal risk factors, she said learnt from the training, Loumba said.
health-related concerns at an early stage.
Being new to In recent years North Mara has invested this field, there are some things I have learnt Our Malaria prevention strategies were heavily in the development of the health from the training and I will apply them in my reviewed and well-managed during the year, sector in Tarime.
resulting in significantly fewer Malaria cases spearheaded by the mine include the and days lost due to sickness.
There was a Representatives of the local health authority building of the Nyamwaga Health Centre at a 39% decrease also noted the value of the training and cost of US$1 million, the upgrading of in the number of Malaria cases reported thanked North Mara for its support.
Sungusungu Hospital and Genkuru and a 63% reduction in the number of days Dispensary, the renovation of the Kerende This is a unique opportunity and I believe lost due to Malaria in 2018. medical clinic and an upgrade of the health practitioners will acquire more skills to dispensary in Matongo.
enhance their service delivery, said Neema ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 65 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Case study Buzwagi Embarks on Agricultural Improvement Programme At our Buzwagi mine, where 75% of the Under the project Buzwagi mine will help Agriculture is an important local population are farmers, we have local farmers develop private sector developed and begun implementing a partnerships and train Government economic mainstay for our local three-year US$1.1 million agricultural extension officers to assist in the project's communities and is a key priority improvement project in partnership with sustainability.
The project will also provide the non-governmental organisation Farm farmers with an irrigation assistance within the companys Sustainable Concern International FCI.
As the programme and establish two model Communities strategy.
countrys largest employer, agriculture farms and resource centres locally.
accounts for 29% of the countrys gross With the imminent closure of Buzwagi domestic product and contributes 65% in mid-2021, the initiative is designed to of Tanzanias export earnings.
strengthen the communitys social and The project will support over 3,000 economic development through job farmers 50% of whom are women and creation and improved incomes to ensure will not only help to create jobs in the sustainable livelihoods.
In line with our community but also seeks to substantially strategy, the project contributes to the increase farmers incomes through greater development of communities that enjoy a productivity and improved links to market.
thriving local economy, have good access to social infrastructure and, live in safe, inclusive and equitable environments.
Our staff on the ground: Name: Andrew Lutalagula 40 Job title: Section Leader, Management Accounting at North Mara Tenure: 6 years Role with Acacia: Andrew is a qualified accountant and graduated from the Institute of Finance Management in 2003.
He has completed Acacias Rainbow Leadership Programme and implemented a range of cost-savings for the business since he joined the team at North Mara.
66 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Our staff on the ground: Name: Joash Nyambaya 29 Job title: Electrician at Buzwagi Tenure: 5 years Role with Acacia: Joash joined Acacia having graduated from the companys Integrated Mining and Technical Training IMTT course in 2013.
Inhis role Joash maintains the functioning power supply to all mining and processing operations as well as to key support facilities on site.
Our staff on the ground: Name: Mwanaisha Mosha 27 Job title: Organisational Effectiveness Officer at Bulyanhulu Tenure: 3 years Role with Acacia: Mwanaisha is a human resources professional who has undertaken a range of projects to recruit and retain the best talent at our Bulyanhulu mine.
She has a Law Degree from Mzumbe University in Dar es Salaam and is a graduate of Acacias future leaders Rainbow programme.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 67 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Human Rights We seek to respect human rights throughout our Security and human rights Trespassers in active mining areas organisation.
We have established and maintained In 2018, we continued to review our safety and monthly average governance and policy frameworks to guide our security arrangements, as we seek to mitigate the 7,157 approach to identifying and mitigating our salient risk of any human rights incidents.
We continued human rights risks.
We have our own Human to support the NGO Search for Common Ground Rights Policy and Procedures and Code of in providing extensive human rights training for the Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as a Supplier Tanzanian police in the Tarime district including Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
We also on international standards on the use of force encourage the governments of the countries and firearms, sexual violence and treatment of 534 130 126 79 where we are active to protect human rights in vulnerable groups.
The police face challenges 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 accordance with the international human rights in maintaining law and order in the remote area treaties to which they are parties.
We have made around the North Mara mine, which is prone to Intruder fatalities voluntary commitments to the Voluntary Principles violent crime and mine intrusion, and North Mara 17 on Security and Human Rights VPSHR through continued to engage directly with the regional our majority shareholder and our approach to police to convey our expectations about respect human rights is consistent with the United for human rights.
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 9 The number of times to which the police or mine Human Rights UNGPs.
6 security were required to respond to security 3 Our most salient human rights issues can be best threats, violence and theft by intruders on our mine 2 addressed in collaboration with government and sites continued its year-on-year decline.
The 2014 2015 2016 2017 include those relating to security: land access number of illegal incursions onto the mining lease and resettlement: environment, including access including waste dumps at North Mara decreased Fall from height 0 to water: labour rights: and impacts on local by 25% and incursions into the active mining areas In ghting 0 communities and infrastructure, such as access further decreased by 42% in 2018, compared with Police involvement 0 to health services, education and employment.
There was a minor increase in illegal mining Drowning 0 In 2018, we continued to work with the GoT to incursions at Bulyanhulu while Buzwagi remained Rockfall 0 improve security and human rights awareness flat year-on-year.
Vehicle accident 0 and training of members of the police force who Collapsed illegal Mine 3 At North Mara, there were four incidents involving maintain law and order in the communities Other 0 the police on or in the vicinity of the mine that surrounding our mines.
We also engaged with raised, or were alleged by others to raise, possible Community grievance process at North Mara civil society and community members on issues human rights impacts two more than in 2017.
In 2018, we conducted further extensive related to our operations, as well as those of We forwarded information about these alleged consultations in relation to North Maras modified other parties linked to our operations.
incidents to the authorities for investigation and Community Grievance Process CGP, which was We seek to ensure that our operations do not requested follow-up.
One police officer was piloted in 2017 and described in our 2017 Annual cause or contribute to any negative human rights removed from his post near North Mara on account Report.
In total 38 consultation sessions have impacts on neighbouring communities and to of conduct that appeared not to comply with been held at and around North Mara, including provide appropriate access to remedies when international standards for policing.
Another was 10 one-day sessions for government officials negative impacts are alleged to have occurred.
We removed for involvement in a fatal traffic accident from Tarime district, local non-governmental recognise that feedback from our own people and while driving without an appropriate licence: we organisations, village and clan leaders, as well as external stakeholders helps to identify and manage understand an investigation of whether he was company employees and contractors.
A further the risk of potential negative human rights impacts.
There were no 28 theatre performances and community Processes are in place at each of our mines for the reported accidents or use of force incidents consultations were delivered in 13 villages as reporting of suspected violations of our code of resulting in injury involving mine security guards.
part of our efforts to build awareness of the CGP conduct or human rights policy to management.
within our zone of influence around the mine.
In During 2018, three individuals tragically lost their Each of our mine sites also operates a grievance total an estimated 14,400 people have attended lives while illegally mining at North Mara.
In three process designed to comply with the effectiveness consultation and awareness-raising events on the separate incidents the illegal mine workings they criteria for company grievance mechanisms set out modified CGP.
A consultation event was also were excavating caved in on them.
We will continue in the UNGPs, as discussed further below.
held in London during 2018 with international to review our security and safety arrangements, experts and interested observers on company-led We seek to apply our standards, policies and and seek to further reduce the risk of incidents grievance processes and security and human procedures as they pertain to human rights at occurring and towards eliminating such incidents rights, and interested non-governmental all of our operations, while we also require our altogether.
The full range of stakeholders suppliers and contractors to do the same.
Our provided valuable feedback on the CGP and made employees are required to undergo human rights important recommendations for improvement.
training as part of our code of conduct training, and employees in higher risk positions are required to undergo bespoke human rights training.
68 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 PERFORMANCE REVIEW The CGP and the various consultation mechanisms grievances were also recorded in 2018, regarding The average turn-around time was seven and a half are part of a process of continuous learning.
accidents on the mine site without any allegation of months from the time of lodging the grievance to North Mara continues to incorporate feedback mine involvement.
its resolution through engagement and dialogue.
from consultations and lessons learned into the The resolution of grievances through engagement North Maras new Community Grievance Process grievance process, to continue to enhance its and dialogue or through the Community Grievance admits a range of community grievances as part effectiveness in line with the UNGPs.
The current Committee can be delayed for several reasons, of the mines corporate social responsibility versions of the Standard Operating Procedure and including the volume of grievances that are being commitments including to the principles of the a Handbook for Grievants that explain the process processed at any given time, the adoption of new UNGPs.
North Mara also raises concerns with are both available on the Acacia website.
The mine processes under the new CGP, as well as the the Tanzanian State about credible allegations has appointed a Grievance Team Leader to location and availability of documents, witnesses regarding conduct by the Tanzanian Police Force, oversee and administer the process.
and will provide access to remedies through the North Maras new Community Grievance Process Grievance Process to members of the North Mara Breakdown of new grievances lodged by type admits all types of community grievances, including community in respect of police actions only to the number 1 grievances about security and human rights, the extent that such remedies are not forthcoming environment, enjoyment of land or other property, from the State itself.
13 18 housing and livelihoods, or health and safety.
In 2018 the new Community Grievance Process Apart from grievances regarding rights to land and considered 38 security-related human rights resettlement which require State involvement and grievances, of which a total of 22 cases remained go to the mines Land Department, grievances under consideration at year-end.
are resolved through the Community Grievance Process through a two stage process.
First, The process of engagement and dialogue 16 the mine and the grievant seek to resolve the successfully produced an agreement between the grievance through facilitated engagement and mine and grievants about whether there had been Security Human Rights 18 dialogue: and then, if engagement and dialogue a human rights impact in one case.
In a further Land and property 16 do not resolve the grievance, an independent eight cases an agreement was not reached and Environmental 13 three-member Grievance Committee reviews these cases were referred to the Community Other 1 the grievance and makes a determination.
Breakdown of new grievances lodged Grievances in 2018 The Community Grievance Committee, which by mine site In 2018, a total of 40 new grievances were independently reviews grievances that are not Total number received at North Mara, one at Bulyanhulu, and resolved through engagement and dialogue, heard 267 none at Buzwagi.
Following the implementation of a total of 15 security-related grievances in 2018, 236 a new grievance process at our exploration sites compared to 28 cases in 2017.
The mine does we registered a total of seven new grievances in not refer grievances to the Committee where the relation to our licences in western Kenya.
The total mine accepts that there has been a human rights number of new grievances represents an increase impact, however the requirement of delivering 79 48 of 10 compared to 2017: largely a direct result of greater transparency under the new CGP has led 38 our engagement with the community at North Mara to a fall in the rate at which cases are resolved.
Of around the new Community Grievance Process the 15 security-related grievances, nine requested 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 which has led community members to register the Committee to consider whether there had Bulyanhulu 1 grievances that relate to historical incidents that been a human rights impact and the Committee Buzwagi 0 occurred prior to 2018.
Of the 40 new grievances determined that there appeared to have been a North Mara 40 at North Mara, 24 relate to incidents that human rights impact in one case.
In the other six Discovery 7 occurred prior to 2018. cases the Committee was asked to consider the remedy that had been previously provided to the Of these new grievances, 11 relate to land and grievants.
In three cases the Committee declined property, an increase of one compared to 2017.
A to increase the previous remedy.
In a further two further 18 relate to security and human rights, an cases the Committee agreed with the mines increase of one from 17 in 2017.
Of these 18, only increased remedy proposal and in the final case eight relate to incidents that occurred during 2018. the Committee determined that the mine should Three grievances relate to a public order incident increase its revised remedy proposal.
involving the Tanzanian Police Force at the mine site entrance over three days in July 2018.
One Remediation plans were established in 19 cases, grievance relates to damage to a house that 16 of which were from past years, with the resulted from the actions of the Tanzanian Police remedies designed to provide effective reparation Force.
There were no grievances related to mine in accordance with local and international human security personnel, compared to five such cases rights standards.
A further four accident-related ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 69
