Strategic Report Being a Responsible Business An important part of our business is to have a positive impact on our customers, our community, our people, and our environment.
We are continually looking for ways to Beyond this we continue to consider make Admiral a responsible business and other broader changes such as the engage with stakeholders to improve continued expansion of AI, climate our impact.
In 2018 we established change on the environment, and the working groups to encourage diversity, move towards electric vehicles which launched policies to further benefit will impact a number of industries such employees, and made commitments to as manufacturing, insurance and beyond.
reduce waste and energy consumption.
David Stevens, CBE Chief Executive Officer Our Our Customers People Our Communities Our approach Our Earth We are always looking for ways to develop and improve as a business, From procurement and supply chain management, to diversity, fair pay, and when it comes to and inclusion, we have outlined the major initiatives of our corporate social being a responsible responsibility reporting, identifying the areas that have the most impact on our stakeholders.
This allows us to report effectively on the topics that matter most.
business, things are Here, and in our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR report available on our corporate website, we have taken care to provide useful disclosures with a good no different.
level of transparency and accountability to our main stakeholders: our customers, our people, our community, and our environment.
It is these four stakeholders who drive the core focus of our Corporate Social Responsibility.
58 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our People Our Customers Our People are our most valuable asset, and we are proud to Our customers are at the heart of everything that we do, which have such dedicated and hardworking staff in the Group.
is why we invest so much time and energy in improving their overall experience.
Among our different initiatives are an Employee Assistance Programme providing assistance and counselling, a Ministry of Fun promoting fun Communication with customers is important, and we offer a range of activities and awards, and a Ministry of Health promoting healthy living communication channels so that wherever they are, whenever they need to and wellness, including free gym access, in-house yoga classes, and get in touch, they can do so easily.
We also try to encourage healthy eating by providing free fresh fruit in each of our offices to all our staff.
We also listen to our customers, and are always looking for areas to improve, surveys by using feedback from customer satisfaction surveys, SMS feedback Our amicable and open work culture is crucial to making our employees and through social media.
We also have a customer assurance team to feel at home and part of the business, and we encourage flexibility and monitor feedback, manage complaints and proactively improve the openness across all levels and departments.
In this years Great Place to customer journey.
work survey 95% our workers said they felt this was a friendly place to work.
Our UK CEO, Cristina Nestares, also collates monthly feedback for customerfacing staff who receive the highest feedback ratings for providing a superior customer experience.
She selects a Customer Champion, awarding them with a prize and explaining how their approach to customer service is so special.
This Customer Commentary is communicated across the business to congratulate the Customer Champion as well as enlighten and inspire other employees to make a difference to the way they service customers.
We recognise, however, that you cant please all of the people all of the time, so when things are less than satisfactory, we are responsive.
Following negative feedback on social media or review platforms, well adapt our training to resolve any underlying issues.
In the worst-case scenario, well sometimes offer goodwill gestures to try and put things right.
Whats more, many ideas and solutions come straight from our frontline staff who have the knowledge and experience to help our customers.
Over th 20 5 million Greatest Place customers to Work in the globally World Our Community Our Environment We actively involve ourselves in supporting our local The state of the Environment is a great concern of ours community through a variety of projects and initiatives, and we are always looking for ways to reduce our ranging from financial and material donations, to environmental impact.
As insurers, we are exposed to the financial impact of climate change and the resultant extreme weather.
One such way for us is when selecting new In the 13 years it has been running, we donated more than 1 million in premises: we consider proximity to public transport hubs, bicycle storage funding through our Community Chest initiative, assisting over 3,500 and changing facilities for staff, and the buildings overall, independently different groups, clubs, and organisations.
verifiable, green credentials to reduce overall emissions.
A good example of this community outreach is our Recruitment We have our own in-house Green Team dedicated to environmental department, who work with local schools, job centres, and universities to initiatives and developing innovative approaches to reducing our offer regular CV-writing classes, interview workshops, and talks.
our employees are involved in charity work both through and independent of the business, but we support wherever and however we can.
We feel that by taking action now we can all play a role in mitigating many of the most severe predictions for climate change while laying foundations Since 2008 we have worked with the Princes Trust, competing in their 1 for a sustainable and optimistic future.
annual Million Makers competition: to date we have contributed over 1.2 million to this excellent cause.
This year alone, our graduate team raised more than 156,000 through a variety of different fundraising schemes, the vast majority of which were supported by staff members.
156,000 raised internally for Million Makers Princes Trust charity in 2018 for disadvantaged youngsters in Wales.
2 017 18 was the only year since 2008 in which we did reduction in of funding not enter a team.
plastic cup use in matched in UK offices 2018 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Strategic Report Commitments, Achievements, Targets 2018 19 Greenhouse gas emissions, waste creation, and energy consumption all go hand in hand.
As individuals and organisations, we must aim to reverse our negative effects on the planet, the land, the sea, the air.
Overall, we aim to play a responsible role as a business and encourage all our staff to do the same.
More specifically we approach each area in the following ways: GREENHOUSE GASES WASTE EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND FITNESS Improved reporting across the Group In 2018, we sent 0 tonnes of waste We encourage our staff to be fit and has allowed us to compile a more to landfill, recycling 206 tonnes a healthy, offering methods to reduce comprehensive list of our greenhouse combination of 122 tonnes of paper, stress, improve focus, and generally aid gas GHG figures than in previous and 84 tonnes of other recyclables their mental health and wellbeing.
Our years which can be found in our full with a further 244 tonnes incinerated partnership with Cardiff Metropolitan CSR Report.
Emissions per capita are ethically.
We are aiming to reduce nonUniversity sees regular discounted worked out by the total emissions for recycled waste further by increasing massage sessions on-site, and most of the Group with the exception of staff awareness through Green Week, meditation workshops are offered for Elephant and Lolivier emissions, divided poster campaigns, and other electronic free, with donations offered to the by the years average staff headcount.
All GHG emissions figures are in tonnes began to phase out single-use plastic Most of our UK and European sites have of carbon dioxide equivalents CO e cutlery in our UK canteens, replacing 2 regular yoga classes and groups on-site, and include all six GHGs covered by the them with recyclable models.
We took whilst running clubs are also popular.
Unfortunately, 2018 the same approach to single-use plastic Discounted access, and sometime free saw an increase in emissions, though cups at the water machines, replacing day pass allocations to local gyms are as the Group grows and our reporting them with paper cups.
also offered across all our UK sites.
improves, increases will be recorded.
ENERGY Future green policies should see these We also participate in the Bike 2 Work Due to the size and spread of the Group, minimised, with more information on scheme, whereby our staff receive we approach energy consumption these approaches following in 2019.
All heavily subsidised bicycles from 38% reporting by splitting our UK sites of the electricity tariffs we control in to 48% depending on tax banding to from our overseas sites.
Since 2015 all the UK use energy from green sources get them on their bikes rather than electricity that we have purchased in and we will look to procure green tariffs commuting by car.
the UK is from 100% green sources, and again for all UK sites we control when we in 2019 we will look to continue this with come to renew our contracts.
And, of course, Rastreator even have a new supplier.
Additionally, our Cardiff their own football team!
and Newport offices are rated BREEAM Excellent for exceeding sustainability 3,926 COe benchmarks above regulatory GHG gas emissions 2017: 3,642 COe requirements.
For our international offices, we work closely with our landlords to reduce the environmental impacts of our business, but accurate figures are very difficult to ascertain.
Since 2015 we have participated in Earth Hour, extinguishing all non-essential lighting for 1 hour across all of our sites.
This joint international effort illustrates to our staff and to our community how simple, small, individual initiatives can yield enormous results when scaled-up.
60 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information being a diverse and fair organisation, as our GENDER PAY GAP work with Stonewall Cymru and Race Council We are committed to reducing the gender Cymru testifies.
pay gap and overall gender imbalance in the Group by targeting structural inequalities TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT and not just by setting arbitrary targets: Weve always been keen to encourage this way, we are laying the foundations for development and promotion from within sustainable, long-term diversity, rather than and, given that so many of our senior merely box-ticking.
managers have been with the company for This year we signed the Women in Finance We inform employees of two different over 10 years, we really think this pays off.
Charter, underlining our support to ways to report any suspected wrongdoing Our in-house training department, the HM Treasurys objective of increasing internally through designated HR Admiral Academy, has been steadily growing the representation of women in senior channels and externally through the to meet the demands of our expanding managerial roles in financial services.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the workforce, with thousands of hours of Further, we are also signatories of the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, or classroom-based classes delivered each Insurance Inclusion Pledge, setting out our the independent charity, Public Concern at year.
On top of this, they produce a number commitment to improving the workplace Work with the reassurance that they will of industry-specific e-learning course experience of our employees.
This policy is a core part to ensure knowledge and understanding of initial training delivered during induction EQUALITY throughout the workforce.
Our Introduction and is repeated regularly throughout the to GDPR, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, There is no place for discrimination or year.
Currently there is a 98.5% completion and Whistleblowing courses have seen harassment in the workplace, and as well as rate for the internal e-course.
94%, 96%, and 99% completion rates, having a sexual harassment policy in place, DIVERSITY respectively.
we seek to reduce institutional imbalances where they are likely to occur.
We use a Diversity and inclusivity are integral to A willingness to learn and develop specially-designed online tool to identify any modern business.
To ensure that we independently is a great attribute for any subliminal gender bias in our job listings, are being as inclusive as we can, we have any employee, and something we value which we then remedy.
Building on this, we several working groups and forums across so much that we implemented our Buy a are developing a report that will allow us to the business focusing on identifying and Book Scheme.
Employees submit requests monitor several key candidate variables, so rectifying any forms of stigma or bias, to for books that they feel will help them we can better identify any biases.
encourage our staff to feel confident and cultivate and grow their careers and we comfortable in who they are, and to ensure WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY buy them.
This year alone we purchased that they are treated fairly whatever their 3,416 books for our staff.
We encourage our staff to do the right thing background.
Age, race, gender, sexual by providing a safe platform and process orientation, and disability are some of the to do so.
It is always acceptable to raise areas we tackle.
We are firmly committed to concerns even if it is later found to be a mistake: we prefer our staff to be vigilant.
82% of staff feel they are offered training or development to further themselves professionally.
10,000th Employee In April, we welcomed our 10,000th employee.
Mostofa was our 10,000th worldwide recruit.
The Strategic Report was approved by He joined the Claims department in Cardiff, having worked in the restaurant business for the the Board of Directors and signed on its past 18 years.
Our Recruitment team surprised Mostofa in his department to present him behalf by: with a special 10,000th employee award and doughnuts to share with his new team.
David Stevens, CBE Chief Executive Officer 06 March 2018 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61
