STAKEHOLDERS We actively engage with our stakeholders We engage with all our stakeholders, which we believe is critical to our success and sustainability.
Investors Customers The Board values the importance of Institutional investors Aggreko Listens building strong investor relations, Ongoing engagement Customers are at the heart of all that delivered through an active shareholder During the year, the investor wedo.
Our Aggreko Listens tool feeds communication programme.
We engagement programme involved into one of our management KPIs which actively seek dialogue with the market formal events, site visits, smaller group isconstantly reviewed to understand to understand what analysts and and one-to-one investor meetings.
Over the past investors think about us and help The investor relations team and senior twoyears, significant customer them understand our business.
management conducted 133 meetings engagement hasled us tomake The Board receives regular updates in 2018, engaging with 82 institutions.
transformational changes toour through brie ngs and reports from business.
Remuneration consultation investor relations, the CEO, CFO and Following constructive consultation with The Voice of Customer programme Company advisers.
shareholders we were pleased to receive has transformed how we measure our strong support for our remuneration Annual Report and Accounts performance by showing Aggreko policy proposals at the 2018 AGM, with Each year we assess how we can through the eyes of our customers, to 98.6% of shareholders voting in favour.
improve understanding of our deliver greater transparency and clarity business and bring it to life through Investor perception study on what to tackle to drive improvements the annual report.
To help inform our engagement for the bene t of this key stakeholder.
with investors, we undertook an Annual General Meeting AGM Simpler to do business with independent investor perception Our AGM provides an opportunity For more transactional sales, we are study in early 2018.
This helped us for engagement with shareholders.
developing an e-commerce platform understand investor views on the Webcasts and conference calls to provide a more agile, cost-effective performance and management of Our full year and half year results channel with a better service the business and the findings were are webcast live on our website.
Investor website CRM system Debt investors Our investor relations website An enhanced customer relationship Ongoing engagement remains a central resource to view management system provides us with On an annual basis we offer our lenders our latest announcements and a better understanding of customer a formal brieng and the opportunity associated materials.
requirements, improves internal to ask questions of senior management.
collaboration across the Group, and increases the speed of service delivery.
Private shareholders Ad hoc engagement We always respond to private shareholder enquiries and provide thesame level of information as institutional shareholders should they ask for it.
We regularly communicate with the market, and we actively seek dialogue to understand what analysts Customers are at the core of all that we do and investors think about us and to help them understand our business better.
Heath Drewett Chief Financial Of cer Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 34 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Local Employees Suppliers communities While we often provide essential With our employees at the heart In 2015, we introduced a Group servicesfor our customers, it is of our customer proposition, we procurement function to improve importantthat we take our enthusiastically seek to engage with, relationships with suppliers and stakeholders with us when we and listen to our employees about generatesavings across the Group.
what matters to them as we transform We work in partnership with our our business together.
key suppliers, particularly relating Local training and employment to our eet, and share operational Wherever we operate in the world, Be Heard surveys data to improve performance and we seek to employ and train local The quarterly Be Heard Employee drive innovation.
people: 79% of our global workforce Engagement Survey achieved a very are locally employed.
high engagement score of 76% in 2018 Code of Conduct up 1% on last year and an overall pride We expect our suppliers toshare our Apprenticeships in working at Aggreko score of 88%, commitment to conducting business We run apprenticeship schemes at in line with the prior year.
withintegrity, honesty and in a socially our larger locations across the Group responsible and sustainable way, and currently employ 49 apprentices Annual Plan on a Page and to work in partnership with us in nine countries.
We share an annual Plan on a Page to achieve this goal.
to help our teams align behind the key Orange Days of Difference actions to deliver our budget, updating We expect all our suppliers tosign As part of the Making a Massive our progress on a quarterly basis.
up to our Code of Conduct and ways Difference policy which fide fines our of doing business.
We monitor Senior Leadership Team approach to Corporate Community compliance and have the ability Given the diverse and dispersed nature Investment, we launched Orange toterminate arelationship in the of our teams, we regularly brief a core Days of Difference globally, with over eventofa breach.
group of senior leaders through calls, 1,300 individuals taking part.
emails and face to face meetings to help Development partnerships manage communications, priorities and Through sharing eld data with our sentiment across the business.
key suppliers, we are reducing the total cost of ownership of our eet Acting like owners while continuously innovating to We are living and breathing Always drive performance improvements.
Orange our people are demonstrating our values and have a good understanding of the important part our culture plays in helping us to grow.
83% of our people stated they agree with this sentiment in our 2018 employee survey Be Heard, up 3% on 2017.
I am very proud of the way As we work in partnership in which our people have with our suppliers, we embraced our values.
Their expect them to share our commitment and dedication commitment to integrity An Orange Day of Difference attended by both Chris are making a difference to and honesty as part of Weston and Heath Drewett our business.
conducting business in a socially responsible Ken Hanna Chairman and sustainable way.
Chris Weston Chief Executive Of cer Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35
