SUSTAINABILITY To be successful, we must be sustainable To be a sustainable company The content on these two pages constitutes Aggrekos means we have to manage our Non-Financial Information Statement, covering impact on society by which we requirements in respect of the environment, people, mean the environment, our people, social and community issues, human rights and the communities in which we anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
The following operate, as well as our customers.
information, found elsewhere in this Strategic Report, We do all this to the highest standards of integrity and honesty.
is incorporated into this statement by cross-reference: Chris Weston Employee discussion page 18 Chief Executive Of cer A description of our business model page 06 Principal risks and uncertainties page 38 Nonfinancial key performance indicators pages 13, 15, 17 and 19 Priorities Outcomes The environment Minimise our Maintain our reputation environmental impact for responsible management of Be accountable and environmental matters transparent with regards to our Gain commercial environmental footprint bene t through development of new solutions to environmental problems Outcomes Our people Priorities Attract and retain the Ensure the health and best people safety of our people and others at work Keep our people safe and reduce downtime Promote equal opportunities Read more about our Provide career and strategic objective of personal development Expert People on page 18 Operate with due regard to human rights Priorities Outcomes Social and Engage with local Build business longevity community communities and work issues Gain new talent for in partnership the organisation Recruit, train and develop local people Participate in activities that make a difference Priorities Outcomes Ethic s, human Ensure we operate with Maintain our reputation rights, antiintegrity and honesty for integrity bribery and Make sure that we are in Bene t operationally anti-corruption compliance with laws from good working and regulations practices Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 36 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information This gives us a robust framework for Environment Social and community issues appointing and working with thirdWe take our responsibility for Aggreko works in a wide variety party representatives.
reducing our impact on the of countries and our social Gifts, entertainment and hospitality, environment, including through contribution is an important above a nominal value, offered by, climate change, seriously.
means of giving back to the or given to, Aggreko employees are recorded centrally and monitored by We acknowledge that this is communities in which we work.
We challenge inextricably linked to remaining The bene ts of our presence through any proposed gifts or hospitality which a successful business.
our operations could be perceived as potentially Our local presence in communities, inappropriate.
Affordable and Clean Energy especially in developing markets, brings Sustainable Development Goal 7 We have an independent, multi-lingual bene ts including the support of is where we have most impact compliance Speaking Up hotline, industry and commerce: the provision The provision of electricity, heating operated by an external agency, of power for communities which need and cooling is essential in the global which is available to all employees it: the creation of local employment: economy: however, this comes with and allows concerns to be reported on and enabling skills development.
All reports are As a consequence of the fuel sources Making a Massive Difference: our followed up, and we regularly analyse that we use in our products, it is community investment strategy the types of reports we receive and, inevitable that our activities will have We actively engage in supporting the where appropriate, our Group Internal an impact on the environment.
In 2018, local communities in which we work: Audit team investigates.
99% of our greenhouse gas emissions We are proactive in recruiting locally Human rights came from the operation of our eet.
from the community, with over We apply high employment standards We are also aware of the other 100 nationalities across the Group.
across our business, complying with environmental impacts of our employment, health and safety and Our extensive on-the-job training for operations, such as refrigerant emissions human rights laws to ensure our new recruits gives us highly skilled and noise pollution.
In each case, we employees are safe.
We expect our staff, trained on our own equipment.
continuously work to reduce the impact suppliers to adopt our Supplier Code of that we have on the environment: for Relationships in the local communities Conduct, which sets out the minimum example, by using custom-built acoustic prove valuable when we are running a standards we require, including enclosures, high performance isolation contract for a number of years.
workers fundamental rights covering and attenuation systems to reduce noise.
standards of pay, working hours and Our charitable donations include freedom of association.
Our modern We expect the drive for affordable and the education of children through slavery statement is available to read at clean energy to increase the emphasis our partnership with BookAid and www.
com, and provides on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, through Shelterbox to support 700 more detail on the approach we take increasing the use of renewables, and families with emergency shelter in in relation to modern slavery.
stopping practices such as aring gas.
the Philippines following Typhoon Mangkhut.
Data protection and cyber security In developing countries, the priority We have introduced our data policy remains providing power and Orange Days of Difference enabled to ensure we comply with new data accessing the associated social 1,300 of our people to volunteer their protection regulations and provide and economic bene ts.
time supporting the communities training for its application.
We respond with our innovation and We discuss cyber risks and mitigations investment in technology with the Ethics, human rights, antion page 42. aim of lowering the cost of energy for our customers through improved bribery and anti-corruption fuel ef ciency, and reducing the Aggreko conducts its business environmental impact of our products.
with integrity and honesty, and Mitigating our impact Following the December 2018 index we are proud of our reputation We use our technical know-how review FTSE Russell, the global index for being fair and professional.
and innovation to mitigate our provider, con rmed that Aggreko environmental impact.
has been independently assessed Ethics Policy according to the FTSE4Good criteria, We discuss this in our strategy The standards and behaviours we expect and has satis ed the requirements section on page 15. from our employees, as fide ned by our to become a constituent of the Ethics Policy, allow us to challenge any We manage our greenhouse FTSE4Good Index Series.
The policy covers gas emissions by FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good due diligence, gifts and hospitality, Please see our report on our carbon Index Series is designed to measure charitable donations, facilitation emissions on page 83. the performance of companies payments, con icts of interest and demonstrating strong Environmental, speaking up.
We provide training on Social and Governance ESG these areas to all employees, regularly practices.
The FTSE4Good indices monitor compliance, and seek assurance are used by a wide variety of market that they are effective.
participants to create and assess Anti-bribery and anti-corruption responsible investment funds and Our sales consultants are contractually other products.
required to comply with our Ethics Policy and we provide ethics training to ensure they remain alert to potential third-party risks.
We monitor their remuneration and all payments.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37
