I STRATEGIC REPORT II III IV CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As an investment trust the Board believes that it should RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT maintain an open dialogue with shareholders.
During the The Trust is a supporter of the UKs Stewardship Code and year Directors met with the Trusts significant shareholders considers this an integral part of the investment activity as well as individual shareholders and their representatives carried out by its investment manager, WTW.
The Board has to hear their views and to update them on the progress of delegated stewardship activities to WTW.
Further details can the Trust.
This helps the Board to consider the interests of all be found on page 36. of its shareholders regardless of the size of their holdings.
Having previously taken a decision to discontinue the Trusts MODERN SLAVERY support of the Alliance Trust Cateran Yomp, the Alliance The Trust considers that it does not fall within the scope Trust Foundation charity has now resolved to dissolve and of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and it is not, therefore, any future support for charities will be considered by the obliged to make a slavery and human trafficking statement.
The Alliance Trust Foundation was formed in 2014 In any event, the Trust considers its supply chains to be of and since then it supported the communities in which low risk as its suppliers are typically professional advisers.
our offices are or were located.
In total, just under 0.3m A statement from WTW, the Trusts investment manager has been distributed to over 100 charities.
The Trust also on the steps it takes to investigate and mitigate the risk supports the V&A Museum of Design, Dundee which opened of modern slavery and human trafficking can be found on in September 2018.
com The Board believes that a diverse workforce will create ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT the environment to allow our business to thrive and grow.
We look for an inclusive environment where people can As an investment trust with a small number of employees, develop and contribute fully.
The Trusts employment and the Trusts environmental impact is limited.
With the recruitment policies are at all times compliant with relevant simplification of the Trusts business, the Board intend to EU and UK legislation.
consider how the Trusts environmental impact can be reduced including looking at more efficient ways of working.
Recruitment, development and promotion are based solely On page 58, we report on our carbon footprint.
on the candidates suitability for the job to be done and there should be no discrimination either before or during ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION employment on the basis of gender, sexual orientation, age, race, nationality, disability, political or religious belief.
Should The Trust takes anti-bribery measures very seriously and any employee become disabled they should not suffer any conducts its business honestly, fairly and with transparency.
discrimination and reasonable adjustments will be made to The Trust is committed to implementing and enforcing allow them to continue to have the same opportunities as effective measures to counter bribery and corruption any other member of the workforce.
and has a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption by Directors, employees or anyone acting on the The table below provides the gender split of the Board of the Trusts behalf.
The Trust has six employees of whom two are part time.
FINANCIAL CRIME The possibility of financial crime is taken seriously by the As at 31 December 2018 Male Female Board and it has a zero tolerance for any such activity Board 5 1 including tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion.
Senior Managers 2 1 PAYMENT PRACTICES REPORTING Other Staff 0 3 Total Workforce including Directors 7 5 The Trust complies with its obligations under the Reporting on Payment Practices and Performance Regulations.
The Board also recognises its responsibilities to its former INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION PUBLIC REGISTER employees and this year completed the winding up of the Trusts final salary pension scheme, which closed to new The Investment Association maintains a public register members in 2005.
All of the members benefits are now fully of companies who have received significant shareholder secured by annuities in their own name.
There were no votes cast at our AGM on 26 April 2018 that received significant opposition.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED not form part of a particular stock pickers process, WTW STEWARDSHIP CODE looks for a clear explanation and alternative mechanisms to The Financial Reporting Council FRC first published manage the risk to investors.
the UK Stewardship Code for Institutional shareholders Furthermore, the stock pickers are expected to promote on 2 July 2010 and updated it in 2012.
The purpose of the UK generally accepted standards of good governance by exercising Stewardship Code is to enhance the quality of engagement their investor rights and by engaging with companies where between institutional investors and companies to help improve appropriate and in accordance with their own investment long-term returns to shareholders and the efficient exercise philosophies, on issues of governance and shareholder value of governance responsibilities.
and in the long-term interest of the Trusts shareholders.
The Trust is a supporter of the UK Stewardship Code, and WTW monitors the policies of the stock pickers in respect considers this an integral part of the investment activity of their compliance with the UK Stewardship Code.
which is carried out for us by our investment manager, WTW.
In our Investment Managers Report on page 13 WTW WTW also recognises and supports the FRCs UK Stewardship discloses how the stock pickers have, overall, voted in Code as best practice.
The FRC has awarded WTW with Tier 1 respect of the stocks they have invested in for the Trust.
status on the quality and transparency of the WTW stewardship approach.
A copy of WTWs UK Stewardship Code statement RESPONSIBLE OWNERSHIP can be found on its website www.
When our stock pickers make investments for our portfolio, WTW recognises that it has significant interaction across the the primary objective is to achieve the best investment industry with investment managers and asset owners with return while allowing for an acceptable degree of risk.
In attendant ability and responsibility to encourage and improve pursuing this objective, various factors that may impact on processes in respect of stewardship.
WTW has delegated the performance are considered by our stock pickers.
voting powers to the Trusts stock pickers in respect of the WTW, as our investment manager, believes that environmental, stocks in the Trusts portfolio that they manage, but remains social and governance ESG factors can have a material responsible for the oversight of the way each stock picker influence on investment risk and returns.
Where ESG factors votes and their engagement activity.
may influence investment risk and return, WTW expects each Each stock picker is expected to assess investee companies manager it has appointed to have a demonstrable process on issues including: a companys corporate strategy, financial in place that identifies and assesses material ESG factors performance, capital structure, leadership, corporate in so far as these relate to its investment strategy.
WTW is governance and risk management, including risk arising from a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible environmental and social matters.
Where engagement does Investment as are more than half of the stock pickers.
The Strategic Report including the inside cover and pages 1 to 36 of this document and the viability statement on page 51 has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman | 36 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018
