GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2018 Jack Thompson The committee met four times in 2018.
At each meeting, Chairman thecommittee reviews detailed reports covering the Sustainability Committee Groups performance across a range of sustainability areas, including: safety: health and wellness: socio-political trends: humanrights: climate change: and environmental andsocial performance.
Significant social, safety, health and environmental incidentsare reviewed at each meeting, as are the results from operational risk reviews.
In 2018, five members of the workforce lost their lives at the Groups managed operations.
Preliminary observations from each of these fatal incidents were reported to the next committee meeting following their occurrence, noting the factors surrounding the incidents, mitigation steps being taken andthe process for formal investigation.
Following COMMITTEE MEMBERS completion of independent investigations, findings are Jack Thompson Chairman presented to the committee.
Ian Ashby In addition to the committees standing agenda items, Stuart Chambers thefollowing matters were discussed during 2018: Mark Cutifani Strategy and progress of the Groups Elimination Nolitha Fakude of Fatalities Taskforce, designed to achieve azero Tony ONeill fatality business Mphu Ramatlapeng Sustainable Mining Planimplementation update Jim Rutherford Business unit reports on safety andsustainability For more on biographies and Board experience details performance: Iron Ore Brazil and Nickel, KumbaIron Ore, See pages 74-77 Metallurgical Coal, and Platinum Business unit heads, Group directors of people and The Minas-Rio pipeline leakage and its organisation, and corporate relations, the Group general environmental impact counsel and company secretary and the Group head of safety and sustainable development also participate in Developments in relation to the South African Mining meetings of the committee.
Charter III Results of external stakeholder research: corporate ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES purpose, brand and reputation The committee oversees, on behalf of the Board, material The Groups approach to socio-economic development management policies, processes, and strategies designed 2017 Social Way assessment results improvements in to manage safety, health, environment and socio-political performance on managing the social impacts of mining risks, to achieve compliance with sustainable development responsibilities and commitments and strive for an industry Sustainability benchmarking comparing performance leadership position on sustainability.
and global trends across the industry The committee is responsible for reviewing the causes of Operational risk management training and capability any fatal or significant sustainability incidents and ensuring Water management at Moranbah North mine in learnings are shared across the Group.
Queensland, Australia The committees terms of reference are available to Dust management at Kumba Iron Ores Sishen mine viewonline.
Risk liability of tailings storage facilities at For more information, visit www.
com about-us governance divested operations Mine closure liabilities During 2018, the committee held one of its four Key legislative and regulatory developments in the meetings in Brisbane, Australia, and committee sustainability area members visited the Gahcho Ku diamond mine Sustainability Committee annual evaluation externally in Canada.
In addition, ommitteemembers visited facilitated in 2018 and actionplan.
the University of Queenslands Sustainable Minerals Institute, oneof AngloAmericans sustainability partners.
Members of the committee participated in the Groups annual Global Safety Day campaign across operations atthe Groups Metallurgical Coal business in Queensland, Australia.
90 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018
