STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE PEOPLE Our entire business revolves around people.
The partnerships we build, both within Anglo American and with our stakeholders locally and globally are central to maintaining our regulatory and social licences to operate and our sustained commercial success.
A skilled and diverse mix of employees will be crucial to the Quellaveco projects success around 9,000 jobs will be created during construction, and around 2,500 jobs will be created during normal operation.
The launch of Metallurgical Coals landmark Female Only Trainee Underground Miner Programme At the Real You LGBT network launch event in May 2018, employees at our London headquarters at Moranbah North had an overwhelming response.
Female employees at our Moranbah North heard about the important role colleague networks play in creating an inclusive and diverse workplace.
operation, Annette King, Belinda Morrison, Megan Holt, Teigan Flynn, Katie Buttery, Alison Drage Members of the Real You network include those who identify as LGBT and their allies.
Members and Rebecca Blines, were there to support the launch of the programme.
events are hosted both on and off site throughout the year.
34 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY UNLOCKING THE FULL POTENTIAL IN ALL OUR PEOPLE In todays world of work, in our everyday lives and strategic partnerships alongside charities such as Stonewall, inpublic discourse, topics relating to inclusion and the Business Disability Forum and Working Families to diversity I&D are ever present, almost irrespective of understand best practice and current global trends.
At Anglo American, our work to address I&D One notable and consistent success factor is our colleague imbalances is not the latest initiative to be seen to do networks, several of which are now established: the right thing: instead, its our commitment to change the way we do things, authentically.
Simply so In the UK, we have Women@CHT, Real You an LGBT that every colleague can bring their whole and best network : Enabling You a network for those with physical self to work each day, regardless of their gender, sexual disabilities, learning difficulties and mental health issues : orientation, age, race, ethnicity, religion, national origin and You Care for those with caring responsibilities or physical or mental disability.
In Johannesburg, WoMINE a womens network and Real You South Africa Our comprehensive I&D strategy underpins our vision to promote an environment where every one of us is valued In Singapore and Australia, we have established and respected for who we are, and has the opportunity to I&D networks fulfil our potential.
It guides us to recognise each individuals In Chile, an Enabling You network is in place, while, unique contribution in an involving, fair and supportive in Brazil, a WoMINE network has begun.
workplace, with inclusive people policies, systems and Turning aspirations into reality procedures.
At our Metallurgical Coal business in Australia, we are Our I&D strategy supports us towards achieving our turning I&D aspirations into reality.
Moranbah Norths strategic objective of embedding a high performance landmark Female Only Trainee Underground Miner culture guided by our Purpose, creating a safe and healthy Programme has met with an overwhelming public response, workplace in support of a truly sustainable business.
I&D receiving more than 750 applications in a week and some isalso a critical foundation of our sustainability approach, 1,300 applications in total.
Executive head of underground helping to reinforce the quality of our external stakeholder operations, Glen Britton said: This pioneering programme relationships by clearly articulating the way we expect all our is a critical step towards creating a more inclusive colleagues and business stakeholders to behave.
environment for women in underground coal mining.
We developed it because it was clear that, while there was a real These are not simple issues and sustainable change and untapped demand, we needed a new recruitment takestime and energy.
We are, however, well on our way approach.
We now have some excellent new recruits and we and, as a first step, our senior leadership team completed are embracing the opportunities for innovation and new Unconscious Bias awareness sessions during 2018. ways of thinking that they bring.
Wehave also now developed a Group-wide Inclusive Leadership training module, which is mandatory for all ourpeople at supervisory level and above.
HIGHLIGHTS Checking the pulse To understand how our employees feel about I&D across Anglo American, we have completed in-depth qualitative research in eight of our global locations, as well as 21% interviewing more than 30 of our most senior leaders.
Proportion of women in senior management roles.
The research highlighted our male-dominated culture, We are aiming for 25% by 2020. which is constraining career opportunities for women and other groups.
It identified a need to deliver greater gender balance across all levels of the organisation, to engage across generations, and improve opportunities for people PILLARS OF VALUE with disabilities and for those who have been historically disadvantaged in their countries.
Participants also called for Safety and health an authentic approach to I&D, backed by visible senior Socio-political leadership involvement, clear principles and a commitment to actions that deliver new ways of working.
People Positive progress For our KPIs For a host of reasons, mining is not an industry that has See pages 48-49 historically been attractive to women.
We know that changewill take time, though we are encouraged with thepositive progress across Anglo American, in terms DISCUSSED IN THIS SECTION  at a senior level, for example.
In Safety and health the12months to June 2018, the proportion of women in oursenior management roles as defined by the HamptonWorkforce culture and capability Alexander review increased from 15% to 21% and we are Meeting our commitments to aiming for 25% by 2020. business stakeholders and society Recognising the many complexities of I&D, we established a Political and regulatory global Inclusion and Diversity Working Group at the outset.
Each member has been working within their respective operating business or global function to develop bottom-up activities to drive change by increasing awareness of I&D and what this means for all our people.
We have also built up Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 35 STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE Safety comes foremost in everything we do, and we Total number of fatal injuries and fatal injury train, equip and empower our people to work safely frequency rate 2014-2018 every day.
We believe, too, that creating an inclusive and diverse working environment and culture that Fatal injuries FIFR encourages and supports high performance and 12 0.040 innovative thinking will serve to give our business 0.035 acompetitive advantage.
10 0.030 8 0.025 SAFETY 6 0.020 As we continue to strive for zero harm, becoming unconditional about safety is vital.
Nothing is more 0.015 4 important than making sure everyone returns home safely 0.010 after a days work.
We focus both on eliminating fatalities 2 andon reducing and ultimately eliminating injuries from 0.005 the workplace.
Over the past 12 months, our safety 0 0.000 performance has improved considerably, but we are notyet 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 where we desire to be in terms of no lives being lost.
To this FIFR end, we have set up a dedicated taskforce and have Fatal injuries reinvigorated our efforts to build a culture of passionate safety leadership at all our operations.
Lost-time injuries, medical treatment cases and Management approach and governance total recordable case frequency rate 2014-2018 Our approach to safety management is built on five key pillars: passionate leadership: resilient management Injuries TRCFR systems: effective risk management systems: rapid 1,800 5 organisational learning: and an engaged workforce.
To 1,600 achieve our vision of zero harm, we use our Operating 4 1,400 Model, the SHE Way, global policies, standards and guidelines, operational risk management and assurance, as 1,200 3 well as our Learning from Incidents investigative process.
1,000 We have defined what good looks like, have developed 800 tactical plans, and monitor progress and correlated safety 2 600 improvements on an ongoing basis.
400 1 Anglo Americans safety, health and environment results 200 affect the performance-based remuneration of all employees in the business, and health and safety targets 0 0 areincluded within the annual performance incentives for 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 executive directors and senior management.
Lost-time injuries Medical treatment cases TRCFR Performance We deeply regret the loss of five of our colleagues in 2018.
Any loss of life is unacceptable, and we remain unwavering realise our vision to achieve the UNs Sustainable in our commitment to achieving our vision of zero harm.
Development Goals SDGs targets for health in our host Each of these tragic incidents has been subject to a rigorous communities by 2030. independent investigation, with learnings shared across Controlling occupational exposure the Group and management actions taken to improve The number of new cases of occupational disease reported controls and prevent recurrence.
The Groups fatal injury in 2018 was 101 2017: 96. frequency rate FIFR decreased to 0.024 2017: 0.035.
The implementation of our Operational Intelligence Suite Notwithstanding the tragic loss of life, we achieved OiS, a real-time data analytics platform that interrogates significant improvements in our injury performance.
data feeds, manual uploads and events, is enabling better Our lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR declined by control monitoring and management of workplace 3% to 1.63 2017: 1.68, while our total recordable case environmental conditions and associated occupational frequency rate TRCFR, which includes any injury that exposures.
OiS uses real-time data to monitor defined requires more than first-aid treatment, decreased by parameters and triggers an alert when an over-exposure or 16% to 2.66 2017: 3.17. critical-control failure is detected.
OiS is being implemented at our PGMs business, where it has promoted a significant HEALTH reduction in worker exposure to potential health hazards.
The platform is being introduced at Kumba and Thermal Our main focus is to eliminate occupational health Coal in South Africa, Coppers Chagres and Los Bronces hazards at their source.
In supporting employee health sites in Chile, and across the Group by the end of 2020. and well-being, we recognise the interplay between occupational health and personal health risks and are Managing TB and HIV AIDS developing a more integrated approach to health We are recognised leaders for our TB and HIV AIDS promotion, risk prevention and management.
programmes in the workplace across our operations in southern Africa.
We provide free anti-retroviral treatment To promote healthcare in the broader community, we are ART to all HIV-positive employees and their partners.
developing our understanding of locally relevant health Overthe past five years, we have seen a steady and priorities.
We aim to forge strategic partnerships for the significant improvement in most indicators related to implementation of community health solutions that will TBand HIV AIDS.
36 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report PIONEERING DRONE SAFETY AND STANDARDS Drone technology is an expanding part of our FutureSmart Mining programme, which aims to keep Anglo American at the forefront of mining innovation.
Drones are becoming increasingly cost-effective as they perform a variety of tasks, from monitoring entire high-risk areas, to gathering data from confined spaces in mines and processing plants and doing so without putting any people at risk.
AngloAmerican, which has used drones attached The deployment of drones is assisting in making our to manned  planes for many activities safer.
Crucially, their use avoids the need for years, is today an industry leader in pioneering the people in potentially hazardous areas.
Drones are now use of drones for safety, surveying and security.
being used to inspect and monitor high-risk areas, including stockpiles, mine slopes, ore passes, tailings We have an expanding fleet of drones, fromfixed-wing dams and chemical-storage facilities all without a aircraft to quadcopters, with about 50skilled operators humanpresence in areas of risk.
They can check for and another 30 people working in drone maintenance the presence of personnel in a blast area, and measure across the Group, including at our PGMs operations in fragmentation orthe direction of dust movement after South Africa: Kumbas iron ore mines: and at fide Beers a blast.
Other applications cover traffic management at sites in Canada, Namibia and South Africa.
operations, as well as monitoring rehabilitation activity, Drones are an important part of our drive to remoteincluding in areas where it can be difficult, and risky, for control many of our mining activities while gathering people on the ground to gain access.
enhanced data and real-time operational performance Drones increase our safety and efficiency, and they metrics.
They provide rapid visual access and multiple letus take human beings out of potentially dangerous views, with smaller drones being used to inspect environments, says Frans Kruger, AngloAmericans confined spaces on mines and in processing plants, global aviation safety principal.
while bigger aircraft are able to fly at night and stay aloft for up to eight hours.
Drones are being used in Drone technology is evolving fast and, as a responsible such varied tasks as exploration, mine mapping and operator, we are working closely with otherdrone calculating the volume of stockpiles and are proving operators and South Africas Civil Aviation Authority, for tobe cost-effective.
example, to develop appropriate standards, while also serving with other mining companies on the technical advisory committee of the Flight Safety Foundation.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 37 STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE In 2018, 88% of employees in southern Africa knew their We are improving our workforce-planning systems to allow HIV status.
This puts us well on our way to meeting the us to better anticipate the impact of the technical innovations 90%target by 2020.
However, the annual number of new that will transform the work that we currently perform.
HIV infections increased from 506 in 2017 to 540 in 2018.
Predicting such changes, in terms of number of roles as well as new skills required by these roles in the future, is essential The uptake of ART by HIV-positive employees increased to the mediumand long term competitiveness of our marginally to 86% in 2018 2017: 84%.
It will also allow us to prepare our workforce for government and best-practice treatment guidelines, all the changes to come.
people diagnosed as HIV-positive start ART immediately.
Empowering through learning We are designing a learning ecosystem that is engaging WORKFORCE CULTURE AND CAPABILITY andempowering our culture, using best-in-class practices We continuously shape our corporate culture so that it inthe design, creation, delivery and tracking of learning supports the achievement of our business goals in the experiences.
respect of our values and in service of our Purpose.
Our Behavioural change is at the heart of our learning objectives.
efforts in 2018 were informed by the outcomes of a global We consider each persons needs to fulfil their role, or employee-engagement survey, conducted in 2017, among prepare for a future role, and tailor a combination of 6,000 employees from across the organisation, providing us different, innovative learning experiences to shape their with a better understanding of our cultural strengths and development.
As we expand the content and reach of this areas requiring attention.
The results of the 2017 survey system, we will be able to track the usage and effectiveness were presented to the Boards Sustainability Committee.
of learning modules to assess employee growth and Our high performance culture is shaped by innovative content relevance.
thinking and practices that aim to redefine the way we We currently support 2,000 graduates, bursars, apprentices thinkof, and manage, superior performance.
Our graduate recruitment programmes started streamlining our processes to ensure that leadership include placing tertiary-level graduates on our professionals teams across the business keep a relentless focus on the in training programmes for technical skills development in outcomes that they are set to deliver.
We encourage line with Anglo American standards and objectives.
regularperformance conversations within teams at all levels of the organisation and frequent one-on-one performance Anglo American initiatives support education and feedback.
Above all, we continuously test our thinking and development, from schools through to tertiary institutions, our behaviours against our values and we never pursue as well as programmes to build skills and leadership anyoutcome at the expense of any of these values, in capability.
We develop skills in mining as well as non-miningparticular safety.
related sectors, and we provide basic literacy and numeracy to our employees, contractors and community members An effective and efficient organisation through adult basic education and training programmes.
In Working in support of our Operating Model, our 2018, we spent more than $94 million on training, across our Organisation Model ensures that the right work is done range of external and internal development programmes.
atthe right time and in the right way by capable people, in roles that are well designed with clear accountabilities Fostering sound employee relations andauthorities.
We consider workforce engagement to be a priority for every leader in Anglo American and run regular surveys to The Anglo American organisation structure is built around identify areas where dedicated effort is required to ensure strong, product-focused operating units, supported by that all colleagues feel cared for and respected and willingly Group functions that provide value-adding expert leadership perform their work to the best of their abilities.
and ensure effective governance to continuously improve business performance.
This design aims to maximise the During 2018, voluntary turnover was 2.4%, while new hires effectiveness of our Operating Model, promote the sharing amounted to 10.5% of permanent employees.
of resources and consistent best-in-class practices across Where employees are represented by works councils, operations, while investing in functional capability in the tradeunions or other similar bodies and covered by strategic areas that will best leverage business returns.
collective bargaining agreements approximately 70% of Resourcing the organisation with the best capability our current permanent workforce, we continuously seek Equipping Anglo American with an engaged and to improve relations with employee representative bodies, productive workforce is essential for our success.
We understand their concerns and identify opportunities to aimtoattract the best people in the industry and to drive promote their broader welfare and well-being.
In 2018, there professional and personal development to enable everyone was one incident of industrial action at DeBeers Venetia to fulfil their potential.
mine in South Africa relating to contractor concerns around benefits, which was resolved after five weeks.
To help ensure we have the right people in the right roles for now and the future, every year we conduct a standardised Supporting labour rights  process across all our Group functions As expressed in our Human Rights Policy, and as and business units.
This consistent approach to assessing signatoriesto the United Nations Global Compact, we are talent enables us to map our capabilities and to better committed to the labour rights principles set out in the understand our risks and readiness for succession, in International Labour Organization core conventions, particular for assimilating talent into leadership and including the right to freedom of association and collective specialist positions.
We allocate talent into different talent bargaining, non-discrimination, and the eradication of child pools that are managed consistently for growth and in and forced labour.
All our operations are required to observe support of our inclusion and diversity agenda.
these rights and we encourage our non-managed joint arrangements to adopt our policies.
No incidents of employing under-age or forced labour were reported in 2018.
38 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Our Responsible Sourcing Standard stipulates that all Whistleblowing suppliers shall respect all labour and human rights through Our independently managed Speak Up facility is a their value chain.
This includes commitments to not use confidential and secure means for our employees, childlabour: combat all forms of modern slavery: oppose contractors, suppliers, business partners and other unfair or inhumane treatment of the workforce, including externalstakeholders around the world to report concerns allforms of bullying and harassment: allow freedom of about conduct that is contrary to our values and integrity association: maintain fair and legal terms of employment: standards.
We do not tolerate any form of retaliation against eliminate illegal and unfair discrimination: and promote an employees raising concerns in good faith.
Any allegation of inclusive workplace.
harassment or intimidation by others as a result of contacting Speak Up is investigated and, if required, appropriate action is taken.
BUILDING A PURPOSE-LED CULTURE During 2018, 325 alerts were received, covering a broad At the heart of Anglo Americans ethos are the ethical spectrum of concerns, including ethical, legal, supplier behaviours we expect all our employees, contractors, relationship, health and safety and human resources issues.
suppliers and associates to display.
Our approach is In addition, almost 700 further alerts were received related designed to respond to both societys ever-higher to allegations of external fraud attempts.
All alerts were expectations of business and increasingly stringent evaluated, investigated as necessary and the proven alerts international legislation and regulations.
were properly addressed by management.
Our Code of Conduct An inclusive and diverse environment Our expectations for ethical performance are set out in We are committed to promoting an inclusive and diverse ourCode of Conduct, supported by programmes and environment where every colleague is valued and respected guidelines that help all our employees make the right for who they are and can fulfil their potential.
While we decisions when faced with ethicaldilemmas.
haveadiverse population of people atAngloAmerican, Anglo American launched a Code of Conduct at the end werecognise that we need to continue to work to create a of2016, underpinned by our values.
The Code focuses trulyinclusive organisation.
Visible leadership commitment onfour key areas, providing guidance on how to prioritise is essential, and in 2018, all senior leaders received safety, health and the environment: treat people with care unconscious bias training and all leaders participated in and respect: conduct business with integrity: and protect inclusive leadership training.
our physical assets, information and interests.
Inclusion and diversity I&D is a critical foundation of our In 2017, more than 3,000 senior executives and managers approach to sustainability.
Underpinned by our values were trained on the Code of Conduct.
In 2018, we carried andour Code of Conduct, we have developed and started out a number of activities to further embed the Code, implementing an I&D strategy, and a set of action plans to including testing of Board members and the 1,000 most attain our desired culture.
Our approach recognises that a senior employees to understand their views about the Code diverse workforce creates opportunity, and inclusion creates and their approach to ethical decision making, bespoke the culture to sustain it.
Code of Conduct online training for more than 4,000 Across our geographies, we have set up networks managed employees, and building in Code-related commitments by colleagues, each with a committed executive sponsor.
andawareness activities into the employee lifecycle.
We have also launched a global I&D policy and begun to Business integrity review a number of policies to make sure they are genderOur Business Integrity Policy states that we will neither give neutral and have global standards.
nor accept bribes, nor permit others to do so in our name.
Gender equality is a prevalent social issue and a business The policy is supported by 11 Prevention of Corruption imperative.
By year end, women made up 20% of our Procedures that set out the conduct required in areas where overallworkforce 2017: 19% and 28% of managers bribery and corruption risk may be present.
On 5 April 2018, our Gender Pay Gap reporting also include restrictions that prohibit the company from date, women represented 43% of the 292employees at our making donations to any political party or politician.
No such UK head office, but only 20% of senior management roles.
The average hourly pay gap was 52% 2017: 55% and the Dedicated central resources support our business units median hourly pay gap was 41% 2017: 49%.
We are toprovide the appropriate training and awareness that is committed to redressing the gender imbalance and to required for implementing the requirements of the Business ensuring a minimum of 33% femalerepresentation across Integrity Policy and performance standards.
the total population of our General Management Committee and the people reporting to them.
Addressing bribery risk Bribery risks are considered an essential element of the The proportion of permanent employees under 30 years ethical-risk assessments carried out at business unit and of age was 12%, those between the ages of 30 and 50 Group levels.
The bribery-risk areas include use of agents, accounted for 70% of the workforce, while the remaining and the nature of interactions with government officials, 18%were over 50 years of age.
In South Africa, 65% of customers, suppliers and communities.
When bribery risk management positions are held by historically isdetermined to be unacceptably high, an action plan is disadvantaged South Africans.
developed to strengthen the internal controls to manage the Anglo American reports its UK Gender Pay Gap position risk.
The processes and controls to mitigate bribery risks are inline with legislative requirements under UK law.
audited by our internal audit team.
For more information on our UK Gender Pay Gap See page 125 and www.
com  Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 39
