STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT EMPLOYEES Antofagasta knows that a wide diversity of talent is required to address the challenges of mining in the future, and this needs to be combined with a culture of innovation and values aligned to the Groups business objectives.
The Group manages and develops talent, seeking to engage employees through shared values and an attractive offer that enhances their experience of being part of the Group.
The Groups People strategy was developed in 2013 and continues tobe built on four pillars: culture, talent management, organisational effectiveness, and labour relations and engagement.
In 2018 efforts DIVERSITY & INCLUSION TARGETS: were focused on integrating the new Diversity and Inclusion D&I Double the percentage of women in the workforce Strategy with these four pillars.
Go beyond the 1% of disabled workers required by INCLUSIVE 1 Chilean legislation.
CULTURE The D&I Strategy was approved by the Board in 2017 and focuses onthe inclusion of women, people with disabilities and employees DIVERSE AND GLOBAL TALENTS withinternational experience.
In 2018 the strategy was rolled out The Groups workforce are nearly all based in Chile, where the through the Group and individual targets were incorporated into the operations and corporate office are located, and a small number staff appraisal system at managerial level.
Implementation of the D&I areinLondon, Toronto, Shanghai, Lima, and Minnesota in the US.
roadmap was included on business scorecards in the mining and transport divisions.
In 2018 the Group focused on improving the talent management During 2018 the Groups Charter of Values was updated to align system.
Changes were introduced to increase the mobility of itwith the D&I Strategy.
Antofagasta is now effecting cultural diverseand global talents, identifying roles for people with change, creating an inclusive working environment through raised international experience and conducting an in-depth review of awareness and education to update expectations of the behaviour itsfemale talent pool.
The Group has fostered three initiatives focused on attracting young talent at different levels of the organisation: a Young Graduates Different programmes have been developed to put this into practice.
Programme, which aims to recruit into the talent pipeline young An example is Promociona Chile, a public-private initiative that people with potential to take on key executive roles: an Apprentices supports leadership development for high-potential women, aiming Programme, which offers opportunities to young people from local toincrease their participation in senior management roles and on communities: and the Eleva Programme, a public-private initiative boards.
Sensitive issues were also addressed with the publication that links technical education with the capabilities and skills ofthe first Sexual Abuse Protocol and the introduction of another requiredby the mining industry.
At the supervisory level, training public-private initiative that develops an Early Alert System to anddevelopment programmes were updated, aligning them to the reduceloss and improve retention of female employees.
In addition, Groups Operating Model.
the Group supports a new work life balance protocol, a public-private initiative to promote female participation in the sector.
Antofagasta invested $4.7 million in training in 2018, providing an average of 44 hours of training per employee per year, 74% In 2017 and 2018 Antofagasta developed a diversity baseline and morethan in 2017, including hours of training on Diversity and monitored the progress and perception of the programmes.
the percentage of women who were promoted was 21%, and the participation of women in the talent pool and succession plans for key managerial roles was reviewed.
Among women employed, 9% held executive positions, 18% were supervisors and 5% worked as operators, both at mining sites and in the transport division.
21,436 30% 70% 9% 71% people employees contractors women unionised employees 1.
Chilean Labour Inclusion Law No.
36 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT LABOUR RELATIONS ALIGNING AND ENGAGEMENT CONTRACTORS Antofagasta has 18 unions: ten in the mining division and eight in Contractors conduct key tasks in the Groups business and thetransport division, together representing the 71% of the total represent70% of the workforce.
The Group has established control numberof employees.
mechanisms to make sure contractors meet Antofagastas standards and guidelines on labour, environmental, social and ethical matters, During 2018 union leaders and employees were trained on the and to adopt its good practices with regard to safe workplaces and Groups business strategy, long-term vision and challenges of the quality employment.
Antofagasta also requires contractors pay ethical Operating Model.
minimum wages 41% higher than Chiles legal minimum, and provide The Group recognises employees rights to union membership other basic benefits including life and health insurance for their and collective bargaining.
In Chile, freedom of association is employees.
Contractors must also comply with the UKs Modern legallyprotected.
Failure to comply can lead to sanctions and even contract withdrawal.
The Group regularly audits its contractors to ensure full Antofagasta has a consultation and complaints system that can compliance with these standards and in 2018 audits were carried out beaccessed by workers and unions.
that included modern slavery issues.
In 2018 labour agreements were successfully negotiated with six The mining division establishes performance agreements with unions, two at Los Pelambres and four in the transport division contractors to measure compliance.
These include KPIs on safety concluding another year without a strike for the Group.
These binding andhealth, labour conflicts, work stoppages, labour demands and agreements cover salaries, shift patterns and employment benefits other matters.
and are renegotiated every three years, in accordance with Chilean legislation.
In addition, Chilean law protects basic human rights, such as decent working conditions and the minimum wage, and prohibits forced and child labour.
A FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY Performance agreements between Antofagasta Minerals and its contractor companies include key sustainability issues.
co. uk 37 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT COMMUNITIES Through dialogue and collaboration, Antofagasta has strengthened engagement with communities in the regions where it operates.
The aim is to contribute to long-term development, building skills through trackable projects and programmes that aspire to excellence and are developed in a participative and transparent manner.
SOCIAL MANAGEMENT MODEL In 2018 Antofagasta launched a new Social Management Model that will be gradually implemented from 2019 in both the mining and INCORPORATION OF SUSTAINABLE transport divisions.
This model enhances social management and DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG INTO SOCIAL introduces standards for engagement, management of initiatives, AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROCESSES, management of socio-territorial risks and impact measurement of PROJECTS AND PROGRAMMES projects and programmes.
In 2018 a gap assessment began with the The objective of the Social Management Model is to have a single, aimofachieving specific SDGs for mining in integrated way of operating at Group level.
This enables the LosPelambres area of influence.
It set out application of common engagement principles, methodologies and toaddress social and environmental issues practices, guarantees excellence in project execution, measures infutureprogrammes and projects and to impacts and has a socio-territorial risk management system that incorporateprocesses that contribute to the offers the quantity and quality of information needed to make achievement of theobjectives.
SOCIAL PROJECTS AND PROGRAMMES See page 50 for more information Antofagastas portfolio of social management projects and programmes comprises voluntary, mandatory and committed initiatives that seek to legitimise the Groups activities, provide business continuity and contribute to community development in accordance with their interests and needs.
It also strengthens links A portfolio of 133 initiatives has been developed, of which 25% are with its stakeholders to create a long-term relationship of complete, 40% in execution and the remainder are at the conceptual understanding and coexistence.
These initiatives are focused on the economic, social and environmental development in Los Pelambres area In 2018 the Group agreed strategic and long-term guidelines for its ofinfluence.
The following programmes stand out: employment, portfolio of social management projects and programmes.
In 2019 productive diversification: education, road safety, city, community, thechallenge will be to implement these guidelines throughout the local identity, health: and waste and water issues.
business, with the aim of incorporating and or modifying elements inthe processes, projects and programmes.
This will ultimately The measured impacts include: add value to achieve positive results for both the communities 2 Improvements to public spaces 24,000m built and more than and theGroup.
2 Construction of green areas 55,000m, increasing such areas by FROM COMPETITION TO COEXISTENCE 2 0.9m per inhabitant.
In 2014 the mining division developed a new and innovative local Investments and improvements to mitigate water scarcity engagement framework called Somos Choapa We are Choapa.
3 146,000m of storage tanks, 180km of improved irrigation canals, By2018 this framework was established throughout most of provision of 1,642 l s of surface water.
LosPelambres area of influence and has been replicated successfullythrough the Dialogues for Development initiative CHOAPA I OPEN INNOVATION attheGroups operations in northern Chile.
In 2018 Los Pelambres launched Choapa i, an open innovation After four years, this innovation has resulted in a redistribution of platform developed with university students to address social power among the different stakeholders, as well as alignment towards challenges.
The pilot project is under way in the Choapa Valley, a shared vision of a sustainable future in the areas where we operate.
seeking to create an innovation collaboration space for productive social challenges in the community.
Figure for social economic contribution includes, for both mining and transport 1 division: community investment programmes We are Choapa, Dialogues for $33.7m $0.6m Development, FCAB social initiatives, social projects and programmes established as part of our legal commitments, donations and sponsorships, Caimanes Mining division Transport division agreement, Foundation Los Pelambres 38 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 ADDRESSING SOCIAL CONCERNS Engagement mechanisms: dialogue with local people is crucial for aligning views on the region, resolving disputes and addressing TRAINING SOCIAL LEADERS concerns.
To strengthen such dialogue, Antofagasta uses different Antofagasta believes that better qualified social engagement mechanisms: citizen dialogue, round tables, community leaders contribute to communities progress.
In meetings, participatory environmental monitoring with the community 2018, 118 social leaders participated in a Social and community visits to operations, as well as communications in the Leaders Training Diploma course that had been media, on websites and social networks.
developed offered as part of the Somos Choapa Formal complaint mechanisms: each of the Groups operating framework and was supported and accredited by companies has a formal system to monitor its commitments to the the University of Santiago.
community and to investigate and respond to queries and complaints.
Conflicts: engagement mechanisms based on the Somos Choapa design have allowed community concerns to be aired, creating opportunities to resolve possible issues sooner and avoid high Los Pelambres has carried out various activities to contribute to the conflictlevels.
However, there are communities that are not yet recovery and or improvement of public spaces for the community.
partofSomos Choapa, with whom other dialogue mechanisms In2018 the most popular initiatives were the Recreo Programme, havebeen used.
One example is the Cuncumn community, close toimprove communities public spaces and green areas, and the toLos Pelambres, with whom dialogue was established to address the GranMateada initiative encouraging neighbours to drink mate a inconvenience caused by unusual levels of dust from the Los Quillayes traditional hot drink together in communal areas.
This led to an agreement to strengthen preventative Protecting natural and cultural heritage is part of the Groups history.
measures when elevated levels of dust are detected.
In 2018 Los Pelambres supported the opening of the Parque Rupestre Water availability: water scarcity, mainly caused by long periods fide Monte Aranda Monte Aranda Rock Art Park in the Choapa Valley, ofdrought, has been a constraint on the development of various which protects and displays archaeological pieces from the local productive activities.
This is especially evident in the central region indigenous culture.
Meanwhile, the transport division has restored ofChile, where the majority of agricultural activity is concentrated heritage buildings in the centre of Antofagasta city and built a andcoexists with different activities, such as mining.
This is one of railwaymuseum that displays restored railway carriages from the Antofagastas greatest challenges, as the Choapa Valley, where Los lastcentury.
Pelambres operates, is in this region.
For this reason, operational Developing local skills and employment prospects: the Groups measures are in place to protect water quality and efficiency of use.
operating companies aim to improve local employment prospects See page 46 for more information through hiring initiatives and job-training programmes.
See page 40 for more information In addition, initiatives designed in conjunction with the community and public agencies have improved the structure and efficiency of local Antofagasta is convinced that increasing the skills and opportunities of irrigation systems.
The programmes focused on the needs of small young people allows social development to meld with the needs of and medium-sized farmers, as well as the availability and quality of mining in the future.
The Eleva Programme, a public-private initiative, drinking water for communities.
Good examples of this are the promotes relevant and high-quality professional technical training and Confluye and APRoxima programmes.
job opportunities for the young people on the programme.
Likewise, Culture and heritage: communities cherish their identity and cultural Los Pelambres supported the construction of a Technical Training heritage and this has led to the creation of programmes that work Centre in Los Vilos that opened in 2018.
304 students were trained with the communities to recover cultural traditions, public spaces and there during the year, and the vast majority were studying free places rich with local history.
For example, the transport division has introduced initiatives to creategardens and clean spaces near or next to its railway lines, 1.
A strong social performance by the Groups companies is encouraged among workers through the Performance Management System with a 5% weighting with andhighlights the history and culture of the area each year with a respect to overall performance.
popular event called Carnivalof Giants.
See page 129 for more information antofagasta.
