STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT ON LOS PELAMBRES EXPANSION Strong ongoing stakeholder engagement and relationships are central to the Groups long-term sustainable success.
During 2018, the Board approved a $1.3 billion investment to expand the Los Pelambres mine in the Choapa Province in the Coquimbo Region of Chile.
The expansion will add an average of 60,000 tonnes of copper a year to the mines production over the first 15 years of operation and involves the construction of a desalination plant, water pipeline and additional plant infrastructure.
In reaching an approval decision, the Board and each of its Committees received and carefully considered, at regular intervals over a study period of several years, detailed information in relation to the interests of, and impact of the project on, the Groups stakeholders.
Specific information relating to the impact of the project was received through extensive and collaborative stakeholder engagement processes.
Some of the specific stakeholder considerations arising from these processes include the following.
GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS WORKFORCE The formal environmental approval process for the Los Pelambres 30% of the projects workers will come from the Coquimbo Expansion commenced in June 2016, involving participation from Region.
At its peak, the construction will require 3,000 workers.
the citizens of the Salamanca and Los Vilos municipalities, more Workers will be fully trained to meet the safety and other than 100 professionals, 20 companies from various fields, and standards required by the Group and for this project, including awide range of governmental agencies, trade associations and awareness training on the impact of this increased workforce communities, representing the views of their own stakeholders.
andactivity in the province during the construction phase.
To The feedback received was used to clarify and refine elements assist the local workforce, the Group is operating a mobile office ofthe project design in the interests of stakeholders.
The that provides job application support in the local communities.
environmental permit for the project was finally received SUPPLIERS inFebruary 2018.
The main project contract is with the EPCM contractor Bechtel.
LOCAL COMMUNITIES Bechtel is working with three local supplier associations to engage Prior to the formal environmental approval process, Los with local suppliers for the project and a local supplier platform Pelambres initiated a voluntary preliminary participation process has been launched to connect project contractors with local aimed at gathering the communities comments and concerns, suppliers for goods and services.
withthe idea of incorporating them, when possible and appropriate, All of the projects suppliers and contractors are required to intothe project design.
This open house process allowed them comply with the Groups policies relating to safety and health, tounderstand the projects planned activities and phases of environment, ethics, labour conditions, compliance and risk development before the formal permitting process began.
Ongoing compliance is subject to monitoring and result, localcommunity views on and concerns about water supply, audit processes and mechanisms are in place to require suppliers localemployment and the impact of construction activities on and employees of contractors to report any conduct that is not livelihoods were identified at an early stage.
inaccordance with the Groups Code of Ethics.
This can be done The capital cost of the project includes $500 million for a through the Groups website, by intranet, by email, by letter, or by desalination plant and water pipeline.
The desalination plant will using a dedicated whistleblowing hotline.
Likewise, monthly audits supply the expansion of Los Pelambres and a potential further of contractors ensure that all labour law requirements are fulfilled.
growth phase as well as acting as a back-up for the existing CUSTOMERS operation should extreme dry conditions occur.
First production is expected in the second half of 2021 and to The project also includes voluntary commitments relating to: average approximately 60,000 tonnes over the first 15 years a. the professional development of local suppliers efforts ofoperation.
This additional production will allow the Group to aimed at improving skills and capabilities to allow some of maintain its long-term relationships with existing customers, many these suppliers to supply key inputs for the project, as well of whom have been with us since Los Pelambres first began asancillary services in the future, and production in 1999. b. road maintenance and safety and health measures to reinforce the availability of emergency healthcare, mitigating the impact of additional workers and construction in the province.
Processes are in place to monitor the impact of the project on local communities and throughout the construction period.
The Further details on the Los Pelambres Expansion project are set out on results will be reported to the Sustainability and Stakeholder pages 70 and 71 Management Committee and to the Board.
Further details on the Groups relationships with stakeholders and stakeholder engagement mechanisms are set out on pages 34 to 43 96 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018
