ENVIRONMENT Antofagasta seeks to prevent, mitigate and control the impact of all its activities on the environment.
The Group remains committed to achieving the sustainable and efficient use of natural resources throughout the business cycle.
WATER AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT MINING Antofagasta continued to implement its Environmental Management Model, approved by the Board in 2017, which seeks to ensure strict Antofagasta Minerals adopted ICMMs Water Stewardship Framework compliance with environmental requirements and having no incidents 4 to reinforce its management of water resources, introducing the that have impact on the environment.
The model is focused on four framework at its operations during 2018. areas: leadership, incident reporting, operating risk management and regulatory risk management.
In 2018, 45% of Antofagastas total water consumption came from thesea, significantly higher than 9% a decade ago, when only Michilla Environmental performance is reported monthly to the Executive used sea water.
The main loss of water is through evaporation Committee and biannually to the Sustainability and Stakeholder andnowater is discharged into waterways.
Water reuse rates are Management Committee, as well as being one of the Groups annual considered in the original design and subsequent modification of the performance bonus targets.
operations, and reuse rates have been consistently high, varying In 2018 significant progress was made in implementing visible between 80% and 96%.
Antofagastas operations are zero discharge, leadership, with on-site visits by the Executive Committee and each with some residual water remaining inside the tailings dams.
In 2018 operations senior leadership teams.
During the year, 182 audits 3 Antofagasta consumed 36.9 million m of continental water.
werecarried out to verify compliance with corrective action Los Pelambres mainly uses continental water from the Choapa River completions and environmental requirements.
in the Choapa Valley, which is a water-stressed zone.
The Company During the year, the reporting of low-potential incidents increased by isan active member of the Ro Choapa Monitoring Committee, which 91% owing to training and the dissemination and standardisation of seeks long-term solutions to local water shortages and permanently reporting criteria.
This tool creates a preventive and vigilant culture.
monitors water quality and quantity in the surrounding area.
The Los Pelambres Expansion Project includes the construction of ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE adesalination plant in the port area at Punta Chungo that will produce In Chile, large-scale projects are subject to strict environmental and up to 400 l s of desalinated water for industrial use.
1 social impact assessments by the environmental authority SEA, Sea water will be collected some 730 metres from offshore and will which evaluates all project impacts, including those to water, air, soil pass to the desalination plant in a tunnel 20 metres below the seabed, and biodiversity, and to energy and water consumption.
SEA project without the need for pumping, reducing the environmental impacts on 2 approval includes legally binding commitments set out in RCAs marine ecosystems.
thatcover prevention, mitigation and compensation measures and compliance with these are regularly reviewed by the Environmental 3 Superintendency SMA.
Non-compliance can result in severe fines GLACIER and the revocation of operating permits.
BLANKETS Antofagasta has a total of 66 RCAs listing 7,683 environmental In 2018 Antofagastas Innovation Board approved a commitments and it monitors its compliance with an environmental proposal to test covering glaciers with a reflective management system adopted in 2017. blanketto help mitigate the accelerated melting of the The Los Pelambres Expansion Project was approved in 2018, glacier caused by climate change.
The pilot project will generating a new RCA and environmental commitments.
Construction start in 2019. is expected to commence in 2019.
Servicio fide Evaluacin Ambiental Environmental Assessment Service.
Resolucins fide Calificacin Ambiental Environmental Qualification Resolutions.
The Group had no significant environmental incidents or 4.
Further information on Antofagastas water report can be found at Carbon fines in 2018.
46 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT MINING WATER CONSUMPTION SOURCE IN 2018 3 WASTE MILLIONS OF M Source 2018 2017 2016 The Group has four Tailings Storage Facilities TSFs, two at Los Surface water 16,5 18,2 14,2 Pelambres, one at Centinela and one at Zaldvar.
All of the TSFs Underground water 19,4 17,2 13,5 usethe downstream method of construction, the safest form of Third party suppliers0, 9 1,2 1,2 construction.
Three of the TSFs are active and one, at Los Pelambres, Sea water 30,4 29,2 26,5 is inactive.
Total 67,2 65,8 55,4 The Mauro tailings dam at Los Pelambres is designed for extreme weather and severe earthquakes and has early warning and evacuation procedures in place and its physical and chemical CLIMATE CHANGE, monitoring system provides real-time information to the mine, local ADAPTION AND MITIGATION communities and the authorities.
In 2015 the dam withstood an 8.3 earthquake 100 km away without any negative impact to the integrity The effects of climate change are increasingly evident in Chile, of the dam.
withrising temperatures in the centre of the country affecting snow In addition, Antofagasta has pioneered the use of thickened tailings accumulation and snow and ice melt in the mountains.
This affects technology at Centinela, one of its four mines.
This innovation reduces Los Pelambres and Antofagasta is promoting measures to mitigate the moisture content of the tailings and makes them more stable, both the effects of and adapt to climate change.
during the operation of the mine and after it has closed, reducing the Following Board approval of a climate change standard in 2016, environmental impacts and risks associated with tailings dams.
Antofagasta set its first carbon reduction target in early 2018 to reduce forecast carbon dioxide emissions over the period 2018 to 2022 by 300,000 tonnes.
The mining division is making significant PROGRAMA TRANQUE TAILINGS DAM progress in pursuit of this target, increasing its use of renewable MONITORING AND ALERT SYSTEM energy and achieving energy savings and efficiency gains as well as reducing GHG emissions.
Antofagasta Minerals, together with other mining companies and inspection bodies in Chile, is pioneering anonline system to monitor the physical and chemical stability of tailings deposits.
The first pilot on an industrial scale began in 2018 at Los Pelambres El Mauro tailings dam, with the participation of the local community.
If the pilot is successful, it is expected the system will be incorporated into Chilean regulations.
co. uk 47 ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED The portfolio of Operating Excellence projects was analysed to determine the projects contribution to reducing energy ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION TO CAPTURE GHG consumption and GHG emissions.
The conservation and remediation of 11,000 ha of forest KPIs to measure new projects.
will capture an estimated 25,000 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 peryear.
In 2019 the tasks will be to: Develop the Groups electromobility roadmap.
Create an outline corporate energy portal.
ENERGY Strengthen the governance structure through the use of the MANAGEMENT Operating Model and highlight energy as an important variable to be considered in decision-making.
Energy represents approximately 21% of the mining divisions total Develop and promote standards that incorporate energy production costs, made up of 14% electricity and 7% fuel.
During 2018 the governance and structure of the Energy Management In 2018 Antucoya renegotiated its electricity contract.
Together with System was reformulated.
This involved updating and adapting ISO new contracts coming into force at Los Pelambres and Zaldvar, 50001 to the Groups own management structures, with the objective Antofagasta Minerals energy consumption from renewable sources of standardising energy management, maximising operational will increase from 21% in 2018 to 58% by 2022 under assumed productivity and streamlining cost controls.
Work focused on establishing the foundations of the system: The Executive Committee approved the structure of the system before its dissemination to the Companys main stakeholders.
Consumption profiles were prepared by each of the Groupsoperations.
Further information on Antofagastas carbon emissions can be found at Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Change www.
48 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT BIODIVERSITY AIR Antofagastas Biodiversity Standard was approved by the Board in Antofagasta Minerals has strong air-quality monitoring and dust- 2016.
It was developed in conjunction with the Wildlife Conservation suppression programmes.
The mining division operates no copper Society WCS and is aligned with ICMMs position statement on smelters, so is not exposed to toxic air emissions such as lead, Biodiversity and Protected Areas.
It has three goals: to prevent and arsenic and selenium.
Antofagasta Minerals innovation programme, minimise the Groups impact on biodiversity, to appropriately restore InnovaMinerals, made a pioneering proposal to reduce dust emissions or compensate for any such impact, and to generate additional through electromagnetic technologies, which will be piloted in 2019. benefits for the areas in which the Group operates.
Most of the Groups biodiversity challenges are in the Choapa MINE Valley, where Los Pelambres is located, an area rich in biodiversity.
CLOSURE Los Pelambres has undertaken several biodiversity projects over theyears including the restoration of a coastal wetland recognised Antofagasta has no operations close to closure.
The Group has underthe Ramsar Convention that had become an illegal waste adopted comprehensive mine closure standards that ensure both legal dump, and the protection of both Santa Ins, a rare temperate relict compliance and that the physical and chemical stability of the facilities rainforest, and Palmas fide Monte Aranda, one of Chiles last remaining go beyond regulatory requirements for post-closure environmental palm forests.
All the Groups operations in Chile have See page 39 for more information closure plans approved by Sernageomin the National Geology and Mining Service as required under Chilean law.
Plans also allow for The Group protects over 26,921 hectares of high conservation the funding of closure activities and making financial provision for valueland.
