STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT HOW WE ENGAGE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Successful relationships with stakeholders are essential to the long-term success ofthe Group, which has a network of arrangements in place to ensure that theviewsand interests of stakeholders are represented.
EMPLOYEES The Group has a workforce of approximately 21,500 people employees and contractor workers at its operations, projects, exploration programmes and corporate offices.
Most of the workforce is based in Chileand 54% comes from communities where the Groups operations are located.
Contractors account forapproximately 70% of the workforce across the Groups operations.
WHY WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE Constructive relationships built on mutual respect Site visits and transparency help the Group to retain Quarterly on-site CEO updates employees and avoid labour disputes, contributing Engagement surveys to greater productivity and business efficiency.
On-site reviews Contractors are essential to mining operations.
Operational continuity requires all contractors to Regular meetings with unions and contract adhere to the same standards expected of managers Antofagastas own employees, particularly in the Safety and health, and other meetings areas of safety and health.
SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITIES The Group coexists with diverse communities in Chile, located in the Antofagasta and Coquimbo Regions.
It is a priority for Antofagasta to strengthen engagement with communities in order to grow together and contribute to the long-term development of the areas around its operations.
Groups activities also naturally affect local communities and Antofagasta strives to prevent, mitigate and compensate for any adverse impact that these activities may have.
FORWARD WHY WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE CORE THINKING The wellbeing of local communities is directly Ongoing communication through the local engagement related to Antofagastas business success and frameworks Somos Choapa and Dialogues for the Group is convinced that mining activities Development, which include: participatory dialogue, mine bring unique opportunities for national and site visits, grievance mechanisms and  localdevelopment.
processes and diverse communication channels.
Regular reporting of dialogue with local communities tothe Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee and the Board.
EXCELLENCE SUPPLIERS The Group works with over 4,800 suppliers, of which 93% are based in Chile.
Suppliers provide a large range of products and services, from grinding media to catering.
WHY WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE Suppliers play a critical role in the Groups ability The procurement team maintains close relationships tooperate sustainably, safely and efficiently and and regularly meets with suppliers.
therefore we ensure that they comply with the The Group encourages suppliers to raise any issues or Groups standards and guidelines on concerns they have about their relationship with the .
Company, their contracts or the workforce.
The Group pays special attention to the top Antofagasta works together with local communities to suppliers in each category to ensure the most foster local employment capabilities through offering job cost-effective, efficient, and sustainable solutions opportunities and training and or by providing services across all operations.
34 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT IN FOCUS ALLIANCES AND WORKING TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABLE MINING Antofagasta believes that working in partnership is the best way to ensure that Chile develops its remaining copper resources some 22% of global reserves inasustainable way for future generations and the long-term benefit of the country.
As we have seen over the years, if the mining industry performs well, Chileperforms well.
As a major mining group in Chile, Antofagasta plays a leading role in the public-private institutions Alianza Valor Minero MiningValue Alliance and Programa Nacional fide Minera Alta Ley National High-Grade Mining Programme, with the aim of building a strategic agenda for Chilean mining.
The Group also sits on the Executive Committee of the Consejo Minero Mining Council, which represents Chiles large mining companies, and participates in the Sociedad Nacional fide Minera National Mining Society, Sonami as well as the UN Global Compact network in Chile, among other activities.
At the international level, Antofagastas mining division is a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, the International Copper Association ICA, for which Antofagastas CEO Ivn Arriagada was elected chairman of the Board in 2018, the International Molybdenum Association IMOA, and the Civil Society and Mining & Metals Working Group of the World Economic Forum WEF.
CUSTOMERS The majority of our sales are to industrial customers, who refine or further process the copper concentrate and cathodes that we sell.
Most sales are made under long-term framework agreements or annual contracts with sales volumes agreed for the following year.
WHY WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE The majority of the Groups sales are based Major customers as equity holders in our on long-term customer relationships and miningoperations commitments.
Without these long-term Annual trip to Japan by the Chairman and relationships, the Group would be required severalDirectors to meet our partners tosellagreater proportion of cathodes and Marketing teams regular meeting with concentrate on the spot market, which entails customersaround the world greater uncertainty around pricing and volumes that may be sold.
Representative marketing office in Shanghai SAFETY SHAREHOLDERS AND HEALTH Shareholders are financial institutions and individuals that own shares in the Company.
Shareholders are entitled to receive dividends from the Company and to vote at shareholder meetings to elect the Directors of the Company, among other matters.
WHY WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE Shareholders, and particularly institutional The Company regularly meets with institutional investors, are constantly evaluating their investorsand banks analysts at industry conferences RESPECT VALUES holdingsin the Company as part of their and face-to-face meetings and on roadshows.
Providing insightful information about Once a year the Board attend the Companys the Companys strategy, projects and performance AnnualGeneral Meeting where they are available is crucial for their assessment of the Company.
The Group pays special attention to maintaining The Company also provides regular production fluent and transparent dialogue with shareholders, andfinancial reports.
in order to ensure that every shareholder is treated and informed equally.
INNOVATION GOVERNMENTS AND REGULATORS Governments and regulators implement social policy and set the framework within which we are required tooperate.
WHY WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE Mining is a long-term business and timescales can Antofagasta works alongside mining associations run into decades.
Political cycles are typically far andindustry-related state bodies to engage with shorter and material developments and changes to governments on public policy, laws, regulations policy, legislation or regulations can have a major andprocedures that may affect the business.
impact on the Groups business.
The relationship with governments and regulators isstrictly subjected to their engagement mechanisms, which are clearly defined under the Chilean Lobby Law No.
