Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report OUR PEOPLE CEO and CFO again hosted a webinar for We work hard to attract and retain Setting direction The One Ascential staff, as well as meeting external analysts, conference the best people in the industry to investors and members of the press.
We hold our all-Company conference in January work across all of our brands and each year and this enables more than 1,400 teams, and aim to be a destination Valuing the diversity our people bring individuals to hear and engage in this years employer in every one of our key Our business success is driven by difference and strategy, plan and goals for the business from we value what everyone brings.
We welcome operating territories and markets.
the very beginning of each annual business all employees without unfair or unlawful cycle.
It aligns objectives and interests, as well discrimination and aim to inspire everyone to do as giving our people an exceptional opportunity their best work and build their careers with us.
In to network, share learnings and collaborate our most recent global engagement survey, 91% in relation to our business goals.
Our annual of our people agreed that individual differences conference and Gala Awards night has become were respected and people were treated fairly an important part of our journey to a more at Ascential external benchmark norm: 83%.
The event is a large investment by the Company, but we The Company has again contributed to the believe it is key to continuing to share, learn Hampton-Alexander review, which aims to and connect with colleagues and celebrate drive an improvement in the gender balance the great work of individuals and teams in FTSE leadership.
The review has a stated across the business.
This year was our most target of 33% representation of women on international conference yet, with nearly half Ascential brings FTSE 350 Boards and Executive Committees, of participants coming from outside the UK.
as well as in the direct reports to the Executive together talented people Committee, by the end of 2020.
The Our peoples opinions matter and brilliant brands.
November 2018 review once again showed Our peoples opinions matter and we hold that Ascential ranks number 1 in the FTSE regular updates to inform them on business 350 for women on boards, with 57% women progress and answer any questions they may Ralph Tribe Chief People Officer on our plc Board.
We also exceed the 33% have, and gather their ideas on improving target for the wide leadership population, with customer and internal engagement.
36.6% women in the combined group of the Executive Committee and their direct reports.
We conduct and act upon our annual employee engagement survey, which, Whilst we are happy with the gender mix of along with face-to-face feedback, helps us our Board, there is more work to be done.
understand what people think, and what they We do still have a gender pay gap and we are want to achieve in their careers with us.
For us, the gap exists because whilst 53% of our employees are As we develop a One Ascential culture across women 2017: 57%, only 49% of our managers all brands and geographies, we are progressively are female 2017: 52%, and at the most senior aligning key people processes globally.
For levels less than 40% of our leaders are women.
the first time, this year we ran a single unified engagement survey globally.
Our aggregated We therefore need to recruit, encourage, engagement score improved four points to 74 support and promote more women into our out of 100 with scores for Manager Quality, senior leadership group to address the gender Pride, Motivation and Loyalty indicators all pay gap.
To accelerate our progress in tackling above 80.
We have a clear plan to drive further this issue, we launched a significant new improvement across all engagement areas Women in Leadership programme during the in 2019 and are targeting a score of 80. year, led by Carla Busazi, Managing Director of WGSN.
We ran surveys and focus groups Each area of the business also regularly hosts to gather ideas on how to improve career face-to-face all-staff meetings known as development outcomes and inclusion efforts, Town Halls, webinars and team briefings to and this resulted in a clear plan of action share news and progress against priorities.
New initiatives will include a Company-wide mentoring scheme At the 2018 Company conference, our CEO where all senior leaders will take on at least and CFO hosted an open, live Q&A session, two mentees, explicit promotion of flexible taking questions from the floor.
Responses working, and refined recruitment policies.
were recorded and posted to the intranet for anyone unable to attend.
The post-event Share ownership survey recorded this as one of the most popular One of our business beliefs is that when segments and it was repeated in January the Company prospers, we want everyone 2019.
Midway through the year, when we who has contributed to prosper.
announced our half-year 2018 results, the 42 Governance Financial statements Strategic report When we floated the Company on the London Stock Exchange in February 2016, everyone employed by the business at that OUR VALUES AND time was gifted 500 shares subject only to their continued employment in 2019.
Later in LEADERSHIP BELIEFS 2016, we launched the UK and International Sharesave and US Stock Purchase saving plans for employees wishing to invest in Ascential plc shares.
These plans enable people in any one of our offices around the world who wish to enrol to save a set sum each month and in future years buy shares at a discounted purchase price.
In total, 42% of all eligible FORWARD THINKING employees participate, and saving levels have increased by 43% from an average of 178 per We think big and see the bigger picture to help our month in 2017 to 256 per month in 2018. customers translate insight into advantage Benefits Leadership beliefs As part of an attractive overall employment Focus we prioritise and keep things simple package, people are offered a range of benefits, Facts we use data and insight to inform our work which they have the opportunity to amend Empathy we can be relied upon for fairness and consideration during the year.
We seek to offer solutions that suit our different generations, so benefits are frequently reviewed and introduced, extended or removed depending on demand and feedback.
Our goal is to have all employees in any given country and any part of the business operate on consistent terms and conditions.
Employee development CHALLENGING Ascential is a fast-paced, international business.
We are thought-provoking and persuasive always We are a responsible destination employer and searching for a better way to get things done are determined to attract and retain the best in our industry by offering our people great Leadership beliefs opportunities to develop and grow their skills Creativity we are smart, proactive innovators and careers with us.
We invest seriously in Transparency we tell it as it is development and reconfirmed our commitment Openness we insist on honesty, integrity and openness to learning by launching Ascential Learn Fest at the 2018 all-Company conference.
This was a new one-of-a-kind learning experience that capitalised on the fact that everyone was in one place for our January conference and all employees were able to choose three world-class training sessions from a choice of seven, in one intense day of highly relevant learning.
Feedback was exceptional and we TRANSFORMATIVE will refresh and repeat the idea annually.
We are visionary and confident making changes happen We also launched a number of new training programmes during 2018, including a new global Leadership beliefs Leadership Development programme, a new All-in we have a clear focus on outcome programme for all line managers, and our Peak No silos we are one team Performance programme aimed at driving new  skills and techniques across the whole workforce.
Each programme is available in both live and virtual formats to maximise accessibility and participation rates amongst all our people across all our locations.
43 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED Employee recognition Embedding industry leading standards Our values and leadership beliefs We offer regular recognition and rewards linked Ascential runs a number of formal cross-brand The Ascential Beliefs were fully launched at to performance.
Professional Communities in key areas such as the 2018 conference and have gathered good Sales, Content and Marketing.
They allow us to define The most hotly contested recognition scheme how we do things at Ascential, supplementing each year is the Ascential Excellence Awards, The Ascential Sales Academy is led by internal peoples understanding of what we do.
These which is open to all employees.
Judged by senior and external sales experts and offers many sales Beliefs are now clearly presented on all key leaders of the business, they are a fun and performance programmes and leadership alumni websites including our Corporate site and effective way for the achievements of individuals programmes.
This year, this community our Recruitment and Careers site, as well as and teams to be recognised.
The highlight of this developed a major new Sales Leader being directly incorporated into key people award programme is during the annual Ascential development programme that will go live processes such as Performance Appraisal and conference when winners of holidays funded by early in 2019.
We believe that this the Company including for the top content and framework is an important contributing factor product creators, marketers, business partners To ensure we set ourselves up for future to our very high scores for Organisational and highest sales achievers in each business success, inspire world-class content and embed Integrity 86% in our annual engagement area are announced.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, a content excellence culture, Ascential offers survey.
They give people extra confidence this year we had more entries than ever before.
Run by several in their leaders, where most 87% agreed of Ascentials most respected and successful that our Executive team led by example in Elite is a reward programme to recognise the content leaders with an outstanding track relation to these beliefs, and why so many brilliant work of our people: from sales and record in driving exceptional content, the 88% of our people are proud to work here.
marketing excellence to exemplary teamwork in-house Content First programme aims to and above-andbeyond performance in further embolden our content talent across Ralph Tribe every discipline.
Each quarter, a small group the whole business to deliver the content our Chief People Officer of winners is recognised and rewarded with customers need, when they need it and in 22 February 2019 an experience, which have included tickets to a simple to find and digest format.
This year exclusive venues, dinners and sporting days we evolved our bespoke Content Leaders out.
This year 30 of our Q2 winners were taken programme where content leaders from around on an educational trip to China where they the world were brought together to collaborate were able to participate in Money20 20 China with peers to drive content innovation within at its inaugural launch event and visit Alibaba, their own teams and brands.
Armed with one of the biggest platforms in Ascentials robust data on customer insight and market eco-system.
Key learnings and insights were knowledge, these leaders continue to raise filmed and narrated by participants and then the standard of Ascentials content to be the communicated in a series of live videos to all best in each of the industries we serve.
employees across Ascential so that everyone might benefit from the experience.
