Governance Financial statements Strategic report CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We are focused on supporting our community and having a positive impact on our people, and the customers we serve.
SUPPORTING OUR CHARITY PARTNERS Our CSR Ambassador, Vicky Ogden, won the Outstanding Individual Award at the Trusts Partnership Awards.
Ascential was also nominated for All Round Hero for company under 5,000 employees from The Partnership Awards.
CEO support for The Fairbridge programme, which offers group The Princes Trust activities and one-to-one support to develop the skills and confidence both Duncan Painter and Natasha Christie-Miller Ascential is passionate about education and helping visited the centre in 2018 with Ascentials video team filming young people to get a better start in life.
We have an to encourage awareness.
active and impactful relationship with The Princes This year we participated again in The Princes Trust Million Makers Trust our work in 2018 included: competition.
Million Makers is a Dragons Den-style fundraising challenge which sees teams of employees from companies across the Sponsorship of the Educational Achiever of the Year Award at its UK competing to raise 10,000 or more over a period of six months.
national annual awards this years winner received three months Team Aspire, our 2018 Million Makers team, raised over 350,000 full paid work experience with Cannes Lions, including two weeks in 2018 through various fund raising initiatives with colleagues and on site at the festival in Cannes in June 2018. key partners, including a Golf Day, a Company-wide Tough Mudder, Seven Ascential Executives travelled to the UK regions from Glasgow a Gala Dinner, a global cycle ride challenge, bake sales and raffles.
Our to Belfast to join the judging committee for next years winner for contributions to Million Makers has grown considerably over the years: Educational Achiever of the Year, also returning to attend the Regional Awards Ceremony for the successful Nominees.
Contribution Support for the Trust at our events donating a stand at Pure Year 000 London in the February and July show for two entrepreneurial 2013 32 fashion designers giving them their first trade show.
We also 2014 73 donated a stand at the BETT Show in January for The Princes MILLION MAKERS TEAM 2015 88 Trust, as well as a Speakers Slot for the main stage arena.
RAISED OVER 2016 170 Involvement in the Get Hired programme and Get Started 2017 301 programmes, giving three candidates work experience.
Two more 2018 350 350,000 candidates are being interviewed for a 2019 start.
Every year, selection is based on historical precedent as well as a handful of new charities focused on timely issues that emerge as vital to the health of the marketing industry, notably preserving free speech and equality in the workforce.
MediaLink Within the marketing industry, MediaLink executives dedicate service in the form of board membership to several key not-for-profit industry Driving positive change in the industry.
organisations like the Advertising Council, Inc. and the Paley Center for Media, in addition to providing charitable donations.
The Advertising MediaLink raised over 200,000 in 2018, supporting a wide variety Council, Inc. in particular is allocated a high annual budget for its focus of charitable causes both inside and outside of the marketing industry.
on public service communications that raise awareness and inspire The range of emphasis spans social movements supporting action on numerous causes.
Michael Kassan, CEO and Chairman, disenfranchised groups, child advocacy, veteran and active duty MediaLink, is a member of the Advertising Council Board, the military support, cures for chronic diseases and patronage of the arts.
American Advertising Federation, the Hollywood Radio and Television MediaLinks focus remains on causes important to the marketing Society, the Paley Center for Media, and the UJA Marketing industry at large as well as those important to our clients and staff.
Communications Committee, of which he is Chair.
He has also served as Chairman of the California State Senate Select Committee on the Entertainment Industry.
45 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED SUPPORTING OUR CHARITY PARTNERS CONTINUED People from the WGSN Content, Mindset, Sales and Product teams partnered with Just Like Us, and our people are now working with the charity to deliver presentation skills to Ambassadors recruited from universities across the UK.
A crack team of seasoned public speakers was pulled together from WGSN and Just Like Us across WGSN, who duly made the college-aged young people feel so at ease that we were told more of the students felt In 2018 WGSN partnered with LGBT charity comfortable enough to share their own stories than ever before.
Through WGSNs industry contacts, the charity gained access The charity is focused on supporting young LGBT people, to an ASOS supplier, who kindly took on the printing of a ensuring that they hear powerful positive messages about t-shirt order, offering Just Like Us a significant cost saving on its being LGBT from other LGBT young people.
It is building a previous order.
WGSN also secured the services of high-profile national network of university student volunteers, giving them Instagrammer and Fendi collaborator Reilly, who agreed to allow the skills they need to communicate with impact, and sending Just Like Us to use one of his artworks for printing on t-shirts.
them into secondary schools to share their stories, challenge stereotypes, and explain why LGBT equality is important.
We were also able to offer the charity access to our meeting rooms in London and, in the future, we hope to help it with its social media strategy and website.
Its been a strong and inspiring start to a relationship we want to maintain and grow in 2019.
Groundsure giving Volunteering day back to the community a global initiative The dedication of our people is at the heart We encourage all our people to take one day per of Groundsures success.
year to volunteer with a charity of their choice.
Our success in the market is mirrored by support for various In 2018, examples included our Hong Kong office charities and organisations making a positive social impact.
volunteering on a Nature Reserve WWF Wetlands, and the Glenigan team in Bournemouth helping with the The Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team brings the distribution and selection of food banks since August.
teams expertise to life, with many Groundsure people spending hours helping to map out areas in response to Staff from Ascential, DeHavilland, and WGSN also took part in natural disasters, to help aid recovery teams to find and the Lets Get Cooking initiative for the Bloomsbury Community help the people affected.
The team completed 12 sessions Centre, which provides a hot three course lunch for elderly and in 2018, with five Groundsure people per session.
And our UK-based people also supported The Harington Scheme, a garden centre for young people with learning Groundsure also hosts Codebar, an initiative to promote difficulties, with two groups from across the business working diversity in tech.
Codebar is a UK non-profit with individual together weeding, clearing, pruning and planting for a full day.
chapters based around the UK, aiming to make technology and computing more accessible to underrepresented people in the community.
Groundsure hosts and sponsors regular workshops and have facilitated up to 30 attendees to collaborate to learn programming in a safe and supportive environment.
Ascential Pride, our first LGBTQ network, was also founded by the Groundsure team.
46 Governance Financial statements Strategic report PROMOTING EQUALITY actively support and inspire women early in their careers to take advantage of the bold content, industry luminaries and career changing opportunities at Money20 20: and serve as a platform to inspire others to create actionable plans for inclusion and empowerment in our industry.
Money20 20 Rise Up In 2018, a cohort of 30 women were chosen to take part in Money20 20 took a fearless approach in addressing an exclusive Money20 20 curated agenda, complete with a gender inequality in the financial services industry series of bespoke content sessions and unique networking opportunities.
Alongside regular programming, they took part during the 2018 Las Vegas event, launching Rise Up: a in one-to-one mentoring with the most respected industry new, annual programme designed to empower female leaders, private meetings with keynote speakers and special leaders through actionable skills, tools, and mentorship events.
The programme will continue throughout 2019. to help them take their careers to the next level.
Alongside Rise Up, and further demonstrating our sustained The goals of the programme are to: commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion in the financial embrace inclusivity as a strategic imperative to drive our services and FinTech arena, Money20 20 Europe will also sponsor industry forward: the third European Women Payments Network EWPN annual amplify the business benefits of inclusivity across the financial conference, continuing the partnership between the two organisations.
services and FinTech industry: The EWPN 2019 conference will move to the RAI in Amsterdam empower women with actionable skills and learnings that can and take place alongside Money20 20 Europe in June 2019. catapult their careers to the next level: Cannes Lions nurturing diverse talent In 2018 Cannes Lions reinforced its commitment As members of the Unstereotype Alliance, Cannes Lions continues to promote criteria for judging centred on recognising and avoiding to promoting diversity within the creative industry.
Further, the R GA and Cannes Lions Start-up Collaborating with HP on the #MoreLikeMe project, it Academy now focuses on fostering female founders and encourages is part of an initiative to cultivate the talent of young, start-ups with at least 51% ownership by a female founder to apply.
The programme chose 15 amateur creators to attend the 2018 Cannes Lions Festival and See It Be It, a Cannes Lions initiative, provides executive training, mentoring and exclusive networking opportunities for mid-level attend mentoring sessions and networking events.
creative women from across the world.
The curated programme, launched in 2014, focuses on supporting future female creative The Roger Hatchuel Academy is another initiative for young, leaders and facilitating them with the tools and support network aspiring creatives.
The six-day programme is aimed at students they need to succeed and thrive.
In 2018, See It Be It partnered interested in pursuing a creative career in advertising.
This year with Spotify, the first major brand partnership for the programme Cannes Lions challenged our reps to provide three nominations to date, to take the programme to a new level and extend the from diverse backgrounds focusing on underrepresented global outreach through regional events in Toronto, New York, groups within their specific countries.
Weve also partnered Dubai, Karachi, LA.
Chief Creative Officer with Google Creative Campus to bring a further ten individuals at Badger & Winters, Madonna Badger was announced as the and all chosen participants will attend Google Mountain View Global Chair of the programme for a three-year tenure.
for five days in autumn 2019 to further develop their skills.
47 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED PROMOTING EQUALITY CONTINUED needs to be done to develop that pipeline.
The Senior Leadership Academy is the Be Inspired response to that challenge.
Our opento-all monthly workshops also benefited even more retailers last year, with 539 attending throughout the year up 12% on 2017.
Retail Week Be Inspired The 2018 conference was another highlight, with a 21% increase in those attending in 2017, and resulting in an NPS score of 72.
Some 465 Retail Weeks Be Inspired programme continues to delegates from 132 different brands heard from some of the biggest grow in scale and influence.
It has now amassed the names in retail, technology and media, including Ann Summers CEO Jacqueline Gold CBE, Global President of Mars Foods, Fiona Dawson, support of 90 ambassadors throughout the sector, and co-founder of NotOnTheHighStreet.
including the leaders of WHSmith, Greggs, Post Office, White Stuff and Habitat.
Support continues to grow throughout the sector.
Accenture became headline sponsor last year after a years association as A major development for Be Inspired in 2018 was the launch of its consulting partner, and were joined by partners from a range Senior Leadership Academy in November an annual 12-month of sectors including property, technology and recruitment programme specifically for senior retailers identified by our retail who are recognising the value of Be Inspired and its ability to partners as high-potential future leaders.
It is widely recognised that effect real change in gender diversity throughout business.
to help address the lack of balance at boardroom level in retail, more SUSTAINABILITY Operating sustainable events Cannes Lions Lions for Good In 2018 our Events Operations team launched an internal Cannes Lions operates two awards as part of Lions for Good Sustainability Committee to focus efforts and share ideas to make our the SDG Lion and Glass: The Lions for Change.
events as green as possible.
We are working more closely than ever with event production companies and venues, checking their recycling Introduced with the support of the United Nations, the SDG Lions and sustainability policies and asking for reports and existing policies.
aims to advance awareness of the Sustainable Development Goals unanimously adopted by world leaders at the United Nations in And we are seeing success.
For the first time this year, Money20 20 2015 by encouraging the creative industries to focus on US found an alternative 100% recyclable material to use for all foam harnessing creativity to positively impact the world.
In its inaugural board branding it used across the event.
W e are now looking to roll year the SDG Lion received 898 entries generating a total of this out across all events.
We are continually working to find 323,280 in funds.
We announced the distribution of these funds environmentally friendly solutions for our event assets.
For example, to Friends of the Palau National Marine Sanctuary and the Palau in 2019 Cannes Lions will be using cardboard water bottles instead of Pledge Legacy Team the client behind The Palau Pledge which plastic, eliminating the use of 70,000 single use plastic bottles around won the first SDG Lions Grand Prix at Cannes Lions 2018. the festival.
The SDG Lion is part of the Good Track at Cannes Lions, We are working with suppliers who can provide badge wallets and along with Glass: The Lion for Change, which also donates lanyards made of recycled plastics and continue to look at how we the funds generated from entries.
In 2018 Cannes Lions can make sure we are always using the greenest options for any announced that 114,450 of the proceeds from the 2018 Glass sponsored assets that are being purchased by us as the organiser.
Lion will be used to fund initiatives furthering research into The delegate bags for all events are biodegradable and certified identifying and combating harmful stereotypes in advertising.
vegan, made in 100% carbon neutral factories with organic cotton.
The beneficiaries are The Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media and UN Womens Unstereotype Alliance.
As we move into 2019 we are looking to partner with other large-scale event companies to try and solve these problems as an industry.
Cannes Lions also continued to support the ACT Responsible initiative.
48 Governance Financial statements Strategic report SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED WGSN sustainability forum Environmental Established in 2017, WGSNs Sustainability Our environmental footprint has been significantly board is a self-nominated group who are decreased by the sale of our Exhibitions business.
passionate about sustainability, and improving the As a data-led information business, we now have a reduced direct environmental and people impact of the industries environmental impact.
However, we work hard to ensure that our we service.
events have as low environmental impact as they can and continue to minimise our direct environmental impact where we can.
You The 14 members include representatives from WGSN Fashion, can read more about how we run sustainable events on page 48.
Insight, Lifestyle and Interiors and AI Ventures with a full spectrum of editorial seniority across activewear, materials, interiors, retail, In our office buildings Ascential works with our landlords to denim, print and graphics, kidswear, consumer insights, marketing, ensure installation of energy efficient low-temperature hot water, beauty and travel.
The group meet on a monthly basis to create water-efficient low-flush toilets, low-energy lighting and lowinternal learning sessions and to discuss editorial strategy.
power technology across all its offices.
We recycle in all of our offices, and promote recycling.
The aim is simple: we use our position as the industrys leading trend forecaster to help our clients to become more sustainable, We continue to focus on digital content, greatly reducing our highlighting the opportunities this presents and helping paper consumption.
Even though print requirements for the them to navigate this daunting evolution of our industry.
business have further declined, we optimise paper efficiency through use of best-in-class printing equipment and technology.
2018 saw sustainability shoot into our clients strategic priorities as the fashion industrys impact on the environment As a global business, there is a need for our people to travel to our and resources placed it as the second most polluting various global offices.
However, we do encourage all our people to industry globally, with an estimated annual US$500bn lost work collaboratively using the technology available, reducing the through clothing underutilisation and lack of recycling.
This year we introduced a new global communication system Fuze, to better support our people as they communicate Throughout the year, WGSNs internal Sustainability board and collaborate across the globe.
ran an internal learning programme of speaker sessions and resources to upskill the Content team on this fastFull details of our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions are evolving and complex topic.
The team reached out to global set out in the Directors Report on page 78. thought leaders in the field of sustainability to bring us up to speed on cutting-edge developments from bioengineered colour dyes, to closed loop systems, chemical recycling and block chain technology for supply chain transparency.
Our materials team produced sourcing guides that help our clients understand the impact of their fabric choices on everything from water usage to animal husbandry.
Our trends team continues to track the latest style influencers in the field: sustainability is consistently the number one trending hashtag within WGSNs daily trend feed.
As our clients seek to better understand consumer expectations on the subject, our WGSN Insight reports were among our top 20 reports of the year including Sustainability and the Consumer which had over 13,000 unique page views.
The Sustainability board also writes WGSNs monthly Sustainability Bulletin, which is published across all WGSN platforms reporting on the latest news and developments from new brands and technologies to changes in government legislation.
Ellen MacArthur Foundation, A New Textiles Economy: Redesigning fashions future 2017, www.
49 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Operating responsibly Our suppliers, partners and other third parties involved in the provision of goods or services are important to us.
They underpin our ability to serve our customers and while delivering our valued and trusted products it is important to us that we and our suppliers do business responsibly, ethically and lawfully.
Business Integrity: There is no tolerance of any form of corruption, bribery, fraud, extortion or embezzlement and business is conducted in a manner that avoids conflicts of interest.
Fair Competition: Fair business, advertising and competition are supported.
Third Party Code of Conduct Intellectual Property, Privacy and Data Security: There is respect for and protection of intellectual property rights, data and Ascentials Third Party Code of Conduct outlines confidential information to safeguard them against and prohibit loss our ethical approach to doing business and explains and unauthorised use, disclosure, alteration or access.
Our intellectual property and confidential information are handled and the standards we require our suppliers to abide by data processed on our behalf only for the purposes for which they directly and in their own supply chains.
The main were made available, received or collected in accordance with the principles of this Code are: reasonable directions provided by us.
Business Continuity: Any disruptions of business are prepared for No Forced, Involuntary or Child Labour: There is no forced, including but not limited to natural disasters, terrorism or cyber involuntary or debt bonded labour in any form including slavery attacks.
Risks are frequently assessed and appropriate controls put or trafficking of persons.
There are no workers under the age of in place and regularly tested.
15, or where it is higher, the mandatory school leaving age in the Quality, Health, Safety and Environment: All required quality, health, local country.
The use of legitimate workplace apprenticeship safety and environment-related permits, licences and registrations programmes, which comply with all laws and regulations, are obtained, maintained and kept up to date and their operational is supported.
and reporting requirements are followed.
Proper provision is made Freedom of Association: Workers, without distinction, have for the health, safety and welfare of employees, visitors, the right to associate freely, join or not join labour unions, seek contractors, the community and the environment.
Health, safety representation and join workers councils as well as the right of and environmental risks are regularly assessed and appropriate collective bargaining in accordance with local laws.
controls are put in place bearing in mind the prevailing knowledge Diversity and equality: There is equality of opportunity and of the industry and of any specific hazards.
treatment regardless of physical attributes or condition including pregnancy, gender, religion or absence of such beliefs, political The full Third Party Code of Conduct is available opinion, nationality, sexual orientation, age or ethnic background.
Equal pay for work of equal value is supported.
Discrimination or intimidation towards and between employees is opposed, including all forms or threats of physical and psychological abuse.
50 Governance Financial statements Strategic report OPERATING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED nature of product or service procured or supplied and whether it is typically associated with unfair labour practices : and iii the nature of our business operations.
Our assessments are informed by sources such as the Walk Free Foundation.
During 2017, all high risk suppliers were contacted and required to adopt our Third Modern Slavery Party Code of Conduct and to complete a questionnaire designed to identify any areas of non-compliance with that code, as well as Ascential recognises that slavery, forced labour and confirm that our supply chain is slavery and human trafficking free.
human trafficking Modern Slavery is a global issue This process was continued through 2018 for suppliers classified as medium risk.
We reserve the right to terminate the business and one that Ascential understands affects innocent supplier relationship without consequence or liability if a supplier lives.
Ascential has a zero tolerance approach to fails to fulfil the minimum standards outlined in our code.
Modern Slavery of any kind.
Our work to eliminate Modern Slavery is supported by customers, suppliers Our full Modern Slavery Statement, which has been approved and Ascential employees.
by the Board, is available on our website www.
We assess the risk of Modern Slavery in our internal operations and our external supply chain against criteria including: i geography countries where bonded labour is more prevalent : ii sectors the Anti-corruption Policy Whistleblowing policy We have a formal anti-corruption policy, which We have a formal whistleblowing policy which is communicated to all employees, that prohibits encourages all staff to report suspected offering, promising or giving a bribe: requesting, wrongdoing, in the knowledge that their agreeing to receive, or accepting a bribe: and concerns will be taken seriously and investigated bribing a foreign public official to obtain or retain appropriately, and that their confidentiality will business or a business-related advantage.
The policy includes details of how employees can report Wrongdoing includes failure to comply with legal obligations or any suspected violations of the policy confidentially to the regulations, including bribery and corruption.
The policy also aims Ethics Helpline, Protect, and assurances that concerns raised to reassure staff that they should be able to raise genuine concerns in good faith will not be criticised or penalised in any way.
without fear of reprisals, even if they turn out to be mistaken.
The Board has appointed the Audit Committee to review We provide details of a confidential helpline operated by an the implementation of this policy and the Audit Committee independent third party, Protect, as well as contact details for the periodically monitors and audits compliance.
There were no Independent Chairman of the Audit Committee within the policy.
reported breaches of the Bribery Act during 2018.
We also require our suppliers to adopt a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption through our Third Party Code of Conduct.
