Corporate responsibility Combining ethical investing with sound business practice The spectrum of capital and investment Introduction Investing in approaches, below, provides a framework for understanding impact and the relational Ashmore recognises the importance of EmergingMarkets link between Ashmores investments and Corporate responsibility CR incorporating the social and environmental aspects of the An emerging market is commonly defined transparency, fairness, accountability and countries where the Group has presence, by as any country which is considered middle integrity and believes that these principles are virtue of driven investments made through or low income by the World Bank.
Under fundamental to the Groups operations.
this definition emerging market countries The Group continues to monitor best constitute approximately 80% of the Business conduct and integrity practice developments in all relevant areas globalpopulation.
Ashmore believes that its reputation as an of CR, including its approach to investing, ethical, trustworthy provider of investment Investment approach community programmes, employees, and services is essential to align clients and As a leading Emerging Market fund environmental management.
Ashmore seeks to manager, Ashmore recognises the impact its CR programme and initiatives are designed establish and maintain long-term relationships investment can have on the communities and to be relevant to the nature and scale of its with its clients and intermediaries and societies in which they are made.
With over business and to protect and reinforce the believes this to be a fundamental prerequisite 25 years experience investing in Emerging Groups reputation and integrity.
Ashmore for the growth of its business.
Markets, Ashmores investment professionals looks forward to building upon these firm have developed expertise in the wider impact foundations for the future.
of their investments beyond the strong Consistent with the various philosophies financial returns they secure for clients.
explained herein, Ashmore is a signatory Ashmore recognises that the impact of the ofthe UN Principles for Responsible investments will vary in breadth and depth Investment UNPRI.
With greater This is a summary of the CR report more detailed client and industry focus on investment information can be found in the full CR report on the Groups website: impact, Ashmore investment professionals www.
com continue to strengthen their impact analysis.
Traditional Responsible Sustainable Themed Impact Impact First Philanthropy Investing Investing Investing Investing Investing Financial Returns Driven ESG Risk Management Environmental and Social Impact Driven Limited or no focus Negative screening Negative and Sectoral focus Sectoral focus Sectoral focus on ESG risks or based on ESG positive screening addressing social addressing social addressing social opportunities in the risks and or and financial returns and environment and environment and environment underlying personal values drive investment challenges that challenges that challenges where a investments selection generates requires financial financial return commercial growth return sacrifice cannot be generated Financial returns Financial returns Social and Social and Financial returns Financial and only and negative social environmental and environmental and positive social positive social environmental some financial returns only environmental environmental screens: returns: assessment: returns: Weapons, Social Waste reduction Clean energy Alcohol enterprises Gender equality Healthcare Pornography Trading charities SRI Funds Microfinance Gambling B-Corps Financial returns Social returns Source: Adapted from Bridges Ventures 2012 34 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Responsible investing across Ashmores themes in publicly For example, sovereign debt data sets include: traded securities Environment: ND Gain Index by Notre Dame University Ashmores approach follows the PRIguidelines CO Consumption per capita by The Global Carbon Project on best practice and Ashmore fully supports 2 the United Nations Global Compact principles.
Social: Human Development Index by the UN For publicly traded securities issued by Index of Economic Freedom by Heritage Foundation companies and sovereigns, portfolio managers are directly responsible for formal Governance: Corruption Perception Index by Transparency International environment, social and governance ESG Democracy Index by the Economist Intelligence Unit research and integration, in conjunction with Government Effectiveness Index by World Bank their traditional equity and credit analysis.
They undertake specific ESG training such as the Enhanced Financial Analysis course by For corporate debt and equities, the investment Responsible investing across PRI and accredited by CFA.
teams may also review a variety of other Ashmores themes in Alternatives Ashmore has recently unified its approach external research sources, including Ashmores alternatives investment theme across publicly traded equities and fixed brokerage reports and publications by includes private equity and debt as well as income, and the latter for both sovereign international bodies.
infrastructure, real estate and healthcare.
and corporate issuers, to integrate ESG These activities may involve taking significant Portfolio managers use the answers to the consistently across these asset classes, stakes in investee companies.
In such questions to determine an ESG score for andalso for portfolios containing multiple circumstances Ashmore is in a position to each security in which Ashmore invests, and sub-assetclasses such as blended debt engage positively with the management of these scores are reviewed against prevailing and multi-asset portfolios.
This approach is these companies.
In many cases, Ashmore valuations of securities to determine if an based on a unified set of questions that form believes it to be beneficial to its investors appropriate risk premium has been built into part of the ESG research, and on a unified to be active in promoting its brand locally by Ashmores scenario analyses.
In practice ESGscoring methodology that is discussed improving the livelihoods of the employees ESGconsiderations can have a material inweekly Investment Committee and in those companies where it has a significant impact on investment decision-making, sub-Investment Committee meetings.
When undertaking initial due diligence for instance on portfolio weights of certain on any investments within the alternatives The questions address both the current positions, or subscribing, or not, to new theme, Ashmores deal memorandum status including historical events such as equity and bond issues.
checklist takes into account the consideration fraud or environmental issues and policies Screening of ESG issues within the investment analysis and initiatives that may improve ESG While Ashmores focus is on integrating ESG and decision-making process, and the performance and mitigate risks in future.
considerations to the investment processes, investee companys own ESG practices.
The portfolio managers are responsible for it also believes that certain investments that answering these questions based on external Engagement do not meet its values should be excluded data sources and proprietary research.
To this Engagement is fundamental to Ashmores from portfolios.
For example Ashmore end, portfolio managers undertake a quarterly ESG approach.
In the context of developing screens for, and prohibits, investment in review of the relevant data, to provide context countries in particular, Ashmore believes that companies manufacturing cluster munitions for the scoring methodology and ensure they it is possible to apply engagement within the banned under the Oslo Convention.
take the latest available data into account ethical investment debate.
Ashmore seeks to comply at all times with when they make their assessments.
Portfolio sanctions imposed by applicable government In the equities and corporate debt themes, managers have access to a wide variety of authorities, and also, at a geographical level, Ashmore believes that good corporate relevant external ESG data to assist in their screens across all investment themes for governance helps to align the interests of research.
While this data can be useful in countries which are on the United Nations company management with those of its setting an overall framework, it tends to Security Council and EU UK Sanctions and shareholders and bond holders.
Where be infrequent and backward-looking, and the US Office of Foreign Assets and Control possible, Ashmore seeks to maintain therefore Ashmores proprietary research OFAC lists.
constructive dialogue with company tends to be most important.
Ashmore considers whether Ashmore is able to screen client portfolios companies have governance frameworks to meet specific client requirements for in place, across E, S and G factors that are geographic, sector and stock specific in line with applicable country codes and restrictions, such as alcohol, animal food serve all stakeholders interests.
Ashmores products, armaments manufacturers or research and engagement focus on dealers, gambling, pornography, tobacco improvements in such frameworks and the and coal.
implementation of relevant policies to achieve positive outcomes.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Corporate responsibility continued In many jurisdictions, and to the extent With regard to Emerging Markets Proxy voting and corporate actions consistent with Ashmores fiduciary duty to performance it is believed that in certain Subject to specific mandate restrictions, its clients, Ashmore exercises voting rights circumstances it may be more beneficial to Ashmore is generally responsible for voting as a means to signal views to company keep investment flowing combined withthe proxies and taking decisions in connection management.
Ashmore has developed influence which accompanies it, in orderto with proxy voting with respect to equities, detailed guidelines to guide voting decisions, continue being able to help a countrys bonds, loans or other debt instruments held but will, as appropriate, consider resolutions population.
In country specific terms at the by or on behalf of the clients for which it on a case-by-case basis taking into account all extreme, being cut off from capital may allow serves as investment manager adviser.
undemocratic rulers to control their people Where Ashmore is given responsibility for by attributing blame for economic problems For sovereign debt, Ashmores ability to have proxy voting and corporate actions, it will to foreign actions.
While Ashmore complies an influence is generally limited to a decision take reasonable steps in the circumstances with all applicable sanctions, there is a view whether or not to invest.
However, at a to ensure that proxies are voted in the that sanctions may be counter-productive country level Ashmore believes that it is able best interests of its clients.
Protecting the and may reduce the welfare of the population to exert an influence through dialogue with financial interests of its clients is the primary considerably.
Conversely, to the extent that governments and central banks.
In order to consideration for Ashmore.
governments pursue policies that are not assist with the debate on the broader issues in the best interests of that country then Managing conflicts of interest affecting Emerging Markets, to enhance this is likely to become a poor investment Conflicts of interest can arise where: i the the understanding of these markets globally proposition.
Hence, Ashmore takes interests of Ashmore conflict with those and to address market failures, Ashmore investment and engagement disengagement of a client firm vs. client conflicts and engages with numerous international public decisions on a case-by-case basis relative to ii the interests of one client of Ashmore sector financial institutions with the objective the specific circumstances and investment conflict with those of another client vs. of aiding transparency and best practice.
criteria in the best interests of clients.
Ashmore has policies Engagement with a country, as opposed and arrangements in place to identify and to disengagement, is akin to many small Ashmore does not always evaluate manage conflicts of interest that may arise pressures every day as opposed to one quantitative variables in its assessment of between Ashmore and its clients or between big stick.
By remaining engaged over an country risk but will also examine qualitative Ashmores different clients.
Ashmore has a extended period of time it is often possible factors such as the relationship between policy of independence that requires its staff to have a positive influence and to add politics and economics and their interaction.
to disregard any personal interest, relationship credibility.
Ashmore is also mindful of the Ashmore has always sought to develop or arrangement which gives rise to a conflict potential impact that the abuse of power networks locally in order to adopt a better of interest and to ensure that the interests of and corruption by governments in certain quality of forward looking decision-making in clients prevail.
countries can have on its reputation and this area and to promote an understanding of the interests of its clients and continuously local cultures and politics.
monitors and takes into account suchfactors.
36 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Participants of the 2018 Ashmore Challenge event on Mount Toubkal left and Mount Kinabalu right.
The board of trustees consists of ten Social investment approach Impact and Ashmore employees, representing four global The Ashmore Foundations approach offices, as well as one independent trustee.
is underpinned by the belief that, while philanthropic In addition to the board of trustees, Ashmore economic growth continues in the employees engage in the governance of the EmergingMarkets, many communities, investing Foundation through sub-committees.
particularly those in rural and isolated locations, remain locked out of this prosperity.
Investing for impact Social investing in Emerging Markets Social and economic inequalities continue At the heart of impact within Ashmores Ashmore supports the Foundations charitable to increase and communities continue to investment universe lies the Ashmore activities through the provision of pro-bono lack the skills and resources needed to Foundation.
The Foundation was established office space, administrative support and a participate fully in economic development.
in 2008 and seeks to make a positive and matched funding commitment for employee Moreover, a thriving civil sector is essential sustainable difference to disadvantaged donations to the Ashmore Foundation.
The to  in nascent and communities in the Emerging Markets in Ashmore Foundation is supported solely by emerging nations.
which Ashmore operates and invests.
Ashmore and its employees globally.
Crucially, this support from employees extends beyond To achieve this goal, the Ashmore Foundation The Ashmore Foundation believes that with financial aid to active engagement with NGOs aims to develop long-term relationships with the right support, the most marginalised and through mentoring and helping them expand locally based non-government organisations disadvantaged communities can grow and their network of contacts.
Since its inception in 2008, the prosper.
The Foundation therefore focuses its Ashmore Foundation has dispersed over social investment strategy on programmes To mark the Ashmore Foundations tenth 4million to 70 civil society organisations that aim to equip people with the skills anniversary, two teams of Ashmore employees in25 Emerging Market countries.
and resources they need to increase their took part in a two-day fundraising challenge.
In livelihood opportunities, enabling them to Borneo, a team of ten employees representing The Ashmore Foundation functions meet their basic needs while also supporting three of Ashmores Asian offices climbed independently of Ashmore and is registered in economic growth and beginning to address Mount Kinabalu.
While in Morocco, a team of the United Kingdom as a charity and company broader societal inequalities.
15 employees representing the London and limited by guarantee.
It is staffed by a full New York offices climbed Mount Toubkal.
time Executive Director who is responsible The challenge raised in excess of 111,000 in formanaging the Foundations affairs.
support of the Foundations charitable partners.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Environmental and Social Impact Driven ESG Risk Management Corporate responsibility continued Impact in Colombia FUND I FUND II Sustainable MAXO SAS Elecnorte SAS Investing Swiss Terminal Barranquilla Concesin Sta Marta STRACON Paraguachn BBY Ruta del Cacao IEP Infraestructuray Energa TermoMechero FUND I Avidanti Themed Impact Transambiental Investing Colegio Britanico fide Cartagena CoSchool SAS Impact First Investing IED-Vital Organizacin Fundescodes Philanthropy Salva Terra Fundacin las Golondrinas Children Change Colombia The spectrum of Ashmores impact across Ashmores investment often involves Ashmore Colombia is able to leverage its its investment themes and through the taking significant stakes in investee skills and expertise to promote responsibility Ashmore Foundation is illustrated in companies.
In such circumstances, and impact.
It supports investee companies Ashmores operations in Colombia.
Ashmore is in a position to engage with management to improve their own practices.
management to improve environmental, The team is able to extend their support Ashmore Colombia identifies and social and governance issues that affect the to the social investees and philanthropic manages environmental and social risks company and its stakeholders.
Ashmore partners of the Ashmore Foundation, and opportunities associated with the believes this active approach is ultimately providing support, advice and crucially companies in which it invests.
Its approach beneficial to its investors and reflects the access to networks and areas in need.
is driven by the leadership team, with the level of commitment of Ashmore with the Ashmore Colombia CEO also acting as In 2018, Ashmore Colombia received community and the environment located in the Environmental and Social Manager.
the Latin American Private Equity and the areas of influence.
Ashmore Colombia seeks to ensure that Venture Capital Associations LAVCA its investments in businesses minimise Investments in transportation and Environmental Responsibility in a PE Deal adverse impacts and enhance positive and education fall within the Sustainable award for its investment in transportation sustainable effects on the environment, and Themed Verticals of the investment company Transambiental, given its strong communities and employees.
While the Ashmore Foundations commitment to reduce CO emissions 2 social investments in education, rural and provide a high quality service to the livelihoods and peace and confliction community.
reconciliation fallwithin the Impact First .
38 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 ESG Risk Management Strategic report training is given to all employees and Ashmore investing in High ethical standards new employeesare required to attend a local communities Ashmores Board of Directors maintains compliance induction process.
Ashmore recognises the positive impact it can a strong corporate culture employing high have on the communities where it operates standards of integrity and fair dealing in the Ashmore actively promotes high ethical and is committed to creating lasting benefits conduct of the firms activities, compliance standards.
To support this objective, Ashmore in those locations where Ashmore has a with both the letter and the spirit of relevant has a published Code of Ethics that sets out presence.
Beyond support for the Ashmore laws and regulations and standards of good the culture, standards and operating principles Foundation, employees across all offices and market practice in all jurisdictions where the that guide its actions in the markets in which subsidiaries are encouraged to engage with Groups business is carried out.
and support local community projects.
This aim is to ensure that the Group is fit and commitment is reflected in Ashmores policy proper to undertake its business, to safeguard Personal securities trading by employees is enabling employees to take one day annually the legitimate interests of Ashmore clients subject to compliance approval procedures to support charitable projects.
and is monitored to ensure this does not lead to a conflict of interest.
Employees Ashmore employees drive local volunteering Ashmores UK regulated financial services are not permitted to solicit or accept any initiatives and take part in a range of activities entities are Ashmore Investment Management inducements which are likely to conflict with to support disadvantaged communities Limited AIML and Ashmore Investment their duties to clients.
In London, Ashmore Advisors Limited AIAL which are authorised Compliance declarations employees continued to cultivate their and regulated by the FinancialConduct All employees are required to sign a relationships with local charities and in Authority FCA.
Other investment declaration that they acknowledge and May a team of volunteers hosted a group management subsidiaries located overseas understand the Code of Ethics.
Personal of 15young people from London based are regulated by the appropriate authorities securities trading is subject to a separate charity Resurgo.
Participants learnt about the in their countries of domicile.
Compliance declaration on a regular basis.
Employees are business and were provided with CV and is a key element in the overall investment also regularly required to acknowledge and presentation skills coaching.
The Compliance sign a declaration relating to the maintenance function is fully integrated and co-ordinates Ashmore continues to make an annual of their training and competence.
Information the compliance process across all entities in donation to homeless charity Crisis, in on the receipt of declarations is reported to the Group.
Compliance maintains a detailed support of its Christmas card campaign, as the Risk and Compliance Committee.
Compliance Manual which all employees well as an annual donation of foreign coins are required to acknowledge that they have Further details on internal controls and risk and banknotes to the Alzheimers Society.
Regularcompliance management processes can be found on pages 28 to 33.
Sustainable Development Goals Financial crime Ashmore is committed to minimising financial The UN Sustainable Development Goals 1.
Reducing the proportion of men, women crime including money laundering, bribery and children of all ages living in poverty in all SDGs provide clear framework for its dimensions according to national definitions.
and corruption, fraud and market abuse.
achieving broader societal objectives Ashmore has adopted risk-based policies towards sustainable development.
and procedures on financial crime and is Ashmore fully supports the global agenda 2.
Supporting agricultural productivity and committed to ensuring that its customers incomes of small-scale food producers for achieving a better future for all and identity will be satisfactorily verified before through knowledge, financial services, recognises its responsibility as a global markets and opportunities for value addition abusiness relationship commences and and non-farm employment.
actorand a UN PRI signatory in helping thisis ongoing throughout the course of toachieve the goals.
The prevention of substance abuse, therelationship.
including drug abuse and harmful use of As Ashmore continues to develop its alcohol and provide young people with the Training is provided to all employees in tools they need to make more informed approach to responsible investing and decisions about their lives.
relation to anti-money laundering and applying ESG risk factors into its investment countering terrorist financing, including 4.
Access for all women and men to process it will continue to monitor and customer due diligence requirements, affordable and quality technical, vocational review its contribution to achieving the education.
Youth relevant skills, including identifying money laundering, suspicious technical and vocational skills, for employment, SDGs.
Through its investments, and decent jobs and entrepreneurship.
the social investments of the Ashmore Foundation, Ashmore seeks to address Ashmore has procedures in place to afford 5.
End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls, and ensure womens full and theSDG listed.
staff a means of airing concerns regarding effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making behaviours or decisions that are perceived in political, economic and public life.
Over the coming years Ashmore willcontinue to be unethical on a confidential basis to develop its approach to supportingthe whistleblowing procedures.
Productive employment and decent work Sustainable Development Goals and for all women and men.
Protect labour rights and promote safe working environments for understanding with greater clarity how its all workers, including migrant workers, in particular womens rights.
investments contribute to the global agenda.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Corporate responsibility continued Ashmore works to ensure employee Communication People policies and procedures reflect best practice Ashmore communicates with all employees within each of the countries where it has a worldwide via e-mail and group conference Ashmore directly employs 253people in 10 presence.
This means having policies and calls supported by online presentations, and countries worldwide, excluding employees practices that make Ashmore an attractive also uses employee meetings to facilitate the in companies significantly controlled by place to work in respect of the day-to-day exchange of views with senior management funds that Ashmore manages.
Ashmores operating environment and culture, and also and discuss the progress made by the Group.
people have always been its most important in respect of medium to long-term growth asset, at the heart of everything it does.
The On an annual basis, Ashmore aims to bring for employees, personally, professionally Groups priority is to attract, develop, manage together employees from all global locations, andfinancially.
and retain this talent in order to deliver either in person or through video or telephone the potential of the organisation, which is Recruitment conferencing, in order to facilitate better reflected in the low levels of unplanned staff Ashmore believes that its unique business relationships and communication between turnover FY2017 18: 8.6%.
Ashmore wishes model and culture leads existing employees areas of the Group and to ensure that there to be an employer that the most talented to recommend Ashmore as a good place to is a consistent strategy message delivered to people aspire to join wherever it operates.
work to help the Group to attract the most allemployees.
Ashmore will aim to fill Ashmore recognises that the involvement of Employee development roles through internal mobility where this its employees is key to the future success of Ashmore believes that constructive is possible, in order to enable employees the business and adopts a practice of keeping performance management is an essential to develop within the organisation.
employees informed on significant matters tool in the effective management of its Inaddition, where specific requirements affecting them, via email and in meetings people and business.
Ashmore ensures all arise, theGroups Human Resources arranged for the purpose.
Ashmore has employees are competent to undertake their department has strong relationships with consistently operated a remuneration strategy roles, have access to training as it is required, specialist recruitment providers to source that recognises both corporate and individual and can demonstrate their continuing appropriate candidates.
Ashmore is also committed professional development.
to following good practice in employment Training The performance management cycle matters, recognising the part this plays in Ashmore employs qualified, talented comprises setting objectives and an annual attracting and retaining staff.
professionals to manage clients money performance appraisal against those agreed and to work in support functions.
However, Ashmore seeks to ensure that its objectives.
Output from this performance Ashmore recognises that development is a workforce reflects, as far as practicable, process is used to assist with decisions career-long activity and so it will also support the diversity of the many communities in on remuneration, career development any necessary professional development or which its operations are located.
qualifications that will assist employees in also recognises the diverse needs of its developing and maintaining their levels of Progression and recognition employees in managing the responsibilities competence.
All employees are provided Ashmore is committed to internal of their work and personal lives, and believes with a comprehensive induction on joining progressionof its employees whenever that achieving an effective balance in the business, providing an introduction to thisis possible, to ensure that it retains these areas is beneficial to both Ashmore the Companys structure, culture, operations themost talented people.
Ashmore encourages and practices which includes amongst these employees to act ethically and to uphold The diverse and global nature of its business areas all elements of compliance issues, an clearly the standards which its clients have allows the Group to consider placing talented understanding of the key business ethics come to expect.
It also means ensuring that individuals into very different opportunities operating within the Ashmore Group, current employees understand the strategic aims and around the globe and into very different best practice and up-to-date information on objectives of the Group and are clear about types of businesses in order to foster their relevant regulations.
their role in achieving them.
development, and to benefit clients.
Continuing professional development is also taken very seriously at Ashmore, and all staff must undertake bi-annual reviewsofthe learning and development they have undertaken during the review periodand formally document and record their achievements.
40 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report It is the Groups policy to give appropriate Ashmore has provided data to the 2018 Remuneration consideration to applications from disabled Hampton Alexander review and this Ashmores remuneration structure aligns the persons, having regard to their particular information can be found in Ashmores interests of employees with shareholders.
For the purposes of CR report.
Itis believed that by making sure employees training, career development and progression are truly stakeholders in the business, their Health and safety including those who become disabled during actions and decisions will be consistently The health and welfare of its employees is of the course of their employment all are forthe benefit of clients, shareholders and primary importance to the Group.
treated on equal terms with other employees.
Ashmore promotes high standards of health Ashmore operates a zero tolerance policy Ashmore recognises that individuals have and safety at work and has a comprehensive towards harassment and bullying and different personal requirements dependent health and safety policy which highlights has a formal policy that documents the on where they are in both their life and the Groups commitment to ensuring organisations commitment to ensuring career.
In response to this, Ashmore provides employees are provided with a safe and employees are treated with respect and employees with a range of benefits both healthy working environment.
In London dignity whilst at work.
non-financial and financial in addition to their Ashmore carries out regular risk assessments basic salaries.
of premises and provides staff with safety training including the provision of training to The annual discretionary compensation Gender diversity fire wardens and first aid representatives.
scheme is structured to be compliant Number of employees Ashmore also engages external consultants with the relevant regulatory guidelines.
to carry out regular health and safety and fire This scheme involves both an annual cash assessments in its London premises.
bonus as well as an equity award.
Ashmore encourages employees to take a longThere have been no reportable accidents in term view of both their and Ashmores the UK or overseas premises.
2 performance and the decisions they make, Information security and has structured the equity scheme Information security including cyber security such that this proportion of the employees Board is identified as a key principal risk to the remuneration is deferred for five years.
business which is subject to Ashmores Ashmore recognises the importance of 5 governance, policies and procedures and risk ensuring that the work life balance of assessment.
Ashmore assesses, monitors employees is appropriate.
Employees and controls data security risk, and ensures are therefore given generous annual that there is adequate communication leave entitlements in addition to all Male Female between the key stakeholders, which publicholidays.
include senior management and IT, human Ashmores employees health and 1 resources, risk management and control, wellbeing is vital to their sustained legal and compliance departments.
performance at work and therefore facilities Operating are provided for employees to cycle to Committee Ashmore has a layered security model, within work or take part in other sporting activities Senior which multiple complementary technologies from work.
Managers and processes are employed.
Ashmore staff undertake mandatory training in matters In the UK, Ashmore operates an integrated 10 of Information Security including cyber healthcare approach whereby its private security.
Ashmore routinely deploys security medical health provider and occupational updates to its systems and undertakes health clinics work hand in hand to promote regular vulnerability testing of its networks wellness amongst employees.
Similar and systems using a specialist service healthcare arrangements are also offered in provider.
Ashmore provides an annual report many of Ashmores international offices.
2 to the Ashmore Audit and Risk Committee on 83 Diversity its cyber security arrangements, and adopts The gender balance is currently 67% 170 a culture of continuous improvement which All employeeB soard.
people male and 33% 83 people female.
means that improvements can and do occur 170 Ashmore is committed to providing equal throughout the year.
5 opportunities and seeks to ensure that its Ashmore also affirms and or attests with workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, the key partners on an annual basis that they diversity of the many communities in which it have not been susceptible to cyber security operates.
Ashmore employs over 38 different Male Female attacks and vendors have taken all reasonable nationalities throughout the organisation.
steps to continuously monitor and protect themselves on cyber security weaknesses.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Corporate responsibility continued Taxation Recycling Environment As a large, multi-national organisation with a Ashmore has in place recycling programmes diverse geographic footprint, Ashmore seeks for waste paper, photocopier toners and As a company whose business is based to create value for its shareholders and clients other disposable materials.
Ashmore seeks fundamentally on intellectual capital and by managing its business in a commercial, to minimise the use of paper as part of its which does not own its business premises, tax efficient and transparent manner, within clear desk policy and electronic scanning is Ashmore has a limited direct impact on the the remit of applicable tax rules and bearing actively encouraged.
All printing is two-sided environment and there are few environmental in mind the potential impact of its actions on by default.
risks associated with the Groups activities.
Ashmore aims to Nevertheless Ashmore recognises that it has Ashmore is conscious of minimising its comply with all relevant tax laws and fiscal a responsibility to manage this as effectively impact on the environment.
For this reason, obligations, including accurate calculation as possible.
The Group continues to promote wherever possible Ashmore chooses paper and punctual settlement of tax liabilities and energy efficiency and the avoidance of waste stocks that have been sustainably sourced correct and timely lodging of relevant tax throughout its operations and a number of and which are Forest Stewardship Council returns and other required documentation initiatives, such as the recycling of paper, FSC accredited or equivalent for its with relevant tax authorities.
glass and other waste and the use of green marketing materials and business stationery.
In the spirit of tax transparency, Ashmore Energy Savings Opportunity complies with relevant global initiatives Property Scheme ESOS including the US Foreign Account Tax Ashmore does not own any of the Ashmore has confirmed its compliance with Compliance Act FATCA and the OECD buildingswhere it occupies floor space the ESOS obligations to the Environment Common Reporting Standard.
Ashmore and invariably buildings in which it does Agency in respect to the reporting period closely monitors developments arising from have a lease are multi-tenanted and costs ending on 5 December 2015. the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting are apportioned to each tenant pro-rated BEPS initiative and believes that the Groups Ashmore provides obsolescent according tooccupancy.
transfer pricing policy complies with relevant computers to Computer Aid Ashmores largest property occupancy international tax changes introduced by BEPS.
International is at its headquarters at 61 Aldwych, Computer Aid is a UK registered charity that Human rights and modern slavery London where it has a single floor of aims to reduce poverty through practical Ashmore supports the United Nations approximately19,000 square feet in a nine ICTsolutions.
Computer Aid sends these PCs Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Electricity to various projects across Africa and South usage in Londonis separately monitored by Ashmore has developed a Supplier Code America and furnishes Ashmore with details floor.
Energy efficient lighting is installed in of Conduct that applies to all suppliers that of where they are used.
Any units that are not the building with sensors which turn lights provide goods or services to Ashmore, usable are disposed of in an environmentally offwhen no movement is detected.
and outlines the basic ethical requirements friendly fashion.
that suppliers must meet in order to Mandatory greenhouse gas Further information available on the do business with the Group, including emissions reporting Groups website affording employees the freedom to Information on greenhouse gas emissions The following documents are available on the choose employment and not using any GHGs can be found in the Directors report.
com form of forced, bonded or involuntary labour includingchild labour.
Travel CR report Although Ashmore endeavours to make UK Stewardship Code statement maximum use of available technology, Conflicts of interest policy such as video conferencing, its business UK Tax Strategy statement model asan investor in Emerging Markets inevitablyrequires that investment Supplier code of conduct professionals and other members of staff Slavery and human trafficking statement travel frequently to these countries to investigate and monitor opportunities.
42 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018
