RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT BEING RESPONSIBLE IN EVERYTHING WE DO Being responsible is a crucial part of who we are and how we work at Ashtead.
We seek to act responsibly in everything we do.
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Implementation Monitoring Training HEALTH Customers and staff AND SAFETY Community Recruitment engagement Career development and training Community investment Rewards and benefits Helping out in COMMUNITIES OUR PEOPLE Diversity and equal emergencies opportunities Resource efficiency Control of hazardous substances THE ENVIRONMENT Mandatory GHG emissions reporting At the most basic level, acting responsibly At a broader level, being responsible Investors trust us to deliver good returns is all about the trust that makes our means we seek, through our sustainable throughout the economic cycle.
business function trust that the business model, to improve the lives of equipment we provide will arrive on time, our customers, employees, investors and Above are the responsible business trust that it will do what we say it will, trust the communities where we live and work.
elements that we judge to be the most that it will be well maintained to make sure Being active, engaged members of the material to our business and which we it works and trust that it is compliant with communities where we operate is discuss in detail here.
We assess why all health and safety requirements.
And enormously important to our staff.
each matters, how we have performed then, delivering all of that every time a Our customers trust us to provide and our objectives.
customer makes a new order or a new better service than our competitors.
customer hears we are worth trying out.
Our employees trust us to keep them safe and reward them well for their efforts.
46 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ENSURING ASHTEAD REMAINS The Group Risk Committee priorities this How we monitor performance A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS year included: We monitor health and safety by the The obligation for ensuring Ashtead number of reported incidents that occur remains a responsible business rests with assessment of the Group Risk Register: during our work.
We track and analyse all the Groups Board of directors.
The board identification and prioritisation of incidents to enable us to identify recurrent is assisted in this function by the Group business risks: issues and implement preventative Risk Committee which is chaired by reduction in accident rates: improvements.
The importance of health Suzanne Wood, our finance director.
continued training on driving hours and and safety is reflected in the fact that the Other members of the Committee are: vehicle fleet compliance: number of reportable accidents is one of health and safety training: our group-wide KPIs see page 33. the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants enhanced training capabilities, risk, environmental, health and particularly for key field personnel: At Sunbelt our online Incident Prevention safety teams: continued implementation of driver Model helps us track incidents occurring UK and US counsel: behavioural software tools: in the workplace and put in place new the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants refresher Competition Act and Bribery procedures to mitigate against those.
This performance standards internal Act training: year Sunbelt had 1,363 reported incidents operational audit teams: and updated business continuity plan: in North America relative to an average the Sunbelt board member to whom disaster recovery plan testing: workforce of 10,287 2016: 948 incidents the risk, environmental, health and performance standards audits: and relative to an average workforce of 10,001, safety teams report.
whilst A-Plant had 290 incidents relative to an average workforce of 3,294 2016: 284 The Group Risk Committee provides the HEALTH AND SAFETY incidents relative to an average workforce Audit Committee, and through them the Why they matter of 2,953.
For the purposes of our internal Board, with a comprehensive annual Health and safety are fundamental to our tracking, the term incident does not report on its activities including new business as we need to provide equipment necessarily mean that an employee was legislative requirements, details of that is safe to use and minimise the risks hurt or injured.
Rather it represents an areas identified in the year as requiring our people and our customers may event that we want to track and report improvement, and the status of actions encounter.
A strong reputation for for monitoring and learning purposes being taken to make those improvements.
excellent health and safety is a significant under our health and safety management It also facilitates the coordination of the competitive advantage for us.
We continue to focus on more environmental, health, safety and risk an ever-changing regulatory focus on timely reporting of every incident or first management activities of Sunbelt and safety and more stringent requirements aid event that occurs.
This continued focus A-Plant so that best practice and new for all operators, continues to assist has contributed to the increased number initiatives in one business can be shared our growth.
It is easier and cheaper to of incidents reported in North America.
with, and adopted by, the other.
outsource responsibility for equipment safety to us than for customers to worry Reportable accidents continue to be Our commitment to the highest ethical about it themselves.
This has been an defined differently in the US and UK.
standards means that the Group Risk important factor in the shift to rental that Under the relevant definitions which Committee also works to ensure these has underpinned our growth in the US generally encompass more accidents in continue to be communicated and upheld and reinforces our position in the UK.
the US than in the UK, Sunbelt had 165 throughout the business.
Our group-wide OSHA Occupational Safety and Health ethics and entertainment policies are Our extensive health and safety Administration recordable accidents communicated directly to employees programmes monitor, develop and 2016: 158 accidents which, relative to through dedicated communication and maintain safe working practices while total employee hours worked, gave a Total training programmes.
Whistle-blowing reminding our employees of the need to be Incident Rate of 1.18 2016: 1.20.
In the UK, arrangements, in place in both the US and safe at all times and look after their own A-Plant had 14 RIDDOR Reporting of the UK, allow employees, in confidence, health.
Our continued improvement is Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous to raise concerns about any alleged accomplished through a combination of Occurrences Regulations 2016: 26, improprieties they may encounter.
proactive safety and leadership training, reportable incidents which, relative to total enhanced safety programmes and timely employee hours worked, gave a RIDDOR Sunbelt designated 2016 17 as its Ethics incident response and investigation.
In Year to achieve 100% completion by all also help our customers ensure the safety order to compare accident rates between identified customer and or supplier-facing of their own employees including providing the US and UK, Sunbelt also applied job roles of a course on basic principles safety training as required.
In addition, we the RIDDOR definition to its accident including honesty, ethics and fairness, make a considerable annual investment in population which gave a figure this year in addition to complying with the law.
ensuring our rental equipment meets or of 89 RIDDOR reportable accidents in the exceeds the latest safety standards, as US and a RIDDOR reportable rate of 0.32. well as providing health and safety advice We remain committed to continuing to and materials along with each rental.
reduce these rates as much as possible.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 47 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT CONTINUED through cost savings due to lower fuel Other safety initiatives Safety initiatives usage, engine maintenance and accidents.
At Sunbelt we continue to conduct Safety Driver and vehicle safety Coordinator Bootcamps for each Safety Our US transportation fleet continues to operate as one of the safest fleets in the In addition to DBMS, employees are Coordinator in the company.
These training equipment rental industry.
We continued participating in online driver risk sessions ensure that each store has a our commercial vehicle training assessments that identify safe and unsafe representative trained in many of the programme across the US, with more than behaviours through interactive driving best practices we measure and use.
1,400 employees trained in vehicle safety modules.
By identifying the risk profiles and compliance.
Over the last four years, of our drivers, we will be able to develop During the year Sunbelt focused on our US commercial vehicle training specific training courses for them.
embedding within operations its initiatives programmes have been instrumental related to Sunbelt Safety, Health & in the education of more than 11,000 In 2017, Sunbelt will also begin Environmental SH&E Committees, employees nationwide.
We lead the transitioning from a paper version of a Short-Service Employee Programme, industry in continuously supporting the drivers logbooks to an electronic version.
and the Stop Work Initiative.
2016 17 training and education of employees in By switching over to the electronic drivers was the first full year of implementation commercial vehicle compliance and safety.
log, our drivers will receive real-time of Sunbelts procedure for Near Miss feedback on their hours of service and Reporting, Pre-Task Planning and Post Our motor vehicle incident rate continues our fleet safety compliance team will be Incident Management.
We achieved additional able to retrieve driver data immediately.
more complete reporting of incidents, decreases as we rolled out our Driver In addition to the electronic hours of and near incidents, resulting in a better Behaviour Management System DBMS service logs, we will be transitioning understanding of the causes thereof.
The DBMS takes data from to an electronic pre-trip inspection that This enables us to adapt our processes our onboard telematics units and will be conducted on the drivers phone.
to reduce the risk of such incidents communicates it directly to our motor occurring.
This contributed to a lower vehicle compliance team with results In the UK, we train over 350 drivers each recordable incident rate of 1.18 for 2016 17 shared to field operations daily.
Our driver training courses are aimed compared with 1.20 for 2015 16.
As a goal is to recognise and address unsafe at delivery drivers and cover areas such as result, related metrics improved with a behaviours, such as speeding and harsh loading and unloading of vehicles, working 20% reduction in lost time and an 18% braking before they result in an incident.
at height, site safety and manual handling.
reduction in workers compensation costs.
While still in the early stages of All general drivers at A-Plant, including implementation, the system is already delivery drivers and fitters, are required Sunbelt and A-Plant hold an annual safety making a big difference we are to undertake the A-Plant Driver Induction week, designed to increase awareness experiencing a 90% decrease in on-theCourse, which is delivered in the form of the importance of safety across the road unsafe behaviours and activities.
of workshops and covers transport business.
Through a combination of While designed to improve driving procedures, legislation, hazard perception presentations and workshops, key safety behaviour, we anticipate further benefit and practical driver assessments.
messages are shared with all employees.
FORS ACCREDITATION Last year A-Plant successfully retained its Whole Fleet Accreditation status under the Fleet Operator Recognition Scheme FORS, the accreditation programme that drives best practice across the fleet industry.
A-Plant is the UKs first equipment rental company, and only one of seven companies from over 4,000 firms registered with FORS, to secure nationwide accreditation and the first to renew Whole Fleet Accreditation under the new FORS Standard 4.0.
FORS encompasses all aspects of safety, efficiency and environmental protection by encouraging and training fleet operators to measure, monitor and improve performance.
The scheme was first rolled out to fleet operators based in and around London, but it proved to be so popular it is now open to any UK company that operates a fleet of vehicles.
48 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Health and safety are fundamental to our business.
ONE MILLION SAFE MILES AWARD Cody Davis began his driving career at Sunbelt in 1991.
In those 26 years, Cody has driven over one million miles without a single incident or DOT violation.
Codys favourite part of his job is being out on the road and helping customers with their equipment needs.
Cody has seen first-hand the growth development surrounding a major city like Seattle, WA.
He makes a point to pay attention to that growth to ensure there is a place for Sunbelt.
Cody says the key to being successful at his job is being vigilant of other drivers, reading them and anticipating their next move.
If you see a driver is distracted or in a hurry, slow down and make sure to stay out of their way.
In the summer of 2017 employees in the The campaign continues to be promoted Members have earned $44,000 in rewards US and Canada will participate in a cultural widely throughout the business with and 93% of respondents reported that the assessment to measure a specific set of promotional posters, messages, a video programme makes Sunbelt a better place factors that are predictive of performance and merchandise being distributed to to work.
A-Plant is working on a new and give the executive team an impartial every store.
In addition, the Work Safe health and well-being campaign for 2017 18. profile of the organisations culture and Home Safe message was incorporated safety climate.
The results of this survey into all safety messages last year as well Working on safety with our customers will be used to drive the development as being featured heavily in the company and suppliers and implementation of best-in-class magazine, Interaction, and formed a Being a responsible business means programmes and processes.
key part of the annual safety week in sharing and promoting our safety November with a new film created of culture with our customers and suppliers For several years, A-Plant has used the employees talking about what the whenever possible.
For example, Sunbelt Setting the Safety Standard brand to programme means to them.
In addition all and A-Plant have dedicated aerial work promote safety within the rental industry, A-Plant managers undertake the five-day platform, forklift and earth moving to our customers and staff.
In addition, IOSH Institution of Occupational Safety operator trainers who train customers A-Plant established the Work Safe Home and Health Managing Safely course.
and we build customised training Safe campaign last year to ensure staff programmes to fill their needs.
In the US, also take responsibility for their own safety.
In addition to actual incidents, A-Plant we work with customers safety teams monitors near incidents and uses this to develop customised training courses, This scheme promotes five golden rules: information to adapt our processes to sometimes for a specific jobsite, the reduce the risk of such events becoming passing of which becomes a requirement 1.
Before you start work, be aware of any incidents.
Where incidents do occur, our for the customer operator.
procedures ensure we learn and improve our processes.
In the UK, A-Plant regularly participates 2.
Stop work if it cant be done safely.
in training days for major customers, Health programmes demonstrating safe use of equipment 3.
If safe to do so, intervene if the Its important to us to have a healthy and running training seminars.
This is in actions of others might be unsafe.
workforce and we work hard to look addition to the routine safety briefings that Dont walk by.
after our people and help them look after accompany equipment rental.
When our staff are on top launched a 54-page Guide to Dust Control 4.
Maintain a safe, clean and tidy working form, they provide the best service to for customers, highlighting the health environment.
Virgin Health Miles is risks associated with dust production a programme we use to reward our US particularly in construction work and 5.
Always wear the appropriate personal staff for healthy behaviour, so they are providing advice on how to mitigate those.
incentivised to track their health and Many of our power tools are designed to invest in it to reap the rewards that we maximise the amount of dust removal are investing in the programme on at source and collect it efficiently with their behalf.
Staff get savings on their a vacuum removal system.
We offer one healthcare costs if they do exercise, of the rental industrys widest ranges for example.
Some 30% of US staff are of equipment for water suppression, currently enrolled in the scheme and on-tool dust extraction and personal 40% of those are earning health miles.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 49 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT CONTINUED affairs and hearing their views.
Regular Sunbelt Workday implementation OUR PEOPLE meetings are held at stores to discuss We continued the implementation of Why they matter performance and enable employees Workday, Sunbelts online Human Capital We endeavour to hire the best people, train them well and look after them so that they to input into improvements as well as Management System.
Through Workday, provide the best possible service for our providing feedback on their own levels we are able to offer a single source for customers.
Our aim is to keep employee of satisfaction.
recruiting, on-boarding, payroll, time turnover as low as possible to enable tracking, benefits, and employee selfus to build on the skill base we have Increasingly, as we grow, we are adding service.
The second phase includes established.
This is core to the success of to our employees through acquisition.
launching Workday for Sunbelt Rentals the business and our competitive position When we acquire companies, we also Canada as well as introducing a Talent and therefore staff turnover is one of our acquire their knowledgeable and dedicated Performance Management module, KPIs see page 33. staff who have often built up a successful additional integration including one with business.
If the business has a strong Sunbelts Learning Management System In general, the rental industry suffers brand, we keep the brand, particularly in that will enable employees and managers from high staff turnover, particularly within the UK.
To maintain that success, we adopt to view transcripts in Workday, as well certain job categories such as mechanics a circumspect approach when it comes as advanced compensation functionality.
and delivery truck drivers, with turnover to integrating new staff into the Group.
being particularly high within the first year Employees contracts and conditions Through Workday, employees benefit of employment.
We increasingly find our are analysed, and if there are differences by having a one-stop source where they staff targeted by competitors which, whilst with Group terms, we phase-in any can update their personal information, a compliment, means we have to work convergence over a period of time.
We view their paystubs, update benefits harder to retain them.
want new employees to be engaged with information, and apply for jobs internally.
the new environment in which they find Likewise, supervisors have an invaluable Our employees are driven, conscientious themselves, so we hold a presentation tool to help manage their direct reports and loyal and we work hard to maintain day for staff where senior management better.
Every employee can view Sunbelts that through market-leading training and present an overview of the Group, our comprehensive organisational reporting development and superior reward and plans for the acquired company and how structure across all divisions to gain a benefits.
Both Sunbelt and A-Plant have they fit into our strategy for the future.
better understanding of the Company as extensive programmes in place to ensure We then further demonstrate our a whole and better equip themselves to high standards of recruitment, training commitment to our new employees by serve our customers.
As we continue and the appraisal, review and reward of investing in the business they helped build.
to grow, Workday is allowing us to be our employees.
In addition, we endeavour more efficient in how we engage with consistently throughout the year to our employees, as well as work and maintain and develop arrangements aimed communicate with them throughout at involving employees in the Groups the entire employee lifecycle.
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT: JO STAMP Jo Stamp is the Grimsby Service Centre Manager at FLG Services, our UK specialty lifting business, acquired in 2013.
Shes worked in the rental industry for 28 years and is involved in everything from site visits to pricing, purchasing of equipment, hiring, installation, testing and inspection work, dealing with and managing any issues, and getting in overalls to carry out any lifting problems on-site.
She says shes known the majority of her customers from the beginning and that keeping them in the loop at all times is paramount.
I love lifting and cant imagine my life without it, from the hectic shutdown demands, where late nights and weekends are going to hit, to looking at equipment on fairgrounds, construction and engineering workshops.
Now with the added bonus of all the extended products A-Plant has to offer, my role is even greater and we can offer customers a one-stop solution which I like.
50 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TOP 50 MILITARY EMPLOYER One of Lone Star Community that 13% of our apprentices are female, Recruitment Colleges focus areas is diesel and which compares very favourably with the With Sunbelts rapid growth, recruiting industrial training.
2% female apprentices average for the new employees is of the utmost importance.
Our recruitment efforts With locations in several major metro construction industry.
Our apprentice are not only focused on finding the right areas, the partnership provides a scheme also has an impressive 83% employees and communicating the broad range of candidates able to retention rate compared to the industry benefits of working for Sunbelt, but relocate in the surrounding areas.
bringing awareness and excitement about the opportunities we provide.
A-Plant launched a new careers website Military recruitment To aid in our recruitment and retention which allows prospective employees At a more senior level, we actively recruit efforts we have set up a number of to apply online and which allows military service members and veterans, programmes initiatives including: management of the whole recruitment appreciating that their experience process internally, from posting of gives candidates a sense of discipline, Manager In Training MIT vacancies through interviews and offer dedication, responsibility and a This programme identifies top talent unsuccessful letters.
Users are able to determination to do the job right the out of college and the military and sign-up for job alerts in specific regions first time.
These valuable skills are places them through an accelerated or divisions and internal reporting is transferable to many of our employment training programme.
more detailed and tailored than before.
Sunbelt features a former The MIT programme is based out military employee as a spotlight on its of our top performing stores and A-Plant apprenticeship programme Military Recruiting page on its website provides focused, hands-on training A-Plants apprenticeship programme each month.
This practice is designed allowing the MIT graduate to easily continues to win awards for being one of to educate our own employees, but also perform their duties while on a direct the most successful and highly valued to drive interest among retired military path to management, with incentives schemes in the equipment rental industry.
personnel in a career at Sunbelt.
for staying with Sunbelt after the We took on 68 trainees last year and Sunbelt is a Top 50 military employer.
this year we will be recruiting 79 new Pump & Power and Scaffolding apprentices.
Our apprentice programmes In the UK, we work in partnership with Services have already both benefitted take between two and three years to British Forces Resettlement Services from the implementation of this complete and usually include outside BFRS a social enterprise created to programme.
training and a formal NVQ qualification, help the armed forces community with Partnership with Lone Star Community in addition to on the job training.
We their transition into civilian life.
BFRS College to identify and hire top have six apprentice streams plant works with service leavers to provide technicians maintenance, customer service, driver, them with the skills and opportunities electro technical, mechanical engineering they need to successfully resettle after and civil engineering at our specialist leaving the armed forces.
We are pleased that our efforts to increase diversity mean A-PLANT TOP 100 APPRENTICE EMPLOYER Last year the A-Plant apprenticeship scheme was named a Top 100 Apprentice Employer and the Large Employer of the Year for Merseyside, Cheshire and Staffordshire at the North West Apprentice Awards.
This puts us alongside apprentice schemes from employers such as the British Army, Barclays Bank and Mercedes-Benz.
We are the only major hire company to make this listing.
We now have 150 apprentices across the business and we received over 1,000 applications for our 2017 intake.
Our first Apprenticeship Scheme started in 2005 with a handful of apprentices.
Our investment in apprentices since then is over 16 million.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 51 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT CONTINUED invested in a world-class Learning is acceptable.
Employees must repeat Career development and training Management System LMS that will the module until they achieve 100%.
Training and development continues go-live early in 2017 18 to deliver, track throughout the careers of our employees and we have many programmes in place and manage all our training online.
Reward and benefits to ensure they achieve their ambitions, We believe in treating our staff well and reach their potential and remain safe, Last year, A-Plant held over 5,400 rewarding them for the effort they put as outlined above.
Employees welfare and employee training days through a wide in on our behalf.
We use a combination job satisfaction is enormously important range of courses.
In order to identify of competitive fixed pay and attractive and we invest significant money and time training needs when recruiting, A-Plant incentive programmes to reward and in facilitating career development and has developed a series of competence motivate staff and these drive our profits evolving training to reflect the changing forms and adopted the OSAT On Site and return on investment.
With effect needs of our workforce.
from 1 May 2017, all eligible A-Plant Each employee has their skills mapped employees will be paid the Living Wage Sunbelt implemented a number of training against the qualification framework as recommended by The Living Wage and development initiatives during the through assessment and any skills gaps Foundation and A-Plant became an last financial year including: are filled through training.
Through this accredited Living Wage Employer.
process we can be sure of developing the Sunbelt employees will be paid an hourly continued roll-out of leadership and skills and qualifying the experience of our rate in excess of the state and federal coaching training for front-line workforce.
To evaluate the effectiveness recommended wage.
managers in our two-day Lead, Coach, of our training, we issue all delegates with Win training, reaching 256 front-line feedback forms and these are evaluated Our sales force is incentivised through managers and bringing the total to 556 and actioned as required.
our commission plans which are based on managers trained since the inception sales, both volume and price achieved, and of the programme in 2016: In 2017, A-Plant launched the a broad measure of return on investment roll out of two-day Play to Win sales Undergraduate Placement Programme determined by reference to equipment type training to all sales reps: which offers university students the and discount level.
We flex our incentive development of leadership curriculum opportunity to spend a year in our business plans to reflect the stage of the cycle in for all store managers: under the mentorship of one of our which we operate, which we believe is enhanced on-boarding training for directors.
Students will gain an excellent an important element in retaining the key customer-facing positions: insight into managing a business area at confidence of our workforce through the continued refinement of our Techniciana strategic level and work on a project economic cycle.
in-Training programme by working supporting a real business need, with a with field service leadership to identify direct link to our products and customers.
In addition to their core benefits, including the most critical areas for training: pension and life assurance arrangements, electrical, hydraulics, preventive All senior employees at A-Plant are now we have an employee assistance helpline maintenance, diagnostics, and required to undertake an e-learning which offers free confidential support and equipment-specific based on the fleet module on The Green Caf A-Plants advice to those in need.
We also have other composition of any particular store: e-learning portal to ensure they benefits such as Virgin Health Miles, as developed a new Store Opening Kit understand their obligations and mentioned earlier, to promote good health containing all the training materials a responsibilities with regard to competing amongst our employees.
A-Plant also runs district manager, store manager, and fairly and the Bribery Act 2010.
The module a holiday sell back scheme as an additional business development manager should must be completed every 12 months, benefit.
This allows employees to sell need to on-board new employees: and and only a 100% score on the module unused or unwanted holiday days back VETERAN SPOTLIGHT: SHAWN GARCIA While attending a veteran recruiting event, Shawn Garcia was drawn to Sunbelt after learning more about the companys extensive veteran recruitment outreach programme and support for veteran organisations such as the Gary Sinise Foundation and its R. I. S. E. programme.
Shawn joined the Sunbelt Rentals Industrial Services team and loves the fast-paced, entrepreneurial environment Sunbelt offers.
His managers continue to encourage his growth and education at the company.
Shawn served in the Marine Corps as a machine gunner, during which time he was deployed three times, twice to the Middle East.
Since completing his military career, Shawn has found a fit within the Sunbelt team.
He says that the Make it happen culture is perfect for someone like himself who possesses a get-it-done mentality.
He is ready to earn his stripes as an Industrial Tool Specialist and later rise through the sales representative ranks.
52 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION to the company, giving them the opportunity to exchange some of their holiday entitlement for additional pay and allow the employee more flexibility and choice in how they use their contractual benefits.
Diversity and equal opportunities Providing equal opportunities for all our staff and employment diversity are priorities for Ashtead.
Our recruitment comes predominantly from the areas immediately around our facilities thereby providing opportunities for local people.
We make every reasonable effort to give disabled applicants and existing employees who become disabled, THE TEJADA FAMILY opportunities for work, training and career development in keeping with their aptitudes and abilities.
We do not discriminate against any individual on the GARY SINISE FOUNDATION basis of a protected status, such as sex, The Gary Sinise Foundation honours military veterans and their families through colour, race, religion, native origin or age.
the implementation of unique programmes designed to entertain, educate, inspire, strengthen and build communities.
One of the Foundations core In the US we are required by law to programmes is R. I. S. E. Restoring Independence, Supporting Empowerment, monitor ethnicity in our workforce every which builds specially-adapted custom smart homes for severely wounded year and we maintain a diverse workforce.
heroes and their loved ones so they may gain more independence in their daily We also gather ethnicity data as part of lives.
Sunbelts commitment to community and veteran support led to a the recruitment process in the UK and partnership with the Foundation and R. I. S. E..
Through this partnership, Sunbelt through an Equality and Inclusion Survey supplies tools and equipment to the contractors and subcontractors on each of to monitor our diversity.
Increasingly, many the home builds, at no charge.
Sunbelt also donates a portion of rental revenue local authority and public sector tenders from uniquely-branded equipment to the Foundation, which resulted in a 2016 request this kind of information.
We are donation of $250,000 that directly supported the R. I. S. E. programme.
Through committed to providing opportunities ongoing efforts to support this extraordinary organisation, Sunbelt will continue for people from all ethnic groups and its legacy of giving back to those in need.
in both geographies we have good representation from ethnic minorities across the organisation.
human rights matters separately, we Our stores regularly support and While our industry has traditionally had continue to assess potential risks and participate in local charity events and many more men than women, we do have do not believe they raise particular community service.
For example, we women at all levels in both the US and UK issues for the business.
provide support to many community including on the Board, on the senior sporting events, including sponsoring a management team and as store managers, COMMUNITIES local softball team in Dallas and various sales executives and apprentices.
While Why they matter charity golf tournaments across the US.
we prioritise recruiting the best people Playing a big role in our local communities We also continue to work closely with for every role, we are working to make is crucial to our work both in the US and in our designated charitable partner, the it easier for more women to join the the UK.
As we expand our market share, American Red Cross and its affiliates organisation, particularly as we expand.
particularly in the US, we have ever more such as the Second Harvest Food Bank Last financial year in the UK, we held a impact and influence over the communities for which we have a food drive every special celebration of International where we hire staff and make an economic November.
We allow employees to make Womens Day, highlighting some of the contribution.
Our responsibility to payroll deductions to contribute to the many very talented female staff across those communities increases likewise.
American Red Cross or the Sunbelt the organisation.
In addition, our staff feel great pride in Employee Relief Fund.
providing a service for the community.
Our business is about helping people and In the UK we continue to support CRASH, WORKFORCE BY GENDER getting things done.
It is about finding the construction and property industrys Number of employees Male Female Female % solutions, especially when there has charity for homeless people.
As a Patron Board directors 6 3 33% been an emergency or a disaster like a of the charity, A-Plant has been Senior management 22 2 8% major flood or a hurricane, for example.
instrumental in delivering improved All staff 12,916 1,309 9% Contributing to the communities where we accommodation to homeless people operate is an important differentiating through professional expertise, building factor for Ashtead staff, as well as being materials and financial donations.
Human rights attractive to new recruits.
At Ashtead we believe in the rights of As part of our commitment to the Princes individuals and take our responsibilities Community initiatives Trust, Ashtead made a donation of 15,000 seriously to all our employees and those In the locations where we work, we have last year which helped young people who may be affected by our activities.
multiple community-based programmes gain access to jobs in construction, civil We have policies in place, such as which often tie in well with what we do engineering and other sectors associated whistle-blowing procedures which protect and how we do it.
Raising our profile in with the built environment.
Ashtead our employees as they go about their work.
the community in this way is completely forms part of the Princes Trust Built These policies form part of our way of consistent with our desire to do more Environment Leadership Group and doing business and are embedded in our in terms of the quality of life of our staff donations from this group helped 950 operations.
Thus, while we do not manage and their families.
young people move into the sector in 2016.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 53 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT CONTINUED Last year we reduced kWh and CO improved safety environmental audit THE ENVIRONMENT 2 per person by 1% compared with the tracking software and database: Why it matters previous year, as well as reducing water improved environmental information As we expand our territory and service offering, we necessarily have more of an consumption with the introduction of new database increasing efficiency in impact on the environments around our water recycling units.
We also maintained addressing permits and various stores.
We make every effort to ensure recycling of waste rates above 85% and requirements: that our impact is a positive one and to carried out environment, health and safety carbon, waste and other environmental limit any negative impact we may have in EHS compliance follow-up visits for KPIs captured and reported: the course of our work.
This helps us save any profit centre scoring less than 75% increased inventory of Tier 4 engines on costs, on any potential damage to our in the EHS section of our performance and training of key staff on their impact reputation and also helps build that level of standards audit.
and maintenance: trust our customers require.
It also helps national non-exclusive agreements our staff feel good about where they work We continued to make fleet efficiency for emergency response and waste and helps to build good relationships with gains in the UK.
The Fleet Operator disposal in the US: the communities around our stores.
Recognition Scheme FORS is an providing lists of required and accreditation scheme that aims to improve recommended equipment to new store At Sunbelt, the Safety, Health and vehicle fleet activity throughout the UK openings for spill prevention and Environmental Department works to and beyond.
The over-arching scheme clean-up supplies: improve organisational awareness and encompasses all aspects of safety, fuel use of telematics to monitor vehicle focus to our environmental initiatives efficiency, economical operations and idling and driving efficiency: with safety managers also responsible vehicle emissions.
All A-Plant locations, optimisation of delivery routes via our for bringing awareness and compliance to except for recently acquired ones, are efficiency programme: environmental initiatives.
Safety managers FORS accredited with 150 locations use of tyre pressure monitors to ensure are fully trained and capable of identifying accredited to Gold level.
We expect all optimal fuel efficiency: risks associated with safety and locations to be accredited to ensure we increased fuel efficiency in delivery environmental issues.
meet all legislative requirements, as well and service fleet, including through as helping to increase environmental improved design: In the UK, we maintained our ISO 50001 and operational efficiencies.
providing environmental education energy management certification, our reminders to field and service personnel significant impacts for which include We seek to minimise our environmental through TechConnect newsletter electricity, natural gas for heating and impact in everything we do, including: delivered to their homes in the US: and diesel for our transport fleet.
Our use of environmentally and ozonecommitment to improving energy thorough evaluation of new stores friendly refrigerants in our cooling performance is intended to reduce our and acquisitions to ensure they meet equipment.
impact on the environment and could our environmental standards and deliver significant cost savings.
do not pose an unacceptable risk to the business: REFURBISHING A COMMUNITY CENTRE Wates is one of our important customers and we were delighted to assist them during a volunteering project to revamp the Silverdale Community Centre in Nottingham.
The Nottingham City Council-owned centre has been at the heart of Nottinghams Silverdale estate for many years and it has many regular users who run their groups out of the centre and provide many different services to the local community.
The refurbishment work was carried out as part of Wates national Community Week initiative in June.
A-Plant formed part of a 100-strong team who donated approximately 5,000 hours to transform the exterior of the 1960s building.
Activities carried out included the installation of a new playground, fresh signage and improvements to the building faade.
54 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We seek to minimise our environmental impact in everything we do.
Greenhouse gas emissions As we are a growing business with aggressive expansion plans, our absolute GHG emissions will necessarily increase.
However, we continue to evaluate how best we can limit that increase and mitigate the impact.
Our Scope 1 fuel combustion and operation of facilities and 2 purchased electricity GHG emissions are reported below.
We have opted not to report Scope 3 emissions due to the difficulty in gathering accurate and reliable information.
The majority of these arise through our customers use of our equipment on their sites and projects.
GHG EMISSION BY GHG PROTOCOL PEDAL POWER SCOPE tCO e YEAR 2 A team of plucky cyclists from A-Plant completed the Manchester to Blackpool 2017 2016 charity bike ride and raised a total of 2,525 for Cancer Research UK.
It took our Scope 1 214,078 198,769 team of 11 a total of 3.5 hours to complete the ride which started at Manchesters Imperial War Museum and ended 60 miles later at Blackpools South Promenade.
Scope 2 37,048 38,236 Special mention to all riders who participated, namely Sam Arnold, Mat Smith, Total 251,126 237,005 Andy Wortley, Ian Norrey, Lauren Hoey, Stephen North, Charlotte North, t CO e year defined as tonnes of CO equivalent 2 2 Jessica Whittles, Brian Hastings, John Moore and Mark Watkins.
In order to calculate the GHG emissions, we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate We are also required to give an intensity In terms of our US rental fleet, Accounting and Reporting Standard ratio as appropriate for our business.
approximately 65% of our fleet is affected revised edition, together with emission Our level of GHG emissions vary with our by Tier 4 regulations and over 80% of factors from the UK Governments activity levels and we have concluded it is already Tier 4.
In the UK, A-Plant GHG Conversion Factors for Company that the most appropriate intensity ratio for also continues to invest in eco-friendly Reporting 2016, as well as the US Ashtead is revenue intensity.
Our intensity equipment as our customers demand Environmental Protection Agency.
metric is therefore an indication of eco-friendly equipment such as power emissions per 1m of revenue tCO e m. and hydraulic oil-free platforms, or the 2 In the UK, we collect data from all Scope 1 utilisation of bi-fuel on larger equipment, and 2 vendors and hence, there is no so the investment offers our customers 2017 2016 estimation involved.
In the US, due to the a wider range of access solutions.
Revenue intensity ratio 78.8 93.1 size of our operation, we collect data from the significant vendors and then use this to estimate emissions attributable to the The majority of our revenue is in dollars balance.
At April 2017, approximately and so the reported ratio is affected by the 17% of the Sunbelt emissions balance exchange rate.
On a constant currency was estimated.
basis using this years average exchange GEOFF DRABBLE rate our intensity ratio has reduced from Chief executive 81.8 last year to 78.8 this year.
12 June 2017 Greener equipment We continue to invest in greener equipment whenever we can and where it makes economic sense, sometimes also driven by customer demand.
In addition to the Tier 4 engine requirements in the US, where we can, we purchase other more SUZANNE WOOD environmentally efficient equipment for Finance director a wide range of different applications.
12 June 2017 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 55 THE CHALLENGE Keeping UK refineries operating safely around the clock, 365 days a year Oil and petrochemical refineries need large-scale, safe, quality industrial equipment 24 7, to get safety-critical testing and maintenance projects done, often with very short or no notice.
The potential consequences of error are massive and reliability of equipment supply is crucial if the work of the refinery is not to be interrupted.
56 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Even if an emergency requires us to deliver overnight, we often mobilise and deliver within an hour or two.
We know the equipment simply has to be there on time and ready for work, and were proud of our 99.9% on-time delivery rate.
Stuart Forrest Service Centre Manager, Hewden Industrial OUR SOLUTION Directors Providing dependable report on-site rental locations and 58 Our Board of directors 60 Corporate governance report equipment testing to help 65 Audit Committee report 68 Nomination Committee report minimise downtime 69 Remuneration report 87 Other statutory disclosures Our Hewden Industrial business provides on-site rental 89 Statement of directors locations servicing six UK refineries and petrochemical responsibilities facilities.
This involves supplying large amounts of industrial equipment for small and large shutdowns, and ongoing maintenance work.
At Grangemouth refinery in Scotland, were also contracted to check and certify all equipment arriving on-site from other providers, before it is allowed anywhere near operating facilities.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 57
