26 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Stakeholder engagement Working together.
GPs NHS We aim to provide buildings that make iteasier for our GP and NHS tenants to deliver effective services in their local community.
It is therefore crucial that we are continually updating our understanding of what issues matter to GPs and how the Customer NHS is changing.
relationships Our dedicated team of asset managers Read more looks after our tenants property needs page 28 through regular communication and asupportive approach to property management.
Customer satisfaction is vital for the EXTRA business and we monitor this through EXTRA regular surveys.
In our most recent survey, over 96% of tenants who responded said they would recommend us as potential landlords to other GPs.
We seek to develop a long-lasting relationship with GPs, working to meet their current and future premises aspirations.
Number of tenants who responded who said they would recommend us Shareholders as potential landlords to other GPs During the year we have completed twoequity raises to further strengthen the balance sheet.
96% Shareholder engagement isa key priority for the business and 141 investor meetings have been held in the year.
Weengage with our shareholders inanopen and transparent way.
Number of investor meetings The Surgery @ Wheatbridge 141 EXTRA EXTRA Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information W ES T GOR T ON MEDIC AL CENTRE www.
com 27 West Gorton Medical Centre Communities and environment We realise the importance of the Suppliers impactour business has on those We work closely with our specialist around us.
We work with a number of healthcare developer partners to local charities, selecting those that work secure development appointments to promote healthy and active lifestyles.
and create state of the art EXTRA healthcarepremises.
We also focus on the design of our developments, incorporating innovative We encourage the use of local design features where possible to suppliers to support local reduce their environmental impact.
Our suppliers must confirm adherence to our zero EXTRA tolerance modern slavery and Read more anti-bribery policies, and we page 29 alsorequire compliance with theSafeContractor Scheme.
Employees Our small team of employees is crucial tothe ongoing success of Assura.
Thatis why we work so hard to ensure appropriate training and development opportunities are in place, and that Assura offers a great place to work.
Read more Lender relationships page 30 We have worked with our lenders, both existing and new, to improve our financial structure in support ofourbusiness model.
We have extended our RCF and taken a second unsecured private placement, having repaid the secured loans with Aviva, to increase our operational flexibility and benefit from reduced interest rates in the current environment.
Read more Note 16 to the accounts on page 94 EXTRA EXTRA EXTRA EXTRA EXTRA EXTRA 28 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Stakeholder engagement continued Greater Manchester Mayor, Andy Burnham, opening our West Gorton site GPs NHS Conversations matter: a year ofstakeholder engagement From GPs guest-blogging for us about their perspectives on working in unfit premises to surveying our tenants for their views of the role a building plays in the care they deliver, this year has been about listening to, and sharing the bricks and mortar issues which matter to, staff using primary care buildings.
We are reflecting this across our communications work, including distributing our Property Mattersnewsletter to every practice in thecountry.
We were delighted to join the Nuffield Trust as an expert advisor to its Restate programme, helping five STP teams to work on challenges for primary care estate in their respective footprints.
We have discussed primary care estates On the Conservative Party Conference challenges and solutions with MPs at fringe, we brought together British With NHS estates issues rising up arange of events in Westminster, while Property Federation Chief Executive, governments agenda in the last year, inconstituencies across the country, Melanie Leech, Greater Manchester engagement with ministers, officials and parliamentarians have been visiting to see Healthand Social Care Partnership MPs has also been a focus, along with how better buildings are improving the advisor, DrGeorge Ogden, and Place our role as chair of the British Property patient experience.
Welsh Government North West Deputy Editor, Jessica Federations Healthcare Committee.
We Minister for Housing and Regeneration, Middleton-Pugh, to discuss the primary teamed up with our sector colleagues Rebecca Evans AM, opened our new care buildings of the future.
Our white tohighlight the potential of third party building for Mountain View Health Centre, paper, Designing the future: how can development to help government Childrens Centre and Pharmacy in architecture change the way patients reachitscommitment of 10 billion of Swansea: Siobhain McDonagh MP cut the experience primary care?
explored those investment to improve the NHS estate.
ribbon on our landmark extension for Wide themes in more detail, combining expert Our Primary Care Buildings Pledge set Way Medical Centre in Mitcham: Tracey views from architects and academics out the capacity for the model to inject Brabin MP opened our refurbishment of a withinternational research by our team to more than 3 billion into new primary care derelict former surgery building for Cook explore the changing nature of healthcare centres over five years the equivalent Lane Surgery in West Yorkshire: Richard building design around the world, and its of750 new buildings across the country.
Graham MP welcomed new tenants potential to support changes in care here.
We have been hugely encouraged by NewMedica to the Aspen Centre in theresponse to our joint pledge and Gloucester: and Greater Manchester The absence of robust, national data conversations on its potential continue.
Mayor, Andy Burnham, marked the onprimary care estate was a problem officialopening of our WestGorton site.
flagged by Sir Robert Naylors review LILLIP U T SURGER Y ofNHS land and buildings, and we have welcomed NHS Improvements steps to begin addressing this gap.
This year, we supported the Reform think-tank in its work in this area: its paper A design diagnosis: reinvigorating the primary care estate, analyses interviews with GPs, Lilliput Surgery, Poole practice managers and estates experts toconsider the range of options to fund improvements to primary care buildings, and to recommend measures which could accelerate delivery.
A roundtable todiscuss the paper, opened by the BMAs General Practice Committee lead on premises, Dr Krishna Kasaraneni, stressed the importance of this broad mixof approaches.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 29 Communities Active Cheshire Warrington Youth Club Used our funding to pilot a model for Used our grant to run free health and Walking the walk freecommunity walkswith older people, fitness sessions for young girls and inpartnership withGP surgeries.
Our relationships with GPs fed directly youngpeople with disabilities.
into our community work for 2017 18.
Inaddition to the second year of our partnership with Life After Loss during which we funded a new fetal heart monitor for Warrington General Hospital Beat eating disorders Warrington Wolves Foundation so that problems can be identified earlier Used our funding to recruit and deploy Used our grant to fund food for 160 in pregnancy, and memory box kits for fiveWarrington-based volunteers to children from low income families attending hundreds of local families experiencing supportsufferers via its helpline and summer holiday activity programmes.
stillbirth or miscarriage we also onlinechat services.
fundedfour Warrington projects designedto improve health in our community see right.
Our partnership with Active Cheshire, which worked with one of our Warringtonmedical centre sites to establish community walks for older people, hasbeen particularly inspiring asitlinksdirectly with our national work topromote surgery buildings as focal points for physical activity.
Our Mile Maps programme which offers any GPpractice a free wall map detailing aone-mile route for stepping out from thesurgery door, which can be recommended to staff and patients hasnow been rolled out to more than 90practice buildings around the country, andwe look forward to growing Active Cheshire, community walk participants this network even further during 2018 19.
The ultra low energy building at West development to ensure the score is Environment Gorton, completed during the year, is maximised.
All BREEAM schemes agreat example of this and our on-site completed during the year achieved We are conscious of the environmental developments incorporate features such arating of Very Good or better.
impact of our business: particularly as photovoltaic cells, low energy light inrespect of our developments.
Our fittings and air source heat pumps.
We also think about the impact of our development team, led by Simon employees and office: details of our Gould, is constantly looking at ways In terms of how this is tracked and directly controlled greenhouse gas toinnovate on building design and measured, we have achieved and emissions are provided in the Directors incorporate features that are better from maintain ISO 14001 Environmental Report, and we have re-emphasised an environmental perspective and also Management System certification and ourrecycling efforts in the office.
minimise running costs for the tenants.
weaim to achieve BREEAM ratings of Excellent on all developments completed.
The BREEAM rating is considered at the start of the design process and tracked throughout 30 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Stakeholder engagement continued Employee gender diversity Male Female Board of Directors 4 2 Senior management 4 2 Employees 27 27 Total no.
of employees 54 Including Non-Executive Directors As a percentage breakdown Board of Directors 67% 33% Senior management 67% 33% Employees Assura employees Adam Waheed, Kirsty Grice and Debbie Barry 50% 50% We have created the Assura Development All of the above help us to attract, engage Programme offering employees the and develop our people to enable the chance to receive one to one coaching effective delivery of the Groups strategy toadvance their career.
We also seek to overthe long term.
promote from within and there have been Employees several internal promotions during the Women in property past few years.
According to the Association of Women We have a small but very knowledgeable, inProperty, women represent only 15% of skilled and focused team.
As such we We listened to the results of an employee the property and construction workforce.
understand that staff retention is key survey completed during the year to Were proud to have such strong female tomaintaining our relationships with implement a consistent and transparent representation in our team, and this year otherstakeholders and, therefore, appraisal process, giving each member our new Chief Financial Officer, three ourreputation.
newsurveyors and new appointments in finance and portfolio management have We strive to provide a great place to work Employee wellbeing further strengthened our expertise.
whilst encouraging employees to reach We are constantly looking at ways to their full potential through training make the employee experience at Assura anddevelopment.
Employee benefits introduced include a holiday Quality of service is also important buy-back scheme, private medical tousand we have achieved and insurance a cycle to work scheme and maintained ISO 9001 Quality on-site gym facilities, amongst others.
We have also renewed our policies in Training and development respect of health and safety, employee Staff who wish to undertake relevant rights and diversity including in respect training are supported through study ofgender, race, disability and ethnicity, support and paid study leave.
We amongst others, and data protection currently have nine members training toensure staff are suitably protected.
orprofessional qualifications, including accountancy and chartered surveyor, Our whistleblowing hotline allows staff andare delighted by the success of three and suppliers to raise any issues of individuals completing their studiesfor concern in complete confidence.
No qualifications in chartered secretarial, issues have been raised this year.
com 31 Our key resources New directions Brand the role inmore detail.
Given that two Natalie McRoy is one of our assistant We place great value on our reputation portfolio administrators and this year, administrators have already taken this asa long-term partner to our GP tenants, training route from administration to she decided to begin her journey supporting them through the lifecycle tobecoming one of our specialist surveying roles with Assura, Iknew oftheir medical centre.
This reputation itwas a fantastic opportunity.
andour excellent relationships within theGP community lead to off market Its very intense and a lot of work The senior portfolio manager was acquisition opportunities with GPs as ahuge influence in my thinking I around my existing role, but its exciting ourgreatest source of referrals.
to be able to see the path Im on.
Im knew Iwanted to stay with Assura, butI was looking for more challenge.
really looking forward to theday I take Our established track record in providing on my first properties as a graduate Adam began giving me some more state of the art primary carepremises complex assignments and taking me trainee surveyor.
helps secure our appointment out on property visits to understand ondevelopments.
Database and technology We have created a bespoke database ofGP premises throughout the UK and this assists with targeted marketing and evaluation of acquisition opportunities with regard to their strategic importance to the local health economy.
Our investment in IT allows staff to access all relevant information when attending clients premises and to work remotely ifnecessary.
The threat of cyber-attack evolves insophistication and scope and we continue to monitor the security of oursystems to mitigate this risk.
Assura employee Natalie McRoy What makes a good ?
Its the expertise they have not just in the buildings themselves, but also in what GPsand the NHS need from physical infrastructure to achieve their vision of more carecloser to home.
The ultimate user of these buildings is the patients they serve, soat any one time the team will be finding solutions to everything from creating extra consulting rooms for apractice to advising onsteps to make buildings more energy efficient.
WOODVILLE Spencer Kenyon Head of Portfolio Management Woodville Surgery, Derbyshire
