Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate social responsibility How we are making a difference A part of our strategy is to become the most admired UK digital business.
To achieve this we have built a digital culture that is values-oriented, customer-centric and data-driven with a focus on an agile approach to change and, importantly, underpinned by creating a diverse and inclusive workforce.
Measuring the impact of our CSR strategy These are just some of the metrics we are focused on, in order to measure our Make a difference strategy: 88% 90% of employees would proud to work at recommend Auto Trader AutoTrader score as a great place to work 4.6 5 170k Glassdoor rating donated to charity 50% 4,000 women on our OLT retailers reached through insight programme Auto Trader Group plc 39 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 e c r o f k r o w e v i s u l Corporate social responsibility continued Our culture Our culture is built around evolving our digital, valuesoriented approach to ensure our people are proud of our diversity, our focus on the wildly important, our rapid response to change and our continued success and growth.
Values and value-led Purpose and principles-driven Driven by Based Digital innovation on trust and and datadebate driven Overview People are the Groups most Corporate social responsibility days that are available to all valuable resource and the at AutoTrader is driven by our employees each year, Give as success of the Group is to the values and culture and is focused You Earn, which is one of our credit of all its employees.
on making a difference to our Incredible Benefits, and through Last year we were focused employees, our community the AutoTrader Community on creating a simpler, leaner, and our industry.
This, along Fund which supports grassroots and more data-oriented with our diversity and inclusion projects in Greater Manchester organisation.
To ensure our strategy, is embedded into how and Greater London.
We culture is digital, agile and we operate on a daily basis.
constantly look at ways we can enables our teams to be quick As an employer, it comprises make a positive contribution to respond to change, we have employee engagement, rewards to our industry: whether continued to focus on creating and recognition schemes, thats developing the next and maintaining consistently people development, health generation of talent, sharing high-performing, data-oriented and safety, the environmental best practice advice with our squads across the whole impact, sustainability and retailer customers through AutoTrader business.
Our culture energy efficient operations.
masterclasses and larger-scale is shaped by the evolution of industry events, or helping the As a company, we are keen our values of being determined, industry as a whole to operate in to give back to our local reliable, curious, courageous, a more transparent, progressive communities in which we humble and community-minded.
operate, as well as supporting These values often manifest charities and causes that themselves in our fast-paced are close to our employees and highly customer-oriented hearts.
We continue to focus approach in our commitment our community support in four to being an exciting, innovative areas: employees individual and digital-led company.
charitable fundraising efforts, promoting the two volunteering 40 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 c n i d n a e s r e v i d A Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our values To truly reflect our culture and the behaviours we all adhere to every day, we updated our values this year.
We made the decision to change inspirational to courageous and we added community-minded to encapsulate our businesss focus on supporting not only the AutoTrader community but the wider communities in which we operate.
Be determined We are passionate about our customers, showing stamina and resilience, and have the conviction to do the right thing.
We will roll up our sleeves to get the job done.
Be reliable We are outcome-oriented and we do what we say we will do.
We perform under pressure and have a strong work ethic.
Be curious We are always learning.
We question why, we search for better ways, ask questions and actively listen.
Be humble We are open, honest, approachable and we treat each other fairly.
We recognise success in ourselves and others but admit and learn from mistakes.
Be courageous We are bold in our thinking, overcoming fears, challenging the conventional and we will run towards and embrace change.
Be community-minded We look after each other, respect diversity and advocate inclusion.
We are committed to making a difference to the communities around us and think of others before ourselves.
Auto Trader Group plc 41 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate social responsibility continued Diversity is the mix, Making a inclusion is getting the mix difference to work well together.
to diversity and inclusion Ensuring AutoTrader is a diverse and inclusive employer that contributes positively to the communities in which we operate remains a key strategic priority for our business.
Our dedicated diversity and inclusion working group has committed to design and deliver a comprehensive strategy concentrating on all diversity strands, with a focus on LGBT, gender equality, disability and neurodiversity and BAME for this year.
Diversity for everyone at AutoTrader means respect for and appreciation of differences in: gender, age, sexual orientation, disability, race and ethnic origin, religion and faith, marital status, social, education background and way of thinking.
We believe that inclusion is a state of being valued, respected and supported for who you are.
Our colleagues across the business have worked collaboratively with our Diversity as women in the digital industry and our We continue our participation to promote and Inclusion group and achieved Photography Club created an exhibition Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths positive results.
celebrating the diverse city of Manchester.
STEM careers by supporting schools by We continued our one-day Diversity and running Code Clubs to teach young children Our accessibility and inclusive design Inclusion workshops, which every new joiner how to code.
working group ran workshops to introduce attends within their first three months, employees to some of the challenges We also ran summer experience days hosting focusing on creating common understanding disabled and neurodiverse people schools and universities, introducing them of the concepts as well as exploring potentially face and help them understand to the digital, technology and automotive participants unconscious biases and how how they can make a difference when industries.
Following the success of the past they can impact their own behaviour and creating products for our customers.
The two years we continue to participate in the relationships with other people inside and month ended with more than a hundred of Change 100 programme organised by Leonard outside of work.
This year we extended the our employees taking part in the Manchester Cheshire Disability.
We offered two summer invite to customers and business partners, Pride Festival Parade and being awarded placements, one resulting in a permanent who participated in the workshop and took Best Corporate Entry for their passionate placement to our Graduate Scheme.
learnings back to their own organisations.
showcase of support to the LGBT Our ambition to become one of the most This year we launched a Diversity and community.
diverse and inclusive employers is supported Inclusion month in August to bring together Our employee groups and networks Family by our Company policies and practices which some already successful initiatives with new Network, Womens Network, Photography, are reviewed regularly in line with the Equality ones, aiming to educate, celebrate and make Book, Board game, Running and Film Clubs Act 2010 protected characteristics and best a difference.
We introduced workshops by continue to bring our colleagues together, practice.
Everyone from across the business the National Autistic Society, Stonewall and in line with our philosophy that inclusion is involved in providing feedback to help us Mental Health First Aid England.
The latter will be achieved by respecting each others continuously evolve and take positive action resulted in us creating our team of Mental differences but concentrating on finding to ensure our colleagues, customers and Health First Aiders, available to provide common ground.
partners feel they can be their authentic support to colleagues in our offices and self while having a brilliant experience out in the field.
Our AutoTrader Womens working with us.
Network hosted a talk with two inspirational senior leaders sharing their personal stories 42 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Gender Pay Gap Gender diversity We published our Gender Pay Gap As a result of some of the actions we Hourly Gender Pay Gap information earlier this year, in line with the have taken, we have seen our gender Governments requirements for companies diversity continue to improve.
Were really with over 250 employees to do so.
Although pleased to report that our Operational 14.9% we only had to report data for AutoTrader Leadership Team OLT is now 50% women, mean Limited being the only company in the Group and we are making good progress towards with more than 250 employees we voluntarily the Hampton-Alexander targets for 33% of provided information for the whole Group, women on the OLT and their direct reports.
17.5% in order to be more transparent.
median The mean hourly Gender Pay Gap for AutoTrader Group was 14.9% while the median gap was 17.5%.
This gap is not about Women Operational Leadership Team % inequality of pay.
We are confident that as % of Men Women Total total men and women are paid equally across the business for comparable roles.
Our Gender Board 4 2 6 33% Pay Gap arises from under-representation 1 OLT 7 7 14 50% of women in certain highly paid functions, 50 50 OLT direct 70 26 96 27% including technology and other STEM related reports roles: as well as under-representation Total of women in leadership roles.
Although Company 509 315 824 38% we do not believe that any level of gap is acceptable, our Gender Pay Gap is lower 1 Senior managers for the purpose of s. 414C of the than the UK high-tech sector of 25%, Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Direct reports % showing the progress we have already Report Regulations 2013. made.
Our median Gender Pay Gap is lower than the UK average of 18.5%.
27 We are committed to addressing the Gender Pay Gap, and we are taking a number of actions as outlined in the full report on our corporate website.
73 Men Women Auto Trader Group plc 43 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate social responsibility continued 100 BEST COMPANIES TO WORK FOR 2018 Making a difference to our employees To help us achieve our mission of being one Training and development We have welcomed a number of apprentices, of the most admired UK digital businesses, graduates and work placements under Investing in our people remains a key we have built a business that is centred our future talent programme, to equip focus.
We have a dedicated Learning and around its people.
Our success is due to the our business with the skills needed for Development team, specialising in various diverse talent of our innovative, courageous, our ongoing success.
Every individual fields including personal, career, leadership, talented and committed people.
is responsible for their own career and systems and business-related training, and personal development, and we aim for also use external experts to bring outside Informing and consulting everyone to have quarterly development insight and knowledge when required.
our employees conversations with their people leaders.
All new people joining our business are We value our people and their opinions.
given a brilliant start to their careers with Employee engagement Every year we organise an all-employee us by attending a three-day induction and recognition conference where we celebrate our programme, allowing them to understand We conducted an employee engagement achievements and share the strategy the core values of our business and culture survey again this year, and achieved a and focuses for the year ahead.
response rate of 91% of our total workforce.
We also hold regular business and financial We recognise that all our employees are Overall engagement remains positive, with updates throughout the year to keep unique and have different needs and 90% of our people feeling proud to work employees informed on the Groups learning styles.
We offer blended learning for AutoTrader, and 88% saying they would performance and priorities as well as giving opportunities that are aligned to our recommend us as a great place to work.
them the opportunity to feed back and collaborative and inclusive culture, including There were also areas to improve, and we contribute with questions and ideas.
workshops, bitesize sessions, on-the-job have set up working groups to concentrate solutions, attendance at conferences, on these, including recognition, career We hold regular checks throughout the year, coaching and mentoring, online learning development and physical and mental allowing teams to spend time together in and professional qualifications.
Our Glassdoor rating is 4.5 out of 5, an open and secure environment to discuss based on more than 200 anonymous reviews.
how they feel in the workplace and how Our managers take part in the Practical For the second year we participated in the we are doing against our key focus areas.
People Leadership Programme PPLP, Sunday Times Top 100 Best Companies and senior leaders take part in the Leadership We also offered a second Sharesave scheme to Work For and we achieved a two-star Development Programme LDP, both in 2017, promoting a culture of shared Outstanding rating and moved up the list aimed at developing well-rounded leaders ownership, and saw take-up rates of over 40%.
to number 32. that will drive the future of AutoTrader.
44 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We have established a dedicated team of colleagues from across our business Making a who are committed to driving our Make a Difference strategy, which aims to maximise the support and impact we provide to the difference communities in which we operate.
We donate to local causes through the to our AutoTrader Community Fund, powered by Forever Manchester a registered charity, communities which makes awards of up to 1,000 to community groups and grassroots projects across Greater Manchester.
This year, the But Make a Difference is more than just fund has donated over 60,000 to various donating money.
local groups that bring people together and empower them to create sustainable changes We encourage all our colleagues to utilise in their lives.
As a recognition of our efforts, two optional volunteering days every Forever Manchester awarded us the year.
One in four of our employees have Business Supporter of the Year for 2017. offered their time and skills to support worthy causes across the UK, such as We are extending this fund and are in the Barnabus, a drop-in centre for homeless process of setting up a similar fund model people: FareShare, to fight food waste and to support charities in Greater London.
tackle hunger: Didsbury Park, to maintain Donations from AutoTrader directly to eight acres of green space: and Dress for other charities totalled an additional Success, helping to empower women by 60,000 through our AutoTrader providing professional attire and skills to Sponsorships initiative which provides gain employment.
match-funding to employees, customers To support the arts and design in Manchester, and partners fundraising for charities we continue our successful partnership with that are close to their hearts.
HOME arts centre and supported various Our Give as You Earn GAYE scheme initiatives including the PUSH festival of participation has reached 11% of our total fresh creative experiences from the North workforce and 100,000 has been donated West, showcasing some of the most exciting to various charities through payroll.
film, theatre and visual arts from the region, and sponsorship of the monthly Bring the Family initiative, enabling the provision of an intergenerational film programme to audiences in Greater Manchester.
Disabled employees We are part of the Department for Work and Pensions Disability Confident employer scheme and have agreed to its commitments and taken action to make a difference to disabled people.
Our dedicated resourcing team actively reaches out to disabled candidates and welcomes their applications for employment.
We take great care to make reasonable adjustments during the assessment process according to the needs of each individual to ensure that they can perform at their best.
We remain committed to supporting disabled employees or those who become disabled during their employment with us.
Recognising that everyone is unique, we provide the right support to ensure they continue to realise their full potential at work and develop their careers with us.
This year we have also added more support and education for managers of disabled colleagues, for example Understanding Autism for Managers workshops provided by the National Autism Society.
Auto Trader Group plc 45 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate social responsibility continued Making a difference to our industries Our Make a Difference strategy extends 25 of our colleagues have trained to to supporting the wider technology, become STEM ambassadors so that they automotive, advertising and creative can support Code Clubs, teaching young industries.
children how to code and supporting the People Like Me initiative to encourage girls Supporting STEM careers into relevant STEM careers.
To encourage future talent, we have We are proud that our Director of Risk and continued our partnership with Manchester Compliance, Helena Fearon, was shortlisted Digital by taking part in their Apprenticeship in this years Women in IT Award: Security Scheme for the second year, welcoming Champion of the Year, in recognition of her an additional four apprentices.
We also work in the safety and security arena.
Helena support relevant degrees for Software leads our customer security team and risk Developer and Infrastructure Technician and compliance function, and chairs the apprentices.
We continue to offer a PhD wider industry body Vehicle Safe Trading scholarship and two summer project Advisory Group VSTAG which aims to grants for Data Science students from bring the industry, police and fraud agencies the University of Manchester.
together to help consumers buy and sell We work with local universities and schools vehicles safely and securely.
and host numerous experience days in our We hosted over 100 events and conferences, Automotive industry offices, run mock interviews and give talks including: Manchester Youth HAC, Rails The automotive industry, much like the to introduce them to careers in digital.
We Girls, Manimation, Real UX and Manchester wider technology sector, has a significant continue to participate to promote STEM Futurists.
We are also members of the challenge with diversity.
We work with key subjects and careers by supporting local Manchester Publicity Association, working media partners, recruitment businesses and schools and clubs in the Manchester area.
to evolve the creative, media, publishing major automotive retailer groups to actively and digital industries in Manchester.
We participate in key industry events such as Inspiring Automotive Women, and will be hosting an upcoming event in partnership with Ennis & Co. and media title ARN, which aims to bring together the wider automotive industry to discuss diversity issues as well as to encourage actionable plans for businesses to take away.
Leading the industry, sharing ideas, and inspiring change and action are at the heart of our work with our retailer customers.
Through our masterclasses, conferences, webinars, in-house discovery days and award events we share the latest consumer trends, best practice advice and insights gleaned from our data to help shape the future of the industry.
Over 4,000 retailer customers or industry figures joined us for one of these sessions.
We want to make a difference to our customers by rewarding their efforts, and we do this annually at our Retailer Awards Ceremony The AutoTrader Click Awards.
The awards recognise those at the forefront of digital automotive retailing and those that really do put the consumer at the heart of their business.
These awards are used by retailers to promote their business to consumers on our marketplace.
46 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Health and safety We are committed to maintaining a safe Making a difference workforce for our employees, customers and visitors and anyone affected by our to our environment businesss activities.
It is therefore our policy that all of the Groups facilities, products and services comply with applicable laws and regulations governing safety and quality.
Greenhouse gas emissions 2018 2017 During the year, there were no major injuries statement reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Scope 1: Fuel for 1 company cars tCO e 390 491 AutoTrader is required to measure and Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences 2 report its direct and indirect greenhouse Regulations.
Scope 2: Electricity and gas GHG emissions by the Companies gas for our offices Our offices 1 Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors tCO e 340 437 2 Report Regulations 2013.
The greenhouse As a digital business, based between our Total carbon emissions gas reporting period is aligned to the offices in Manchester, London and Dublin, 1 tCO e 731 928 2 financial reporting year.
The methodology we believe our environmental footprint is Revenue m 330.1 311.4 used to calculate our emissions is based small.
We actively encourage our employees 2 Carbon intensity 2.2 3.0 on the financial consolidation approach, to consider our environmental impact.
as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, We operate recycling systems in the Year-on-year change 27% ACorporate Accounting and Reporting offices, established with local authorities, Standard Revised Edition.
Emission factors and we have no waste bins by desks, 1 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
2 A bsolute carbon emissions divided by used are from UK government BEIS which encourages the amount of recycling revenue in millions.
conversion factor guidance current for we do.
We operate a staff caf in our the year reported.
Manchester office and have implemented measures to reduce the consumption of The report includes the Scope 1 single use plastics.
combustion of fuel in relation to company cars and Scope 2 purchased electricity Our UK offices are both graded highly by the andgas emissions associated with our BREEAM standard: Kings Cross in London offices.
We have chosen to include the achieved an Outstanding rating and our emissions associated with leased company Manchester office an Excellent one.
cars in Scope 1, as we are responsible for We continue to use Fruitful Office to deliver these emissions.
fruit to our offices each week.
Fruitful Office We have chosen to present a revenue plants one tree in Malawi for every basket of intensity ratio as this is a relevant indicator fruit we receive.
Last year, 2,030 trees were of our growth and is aligned with our planted on behalf of AutoTrader, helping the business strategy.
The reduction in our organisation to mitigate the effects of global GHG emissions is due to a reduction in our warming, deforestation and providing an company car fleet and continued refreshing income to local communities.
of energy efficient office and IT equipment.
Auto Trader Group plc 47 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate social responsibility continued Doing the right thing AutoTrader believes in promoting trust and fairness in the marketplace and this has become part of the way we work across the organisation.
We aspire to be the UKs most admired digital business and we want that admiration to come from employees, suppliers and customers.
The only way to deliver the best services for our customers and do the right things by our people is to approach things in the right way.
We have established policies, procedures and training to ensure that everyone at AutoTrader knows that they must behave professionally, ethically andlegally, treating people with decency andrespect.
We promote a culture of compliance and shared responsibility by providing advice and information to keep our employees and customers smart, safe and secure.
Each year, our employees complete compliance training that covers Modern slavery policy Maintaining a trusted fraud, bribery, anti-money laundering, We have a zero-tolerance approach to marketplace information security and GDPR.
modern slavery and are committed to Consumers trust AutoTrader to show Anti-bribery and corruption acting ethically and with integrity in all our genuine, accurate adverts when they business dealings and relationships, and We are committed to carrying out all search for vehicles.
We have a dedicated to implementing and enforcing effective business activities in an honest, open customer security team who monitor our systems and controls to ensure modern and ethical manner.
We have zero site to identify adverts that are potentially slavery is not taking place anywhere in tolerance to any aspect of bribery and fraudulent or misleading, whether that ourown business or in any of our supply corruption, both within our business be a misleading price or inaccurate chains.
We are committed to ensuring there and in respect of any third parties with mileage in their advert.
We also have is transparency in our own business and in whom we have dealings.
We have an functionality to enable users of our site to ourapproach to tackling modern slavery established anti-bribery and corruption report a misleading advert whilst they are throughout our supply chains.
We expect the policy and procedures in place including searching, which we then investigate and, same high standards from all our contractors, reporting of gifts and hospitality, if necessary, remove from the site.
suppliers and other business partners.
standard contractual clauses with suppliers and annual online compliance Whistleblowing training for allemployees.
We provide an independent whistleblowing service if employees need to report anything untoward or experience any serious malpractice or wrongdoing in our business.
48 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Protecting our customers Human rights and equal and consumers data opportunity Protecting the data of our consumers The Group is committed to treating and our retailer customers is also an all its employees and job applicants important focus for us.
It is our policy not to discriminate based on their gender, We invest heavily in security and data sexual orientation, marital or civil protection.
We have a dedicated partner status, gender reassignment, security squad and we invest to ensure race, religion or belief, colour, that our systems are robust and that nationality, ethnic or national origin, we remain compliant with PCI DSS disability or age, pregnancy, or trade payment card industry, data security union membership or the fact that standard.
Over the last 12 months they are a part-time worker or a we have taken the opportunity to fixed-term employee.
The equal review all processes that involve data opportunities policy operated collection, storage or processing, and by the Group ensures all workers have have updated and amended to ensure a duty to act in accordance with this.
that they meet the enhanced GDPR requirements.
The Companys Strategic report is set out on pages 1 to 49.
Approved by the Board on 7 June 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Nathan Coe Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer 7 June 2018 AutoTrader believes in promoting trust and fairness in the marketplace and this has become part of the way we work across the organisation.
Auto Trader Group plc 49 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
