AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 36 Corporate Social Responsibility GROWING THE NEW AVEVA TOGETHER AVEVA, as a global company, understands the impact that we can have on our stakeholders, on our communities and on our environment.
Preparing for growth Engaging with our employees This past year, through the combination through effective communication of AVEVA and the Schneider Electric The way our employees communicate industrial software business SES, outside of work has changed over recent we have merged together two years at a great pace with the outstanding software companies, development of social media, and we to create a new global leader in recognise that some traditional methods engineering and industrial software.
of communications are now no longer relevant.
We are reflecting this change in Through this combination we have grown the way employees receive information substantially, bringing our employee when they come into the workplace.
This numbers to over 4,400, spread across is critically important through periods of over 80 locations in more than 40 change, so we have developed our countries.
Our people are critical to our strategy to make sure that we provide business success, and we have worked quick and easy access to tools that hard to engage and communicate engage our employees.
essential information to all our stakeholders around the future growth of We have moved our intranet to a our business.
Cloud-based tool, providing access when on the move or working away from the Throughout the integration planning of office.
The functionality is based on the combination of the companies, we social media tools, providing the option worked together to develop for employees to comment, like, blog communications that welcomed, and collaborate with each other, explained to, and supported all employees wherever they are located.
as they joined the new combined AVEVA, helping everyone understand what would happen and when.
This of course continues as we operate as one organisation through a combined change management strategy we will continue to develop and support our employees so they understand clearly our business strategy, their role and how they contribute to our success.
We are looking to create a culture where our great people can do their best work.
Mark Cooper Chief Human Resources Officer Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 37 A big welcome to all our new colleagues, very excited and looking forward to taking the Power of One to a new level.
Together we are strong indeed!
David Toh Im super excited to be part of this new Marketing Director, Asia Pacific family.
Looking forward to working with Welcome to AVEVA, lets create new colleagues on exciting stuff to make brilliancy together!
Min Du Laxmikanth Anuga Specialist, Legal & Commercial Senior Software Developer As the tool is Cloud-based, employees Through the intranet and the welldevelop.
Culture is the knowledge, joining AVEVA as part of the combination established network of Global mindset and behaviours of our were able to access the intranet on their Communications Ambassadors across employees that uniquely define the new first day, with many sending welcome AVEVA, the communications team AVEVA.
We are working across the messages to each other.
continues to encourage articles where organisation, bringing teams together to employees can share stories of where help us answer the question of what we they have supported each other, raised want our culture, our values and our funds or supported their local community, customer and employee experiences as well as to recognise successes.
The new tool is proving to be a more Through the sharing of stories of what is collaborative environment in which to great about each organisation and by communicate, as well as enhancing collating ideas and thoughts, we will employee engagement, providing develop a culture that our people will want more opportunity for two-way dialogue, to both own and believe in, so we can particularly with the Executive better serve our customers and Leadership Team.
shareholders to reflect the way we work.
The work has begun and we will be Feedback is something we ask for engaging employees in the outcomes and regularly, with the use of the pulse survey how they can get involved over the tool and through other mechanisms.
We asked for our employees views on the plans for the combination leading Supporting women in our industry up to the close of the transaction, As an engineering and technology using the feedback to provide relevant organisation, we understand the updates.
We have continued to ask challenges faced in hiring women into for feedback, either through the online technical roles across our industry.
To tool or our ambassadors, so we address this, we launched AVEVAs can take the appropriate action and Women in Science and Engineering 40% provide regular integration updates.
WISE programme during the year.
We also ask our ambassadors to of our graduate provide comments and suggestions WISE is a UK campaign for gender intake were female from within the regions on the topics balance in science, technology and people want to hear more about.
Our involvement with WISE will support us with best practice Developing AVEVAs new culture and the opportunity to learn from other 48% AVEVA has undergone a transformational Science, Technology, Engineering of recruits to manager change in the past 12 months, combining and Maths STEM organisations roles were female two globally recognised and successful facing similar challenges.
organisations to create one inclusive and diverse organisation.
As a global organisation we are looking to apply the approach across all our regions, As part of the overall project to integrate and we have a vision to raise the number 27% the two businesses, the culture of our new of women in technical roles from the of technical new starters organisation is an important element to existing level of 20% to 30% by 2020. were female AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 38 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Spotlight: International Womens Day AVEVA celebrated International Womens Day on 8 March 2018 by holding events across the globe, taking the opportunity to hold joint events between heritage AVEVA and SES just a week following the completion of the transaction.
In Cambridge we held unconscious bias training sessions, as we recognise the importance of empowering individuals to understand their behaviours and the impact it has on our ability to create an open, fair and inclusive workplace culture for all.
Senior Software Engineer Katie Hannaford, who joined AVEVA as a graduate back in 2013, spoke openly about being the only female in one of her school technology classes, and ignoring doubters to pursue a career she is passionate about.
AVEVAs gender equality strategy is global.
In India, our colleagues took part in a week of activities in early March.
Jennifer Allerton, one of our Non-Executive Directors, joined colleagues in the Hyderabad office to It was great to see the spotlight discuss her career and the journey it took her on.
Our Indian team have on gender equality and learn of their own WISE plans and will host a women-only Hackathon this year and a software bootcamp to encourage women back into the workplace, AVEVAs initiatives in this regard.
and have held unconscious bias training for the wider office.
A well-organised event and a good opportunity to mingle with employees.
Stefan Haller VP Platform Development, Cambridge UK What an inspiring event!
Beginning with Jennifer Allertons inspiring words right up to the launch of the WISE India Chapter, the whole event was fantastic and informative.
The event made it evident that AVEVA is certainly a place for women pursuing excellence.
Humayun Khan Pathan Senior Software Engineer, India International Womens Day and WISE lunch was a fantastic day to have interactions and understand two cultures on first day at new AVEVA, wonderfully organised, showcasing the true Diversity & Inclusion spirits and commitments.
Basant Tripathi HR Business Partner, India Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 39 In recognition of our commitment and Other areas where we mandate Gender mix changes we have made on the journey so e-learning, alongside updates to Male Female far, the WISE Campaign named us corporate policies, include Anti-Bribery Employer of the Year in 2017. and Corruption, Whistleblowing, Directors Corporate Gifts & Hospitality and We have made progress in our Export Compliance.
commitment to WISE and with the continued support of our Board of With the introduction of the new GDPR Directors and Executive Leadership guidelines in May, we conducted local Team, we will continue to drive the training and communicated via our changes required.
internal channels, to support our employees and managers in 13% This year we published our Gender Pay understanding their responsibilities and Gap Report, covering employees in the actions required.
The full report is available on our website at http: www.
com en Science, Technology, Investors Corporate Governance Engineering and Mathematics Corporate Responsibility STEM ambassadors Linked to our vision to develop our Executive Leadership Team On average, women were paid 26% less recruitment of talent, AVEVA has a than men.
AVEVA, like many other number of STEM ambassadors across engineering-led organisations, have more the organisation who dedicate time to men within the organisation, with a speak with and mentor school and disproportionate representation in senior university students about the benefits roles.
In the UK, particularly in our of a STEM career choice.
Research & Development function, we have a high concentration of engineering AVEVA continues to build strong 0% roles.
Our WISE initiative will help us to relationships with local schools.
As well as redress the balance, along with our its sponsorship of the Engineering and continued investment in both graduate Maths courses through the provision of and apprenticeship programmes.
AVEVA employees time and support at Villiers Park Educational Trust, based in Whilst we recognise it will take time to Cambridge, AVEVA has also helped deliver our vision, we are making changes students at the Netherthorpe School in Strategic Leadership Team now, to see a positive impact later.
Our Chesterfield, UK, to develop a STEM global graduate and apprenticeship project as part of the Go4SET initiative.
It schemes continue to grow, covering both aims to encourage young students aged technical and business-based disciplines.
12-14 to get involved with STEM-related Many of our candidates go on to enjoy activities and demonstrate how they can successful careers with AVEVA.
This is be applied in a real-world setting.
We something we look forward to expanding work with an organisation called Form over the coming years.
the Future, whose mission is to empower 17% young people in their career choices and Advancing our talent at AVEVA prepare them for the future, and to enable During the year we invested more into our businesses to safeguard and build their Talent Acquisition team as we continue to talent pipeline.
Through Form the Future seek the highest calibre employees to join we work with 11-18 year olds, to give them our team.
Our Learning and Development essential skills for their future careers and team continues to offer employees inspire their interest in STEM.
tailored programmes and a range of Employees opportunities for both career progression Relationships like this are a great example and personal development, as well as for of our outreach agenda supporting our rolling out mandatory refresher training WISE strategy.
We want to encourage on areas such as IT security.
more students, especially females, to take up STEM subjects at GCSE level.
24% AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 40 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Arthur Rankin Hospice, Guide Dogs for In the last 12 months, following the most Academic initiatives the Blind, and the Alzheimers Society.
recent policy reviews, AVEVA has AVEVA has continued to work with local News of Hurricane Harvey that affected updated and improved its employee vocational training centres, universities the Texas area back in August 2017 was policies in a range of areas, including paid and further education establishments to very close to our hearts.
AVEVAs parental leave, and in recognition of the donate software and training for the use Houston office was closed for a period of gender imbalance driven by the recent on engineering and Computer-Aided time, and some employees were gender pay gap requirements outlined Design CAD degree courses.
It benefits displaced from their homes.
AVEVA above, on setting aspirational targets for students, employers, and the global donated $15,000 to a local charity, the JJ the number of women both invited to engineering economy in developing Watt Foundation, to support the provision interview as well as employed by the engineering skills, understanding of help on the ground during what was a Group, particularly in senior management engineering concepts and industry-ready devastating time for the community.
AVEVA has an equal opportunities knowledge, which can be applied directly Employees in Houston volunteered at the policy, covering everyone working in or to capital-intensive industries.
During the local foodbank, providing people with for the Company.
The policy is designed year we donated or subsidised software much-needed provisions.
to tackle all forms of discrimination and to educational establishments in Vietnam, celebrate diversity in the workplace.
Indonesia, India and South Korea.
AVEVA also supports employees who AVEVA is committed to improving its take on personal challenges to raise practices to combat slavery and human Colleagues in India visited the Sridevi money for charities of their choice by trafficking and to ensuring that there is no Womens Engineering College in matching the funding raised.
Charities that modern slavery in any part of its supply Hyderabad, where our volunteers benefited during the year included chain.
AVEVA has a very clear stance on mentored the MBA students on skills Sarcoma UK, Macmillan Cancer Support Anti-Bribery and Corruption.
We have a such as CV writing, group discussions, and East Anglia Childrens Hospice.
robust policy in place and, as a global and personal interviews.
business, have defined what constitutes a Across the globe, AVEVA employees breach of the policy.
We mandate the AVEVA presented its first University continued to give time and help fundraise completion of e-Learning modules for award in 2018, when Technical University for their local communities.
In India, Anti-Bribery and Corruption for all TU Dortmund and West Virginia AVEVA employees were involved in employees, to ensure that everybody is University received funding for research clothes drives, donating items to aware of both AVEVAs and their own programmes tied to engineering design underprivileged families: they also gave obligations.
Winners were selected numerous blood donations in conjunction from 20 submissions, and funds will be with local blood banks to support medical Transparency and disclosure are used for research that provides proof of emergencies and care for sufferers of the fundamental to our relationships with concepts, demonstrations of feasibility disease Thalassemia.
Colleagues in customers, partners and suppliers.
Selection criteria Japan helped to raise money for vaccines, maintain open, honest and fair were based on a number of factors, improvements to health facilities and discussions with each of our stakeholders including how the Research & manpower training in Asia and Africa.
to reinforce our reputation as a trusted Development grant might drive future and ethical organisation.
innovation across industrial operations, Our policies supporting how it could be completed through the our people use of existing resources, and how the As a global organisation, we recognise output could be incorporated into future that our business has the responsibility to software offerings.
respect and to contribute positively to human rights.
We are committed to Supporting our local communities improving our practices for a number of through charitable giving and mandated and monitored policies and volunteering training.
Policies are there to ensure that Corporate Social Responsibility is a great the Company understands its role in way for us to engage with our local making sure we are a compliant communities and understand their needs organisation, and are committed to acting better.
Its also a way for our employees to ethically and with integrity in all business express their interests, by supporting matters.
These are reviewed on an annual charitable causes closer to their hearts.
basis and cover Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Respect for Human Rights, Throughout the year, AVEVA continued to Social matters, Employees, and build close relationships with local Environmental matters.
communities by both volunteering and fundraising, and has donated nearly 50,000 to charities and good causes.
Recipients include the British Red Cross, Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 41 Carbon Emissions Tonnes of CO e 2 AVEVA is committed to minimising its Emissions from: 2018 2017 carbon emissions, increasing the use of Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 938 1,046 recycling opportunities and reducing the Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased use of valuable natural resources.
We are for own use 5,876 2,223 continually improving the way in which we Scope 3 Transmission and distribution losses 1,323 501 capture and record our emissions data.
8,137 3,769 For the purposes of this report, the Intensity measurement Scopes 1 and 2 emissions have been calculated Tonnes CO2e m revenue 13.65 15.14 according to the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance issued by the Department for Environment, Food Tonnes of CO e by region and Rural Affairs DEFRA, and by 2 applying DEFRAs conversion factors.
5,000 Scope 1 We have aimed for the greenhouse Combustion of fuel and 4,000 gas GHG emissions to be captured operation of facilities for all of our UK and overseas offices between April 2017 and March 2018, but 3,000 Scope 2 unfortunately it has not been possible Electricity, heat, steam to collect carbon emission information and cooling purchased 2,000 from all of our heritage SES offices, so for own use instead we have estimated emissions data based on headcount information 1,000 Scope 3 of heritage AVEVA and SES, using data Transmission and from our heritage AVEVA offices.
The distribution losses 0 data presented is consistent with the Americas Asia Pacic EMEA Greater China Reported numbers i. e. on a reverse Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 acquisition basis.
Due to the complexities of collecting carbon emission data from the SES business, the comparative Tonnes of CO e equivalent 2 data presented is for heritage AVEVA only.
We have put processes in place to be able to capture this information for the SES entities for FY19 onwards.
The 2017 financial year serves as the baseline for our targets.
For our carbon intensity ratio we have measured our carbon usage as it relates to our business performance, citing tonnes of CO e million of revenue.
In 2018 2 this intensity ratio reduced to 13.65 tonnes CO e million 2017 15.14.
2 938 Scope 1 5,876 Scope 2 1,323 Scope 3 This Strategic Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Philip Aiken Chairman 14 June 2018 AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 42 Governance Report STRENGTH IN OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM Governance Report 44 Board of Directors 46 Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance 47 Corporate Governance Report 51 Nomination Committee Report 52 Audit Committee Report 56 Remuneration Committee Report 78 Other statutory information Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 43
