Avast annual report 2018 49 People and corporate social responsibility Avasts most At Avast, people can do valuable their best work because asset is its theyre encouraged people.
Their to live their best lives engagement is my top priority.
Steven Scheers Chief HR Offi cer Our passionate and talented employees are the foundation of our success.
We strive to live our values as individuals and as a company and are committed to engaging our people, investing in initiatives that strengthen communities, and doing our part to protect the environment.
Avasts values inform our approach Our values to doing business as well as our relationships with each other, our partners, communities, and stakeholders.
Think big Speak up Work together Get stuff done Enjoy life!
The company is involved in a Social Responsibility wide range of philanthropic and Framework charitable causes, both related to its core business areas of cybersecurity and technology, as well as other social and community related activities.
Engaged Thriving Environmental people communities stewardship These three parts of our framework are explained in more detail on the following pages 50 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements People and corporate social responsibility Engaged people Avasts true assets are its people, Bene ts philosophy Theres never whose expertise and dedication In order to attract and retain the best employees, we strive to off er abovepower the technology that serves a reason market bene ts in each location where more than 435 million users we operate.
We believe that these bene ts every day.
generate a working environment where to stop employees are comfortable, feel rewarded, Employee engagement and are enabled to be productive and do developing their best work.
increased engagement this year Based on March 2018 employee engagement results, Avast placed Sabine Kurre concerted eff ort on improving learning HR Business Partner Beginning in 2018, after two years of rapid and development opportunities for growth and change in the organisation, all employees in both soft skills and Avast started to regularly measure technical training, as well as leadership employee engagement through its development for our line management.
In March, following First line leadership training was t th he e 18 month integration of AVG and completed by over 200 managers, A Av vas a t, employee engagement was at across Europe and North America.
The Executive Management team s se et a g t oal to achieve 70% engagement In Q1 2018, we launched a partnership ove over time.
Following the IPO in May and with Coursera to start the Avast Virtual sus sustained focus on increasing learning and University, off ering online learning to all fide dev velopment opportunities, engagement employees, regardless of where they ro ros se to 64% at the end of November are based.
We continue to focus on improving have around 300 learners in Avast Virtual k ke ey a y reas that strongly impact employee University, 150 of whom have already engagement eng through detailed action completed their course.
The launch of planning pla within each division.
our soft skills training catalogue in North America, an extension of the successful A Av vas a t will continue to measure employee programmes launched in Europe in engagement eng through an annual Your Voice 2017, has brought additional high quality, sur survey, tracking progress and setting in-demand training to our employees.
p pri rio orities for each upcoming year, aiming to a to achieve and maintain 70% engagement In Q4 2018, we launched the senior ove over time.
management development programme with a pilot training that received 100% A Aw warded most attractive workplace satisfaction rating from participants.
In In 2 2017, our Prague headquarters won This programme consists of four training t tw wo p o restigious awards in the Czech modules, spread over approximately R Re epublic the Most Attractive Workplace six months, and continues in 2019. f fr ro om CBRE and the Employee Friendly Offi Offi ce competition from Kancele Roku o ow wing to its attractive open space design a an nd d many on-site amenities, including t th he e canteen and coff ee bar, relax zones, gym gym, nursery, and employee-life activities.
Th These e bene ts have helped cement A Av va asts employer reputation, and in 2018 t th he e Company ranked in the Top 3 Tech E Em mployers in the Czech Republic, based on on a survey of over 10,000 university s st tu udents and recent graduates.
Avast annual report 2018 51 better tracking diversity characteristics Diversity At Avast, you in hiring and promotions, and aim to Avast recognises that a workforce increase the diversity at the Company composed of people from diverse and in particular in leadership positions, can reach backgrounds and viewpoints is critical each year.
We believe in the power of diverse and inclusive workplaces to further and The Company also recognises in foster innovation, bring us closer to our particular the gender disparities which are customers, and attract the best talent.
pervasive across the tech industry, and achieve more.
Across our more than 25 global offi ces, is taking steps to address them through we have people with over 50 nationalities, its cooperation with organisations like Petra Tosnarova with employees in our headquarters Czechitas and MakeITtoday see page 56.
Product Marketing Director representing over 40 countries.
Our Through our sponsorship of Czechitas, employee population at the end of a start-up led by women and focused on December 2018 was 26% female and bringing more women and girls into the 74%male.
IT sector, Avast volunteer advisors instruct courses and mentor women who are Our Code of Conduct states our re-educating themselves to enter the commitment to creating respectful IT sector mid-career.
and inclusive workplaces in which all employees can thrive, regardless of their We recognise the importance of having background or identity, and our Diversity diversity at the Board level.
With the and Recruitment policies ensure that appointment of Maggie Chan Jones we apply best practices in hiring diverse and Tamara Minick-Scokalo, in March talent and providing equal opportunities 2019, we have brought onboard two for learning and development and career experienced and energetic Directors.
advancement to all our employees.
To Cultural awareness and support this, we have increased and continue to add learning and development inclusive workplace opportunities for managers and The diversity of our workforce contributes employees on dealing with con ict, to our ability to innovate and lead.
We cross-cultural communication, creating believe an inclusive workplace, one in inclusive and respectful teams, and which all our people can do their best diversity.
All employees have equal work and collaborate eff ectively with opportunity to request and participate in each other, is a necessary prerequisite these and all other training opportunities.
To foster inclusivity, Avast launched new cultural awareness and Our recruitment practices stem from our cross cultural communication workshops commitment to hiring the best candidates, aimed at enhancing a cohesive workplace regardless of sex, sexual orientation, culture based on mutual understanding marital status, nationality, colour, race, and respect.
As of 2019, the workshops ethnicity, national origin, religion or belief, are part of our regular training catalogue.
disability, age, gender reassignment or political affi liation.
We are committed to 1 Employee category Men Women % Men % Women 2 Board 10 1 90.9 9.1 3 Executive management diversity 9 1 90 10 4 Staff gender diversity 1237 442 74 26 1 Numbers as of 31 December 2018.
2 Excludes two additional female directors appointed in 2019.
3 Members of the Avast Executive Management team, excluding Executive Directors.
52 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements People and corporate social responsibility Working together Great environments spark creativity and collaboration.
Whether in London, Prague, Emeryville or elsewhere, our offi ces are designed to enable our people to do their best work.
Avast annual report 2018 53 Thriving communities We also actively contribute to raising Social responsibility is at our core Its easy to get awareness and discussion of human rights, Our commitment to social responsibility especially through the Avast Foundation starts with the way we do business.
described in greater detail on page 55. excited about The Avast Executive Management team For instance, the Foundation has been ultimately bears responsibility for ensuring a main partner of the Forum 2000 that all staff have access to and are able what were Conference on Democracy and our to comply with the policies that govern our CEO, Vince Steckler and our President, business practices and our approach to doing here.
Consumer, Ondrej Vlcek, have regularly the communities in which we operate participated in this event.
The Foundation and to which we are connected.
also sponsors the annual One World Michael Barr Following Avasts admission to the London Human Rights Documentary Film Festival Customer Care Team Lead Stock Exchange, the Company released organised by People in Need, the Czech a Code of Conduct, documenting our Republics largest humanitarian and commitment to ethical business practices, human rights organisation.
a respectful and inclusive workplace, To underline our commitment to human and engagement with our stakeholders, rights in all our operations, we h ha ave five including employees, partners, and implemented policies in relation n t to o customers.
After launching the Code Sanctions, Anti-Money Laundering, ring, of Conduct, we conducted in-depth, Counter Terrorist Financing, in-person training with line managers and Modern Slavery.
across the globe and added the Code of Conduct to our training catalogue.
Transparency and anti-corrupt rruption ion Transparency in our business operat perations ions Respect for human rights is important.
We do not tolerate c co or rrupt ruption ion Avast deeply respects and upholds the or bribery and have policies in p pl lac ace e to to principles of human rights.
The Company disclose and mitigate all potenti ial al co con n ic ict ts s was founded on the belief that people of interest.
Our commitment to have the right to be both safe and free these principles is outlined in our ur online, a commitment that continues to Anti-Corruption Policy, Related be re ected in our core business areas Party Transactions Policy, of security and privacy.
and Con ict of Interest Policy.
We pride ourselves on being an ethical employer.
We are compliant with local employment legislation in every jurisdiction in which we operate, and as an employer strive to provide attractive compensation and bene ts, as well as engaging workspaces and opportunities for our people to grow and develop their careers with us.
54 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements People and corporate social responsibility Environmental stewardship In July 2018, Avast moved its secondAvast recognises the need to Greenhouse Gas calculation largest offi ce into a new, BREEAM operate in an environmentally This is the first year that Avast has Excellent certi ed building in Brno.
calculated its greenhouse gas emissions sound and compliant way, and GHG.
Given that this is a new requirement At both offi ces, food is cooked and is committed to doing what it for the Company, we are developing served for all employees on site with can to reduce its environmental and re ning our in-house capabilities reusable dishware.
impact, practice good stewardship, for gathering and reporting GHG data.
Throughout 2018, the Company has and mitigate any negative The Avast operations that primarily release also introduced additional, incremental GHG include electricity consumption environmental eff ects that changes aimed at further reducing waste.
at our leased offi ces and data centers may stem from our global Implementing PET-free policies in Prague, in which we have owned hardware.
replacing plastic beverage bottles with Our 2018 data covers our leased offi ce Our primary impact on the environment fountain drinks and fresh lemonades premises worldwide.
Calculations for offi ce comes from the offi ce facilities in will reduce future annual plastic waste space were based on known data from which we house our employees and generation by 200,000 plastic beverage our offi ces in Prague and Brno, Czech operations.
Over the last several years, bottles.
PET-free policies in Brno, in place Republic: London, UK: Ottawa, Canada: Avast has committed to doing better since the beginning, additionally prevent and Emeryville, California: Fort Walton for the environment wherever possible, the use of an estimated 60,000 plastic Beach, Florida: and Kansas City, Kansas making signi cant investments into the beverage bottles per year.
In 2019, the in the United States, accounting for 71% facilities and waste management for its on-site catering company for both offi ces of our offi ce space.
The other 29% was two largest offi ces.
will introduce compostable containers extrapolated as an average for each offi ce for all foods and drinks that are prepared based on the known data.
Calculations In 2015, Avast moved its headquarters to for takeaway i. e. coff ee cups, yogurt for our data centers were based on actual a brand new, Class A, BREEAM Excellent containers, as well as a compostable electricity consumption for those data certi ed building in Prague.
The building is waste stream for these items.
centers in which we have owned hardware equipped with waste separation, recycling and for which we pay directly for energy programmes, light and climate control We continue to identify and implement consumption and on maximum allowable to reduce energy consumption, and a incremental changes that will consumption for data centers in which number of chargers for electric vehicles, reduce our waste generation and we pay for consumption up to a certain with dedicated parking allotted to those environmental impact.
Rented data center infrastructure is employees who drive electric vehicles.
All calculations have been performed in Greenhouse gas emissions accordance with the Greenhouse Gas 2018 Protocol Corporate Standard and using Scope tCO e 2 the UK Governments DEFRA conversion Scope 1 factor guidance for 2018.
Usage of fuel and operation of buildings 4.0 Scope 2 Emissions from electricity consumption 2,497.5 Total Scope 1 & 2 2,501.5 Intensity Ratio 2018 tCO e m$ Adjusted Revenue 3.02 2 In 2019, we will continue to monitor the data, develop systematic reporting protocols, and where possible reduce our overall footprint.
Avast annual report 2018 55 The Avast Foundation The Avast Foundation, founded in 2010, forms the basis of much of We are thrilled Avasts charitable outreach.
Its $5M USD annual budget is entirely funded by donations from the Company.
An inseparable part of that employee Avast, the Foundation has been recognised as one of the most innovative and respected charitable foundations in the Czech Republic.
interest in our work It operates programmes in five strategic categories: continues Together until the end Start together to grow.
Focuses on implementing systemic Empowers disabled children and changes in end-of-life care supports families of disabled children to live full lives and access Jarmila Baudisova appropriate resources and services Chairwoman of the Board, Avast Foundation Libuse Tomolova Learn together Together with employees Executive Director, Avast Foundation Aims to improve educational Extends the Foundations reach systems, bringing modern and globally, by providing grants to relevant practices to the classroom, charitable projects nominated and supporting Avasts aim to by employees in any of our cultivate the next generation of global offi ces.
cybersecurity experts In 2018, the Foundation received 151 applications for support through the Together with Employees Together with trust program.
Members of the Avast Foundation Board of Trustees and Works with local community employee representatives awarded organisations that are enriching grants totalling $278,600 USD to peoples lives in education, sports, 123 organisations in 28 countries arts, and more The Foundation also undertakes to support communities aff ected by natural disasters.
For instance, in 2018, our offi ce in North Carolina was part of the wider community aff ected by Hurricane Florence in summer 2018.
To support disaster relief and ongoing recovery eff orts, the Foundation made a donation to the Central Carolina Community fund.
56 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements People and corporate social responsibility Avast and the Foundation: A successful partnership creating systemic, lasting social change example of what can happen when initially established with Foundation the private sector takes its community support, enabling the Foundation to sustainability obligations seriously.
approach this complex issue in even more In January 2018, Alan Rassaby, our innovative ways.
For example, to tackle Chief of Staff, presented the Foundation the lack of experts in palliative care, the as a case study for the potential of Foundation has worked with universities public-private partnerships to advance to introduce palliative medicine as a the UNs Sustainable Development subject and opened a scholarship Goals at a special meeting of the programme to support palliative leaders.
To date over $6M USD has gone toward The Avast Foundation takes pride in After five years, the palliative care support for this strategic initiative, developing and supporting innovative program, Together until the End, has supporting the development of palliative social programmes.
In past years, changed the approach to palliative care care programs at over 60 hospitals, the Foundation chose palliative care in the Czech Republic, moving toward hospices, and other healthcare and as its agship program, because as making it available for all and accepted social services providers, as well as an underserviced area there was a as a natural part of life.
Together until the sparking partnership projects among great potential to make a real impact.
End has been so successful in creating various healthcare, academic, and state Furthermore, the partnership between access to palliative care that the Czech sector institutions, NGOs, and centers Avast and the Foundation has been government has begun to provide partial of excellence.
recognised as a successful model for funding to selected services that were creating systemic change and a great cybersecurity curriculum program, Education initiatives Social and community aiming to educate our cybersecurity experts of the future.
engagement The next generations of cybersecurity experts are already beginning their Be Safe Online: Launched in March 2018, The Avast Board and Executive education, whether they know it or and recognised as one of the top 15 Management team support and not.
Avast is taking steps to support sustainable projects by the Sustainable champion additional Foundation and cybersecurity education and introduce Development Goals organisation in the employee-led eff orts to give back to students and young people to the Czech Republic, BSO brings engaging their local communities.
cybersecurity sector, because they are and interactive cybersecurity awareness This includes partnering with employees to the future we all will count on.
In addition, education to schools and provides raise money for the Movember Foundation we support cybersecurity awareness resources for parents and teachers to which the Avast Movember team has for students, teachers, and the public to promote safe online practices.
been the most generous donor in the to give people all the tools they need to Coding for Kids: In November 2018, Czech Republic for the last two years: stay safe online.
Avast began a partnership with partnering with the Avast Foundation Academic and research collaborations: MakeITtoday, a woman-owned Czech to raise money for employee-selected Academic and research collaborations: organisation providing coding courses organisations during an annual global Avast cooperates closely with for kids aged 8-12.
We piloted subsidised Giving Tuesday fund drive, and off ering research and academic institutions courses for 30 children of Avast support to various locally organised that are advancing the eld in our employees in 2018. donation activities, such as purchasing areas of strategic interest, especially gifts for children from underprivileged Hacking and coding challenges and in IoT research.
Avasts experts have backgrounds in Serbia during the meetups: Participating in and supporting collaborated with departments, Christmas season.
technical communities is a priority for faculty, and students at Stanford, us.
Avast routinely sponsors hackathons Berkeley, Lehigh University, the Czech and challenges, such as CalHacks at the Strategic report approval Technical University, Brno University University of California, Berkeley, to Hack The Strategic report on pages 1 to 56 of Technology, Charles University, Cambridge in the United Kingdom and was approved by the Board on 9 April and the University of California Irvine Hack Moscow in Russia in 2018.
We also 2019 and signed on its behalf by: as instructors and thesis advisors, regularly organise meetups and tech in research partnerships and events.
talks on topics from machine learning to We are a proud advisor to the University C, bringing our experts together with of California Irvine Cybersecurity Vince Steckler local tech communities to share and Policy & Research Institute, and in 2018 advance knowledge.
Chief Executive Offi cer sponsored the UC Irvine high-school Avast annual report 2018 57 Governance and financial statements: Governance Financial statements Board biographies 58 Independent Auditors Report 98 Corporate governance statement 60 Consolidated financial statements 106 Audit and Risk Committee report 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 113 Nomination Committee report 70 Company financial statements 157 Directors remuneration report 72 Notes to the company Directors report 92 financial statements 159 Glossary 163
