Sustainability Delivering and evolving a sustainable business In order to maintain the resilience of our business over time, our consistent focus remains on creating long-term value for stakeholders through a strong and Archie Bethel CBE, Chief Executive sustainable Babcock.
Our commitment to sustainability means ourselves on upholding the strictest together with the importance we place that the relationships we have with our standards of business ethics, delivering on conducting our work safely and with shareholders, customers, employees, a competitive talent development integrity.
Supplemented by appropriate suppliers and local communities and the programme and ensuring that health training and guidance, our Code of regard we have for the environment are and safety remain at the forefront.
Conduct reinforces our honest approach core to how we plan to deliver to doing business, as well as supporting Looking to the future, our people and performance and achieve our goals.
long-term success by minimising financial their potential are central to our plans for Reporting on material yet non-financial risk and sustaining our reputation.
growth, both in the UK and internationally.
measures is also necessary in understanding This year, we have demonstrated our We firmly believe that we can sustain the the performance, opportunities and long-term success of our business in ways support for diversity in engineering by long-term sustainability of generating value growing our relationships with universities that also serve local communities and for all our stakeholders.
We do this by investing in and and schools to encourage young people not to prepare a separate Non-Financial to take up science, technology, supporting our people, whether through Information Statement, but rather address technical apprenticeship schemes, engineering and mathematics STEM the disclosure of non-financial matters in internationally and we are proud to be graduate schemes, training or career the following pages and throughout the development and succession opportunities official partners of the UK Governments Strategic report.
We strive to identify and Babcock has deep technical expertise in train talented people to implement continue to foster diversity in the providing bespoke, complex engineering workforce, sponsoring the World Award growth, for example, through our tailored services across four sectors, with a Babcock MBA programme in partnership at this years Women In Science and growing international footprint.
We Engineering WISE Awards, which with the University of Strathclyde.
work in highly regulated environments recognised the invaluable contribution Our ability to continue attracting, managing complex assets in a range of made by women in the industry.
Building recruiting and developing the people markets and countries, operating and on the establishment of staff networks in we need to help us thrive as a business is supporting critical infrastructure, recent years, we continue to support our key to both our current and long-term equipment and training programmes.
internal staff Diversity and Inclusion success.
Initiatives such as the graduate We therefore have a responsibility to networks as they grow.
Our LGBT network, recruitment campaign and annual consider a diverse range of stakeholders, Pride in Babcock, was recognised for its apprentice networking events as well interests and concerns.
Our approach is fantastic work within the Diversity and as talent development and management thorough: we maintain three overarching, Inclusion arena this year, winning Best schemes are all part of our plan to equip underpinning and interlinking pillars of Staff Network at the Bristol Pride Awards.
our business with the talent we need to sustainability as discussed further in this Initiatives like these form part of our grow sustainably.
report and additionally in each of our continued commitment to enhancing our sectors operational reviews.
Protecting the health and safety of our highly skilled workforce, enabling us to employees is a fundamental value of our A fundamental part of our Group foster the talent needed to achieve and business: we work hard to get everyone sustain our strategic aims.
realignment was, and continues to be, home safe, every day.
This extends to our our focus on supporting and investing in wider operations, where we seek to avoid our people to deliver sustainable growth or minimise any adverse effects on the across the sectors.
At Babcock, we believe surrounding environment.
Our Group wide that a truly sustainable business is essential Code of Business Conduct outlines our Archie Bethel CBE to our success, which is why we pride commitment to strict ethical conduct Chief Executive Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 60 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Our approach to sustainability Profit and People and Environment performance potential and ethics How our investment in: How our focus on: discovering How our commitment to the building long-term relationships: and developing diverse talent standards set out in our Code of delivering critical through-life and progression routes: inspiring Conduct underpins how we act support: using high performing and and encouraging the next with our customers, our employees ethical suppliers: and supporting generation of engineers: and our suppliers as well as the local and diverse economies and our open dialogue with communities and environments supports our target of building management delivers measurable we work in.
market leading positions and benefits to a sustainable business delivering value to our customers, and its communities.
our colleagues and our investors.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Sustainability, continued Profit and performance The efficiencies we deliver through activities is better value for our customers transact efficiently with our suppliers.
effective contract management, and shareholders, through the delivery of These tools also provide a common innovation and through-life management effective and efficient sourcing activities.
approach, which helps us to share best practice across the organisation.
We enable us to return value to our Savings targets are ambitious, and customers, our colleagues and our ongoing efforts to obtain efficiencies are able to use consistent business andlower our cost base help to increase intelligence, which allows us to work investors.
We buy a wide range of goods and services and need reliable, highprofitability.
Key metrics are reported each collaboratively with our suppliers and month to a sector and Group Governance focus on innovation and other valueperforming suppliers across all aspects of our supply chain.
Babcock seeks to ensure Board and approved by eachbusiness unit adding initiatives.
that our customers money is spent The e-procurement tools that we are efficiently and responsibly and that our implementing provide a faster and more Performance supply contracts are managed effectively.
effective way of transacting with our We expect our supply chain to adhere to supply base, resulting in sustainable Building long-term relationships our standards of ethical behaviour, and relationships that are based on We are always looking for better, ourenvironmental, health and safety and operationally robust processes.
innovative ways of serving our customers.
Our responsibility is to provide them We want to spend time talking to our suppliers about new ideas, operational with the best options to ensure success.
Profit When we identify a more efficient way performance and total cost opportunities Profit is largely delivered through not about payment.
We understand ofservicing their requirements we discuss our ability to manage our operations these options and work in collaboration the importance of predictable customer effectively.
A significant part of this is payments when running a business.
That with our customers to bring efficiency driven through our relationships with benefits, while delivering a quality service.
is why Babcock is a signatory in the UK to suppliers.
Over 50% of our cost base is the Prompt Payment Code and we would The Procurement and Supply Chain team viathird party suppliers including with is actively engaged in the bidding process encourage others in our supply chain to Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs, make the same commitment.
with existing and new customers.
This and our approach and ability to manage enables us to bring the most effective these relationships impact our ability to Delivering critical support using offer to our customers.
We are often able deliver performance and margin.
to leverage existing arrangements to offer high-performing, ethical suppliers Over the past year, we have looked a cost-effective solution.
Our customers rely on our ability to for supplier efficiencies across the provide a robust and effective supply organisation.
This has included Suppliers chain.
We take this responsibility very contract efficiencies through upfront We believe that establishing long-term seriously and work in collaboration with procurement, involvement in the bid relationships with our suppliers is an other industry leaders to create a process, operational productivity through important part of building long-term process that optimises risk management increased innovation and quality, and relationships with our customers.
As while encouraging the use of SMEs.
Babcock part of a structured programme across Potential suppliers must demonstrate has implemented a rigorous programme business units and Group categories, the their financial, commercial and technical across our procurement and supply chain procurement and supply chain function is capability to meet our contractual function.
The objective has been to drive raising commercial capability by engaging requirements.
We also look for a clear best practices across the organisation.
As in supplier relationship management demonstration of commitment to a result of this initiative, procurement is programmes with strategic suppliers.
engaging earlier in order to help provide We haveover 10,000 suppliers: however, We expect high standards of conduct our customers with the best possible we have strategic relationships with from our suppliers in what they do for us solution, while improving profitability.
By building an or our customers and will not accept any Early pre-bid engagement by the appropriate engagement model with our behaviour contrary to our codes, including procurement function allows our bid suppliers, we are able to effectively drive bribery, corruption and fraud, threats to teams to understand potential market quality and innovation across our supplier health and safety, conflicts of interest or capabilities, while engagement as part base.
Strategic suppliers are key partners other improper practices.
of the team means we can aim to put in our ability to deliver quality service.
As a together a proposal for our customers We pre-qualify suppliers for certain types result, we work closely with these suppliers that meets their needs and requirements of supply, before admitting them to the to ensure optimal performance, ongoing in the most efficient way possible, while supply chain.
This involves satisfying improvement andinnovation support.
establishing supplier relationships that are ourselves that they can meet our robust and sustainable in the long term.
We continue to develop end-to-end standards.
Certain suppliers will be The output of successful procurement procurement tools that enable us to selected for audit and close monitoring, Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 62 Strategic report Governance statement Financials based on risk assessment or supplier performance.
Planned reviews of Babcock deploys Sponsored Reserves to Canada supply chain risk are undertaken by As part of the DSG contract, Babcock The successful deployment to our businesses.
provides the British Army with 40 fully BATUS not only helped to reduce Babcock is a key member of the joint qualified sponsored reserves skilled the burden on regular Army units to MOD industry initiative to deliver an personnel who are employed by support the summer training season, effective Defence Cyber Protection Babcock and capable of being but also proved the concept of a Partnership.
The Group is tasked with deployed world-wide as vehicle genuine whole force approach in improving the protection of the defence mechanics to support the Armys the Land environment, bringing supply chain from cyber threat.
Babcock critical vehicle fleet in operations.
regular Army, reserves and is represented on working groups for Babcock into one coherent, Last year, 11 Babcock employees were each of the three core work strands: high performing organisation.
deployed to the British Army Training information sharing, measurements and Unit Suffield BATUS in Canada, the standards, and supply chain awareness.
largest military training area in the A primary objective has been to define Commonwealth, having undergone a number of risk-based controls to be extensive military training.
applied across the relevant supplier base.
They worked alongside their Army We continuously review whether our colleagues to provide invaluable suppliers comply with the standards set expert, real-time support to the largest out in our Code of Business Conduct.
overseas unit vehicle fleet over 1,300 Last year, we simplified and standardised vehicles.
Although not required within these procedures in line with the criteria the commitment, four of these in the anti-corruption and competition Sponsored Reserves were deployed to a compliance policy.
Consequently, the separate exercise Dark Horse, making self-assessment process for suppliers was up a sixth of the whole unit deployed.
In addition to the self-assessment initiative, we now require additional evidence which gives us objective, verifiable supplier ratings.
Supporting local economies by using Critical supply partner for diverse, locally procured services through-life support Babcock is committed to creating a safe We take our responsibility to support Joint teams from Babcock and our supply working environment that aims to enable local economies seriously.
The varied chain engage on a wide range of issues all those working on, or visiting, Babcock nature of what we do means that we such as maintenance planning, supply operations to be able to return Home depend on a wide range of talents and support, support and test equipment, Safe Everyday.
We seek to work only with abilities from a wide range of suppliers.
training and training devices, and suppliers who, we believe, are able to As part of our supplier programme, technical data.
Targeted supply both meet and promote our standards we have been managing compliance relationships use data dashboards to those that share our commitment to through a system of preferred suppliers.
safe behaviour and performance in This approach is enhancing our supplier Babcock is actively involved with our delivering services and solutions for our relationships and allows us to focus on suppliers in the Aerospace, Defence customers.
Our teams aim to work with effective management of our SME supplier and Security Supply Chain development suppliers on safety and share continuous base.
We also lead dialogue with improvement practices to reduce or quality and service performance matter.
Government, suppliers and skills agencies prevent accidents and injuries.
Many of our suppliers are small and to help address the skills requirement Protecting the information and physical medium sized enterprises.
We select agenda, with the aim of ensuring that assets of our customers is an increasingly and manage suppliers to support our there are enough people with the right important part of what we do.
We always own experienced workforce in delivering skills to fill our own vacancies and those expect the highest controls of commercial complex, critical and often bespoke in our supply chain.
For certain types of supply, engineering services.
Diversification of we are developing exacting standards of supply, where possible, makes our supply security compliance.
For these companies, chain more robust in helping us to deliver we need to be certain that information is for our customers.
well managed and protected throughout the supply chain.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Sustainability, continued People and potential To underpin and sustain long-term array of projects and assets.
Our plans in place that identify immediate strategic growth, Babcock must ensure people need to have a range of and or future potential successors to that it has the right people to be able experience, skills and competencies: key senior management posts, with and trusted to deliver to customers on engineering, management, technical, personal training and development technically complex, long-term contracts, commercial, administrative and plans for those identified.
Through our both today and in the future.
This means developmental, to name but a few.
annually refreshed resource planning that the development of our people is We recognise that it is the skills and process, we assess whether we have a critical part of our business strategy.
commitment of our employees that the right number of staff with the Our Group Director of Organisation and represent our uniqueness and our ability necessary skills and capabilities, both Development coordinates this activity to deliver services to our customers.
This process is across the Group, ensuring that each of based on data and assumptions such Planning for growth and succession our sectors has appropriate strategies in as workforce demographics, attrition place to resource and develop the skills and business growth and feeds into Succession planning is a key focus required.
Our business arrangements our resourcing strategies.
throughout the businesses, from require us to deliver services across an apprentices to Board level.
We have Apprentice week Tiegan Duff, a Mechanical Engineering 18 year old Tiegan, from Fife, respected and well-known company Apprentice at our Rosyth site, was decided on a modern apprenticeship and really excited to see what the one of six Hero Apprentices chosen MA after a teacher encouraged her future holds.
to be a face of National Apprenticeship to do a foundation apprenticeship FA She is currently studying with the rest Week 2018 for Skills Development in Mechanical Engineering alongside of her intake at Fife College and will Scotland.
The campaign sees her Highers.
With an interest in begin working at our Rosyth site in employers and apprentices from across engineering whilst studying Graphic June where she will be hands on in the the UK coming together to celebrate Communication, Design Manufacture, machine shop, on vessels and on the the success of apprenticeships whilst Physics and Maths, a hands on Prince of Wales aircraft carrier.
Her encouraging even more people to apprenticeship is just the beginning apprenticeship is competency based choose apprenticeships as a pathway of her engineering career.
and takes between three and four years to a great career.
This is something At the moment, I am focused on to complete.
which Babcock is passionate about completing my apprenticeship and through our work in STEM, in gaining an HNC and after that I hope partnership with Primary Engineer to progress my career at Babcock.
and STEM Ambassadors, as well as our I am very proud to work for such a involvement in the Year of Engineering.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 64 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Focus on recruitment, retention sustain energy around the topic of Total workforce diversity and development of talent diversity.
As a business, it is imperative that we ensure access to the widest pool We have found our existing employees of talent available, selecting the best to be great advocates for our organisation candidates based on their ability to do the and we have used their experiences to 80% job.
Working with these expectations for underpin some of our recruitment diversity enables us to deliver our best for 20% campaigns, particularly for graduates.
our customers and to safeguard the future Working with our recruitment partners, of Babcock.
Babcock operates principally a variety of routes are used to ensure in sectors that have until recently vacancies are marketed to the widest traditionally been regarded as male such possible audience.
Our aim is that Men Women as engineering, aviation and the Armed candidates experience a professional, Forces.
Inevitably, companies with this efficient and friendly recruitment and background will tend to be starting from a on-boarding procedure.
Senior Executive diversity level of relatively low female participation, Sectors and business units place especially in management positions.
significant emphasis on the retention However, we are working hard to change and development of talent, with this: 20.2% around 6,900 of our total processes in place to identify potential workforce is female, male: 27,255 with 82% for the future.
In addition to local 18.3% 98 female senior executives development programmes, we have 18% male: 438, and three 27% female a number of Group wide management Directors on our Board male: eight.
We development resources: have continued to work on the challenges of being a woman within our organisation.
Babcock offers an accredited MBA A series of actions and development programme with Strathclyde University Men Women programmes are being implemented to our high-potential employees.
across the organisation to address this.
The Babcock Academy, run in We focus our graduate recruitment conjunction with Strathclyde University programme, particularly for engineering Board diversity since 2005, continues to provide a graduates, on those universities that have structured framework for our managers a richer gender mix.
In 2018, 22% 2017: to improve their managerial skills and 21% of those employed on our graduate strategic awareness.
Babcock has always been a strong 73% supporter of apprenticeships and will In his review on page 12, our 27% Chairman also discusses how we value make increasing use of higher apprenticeships to both retain existing diversity.
Our first UK Gender Pay Gap report is available on our website employees and invest in future talent.
Diversity Men Women Our commitment to the At Babcock, we believe diversity is about Armed Forces embracing the advantages different experiences, skills and outlooks can As a holder of the Gold Award from Graduate diversity bring.
Our diversity initiative, All together the Armed Forces Covenant Employer different, is championed by a Diversity Recognition Scheme ERS, we are Steering Group, which drives our diversity committed to the Total Support Force agenda and coordinates our diversity and actively recruit service leavers and conference, Dialogue.
In 2017 we hosted a reservist 78% conference focused on health and conference, bringing together reservists 22% wellbeing, with a particular emphasis on from across the Group with line managers mental health, and provoked significant and in-house recruiters.
The conference interest from amongst our workforce.
was an opportunity to reaffirm our Across the organisation a number of commitment to the Armed Forces employee networks are supported such as Covenant, and also to share experiences Men Women the Babcock Womens Network and Pride and demonstrate the wider benefits that in Babcock and we will continue to use reservists bring to our organisation.
these and other groups to motivate and Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Sustainability, continued Environment and Ethics Our commitment to strict ethical conduct, together with the importance we place on Sword of honour health and safety and our respect towards Babcock has been presented with its Babcock Rosyth picked up the accolade the wider society and environment in at an awards ceremony in London.
11th Sword of Honour award from the which we work, are the foundation of British Safety Council for the exemplary a sustainable business.
Mark Dixon, Managing Director of management of Health and Safety risks Babcocks Energy and Marine business, at its Rosyth site.
Ethics and governance said: Ensuring that all of our We understand that our reputation and The prestigious Sword of Honour is employees go home safe every day is awarded to organisations that have our number one priority at Babcock.
good name are amongst our greatest assets, which could easily be lost by actual demonstrated excellence in the We invest a lot of time to ensure that management of Health and Safety risks our staff are appropriately trained and or suspected unethical behaviour.
To protect the Company and reduce these at work, with Babcock being one of 57 equipped to carry out their roles.
organisations worldwide to achieve it.
risks, we have set outa policy on how Our 11th Sword of Honour is due we should conduct business, which we In order to compete for the Sword of to the combined efforts of everyone summarise in the form of the Babcock on-site and I am extremely proud Honour, Babcock first had to achieve Code of Business Conduct.
Compliance the maximum five stars in the British of them all for helping to achieve with this policy is compulsory for our this award.
Safety Councils Health and Safety employees, business advisors and business management audit scheme in the partners or, in the case of business period August 2016-July 2017. advisors and partners, they must have The company also had to demonstrate equivalent standards and procedures in to an independent panel of experts their own businesses.
The Babcock that their Health and Safety Suppliers Code of Business Conduct management throughout the business further promotes these values throughout is excellent from the build hall to our supply chain.
The policy comprises the boardroom.
a detailed manual, available on the Groups intranet, that contains guidelines, authorisation and other procedures aimed contribute positively to global efforts to Safety the Babcock way at identifying and reducing ethical risks.
ensure that human rights are understood The controls that we have in place form Governance and observed.
We believe that a culture an integral part of our risk management of respect for, and promotion of, human We are committed to ensuring that arrangements and include the training rights is embedded throughout our Babcock sets and achieves high standards of employees, regular risk assessments business and can be demonstrated by for safety across all its operations.
Our goal throughout the business and availability our commitment to ethical conduct in is for everybody to go home safe every of whistleblowing hotlines.
The key principles that guide us to SlaveryTransparency Statement, which achieve this goal are: More details of these risk management ispublished annually on our website, procedures can be found on pages68 Looking after yourself and each other details action taken to support the to 70 and the Ethics Policy and Code of Caring about how we deliver, as well elimination of modern slaveryand Business Conduct and Suppliers Code as what we deliver human trafficking.
of Conduct are on our website.
Further Setting an example to others by not information about our whistleblowing walking past an unsafe act or unsafe process can be found on page 70. condition Continually improving our safety.
Human rights As an international business, we recognise 2 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 our responsibility for upholding and Total number of injuries 1,979 2,054 2,084 1,720 1,386 protecting the human rights of our Fatalities 0 0 1 7 2 employees and other individuals with Major injuries 36 41 38 27 13 whom we deal in our operations around Over-three-day injuries 98 127 164 107 101 the world.
While we continue to believe 1 that our exposure to the risks of human Babcock riddor totals 134 168 202 141 116 rights abuses and modern slavery is low 1.
In 2012, the UK Health and Safety Executive changed riddor reporting from time lost through injury from three days to seven days.
We have, however, continued to monitor and report on the lower three-day within our own business and supply chain, threshold and record this as Babcock riddor.
we welcome the opportunity we have to 2.
Incidents relating to MCS and Babcock DSG are included for the 2015 16 period onwards.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 66 Strategic report Governance statement Financials 1.35 0.11 1.58 0.13 1.92 0.19 2.23 0.18 2.51 0.18 Formal audit reports are provided to policy and seeks to share best practice.
Total injury rates per Each sector sets environmental policies the business units, with feedback 100,000 hours worked also provided to the Group that are appropriate to its business.
Energy consumption data is collated into Executive Committee.
a centrally managed data base that can Performance be accessed by all stakeholders, enabling reduction targets to be set and monitored Tragically, two of our colleagues died regularly.
In the coming year, Babcock will in separate incidents in South Africa once again seek reaccreditation for its UK whilst working on towers within operations to the Carbon Trust, a standard our powerlines business.
Extensive that it has held since 2010. investigations by Babcock, our FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 client and the authorities resulted in The continuous monitoring of energy a comprehensive review of procedures consumption and the attention to and retraining of erection teams.
1 environmental policies ensure that the Babcock riddor rate per environmental impact of the Groups Health and safety is a core value for 100,000 hours worked operations is minimised.
the Group and we monitor performance through a number of measures.
Over We regularly review our built estate to the last year, across the Group, we have ensure that the requirements of our clients seen a 15% reduction in the total injuries can be efficiently met, while providing and a 15% reduction in our Babcock a good standard of environmental riddor accidents.
The utility markets are tracked to enable our utility Managing environmental requirements to be purchased at the impacts best cost.
Forward contingency planning FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Babcock seeks to achieve the highest ensures that should we lose a utility supply standards in the management of to any of our built estate, the impact to environmental matters.
We recognise the our customers is minimised.
Sector safety leadership teams and the impact our operations may have on the We review our transport fleet regularly to Corporate Safety Steering Group oversee environment and seek to minimise or seek means to reduce our fleets impact implementation of policy, strategy and eliminate adverse effects.
initiatives across all of our businesses.
An Energy and Environmental Working TheGroup Executive Committee reviews Our high level performance indicator Group meets quarterly, attended by monthly commentary and performance for energy consumption is to reduce our representatives of each sector and chaired reports and the Board receiveshalf yearly overall CO emissions year on year against 2 by the Group Energy Manager.
The Group commentary and performance reports a metric of tCO m revenue.
2 reviews our energy and environmental for discussion.
During the year, we launched a Group Total Group emissions UK and overseas wide internal safety audit programme Year ending March 2016 March 2017 March 2018 which aims to ensure: Scope 1: Direct emissions Alignment of business safety policy with from owned controlled the Group safety policy and capability operations tCO e 105,479.66 103,337.30 86,666.26 2 to discharge duties therein Scope 2: Indirect emissions Compliance with Babcocks Safety from the use of purchased Behaviours and Expectations electricity and steam tCO e 93,558.18 114,514.90 104,074.81 2 Adequate safety improvement plans Scope 3: Emissions are implemented, based on a balanced business travel tCO e 10,724.80 9,496.18 22,033.71 2 assessment of safety performance Absolute footprint tCO e 209,762.64 227,348.38 212,774.78 that delivers the commitment to 2 continuous improvement Revenue m 4,158.40 4,547.10 4,659.60 Share business unit learning across the Intensity ratio tCO e m 50.44 50.00 45.66 2 Group, supporting continual Due to the highly diverse nature of the Companys business, the metric of tonnes of CO e per m revenue 2 improvement has been used to provide a more meaningful measure of energy use throughout the business.
The total Promote a consistent Babcock approach emissions from Scope 1, 2 and 3 sources have been divided by the annual revenue to provide a final benchmark figure, the Intensity ratio.
to safety and share best practice.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 67
