Our values and responsible behaviour How our business works continued Our strategy in action Training our EthicsOfficers Our Operational Framework is underpinned We are a business that byour Operational Assurance Statement OAS operates responsibly and which is a six-monthly process used tomonitor compliance with the Operational Framework withintegrity, supporting and policies.
The OAS also requiresa report sustainable long-term showing the key financial and non-financial Each year, BAE Systems holds risks for each business and Group function performance by managing twotwo-day forums one in the completed by the line and functional leaders.
non-financial risks that US, and a global one in the UK The Internal Audit Director owns the toprovide training and updates canimpact reputation OASPolicy, and is responsible for the forour Ethics Officers.
consolidation and reporting of the OAS andshareholder value.
submissions from the businesses to the In 2018, these included introductions from GroupAudit Review Board, the Audit Jerry DeMuro, President and Chief Executive The Board delegates the detailed oversight Officer of BAE Systems Inc. and Charles Committee and the Corporate Responsibility ofresponsible behaviour matters to the Woodburn, Chief Executive of BAE Systems Committee.
The Internal Audit Director Corporate Responsibility Committee, which is stressing the importance of the role our reportsfunctionally to the Audit Committee chaired by a non-executive director see page EthicsOfficers play.
and, for day-to-day operations, to the Chief 87.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee The global ethics conference focused on Executive.
The Corporate Responsibility and meets as partofthe Boards annual schedule providing our Ethics Officers with additional Audit Committees hold a joint meeting of meetings see page 80, and agrees the training on supporting people who raise eachyear to review the OAS and assurance Groups responsible business priorities relating concerns, aiming to further normalise the mattersas both committees are concerned to our employees, trust and integrity, health Speak Up process.
The US conference with both financial and non-financial risk.
provided our Ethics Officers with training and safety, and resourceefficiency.
onthe importance of culture and the skills The Board has overall responsibility for The Chief Executive is responsible for related to investigations.
determining the nature and extent of the ensuringthat we meet our own standards.
riskthat the Group is willing to take and Heis supported by the Managing Director forensuring that risks are managed effectively Operational Governance with guidance across the Group.
The Board reviews risk as andoversight from the Board via the aregular agenda item and as part of its annual Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Theperformance review process is used toflow down corporate responsibility Our corporate responsibility programmes objectives through the Group.
focus on: continuously improving employee wellbeing For information about how our business and standards of safety for employees modelis underpinned by our commitment andthose we work with, to ensure that tocorporate responsibility, see page 23. everyone goes home safely see page 30 : Our Operational Framework see page 76 developing an inclusive, diverse setsout the way we do business.
We set workplacetodrive innovation and enhance Group-wide policies, which are enacted at a the performance of our employees local level by our businesses, and help business seepage24 : leadership to make informed decisions.
engaging with our communities by supporting projects and employee volunteering see page 31 : BAE Systems 28 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements How we Our principal 66 68 manage risk risks 1 supporting our employees in making the Weencourage employees to contact us as Total ethics enquiries right decisions and doing the right thing early as possible when a potential incident 2018 seepage 29 : canstill be prevented by timely advice.
1,286 2017 1,280 managing the environmental impacts of our All enquiries reported to Ethics Officers facilities and products to improve efficiencies 2016 1,121 andviathe Ethics Helpline were reviewed and cost savings see page 33 : and andreported either to the Ethics Review 2015 1,148 working with suppliers to deliver excellence Committee or, inBAE Systems, Inc. to 2014 1,037 Anonymity rate and innovation to support our businesses in theEthics Review Oversight Committee.
delivering on their objectives see page 31.
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption Trust and integrity We have well-established anti-bribery and We aim to be a recognised leader in business anti-corruption policies aimed at ensuring 2 8% 2017 24% conduct which helps us to earn and maintain adherence to the associated legal and stakeholder trust and sustain business success.
regulatory requirements in light of the bribery and corruption risk faced by the Company.
We consider it fundamental to maintain a 1 Our commitment tocomply with all applicable 2018 ethics enquiries by type culture focused on embedding responsible laws and regulations, including those business behaviours.
All employees are 1 addressing anti-bribery and anti-corruption, 615 expected to act in accordance with the and our commitment never to offer, give or 2 227 requirements of the Groups policies, receive bribes or inducements is also clearly 3 179 including the Code of Conduct, at all times.
setout in our Code of Conduct.
As well as being the right thing to do, this 4 128 reduces the risk of compliance failure and The policies referred to above include 5 137 supports us in attracting and retaining thefollowing: high-calibre employees.
Advisers Policy which governs the 1 Guidance and advice appointment, management and payment We work to build a culture where our people 2 Employee relations and conduct ofthird parties who are engaged to assist are empowered to make the right decisions 3 Management practices with our sales and marketing activities or and know where to go to seek help or 4 Accounting charges practices thestrategic development of the Group: guidance.
Our Code of Conduct sets out 5 Other clearexpectations on ethical conduct and Gifts and Hospitality Policy which weoffer training and support to help people governs the offering, giving or receipt understand the right thing to do.
ofgiftsor hospitality: Conflict of Interest Policy designed Dismissals for reasons relating During 2018, we rolled out face-to-face 2 toensure that personal conflicts of tounethicalbehaviour ethicstraining that covered realistic, issueinterestdo not impair employees based scenarios.
This training, delivered by 2018 judgement and damage the Groups 219 line managers to their teams across the Group, integrity and interests: and 2017 219 was designed to stimulate conversations 2013 around difficult issues faced by employees in Facilitation Payments Policy designed 265 their workplace.
Certain employees received toensure that Facilitation Payments are 2012 292 additional training according to their role, notpaid and that the Group and its 1.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance on page 34.
2011 298 such as anti-bribery and anti-corruption, employees seek to eliminate the practice 2.
Verified by BAE Systems Internal Audit.
Employees can speak up via our network Other policies, including our Finance Policy, ofover 160 Ethics Officers or by contacting Fraud Prevention Policy, Export Control our24-hour Ethics Helpline by phone, email Policy, Lobbying, Political Donations and or an external website to ask for support or OtherPolitical Activity Policy, Offset Policy report a concern, anonymously if preferred.
andProcurement Policy include measures toaddress bribery and corruption risks.
We collect data on ethics enquiries and dismissals for reasons relating to unethical Risk-based due diligence procedures behaviour see opposite.
In 2018, there havebeen implemented to address 1 were1,286 ethics enquiries, an increase bribery, corruption and other financial and of0.5% on 2017.
This positive trend reflects non-financial risk, and our Policies include our efforts toencourage our people to speak processes for risk-based internal and external up andwewillcontinue to communicate to approvals, ongoing monitoring and repeat our employees the methods formaking duediligence.
Our 2018 anonymity rateof28% For the principal risks relating to compliance compares favourably with international with anti-bribery and anti-corruption benchmarks.
For further information, regulations and how the risk is mitigated, In 2018, 48% of the ethics enquiries seethe laws and regulations risk description seeour Corporate receivedwererequests for guidance and on page 70. responsibility summary advice, whichwe believe reflects our employees coming to us before a situation baesystems.
com crsummary hasworsened and requires investigation.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 29 Our values and responsible behaviour How our business works Our principal Operational 68 76 continued risks framework Human rights Safety 2019 priorities We are committed to respecting human Our business is highly complex and our We will continue to drive towards a rights.
This applies equally to our employees, employees are exposed to many risks.
These world-class level of safety performance: our suppliers and business partners, all of range from slips, trips and falls in an office focus on the management and reduction whom are expected to adopt the same or environment, confined space working and of safety risk: and drive a strong safety similarly high standards of ethical behaviour.
machinery hazards within manufacturing to culture through communication, awareness We are committed to conducting business fire and explosion risks associated with the and visible leadership.
We will target a 10% responsibly and to maintaining and improving manufacture and storage of munitions.
Many reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate.
systems and processes to reduce the risk of of our employees operate heavy equipment, We will roll out our annual Business slavery and human trafficking in our business work at height or do physically demanding Conduct scenario-based training to orsupply chain.
This forms part of our Our Code of Conduct and other global In order to ensure consistency, all businesses continuing efforts to build a culture policiesand processes mandated under the are required to comply with our Health and ofresponsible behaviour and ethical Operational Framework, together with our Safety Policy, which outlines andprescribes decision-making.
supporting principles and guidance on the responsibilities and arrangements in place responsible trading and suppliers, support for ensuring safety.
It is the responsibility of Recordable Accident Rate ourcommitment to human rights.
This results, individual business leaders to ensure that their 3 per100,000 employees KPI for example, in due diligence being carried out organisations comply with the policy.
We aim BONUS during the supplier evaluation stage against to mitigate or manage safety risks by finding 2018 471 non-financial risks, including human rights, new ways to enhance safety standards, 2017 564 working hours, harassment and unlawful increase awareness and continually drive discrimination, anti-whistleblowing, slavery, astrong safety culture.
human trafficking and child labour.
3,4 Due to the varied risk profiles and work Major injuries recorded Suppliers are regularly reviewed throughout environments within the Group, we operate BONUS their contractual relationships against such safety management systems within each 2018 37 non-financial risks.
In 2018, we published business, many of which are externally 2017 28 1 ourresponse to the UK Modern Slavery accredited to the OHSAS 18001 or 2 Actand astatement in response to the ISO 45001 standard.
These systems identify BONUS California Transparency in Supply Chain and control risk, and are used to assure that 5% of the UK executive directors bonuses arebased on the Actonour website.
the processes and procedures are protecting achievement of safety KPIs see page 107. our people and others who may be affected Health and safety by our operations.
Teams of safety specialists Our collective focus on employee wellbeing assist management in ensuring safety and thehealth and safety of employees and management systems are effective and the thosewho work on, or visit, our sites is a operational control of risk is maintained.
contributory factor to the success of our Health and safety specialists provide expert organisation.
Our safety culture and our advice and tools to put our safety policies employees demand high standards for all intopractice.
aspects of health and safety.
This is supported Some employees may be exposed to both by our mandated Health and Safety long-term health risks from hazardous Policy and the principles contained within substances and other physical hazards.
ourCode of Conduct for employees.
Weaim to reduce exposure levels to Employee wellbeing hazardous substances and to seek alternatives, We promote wellbeing through a wide variety where possible.
We provide ouremployees of programmes, ranging from exercise and with health surveillance tounderstand and fitness promotion to occupational health reduce the impact of workplace health risks.
We know that good mental and We use the Recordable Accident Rate as physical health contributes to better  indicator to measure making, greater productivity and higher levels workplace injuries.
This metric, along with of employee satisfaction.
We run campaigns thenumber of major injuries, is used to to encourage employees to take responsibility determine an element of executive bonus for their health.
In 2018, there was a 16% Programme is a confidential service available decrease in the Recordable Accident Rate.
to employees and includes support and advice Theoverall number of major injuries recorded on personal matters.
increased to 37 compared with 28 in 2017, and sadly, an accident on 11June in a facility in Radford resulted in onefatality and injuries to two employees.
Thehealth and safety of our employees hasalways been and continues 1.
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series.
to be our highest priority.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance onpage34.
We continue to focus on reducing risk 4.
The definition of a major injury was updated in 2017 andembedding a strong safety culture tomore closely align with the Reporting of Injuries, todriveimprovements.
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2014.
