Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsible sourcing and impact Our strategy in action Energy savings Strategy We are committed We recognise that environmental and climate tominimising the risks could directly impact our ability to meet our strategic priorities.
Matters which are environmentalimpact of considered likely to influence our organisation ouroperations andproducts.
and future strategic decisions include: More than 10,000 solar panels constrained supply and volatile prices atBAESystems sites in the UK As a major manufacturer, we recognise offueland the associated taxes: thatour operations have an impact on the andSweden aid the reduction of environment from the energy and resources availability of critical materials: ourcarbon emissions and deliver we use, to the products we manufacture savingsfor our customers.
increasing stringency of andthe waste that we generate.
As an : The solar array installed at BAE Systems organisation, we are committed to reducing Hgglunds, in rnskldsvik, Sweden is the environmental impact of our operations impact of climate change on the thelargest of its kind in any Nordic country.
and products, minimising our environmental operabilityof our products: and The array has produced a monthly average footprint and, in turn, decreasing our rateof 18 MWh and more than 200 MWh contribution towards UN Sustainable operational costs.
The 2,500m array has produced Development Goals.
more than 600 MWh since becoming Governance operational in 2015 and has saved BAE Systems Risk management As owner of the Environmental Policy, the Hgglunds more than SEK600,000 in energy The business acknowledges that there are Chief Executive has been assigned overall costs so far whilereducing carbon emissions significant environmental and climate risks responsibility for environment, inclusive by around 500tonnes.
that are likely to influence our operations, ofissues relating to climate change.
He is The solar array installed at BAE Systems products and facilities.
The underlying supported by the Corporate Responsibility inSamlesbury, UK is exceeding its targets.
principles of the Groups risk management Committee in ensuring that appropriate Thearray has produced a monthly processes are that risks are monitored policies, systems, reporting structures and averagerateof 197 MWh and more continuously, associated action plans metrics are in place to achieve the Groups than2,300 MWh annually.
reviewed, appropriate contingencies 2 environmental  as The array, consisting of more than 17,000m provisioned and that information is reported wellas ethical and social objectives.
ofsolarpanel area, has produced about through established management control 9,046MWh since becoming operational in Our Environmental Policy outlines our procedures.
It has saved the Company more than commitment to improving standards of climate risk identification, analysis, evaluation 870,000 in energy costs so far, and attracted environmental management, and compliance and mitigation rests with the business units more than 590,000 of Feed-in-Tariff with the Policy is directed by environmental payments backinto the Company, giving a and detailed risk registers and self-assessments total saving todate of more than 1.4m which teams across the Group.
Through our are completed to ensure the effective is more than 50% of the cost of installation.
bi-annual Operational Assurance Statement management of environmental risks.
The solar array has reduced the sites carbon process, business unit compliance with the emissions by more than 3,357 tonnes, which Policy is also monitored.
isequivalent to theannual electricity use of more than2,150UK homes.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 33 Responsible sourcing and impact How our business works continued Metrics and targets Due to the differences in geography and Greenhouse gas emissions data from 1 November 2017 function, each business unit implements its to31October 2018 tonnes CO e 2 own environmental goals and initiatives which broadly focus on materials resilience, energy Combustion of fuel within BAESystems Methodology and climate change, and waste, emissions 1 facilities and vehicles Scope 1 The greenhouse gas emissions data is reported in line with the anddischarges.
In all cases, we aim for the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting efficient use of resources and a reduction in 2018 Standard Operational Control approach, and emission factors 506,248 for fuels and electricity are published at www.
uk government waste across the full lifecycle of our products, 2017 525,032 collections .
from design through to manufacturing, use For the 2018 reporting cycle, the 2018 emissions factors have and end-of-life.
been utilised as opposed to the 2017 factors.
In previous years Electricity and steam purchased the emissions factors used for the Groups greenhouse gas As a business, we are continually improving forBAESystems use Scope 2 emissions reporting have been a year behind, mainly due to the 1 factors not being released in time for half year assurance for energy efficiency and fide-carbonising location-based example, 2016 emissions factors used for 2017 reporting cycle.
ourenergy supply to reduce greenhouse Going forward, the emissions factors used will coincide with 2018 514,187 theyear of the reporting cycle as these are the latest factors gas GHG emissions.
In the 12 months available for the majority of the Groups reporting period.
2017 528,411 to31October 2018, Group-wide The CO e associated with carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous 2 GHGemissionshave decreased by 2%.
Greenhouse gas emissions associated with hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride Business travel in non-BAESystems In 2018 our ten largest sites accounted are estimated to be immaterial to total emissions and are, 1 vehicles Scope 3 therefore, not reported.
forapproximately 68% of total energy The principal record of the Groups worldwide facilities is its consumption.
Allof these sites operate an 2018 151,280 legal departments Global Property Database.
environmental management system, with 2017 Greenhouse gas emissions are primarily calculated from 147,125 100% certified to ISO 14001, with an aim energyconsumption records reported via the Groups global environmental database.
Where actual usage data is not toreduce their energy consumption and in 1 available for facilities and residences within the Global Property Total greenhouse gas emissions turn direct and indirect GHG emissions.
A full Database, an estimated consumption is used based on the type of building.
Basis of Reporting on our GHG emissions is 2018 1,171,715 Greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel include air available on our website.
2017 1,200,568 travel data for the majority of the global business and rail data for business units operating in the UK and US.
These data are taken from travel suppliers procurement records.
2019 priorities Total greenhouse gas emissions Emissions from joint ventures and pension scheme properties 2 We will continue to drive improvements peremployee notoccupied by the Group are not included.
Where a business orfacility is acquired during a reporting year, it will be included inthe management of materials and inour reporting in the next full reporting year after the change.
2018 14 resources across all businesses and will The Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions associated withthe 2017 develop our environmental policy further 16 Greenhouse GasProtocol market-based method have been calculated as 533,031 tonnes CO e. Supplier-specific emission alongside progressing our alignment to 2 factorshave been sought for our most significant operating theUN Sustainable Development Goals.
regions, but were either deemed of insufficient quality to use atpresent or were unavailable.
Therefore, in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidance, this figure has been calculated using residual-mix emission factors where available International Organisation for Standardization.
forour UK, US and Swedish operations.
In our other significant operating regions, residual-mix emission factors are either unavailable or the resulting absolute emissions at Group level are within the margin of error and, therefore, country-specific 1.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance below.
emissions factors have been used in line with the GHG 2.
Excluding share of equity accounted investments.
Deloitte LLP assurance Deloitte LLP has provided limited assurance onthe following performance indicators More online atGrouplevel: To see Deloitte LLPs unqualified assurance Diversity total employees split bygender and age: statement visit baesystems.
com  Ethics employee and third-party enquiries to Ethics Officers and the Ethics Helpline: To see our Basis of Safety Recordable Accident Rate, the number of major injuriesrecorded and the Reporting 2018 visit baesystems.
com 2018crdata numberof fatalities: Environment greenhouse gas emissions total, and Scope 1, 2 and 3 : and Community total value of Community Investment programme donations.
