Our people How our business works continued We value our employees and the contribution Identifying and recruiting talent Creating an inclusive culture they make, and we are committed to creating We must recruit a diverse range of where everyone can fulfil their an inclusive culture where everyone can give professionals to deliver excellence to our their best.
This is essential if we are to attract customers, including engineers, designers, potential is a key priority for and retain talent and drive innovation to solve software developers and project managers.
We have focused our recruitment on the next Our approach generation to mitigate Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics STEM skills BAE Systems business strategy is dependent Gender diversity shortages, and to accelerate diversity within on its ability to recruit and retain people with our leadership.
Male Female appropriate talent and skills, and we have Board 7 4 identified this as a principal risk see page 71.
We regularly provide high-quality training 64% 36% OurHuman Resources Strategy prioritises forthousands of apprentices and graduates 1,2 identifying, attracting and developing talent Senior managers 276 58 across our business.
We have partnered with through robust succession planning, as well 83% 17% Cranfield University in the UK and multiple asengaging and rewarding employees.
3,4 Total employees colleges, universities and trade schools 62,000 16,000 79% 21% throughout the US to create innovative Our Group Human Resources Director apprenticeship and  reportsdirectly to the Chief Executive and programmes to attract and retain great talent chairs the Global HR Council ensuring our 3,4 Age diversity andboost high-end skills.
Human ResourcesStrategy supports the Integrated Business Plan and People Policy.
In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia our 24 years and 60 years technicaltraining programmes are revered younger Diversity and inclusion and older fortheir contribution to the economy through 6,000 10,000 BAE Systems is committed to being an 2534 the development of indigenous capability.
inclusive organisation with a diverse workforce years Weare responsible for qualifying more that reflects the communities in which we 16,000 than1,200 people annually in teaching work.
Diversity and inclusion is not just the andengineering professions.
right thing to do, it will differentiate and strengthen us for the future.
Training and development We want all of our employees to reach their We recognise that employees from varied full potential, evolving their skills to meet our backgrounds, beliefs and life experiences customers current and future requirements.
bringinnovation in all that we do.
We know 5059 We support this through comprehensive years people perform at their best when they truly career frameworks, development programmes 22,000 can be themselves.
3549 and gaining experience from the breadth of years We are determined to increase the number our global operations.
From deploying more 2 4,000 ofwomen in senior executive positions in than 1,500 expatriates and investing in our ourindustry by working on the attraction local Saudi workforce through a range of andretention of more women within the overseasassignments, to equipping our 1.
Senior managers are defined as employees excluding Company.
Our businesses own and drive production-floor supervisors in the US executive directors who have responsibility for planning, strategies to support these priorities and withthe skills to lead growing teams in directingor controlling the activities ofthe Group or a wehave measures in place to track progress.
anadvanced technological environment, strategically significant part of the Group and or who aredirectors of subsidiary companies.
We have signed up to the Women in Aviation continual improvement of competence 2.
Charter and are launching a leader-led gender andskills transfer helps us to develop 3.
Excluding share of equity accounted investments and equity network in the US to provide mentoring world-leading technologies, giving our rounded to the nearest thousand employees.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance on page 34. and coaching for junior to mid-level women.
BAE Systems 24 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy in action Employee Resource Groups Responsibility for development is led by In 2018, we conducted aGroup-wide eachemployee, in partnership with their surveyto measure employees views on key manager and with support from the engagement factors and our current ways Company.
We encourage each employee ofworking.
The results of this survey will help tohave conversations with their manager usto build on our strengths and focus on tocreate a meaningful plan to ensure their areas where we can further evolve our ways BAE Systems Employee Resource professional development.
Groups ERGs are voluntary, Reward Our global Chairmans Awards programme employee-led groups that serve We provide our employees with competitive recognises individuals and teamsfor their asaresource for members and reward packages which reflect their individual outstanding contribution tothesuccess of organisations by fostering a diverse, responsibilities and contribution to business theGroup.
inclusive workplace aligned with our performance, and we recognise individual We encourage employees to become andteam successes.
organisation mission, values, goals, shareholders in BAE Systems and, in some business practices and objectives.
We have published our second annual gender markets, offer share schemes to support this.
pay gap report in line with UK regulations.
They play an important role in BAE Systems We seek to maintain constructive relationships For2018, the average gender pay gap for our commitment to diversity and inclusion.
Our with trade unions in Australia and the UK, ERGs provide programmes to enhance personal UK workforce was 9.0% 2017 11.2%, which andlabour unions in the US.
55% of our growth and professional development, is lower than the current UK national average UKemployees are members of a trade union helpsupport business priorities, and allow of 17.9%.
We have a gender pay gap because with 69% covered by a collective bargaining employees to expand their internal and we employ around four times more men than agreement.
In the UK, we retain excellent external networks.
In alignment with our women and a greater proportion of our senior diversity and inclusion strategy, the ERGs relationships with the main organisations leadership population is male.
We rely on aregrassroots efforts that work to positively involved and organise regular meetings employing large numbers of employees impact our workforce, workplace and the through our Corporate Consultation withSTEM qualifications and we, like other community.
Each network has a formal Committee.
We have structures in place companies, face challenges recruiting females structure, periodic meetings, objectives, towork with trade union representatives andin most cases an executive sponsor.
with these qualifications because there are inour local markets, where it is appropriate OurERGs include: Outlink in the UK and US significantly fewer women who study and and legally acceptable.
for our Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender work in these fields.
and Questioning community which strives Employee Engagement groups exist Employee engagement topromote equality through education: acrossthebusinesses, in order to provide ENabled Disability Network in the UK Employee engagement is a primary focus engagement forums for those not covered calledABLE in Saudi Arabia and the US forour leaders and managers connecting bycollective bargaining.
which draws upon the experience of its employees to our strategy and purpose, members to provide relevant guidance and empowering them to contribute to improving support regarding disability issues: Womens business performance and creating an Network in Australia, Saudi Arabia, the UK environment in which everyone can fulfil and the US which aims to foster an inclusive theirpotential.
community focused on the needs and interests of women in the workplace and We keep employees informed about what thecommunity: and our Veterans Support ishappening across the business through Network in the US whose mission it is to ourintranet and email, podcasts, newsletters, helpconnect former service members, active and leadership blogs and briefings.
duty members, reservists and those who are supportive of our armed forces.
