Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Responsibility Committee report Dear Shareholders, Diversity and inclusion The way in which the Committee has overseen I am pleased to provide you with an update Ian Tyler the Companys diversity and inclusion agenda onthe activities undertaken by the Corporate Chairman of the Corporate was further developed during 2018.
In 2017, Responsibility Committee during the year.
Ireported to you that we had carried out a TheCommittee continues to develop its Responsibility Committee deep dive into different areas of the business, agenda to address the key developments meeting with line leaders to understand the incorporate responsibility and responsible particular challenges and successes they had business conduct.
The scope of the work experienced.
At our meeting in February we hasnecessarily broadened over recent carried out the last of these detailed reviews, yearsand our agenda focuses on both our focusing on Applied Intelligence.
core areas ofsafety, ethics and responsible businessconduct and now more fully In 2018, the focus of the Committee was on coversthe broader definition of corporate gaining an understanding of the aspirations responsibility, and as such includes diversity and direction of the Company as a whole and and inclusion, stakeholder and employee the way in which progress could be measured engagement and supplier conduct as regular and targeted.
The Committee asked the agenda items.
ChiefExecutive and his management team toprovide a clear view and detailed analysis Safety ofthe direction and activity to be undertaken As I have done in previous reports, I begin Members to ensure an inclusive, engaged and diverse with a discussion of our health and safety workforce to drive success.
The Ian Tyler Chairman yearsaw an improvement in the overall In September, the Committee received a number of recordable injuries, which was Revathi Advaithi report on diversity and inclusion from Karin welcomed by the Committee.
However, this Hoeing, Group Human Resources Director, Harriet Green was offset by some significant major events.
setting out the outcome of an internal InJune last year, Committee members reviewof data, key trends, benchmarking, Chris Grigg werealerted to a serious incident at the successes and challenges.
This was a USArmymunitions plant in Radford, Virginia, thoroughassessment of the Companys afacility operated by our US business.
An current position and we will use this to inform accident in the plants nitrocellulose drying how we measure progress as we continue on facility resulted in the tragic death of a our diversity and inclusion journey.
Accordingly Company employee, Andrew Goad, and a specific objective on diversity and inclusion injuries to two other employees.
Shortly has been set as part of the executive annual afterwards, the Committee met with local incentive plan in 2019. management and the leaders of our US Responsible business conduct business to understand more about the The Companys responsible business policies, incident and the actions being taken by set out in the Operational Framework, are theCompany.
We have continued to receive thefundamental controls that govern how reports on the incident, and with all the wedo business.
Adherence to these policies investigations having been completed ismandated across the Group and the recently, the Committee will now be looking Committee regularly reviews the robustness more broadly at whether there are lessons ofthe control environment in this area.
tobe learnt and shared, both at Radford Werecognise that implementation of these andmore widely across the Group.
policies in some markets can be more In light of our ongoing focus on safety, challenging than in others due to differences theCommittee has continued to undertake in regulatory regimes and different commercial adeep dive into the safety metrics and arrangements.
TheCommittee is therefore practices at each of our businesses on a interested in understanding how we practically rotation throughout the year.
This allows for do business in different markets, how acomprehensive review of each area and for responsible trading risks are managed and the Committee to develop an understanding thedecision-making process behind our of how the local management teams are taking presence in certain markets.
The Committee measures to improve safety performance and looks for robust adherence to the policies for us to assess the strength of the safety andalso how any additional controls and culture across the business.
While good compliance measures may be used to reduce progress has been made on all aspects, the both operational and reputational risk.
serious nature of the Radford incident has For example, the Company has put in been reflected in the assessment of safety placeanenhanced compliance governance performance both for the business concerned framework to support the delivery of the but also for senior management in the US Typhoon contract in Qatar.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 87 Corporate Responsibility Committee report continued Our annual schedule includes a detailed Workforce engagement review of the Adviser Policy and the adviser The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code has Focus on governance appointments.
This policy and the given additional focus to the way in which Delhi, India accompanying procedures are designed boards consider the impact of the decisions In August, the Committee visited toensure that any risks posed by working they make with regard to the various ouroffice in Delhi to gain a deeper withadvisers are managed so that the stakeholders.
During the second half of the understanding of the following areas: Company abides by its ethical principles year, the Board considered how it would andcomplies with anti-bribery and discharge the requirement to seek to responsible trading and particularly corruptionlaws and regulations that govern understand the views of the workforce, noting corruption risks, either directly or the Companys activities around the world.
the suggested mechanisms in the revised through our partners: The Committee receives reports on the Code.
After consideration of the options, the workplace safety and employee welfare: advisers appointed by the Company, the Board agreed that the Corporate Responsibility and workthat they do and the commercial Committee would be appointed to fulfil this diversity and inclusion.
The Committee already provides a conduit for employee engagement through The Committee spent time with the Consideration of responsible business trade union interaction, site visits and the BAE Systems employees based in Delhi conductformed part of the agenda during review of employee survey and ethics helpline and discussed how the team is delivering oursite visit to India in August 2018.
Initial discussions were held on how to on our corporate responsibility agenda.
Committee also reviewed other markets extend this engagement, noting that this isan We looked at how the Company engages atitsmeetings during the year.
emerging area of governance and we expect with local procurement processes, Responsible procurement to review this approach at the end of2019.
considering the governance in place We have seen a significant change in the We will report to you in the 2019 Annual toensure that we meet the customers Procurement function over the last two years Report in more detail.
with new leadership taking the helm.
A key The Committee visited the new M777 In December, the Committee reviewed the milestone was reached in early 2017 when ultra-lightweight howitzer manufacturing initial results of a short and confidential survey theglobal Supplier Principles were launched.
facility that has been built and will be that was open to all employees.
The survey These principles have now been in place for operated by Mahindra Defence Systems.
asked for employees views on characteristics two years and at our review in December with This was a good opportunity for the and behaviours that will be key to the future the Chief Procurement Officer, the Committee members of the Committee to understand success of the Company.
We discussed with considered the actions that have been taken the safety culture of the team and how the Group Human Resources Director how to embed these principles in the culture of our best practice will be brought into the theresults of the survey would be analysed own Company and, importantly, in our supply newmanufacturing line.
and used by the senior management team chain.
It was pleasing to see that the focus in tounderstand the current strengths, and also The visit emphasised the risk in 2018 has been on strengthening internal the areas we need to focus on as we evolve operatingin export markets and the education and that we have actively assessed the organisational culture of the Company.
needfor the Company to continue to how well our suppliers understand and are bevigilant in ensuring that we robustly embracing our principles.
We will review the Next year apply our responsible trading policies.
position again in 2019 as part of our ongoing Our agenda for next year, as in previous years, TheCommittee will continue to monitor focus on reducing the threat of unethical will be structured around our key areas of how we operate in overseas markets, behaviour in our supply chain and the focus: safety, ethics, diversity and inclusion, such as India, to ensure that we have associated reputational risk.
In addition, thegovernance oversight and controls we will look more closely at workforce inplace to allow us to meet high engagement in the first year of implementation standards of ethical conduct.
of the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Wewill also continue to develop our Barrow, UK understanding of the sustainability agenda for During the year the Chair of the the Company as wider market practice around Corporate Responsibility Committee targets and reporting continues todevelop.
visited the shipyard at Barrow, accompanied by the Managing Director, Ian Tyler Operational Governance.
The aim of the Chairman of the Corporate visit was to meet with members of the  team to understand the processes in placefor adherence to the Companys nuclear licensing requirements.
As part ofthe visit the Chair met with the senior management team responsible and reviewed the robustness of these processes.
During the visit he met with employees from the different functions and talked with them about their roles and experience of working at the Company, with an aim to understand more about the culture of the Company at different sites.
BAE Systems 88 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Corporate Responsibility Committees year Schedule for 2019 Committee February September February Committee Committee Review of performance metrics for 2018.
London, UK San Diego, US Trading policy review.
A review of the Product Trading A further detailed update was received on principlesofthe Company.
This included the incident at the US Army munitions plant Review and approval of aconsideration of how the Company does inRadford, US.
business in markets which may experience Received a report on diversity and inclusion Workplace engagement update.
political and or economic instability and from the Group Human Resources Director.
theways in which any risks are either June Review of the current environmental mitigated or managed.
position of the Company and outline plans Workplace safety deep dive.
As part of a review across the business for a programme of work to consider Workplace engagement update.
ofthe strategy for diversity and inclusion, whether changes are made to the way Diversity and inclusion update.
apresentation was made by the Applied inwhich the Company monitors its impact Intelligence business on the progress on the environment.
September madeto date to attract and retain adiverseworkforce and advance Workplace safety deep dive.
December Sustainability and environment review.
Review of performance against the Committee 2017safety performance objectives.
December London, UK Arecommendation on the performance Consideration of forward-looking Consideration of the Companys approach rating was made to the Remuneration objectives.
wasreceived from the Chief Procurement Officer on the way in which the Global Workplace safety deep dive.
Procurement Policy and the Supplier June Anti-bribery and anti-corruption Principles are being embedded.
Committee Undertook the annual review of the Baltimore, US Giftsand Hospitality, Facilitation Payments A review of the anti-bribery and antiand Advisers policies.
Received a report corruption policies, including a consideration onthe number and type of advisers of the application of the adviser policy to currently appointed.
This covered the Agreed the approach to be taken proposed arrangements for the sale of withregard to workforce engagement Typhoon to Qatar.
in2019 as part of the new UK Corporate A report was made to the Committee Governance Code.
onanincident that had occurred at the Received a top level summary of the USArmy munitions plant in Radford, US, resultsof the enterprise-wide employee which had resulted in the death of one opinion survey.
employee and injuries to two others.
Consideration of the structure and focus TheCommittee reviewed the immediate ofthe corporate responsibility objectives actions that had been taken at that for2019.
point, including how the Company was supportingboth the families of those Review of the corporate responsibility affected and our employees.
The annual review of the safety performance of BAE Systems, Inc. considering the recordable injury rate statistics, the work undertaken to improve safety, behavioural change and the ways inwhich risk could be reduced through engineering initiatives.
Corporate Responsibility Committee timeline February June August September December Committee Committee Site visit Committee Committee India BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 89
