STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MAKING A DIFFERENCE INASUSTAINABLE WAY Bakkavor is committed to being a socially responsible Food safety and business at every level: integrity actively engaging with all stakeholders to ensure thatwe make a difference every day.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Environment Community We take seriously the significant trust placed in us by our stakeholders and FRAMEWORK remain focused on continuing to shape and develop our Corporate Responsibility CR strategy and framework in the years ahead.
OUR FRAMEWORK Our CR framework covers the four key Workplace areas ofFood Safety and Integrity, Environment, Workplace and Community.
In 2018, we extended this framework across our international operations and put in place a process to measure carbon emissions and waste data across the We also have a Bakkavor Code of Conduct GOVERNANCE OF CORPORATE Groups businesses.
in place to support good governance of RESPONSIBILITY We undertook a light materiality behaviours.
It reflects our core values and CR is monitored by the Senior Management assessment at the end of 2018 to better underpins our culture by defining how we team and reported to the Board.
The Board understand our key sustainability priorities, do business and how our employees should reviews the progress of the priorities set for not just in the UK but also across our act on a day-to-day basis.
Currently, the Group sets priorities international businesses.
The assessment, includes policies and procedures such as in the areas of food safety and integrity, which was conducted by an external agency, anti-bribery and business ethics, IT usage workplace health and safety and workplace will be used during 2019 to set a Group CR policy and statements supporting our recruitment, retention and development.
strategy and review our reporting commitment to acting professionally, framework and priorities.
NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT The table below sets out where stakeholders can find information in our strategic report that relates to non-financial matters as required under the Non-Financial Reporting Directive requirements.
Where to read in this report about our impact, Reporting requirement Some of our relevant policies including the principal risks relating to these matters Page 1 Environmental matters Group Environmental policy Sustainability approach 38 Waste and Food Waste 38 Carbon footprint 39 Risk Sustainability 29 1 Employees Code of Conduct Diversity 40 1 Group Health and safety policy Health and safety 42-43 Risk Health and safety 28 1 Human rights Code of Conduct Governance 35, 57 2 Modern Slavery Policy Supply chain integrity 36 1 Social matters Code of Conduct Community engagement 46 1 Anti-bribery and corruption Anti-bribery and corruption policy Governance 35, 68 Business model Our business model 8-10 Non-financial KPIs Key Performance Indicators 24 1.
Available to all employees through the Bakkavor Intranet.
Available both on our website www.
com and available to employees through the intranet.
com 35 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED FOOD SAFETY AND INTEGRITY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Risk assessment Own operations and supply chain Our passion for food is core to our business: a passion which is only realisable if customers and consumers Threats and continue to trustthe highest vulnerability assessment standards of quality andintegrity of our food.
We value the importance of being a trusted partner SECURITY to our customers, their Environmental AND QUALITY Human rights impacts and consumers, our suppliers OF SUPPLY and people sustainability and the communities CHAIN in which weoperate.
FOOD SAFETY EXPERTISE At Bakkavor we are focused on making food Raw that is great-tasting for consumers whilst material meeting the highest standards of safety.
integrity Inaddition to customer requirements, the Group is subject to extensive food safety regulations and, where required, The Group uses Hazard Analysis and were tested and the business responded governmental monitoring in each of the Critical Control Points HACCP principles well with minimal operational impact.
countries in which we operate.
to identify any potential food safety risks and In China, we passed the American Institute In the UK, as well as having food safety ensure they are effectively controlled when of Bakery Audit, a very high food safety experts at each of our sites, we have developing and manufacturing its products.
standard in the bakery industry.
Our site in a dedicated central technical team These procedures form the backbone of Hong Kong gained accreditation in HACCP, overseeing operations.
The 63 people Bakkavors Quality Management Systems and received an ISO22000, a Food Safety in this team are experts in microbiology, and Standards.
In total, Bakkavor employs Management System Certification chemistry, produce, pesticides, process more than 500 food safety professionals.
by the International Organization innovation and all aspects of designing Sites are audited regularly, often on an for Standardization.
and maintaining chilled food factories to unannounced basis, by internal food safety the highest standards.
experts, customers and independent bodies NUTRITION for compliance with food safety standards.
As a leading food producer, we recognise the significant role we can play in shaping In the UK, the Group conducts over 1,500 food habits and behaviours.
We support the in-house microbiology and chemistry tests growing trend for healthy, convenient food, every day.
It is this detailed approach that and through our insight and innovation ensures that 21 of the Groups UK capabilities, we do our utmost to provide manufacturing sites hold certification at A consumers with nutritious and fresh food grade against the British Retail Consortium choices that help support a healthy lifestyle.
In the year, we collaborated with our In the US, we ensure that our facilities customers in responding to healthy eating adhere to the highest food safety standards trends by reviewing salt, sugar and set by institutions including US Food Safety saturated fat levels in our food.
In 2018, our two new US sites introduced new healthy food options both received the approvals required by including several well-publicised and customers and regulators.
During the year, successful vegan ranges and products.
the US business experienced a product recall due to a contamination in raw materials from the supplier: risk controls 36 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING FOOD SAFETY AND INTEGRITY PRIORITIES FOR 2019 We source over 5,000 ingredients from around the world and ensure the Ensure our risk assessment Continue to review and enhance traceability of our food through all stages processes and analytical methods our Learning and Development of production, processing and distribution.
that support raw material and programme in food safety to product integrity continue to be ensure we develop the best food We visit and audit suppliers around robust, challenging, effective and safety experts for our business.
the world and use multiple suppliers efficient in a rapidly evolving area.
Deliver on the action plans set for certain ingredients to help ensure Continue to develop our internal by the Responsible Sourcing year-round supply.
laboratory expertise, increasing our Steering Group.
To maintain the security and quality of in-house allergen testing capability Deliver on the action plans our supply chain, we have a Responsible to provide a high calibre, expert for human rights and modern Sourcing Steering Group comprising senior service in this important area.
slavery and show that progress members from our procurement, technical Gain independent assessment has been made.
Our dedicated Responsible for the operation of our Sourcing Manager co-ordinates the work governance processes.
between these functions and our customers in the UK.
Environmental sustainability we are Human rights and The team developed our responsible committed to reducing our impact on the modern slavery sourcing model, taking a risk-assessed environment to assure the long-term Human rights underpin our Responsible approach to our operations and supply sustainability and resilience of our supply Sourcing Model, which is at the heart of chain.
The model focuses on four key areas: chain.
We are assessing environmental Bakkavors core values.
We are committed sustainability risks in our supply chain, to the highest standards of ethics and Threats and vulnerability we assess identifying the hotspots and working integrity and do not tolerate slavery and our suppliers to ensure we have a robust collaboratively with suppliers on forced or trafficked labour within our supplier base, where suppliers are action plans.
business or anywhere in our supply chain.
like-minded, want to grow with us and can invest in growth.
They must deliver In March, we held our first supplier During 2018, we continued to develop outstanding customer service, at the right conference to set out Bakkavors our approach to tackling issues of modern quality, with the right capabilities and approach to responsible sourcing in the slavery, recognising the need to build demonstrate that material availability UK.
Over 420 suppliers attended the event, capability at all levels in our business and in isnt arisk.
with presentations from the Chief Executive our supply chain.
We continued to train our Human rights and people we ensure Officer, Chief Operating Officer UK, and HR and operational employees to recognise our suppliers follow the same principles Bakkavors Responsible Sourcing the indicators of modern slavery and raise as Bakkavor.
These include customer Steering Group.
concerns to address potential issues.
requirements and compliance with all In line with the Modern Slavery Act 2015, legal requirements e. g. Human Rights we produced our second Modern Slavery Act, Modern Slavery Act, the ETI base Statement in 2018.
This is available on code, UN Guiding Principles etc.
our website and details developments Raw material integrity we work with during 2017, including an outline of our our suppliers to prevent food fraud commitment structure in line with the i. e. substitution and adulteration.
This ensures the right materials come into our business from trusted suppliers.
We implemented the Stronger Together To support this, in 2018 we increased our Progress Monitoring Tool for the Group.
horizon scanning intelligence to gather This was followed by the Stronger Together information concerned with emerging Organisational Performance Assessment, trends, issues and uncertainties that a two-day assessment by an external social the future may bring.
We assess their compliance auditor, which provided us with potential impact on our business and use detailed gap analysis.
From this we have the information to target our approach on been able to further build and reinforce testing materials or to conduct routine robust action plans for our own businesses trace exercises on our supply base.
com 37 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We are committed to making the best ENVIRONMENT WASTE possible use of any surplus food.
This may In the UK, we have a long-standing track Bakkavor undertakes be through redistribution of surplus food record of reducing waste by maximising practical actions and and ingredients to our employees, recycling and making the best use of to charities or for use in animal feed.
initiatives across the Group materials and resources.
In the UK, Bakkavor provides significantly to reduce its overall carbon Given the nature of our business, subsidised surplus food to Company Shop, we continue to review our approach to footprint and protect the largest redistributor of surplus food to food waste reduction and redistribution the environment.
In 2018, across all our operating sites.
approximately 1,350,000 meal equivalents As a responsible business, Bakkavor The United Nations Sustainable were allocated to Company Shop.
recognises that its operations have Development Goal 12.3 sets an ambitious Bakkavor also redistributes surplus food potential direct and indirect impacts on the target to halve food waste across the to employees at discounted prices via staff environment.
We encourage environmental supply chain by 50% by 2030.
In the UK, shops at a number of its UK sites.
This is efficiency through a Group-wide focus on Bakkavor has committed to adopt the a very popular not-for-profit initiative, the four main areas of waste, water, energy 12.3 target, measuring and publicly with funds raised allocated to local efficiency and packaging.
We are continuing reporting its progress.
The UK business community initiatives.
to improve our environmental performance has also been a leading member of an through sustainability initiatives and have industry group working with the Waste In addition to providing subsidised food, made particularly good progress in the UK and Resources Action Programme and the the UK business also donated meals to this year in reducing food waste.
Institute of Grocery Distribution to develop FareShare during the year.
FareShare the Food Loss and Waste Standard is a UK charity that distributes meals to We are in the process of launching FLWS, a platform for measuring and community groups through a network.
an Environmental Governance and KPI reporting food waste and delivering We also donated almost 86,000 meals Tracker for the UK business.
This system improvements across the industry.
in 2018 to Peterborough Soup Kitchen.
will enable our operational and Group teams to identify best practice and Food waste as a percentage of total UK Finally, in the UK we also redirected around opportunities to deliver value for the food produced 30,400 tonnes of manufacturing waste such environment and for the business.
as unused bread and pastry doughs and Target to reduce vegetable and fruit trimmings to be used by 50% by 2030 0.1% as animal feed.
improvement In the US, approximately 100 pounds of versus 2017 food per week is donated and distributed to various local organisations including 2018 9.1% a womens shelter, a half-way house, Open Arms Ministry, the Community Kitchen and Meals on Wheels.
2017 9.2% In 2018, UK food waste was calculated in accordance with the FLWS at 9.1% of total food produced, representing a 0.1% improvement against the comparable year.
38 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION STATEMENT Bakkavor has this year extended its data warehouses and our vehicle fleet, and As part of our strategy in the UK to capture process to record its carbon releases of fluorinated gases from move towards a lower carbon footprint emissions in the US and China, having our refrigeration plant.
infrastructure and to drive energy efficiency, previously only captured data in the UK.
and in compliance with climate change Scope 2 emissions are released indirectly regulations F Gas Regulations, we have Greenhouse gas GHG emissions for from our consumption of energy sources invested in a natural gas ammonia the year to December 2018 have been electricity and cooling streams.
refrigeration plant at our Newark desserts measured and reported as required under site.
This plant is significantly more efficient Bakkavor has used the WRI GHG Protocol the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and will have a positive impact on total Corporate Accounting and Reporting and Directors Report Regulations 2013, energy usage.
It enables further integration standard and emission factors from Defras following the UK Government Environmental of services heat recovery and the full UK Government GHG Conversion Factors Reporting Guidelines June 2013. conversion of the Newark site to ammonia for Company Reporting to calculate the and expansion to support growth.
The The total gross GHG emissions reported GHG emissions where they are not ammonia plants and rollout plan represent include all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions separately provided by a supplier.
the Groups significant investment in the for the Bakkavor Group globally.
This The Groups environmental management future sustainability of operations.
covers all sites where Bakkavor has full system is based on ISO 14001. operational control.
Data has not been The table below also shows GHG emissions collected for sites owned by Bakkavor but The table below shows GHG emissions for for the Group as a whole.
This is the first leased to tenants as Bakkavor does not Bakkavor Foods Limited.
year that Group emissions have been have oversight or control of this energy reported so no comparative data is available.
Emissions in the UK decreased between usage and emissions data.
2017 and 2018 by 30% as we moved to The majority of our GHG emissions arise Scope 1 emissions are those that directly a renewable electricity supply contract from our factory sites heating and cooling release GHGs and include fuel consumed by across our sites to support our programme operations.
We have a programme of our manufacturing facilities, offices, to reduce greenhouse gases.
activities across the sites to reduce energy use and hence GHG emissions.
UK GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2018 emissions 2017 emissions Bakkavor Foods Limited UK tCO e tCO e 2 2 Scope 1: Emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 110,241 112,392 Scope 2: Emissions from purchased electricity and cooling 66,492 80,606 Total gross emissions 176,733 192,998 Green tariff 56,900 22,747 Total annual net emissions 119,833 170,251 Intensity Ratio gross tCO e m turnover 106.9 117.9 2 GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2018 emissions Bakkavor Group tCO e 2 Scope 1: Emissions from combustion of fuel andoperation offacilities UK 110,241 US 5,957 China 7,017 Total Scope 1 emissions 123,215 Scope 2: Emissions from purchased electricity and cooling UK 66,492 US 7,050 China 36,031 Total Scope 2 emissions 109,573 Total gross emissions 232,788 Green tariff 56,900 Total annual net emissions 175,888 Intensity Ratio gross tCO e m turnover 125.5 2 www.
com 39 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED reviewing existing standards and providing WORKPLACE DEVELOPING A SUSTAINABLE support to training providers through TALENT PIPELINE We are committed to Industry Skills Partnership groups.
At Bakkavor, people are at the heart of our providing a workplace business.
It is important that we remain Our Graduate Programme has provided environment where people focused on being the local Employer of over 300 graduates with the opportunity to Choice for both existing and new talent.
learn and develop in a wide range of roles are safe, engaged and across the Group.
In an increasingly competitive market, continues to provide a vital talent pipeline one of our priorities for 2018 was to further for our future leaders.
In 2018, 21 UK develop our centralised resourcing model DIVERSITY AND EQUAL graduates joined the business across the to attract talent and support business OPPORTUNITIES seven schemes we have available.
We have expanded this model Bakkavor is committed to equal to include salaried recruitment and are This year, we welcomed four International opportunities in all its employment piloting this across several UK sites with Graduates to support our growth in Asia.
practices, policies and procedures from the aim of rolling this out in April 2019.
The programme has four schemes recruitment and selection through training Commercial, Technical, Development and and development, appraisal and promotion.
GRADUATE & APPRENTICE Marketing and involves a one-year placement in the UK, before graduates PROGRAMMES We will do all that we can to ensure that relocate to China or Hong Kong to everyone has an equal chance to apply and Over 250 people in the UK are currently part complete the remaining two years of the be selected for jobs and an equal chance to of the Bakkavor Apprenticeship International Programme.
be trained and promoted when they work Programme, which covers a broad range of for the Group.
training specialisms including Engineering, TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT Manufacturing and Product Development.
This year, Bakkavor started a Diverse Roots Our company values are embedded in all We are passionate about our Apprenticeship into Employment project which involves the training that is completed at Bakkavor, Programme, continuing to add more areas exploring different ways to recruit from a day one induction through to of specialism and increasing the number employees while supporting communities.
our management programmes and of places available every year.
In 2018, Our Bakkavor Pizza site in Holbeach worked functional training.
we welcomed 26 new apprentices to the with Centre-Point Outreach, a local charity Group who are contributing to key business We are committed to the training and which supports homeless and activities and projects whilst studying development of all our employees to ensure disadvantaged people in Boston, towards a relevant, nationally recognised they know how to do their job safely and to Lincolnshire.
With help from the Groups qualification.
We are very proud that one the best of their ability.
We have an in-house Central Resourcing team, Bakkavor Pizza of our Engineering apprentices jointly won e-learning Bakkavor Training System assisted 17 people into employment and Young Apprentice of the Year at the BTS which enables us to monitor permanent accommodation.
Appetite for Engineering industry event compliance and plan and record training for in October 2018.
We have also started working in partnership factory site-based colleagues.
In 2018, the with an Open Prison in Lincolnshire and will training system was developed further so We are committed to the long-term role be offering open residents rehabilitation we will be able to extend the BTS to cover of apprenticeships within our business and placements within two of our Lincolnshire our agency workers.
The Group has also work closely with the National Skills sites.
The placements can last from enhanced the e-learning system to include Academy, developing new standards, six to 18 months and give the residents an opportunity to adapt to life back in a community in preparation for their WORKPLACE RECRUITMENT, RETENTION AND DEVELOPMENT release and possible future employment PRIORITIES FOR 2019 with Bakkavor.
To increase awareness of apprenticeship and early careers programmes in the UK and internationally To continue to develop internal talent and succession plans to support business and international mobility To further develop our centralised resourcing model to include salaried as well as weekly paid colleagues to support business growth, streamline process and drive down cost To work with line managers in developing their leadership capability and to support business change To support our colleagues around the impact of Brexit, whilst driving employee retention and engagement 40 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report a business tool to help with planning labour The Groups approach to management EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT and analyse skill requirements.
and leadership training and development Bakkavor has a proud history of asking has been further developed this year with employees for honest feedback on their Bakkavor has a long established two new programmes being introduced.
experiences of working with us.
Where relationship with the University of Lincoln.
Our highly effective Recipes for Success possible, we use this feedback to make The University has supported us in and Managing for Results programmes important changes to work practices, which developing English language workshops for are delivering results through managers in turn creates a workplace where people colleagues for whom English is not their completing improvement projects as part enjoy their jobs, feel that they are making a first language and these workshops have of their learning.
The development of our meaningful contribution and are recognised been successfully piloted this year.
We are senior leaders continued, focusing on for outstanding work.
also recruiting our own English language individual coaching and an alumni event trainers to deliver the training and support We measure our engagement levels spearheaded by our CEO.
colleagues with coaching in the workplace.
through an Employee Engagement Survey Specific functional training is provided to conducted every year.
This year, We have continued to focus on developing managers working in our offices.
In 2018 we conducted a full survey in the UK and our existing talent by introducing a we enhanced the training and development rolled out the survey to our international structured approach to talent planning.
provided to our Commercial Managers and businesses.
The survey was undertaken We have recently redeveloped a succession we now offer four programmes focusing on between January and March, with an plan which identifies both our present and category management, commercial 87% response rate.
In 73% of the questions future talent as well as the challenges we thinking, negotiation skills and joint asked, we had a higher engagement score face in our talent pipeline.
We have also business planning.
Our managers in the than was reported the previous year.
undertaken a full review of job families and development function have also benefited career pathways to ensure they are modern from targeted training in sensory analysis.
and fit for future talent development in Manufacturing, Process, Development COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT and Commercial.
In 2018, we continued to support the IGD Feeding Britains Future Programme, with 10 fledgling school partnerships now We are delighted in place and over 300 school students that SimranPadam, engaged.
The programme, working in secondary schools, brings the industry our Commercial together to inspire the next generation and Management equip them with skills for work.
They bring to life the world of work, highlight the skills Accountant at Bakkavor required to succeed in the workplace and Pizza & Bread in showcase the variety of roles available in Harrow, obtained the food and grocery industry.
joint-first position Partnerships are long-term and build bespoke relationships between our for the August 2018 Bakkavor sites and secondary schools in CIMA Strategic Case our local communities.
Partnership activities are varied and include factory site Study Exam.
visits for different student groups such as food technology, engineering, business Simran started with Bakkavor on the studies, marketing and design technology.
Graduate Scheme in September 2015 Other activities include NPD project-based after achieving a 2:1 in Accounting competitions and lessons in bringing the and Finance from the University of curriculum to life, interview skills and Huddersfield.
She spent her first year practice assessments.
at Bakkavor Meals, London, as an Assistant Management Accountant then progressed to an Assistant Financial Accountant in her second year, based at Bakkavor Desserts, Newark, before moving to Harrow to complete her third year on the scheme.
com 41 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Some of the key themes coming from EMPLOYEE FORUMS our latest survey in the UK include Bakkavor is committed to providing open employees reporting having the resources channels of communication to promote and information they need, a strong effective employee engagement across customer focus, a clear understanding the Group.
Each of our sites has a Site of accountabilities and how their work Employee Forum SEF, made up of contributes to company goals.
In our representatives and members of the site US sites, the strengths from the survey management team.
SEF meetings are held included employee benefits, high-quality regularly throughout the year where products and services as well as employees matters of common concern are discussed feeling they are provided with the and where learnings, best practice and opportunities to do challenging and ideas are shared.
Bakkavor Asia also had Throughout 2018, events were organised promising results where employees felt to support our SEF representatives across there is a clear direction, quality customer our UK businesses.
Business Employee focus and that they have the correct Forums BEFs were held for all of our UK resources to do their job.
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY operational sectors and Group Employee Bakkavor promotes a proactive safety The results of our Engagement Surveys Forum GEF regional huddles also took awareness and accident prevention enable us to define clear plans for place in London, Spalding and Crewe.
culture by empowering employees to improvement.
For example, when the These proved excellent opportunities for do the right thing, raise risk awareness difference in facilities from one site to representatives to network with their and actively support solutions to improve another was identified, a review across sites colleagues, discuss positive initiatives and the Groups performance.
was carried out and a common Bakkavor challenges, and set objectives with standard subsequently developed.
This has The health and safety culture is based on management for 2019. resulted in the recent refurbishment of strong governance processes and driven Our annual GEF Conference took place canteen facilities at our Bakkavor Bread site by the Group Board.
Bakkavor has health in May 2018.
Each SEF is represented at in Aston, Cheshire, and investment in and safety teams in place that define the Conference and over the two-day event various other factory initiatives targeted at standards and monitor compliance with its there were presentations including improving workplace engagement.
systems for ensuring workplace health and business updates from our CEO and CFO safety.
These systems are risk-based and BREXIT EMPLOYEE SUPPORT and interactive sessions to support our are implemented through the Groups SEFs.
As part of this years conference, Around half of our UK workforce are Health and Safety Management System a SEF Effectiveness Model was developed EU nationals.
Whilst the implications of to ensure compliance with relevant for our representatives to use as a Brexit are still unknown, we are committed legal requirements.
self-audit tool so to benchmark themselves to keeping our employees engaged and Systems include comprehensive audits against a clear set of criteria and devise supporting them through any Brexit and unannounced safe site inspections action plans to progress their roles.
Following the referendum carried out by qualified experts, result to leave the EU, we devised four RECOGNITION THROUGH AWARDS performance monitoring and reporting and work streams: a well-established process for capturing As a Group, we hold two main awards Helping EU nationals stay in the UK and sharing good practice and learnings.
ceremonies annually our Group including workshops explaining their In 2018, we recruited two more people onto Responsibility Awards and the Group rights, the settlement process and our central Health and Safety team Innovation Awards to recognise the its requirements and English providing further support in governance great work our people are doing every day.
auditing and enabling additional expert Both ceremonies reflect the importance of support to our businesses.
Employee experience updating our core values and how they are embedded our facilities, our induction programme across the Group.
Our businesses also and running inclusion workshops.
celebrate and recognise hard work and Manpower agency development commitment at their sites through Values developing a strategic partnership and Long Service Awards, with a particular approach with agencies and creating highlight being the recognition of one of the a Bakkavor Passport.
Groups longest serving employees who retired in 2018 after working 48 years at our Employee terms and conditions looking Bakkavor Spalding site in Lincolnshire.
at terms and conditions across sites.
42 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report To foster and embed a positive approach at height and electrical safety.
For example, The number of major accidents recorded to workplace health and safety across the we held workshops on the appropriate in the UK business was 16 in 2018, Group, we have a H&S Forum and our central selection and use of equipment for working compared with seven in 2017.
An analysis H&S team provide regular updates and at height to minimise risks of falling, and a of these major accidents highlighted an guidance.
The team attends our Engineering UK H&S induction pack is being developed increase in the incidents involving discussion group and our Manufacturing by the central team which will be rolled out pedestrians and mechanical handling Forum and communicates key risks and across the Group in 2019. equipment, manual handling and falls from shares best practice initiatives at the the height of low level steps.
These topics To help prevent machinery accidents Groups annual GEF Conference.
In 2018, are a key focus of our Group governance in 2018, we continued the rollout of the the team also visited our China sites to processes and continue to be priorities for machinery safety workshops, with a further support development of H&S governance, action in 2019.
727 employees being trained in 2018. reporting processes and discuss common In2018, the total number of accidents in the Whilst we will always work towards having key H&S risks.
UK business was 1,712, an 8% improvement no major accidents in our business, we are At the annual Group Responsibility Awards on the prior year.
The total number of reassured that the 2018 performance there are two H&S award categories accidents in the UK resulting in more than represents a 53% outperformance against H&S Culture and H&S Innovation.
In 2018, seven days of lost time was 68 compared the HSE industry average.
This is calculated the Health and Safety Culture Award with 66 in the prior year.
per 100,000 employees and based on the was presented to Bakkavor Desserts information in the table below.
Highbridge, who were recognised for having made a step change in safety performance UK WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS by engaging employees across the business 2018 2017 and developing a safety culture.
The Health Major accidents per 100k employees 94 40 and Safety Innovation Award was presented 7 days lost-time accidents per 100k employees 400 380 to Bourne Prepared Produce, who Total accidents per 100k employees 10,068 10,745 developed a loading cradle to reduce the risk of injury through heavy lifting.
Number of major accidents specified injuries asdefined by the Health and Safety Executive.
Thisinnovation has now been shared at our H&S Forum so that it can be rolled out in other businesses across the Group.
WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY PRIORITIES FOR 2019 In 2018, our commitment to ensuring a safe Maintaining our focus on reducing key business risks, specifically through robust working environment for everyone on our delivery of the Group governance processes, business unit internal auditing and sites was externally recognised with four sharing good practice and learnings across the Group.
awards from the Royal Society for the Ensuring Health and Safety Management is effectively designed into Prevention of Accidents RoSPA.
capital change projects across the Group.
Further developing health and safety training and risk reduction workshops As part of our drive towards an accident for people who are more at risk due to the nature of their roles and where they prevention culture, we continued to focus perform them, e. g. teams working near vehicles, with machinery and working on reducing risk associated with workplace at height using steps.
transport, raising awareness of machinery safety and the risks associated with working www.
com 43 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED EMPLOYEE DATA The Group employed 19,842 employees intotal.
Approximately 98% of employees are considered permanent.
BY LOCATION 2018 2017 United Kingdom 17,004 17,348 US 635 595 China 2,181 1,628 Continental Europe 22 22 Total number ofemployees 19,842 19,593 BY FUNCTION 2018 2017 Production 16,706 16,653 Management andadministration 2,183 1,992 Sales and distribution 953 948 Total number ofemployees 19,842 19,593 In 2018, the Group reported employee turnover in the UK of 22.1%, compared to 22.7% in 2017, representing a 0.6% improvement.
Turnover includes voluntary and involuntary leavers and excludes employees on fixed term contracts and those affected by redundancy.
In 2018, the average length ofservice of employees in production was seven years, while that of employees in management and administration was eightyears.
BY GENDER 2018 2018 2017 2017 UK International UK International Female 7,055 1,643 7,116 1,273 Male 9,949 1,195 10,232 972 Total number of employees 17,004 2,838 17,348 2,245 SENIOR MANAGEMENT BY GENDER 2018 Board and 2017 Board and Management Management Board Board Female 3 2 Male 10 10 Total 13 12 Bakkavor is committed to advancing and raising the profile of gender equality across the Group.
The Bakkavor UK Gender Pay Report 2018 is available on the Group website as part of our legal requirement as a company with more than 250 employees.
A summary of the report is shown on the following page.
44 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report UK GENDER PAY REPORT 2018 SUMMARY GENDER PAY DATA Our overall mean gender pay gap for 2018 is 9.9%, which is an The information below is a summary of the data available in our improvement of 0.9% from the previous year.
This figure is lower online report.
This comprises the mean and median gender pay than both the published 2017 national average and the UK gap: the mean and median gender bonus gap: the proportion of manufacturing sector average.
males and females receiving a bonus payment: and the proportion of males and females in each pay quartile.
However, we know we need to do more to help reduce the gap and to ensure we are at the forefront of positive change.
The results focus on our total UK business, which is the best indicator of our overall gender pay position.
In common with most employers with a gender pay gap, whilst the data is nuanced, the overall reason for the gap is an underMean pay gap 9.9% representation of women at senior levels and a higher number Median pay gap 8.4% of women at more junior levels.
During the last 12 months since our 2017 Gender Pay Report was published we have: The quartile split confirms that we have more men in senior roles, which is the primary driver of our gender pay gap.
Established a set of metrics to monitor our diversity: Reviewed our approach to flexible working and piloted severalinitiatives: 1ST QUARTILE 2ND QUARTILE Designed and delivered a new female mentoring programme LOWEST PAID with junior female managers being mentored by leaders to 51% 44% prepare them for more senior roles: Developed training in unconscious bias for all leaders involved 49% 56% in early career selection Graduate and Apprenticeship programmes in addition to focusing on gender diversity in those programmes: Reviewed our reward arrangements to ensure they are free from gender bias: and 3RD QUAR TILE 4TH QUARTILE Reviewed and revised several of our job families and created HIGHEST PAID career pathways to ensure that career opportunities are visible.
35% 31% Whilst we are pleased that a number of actions are in place and our 65% 69% gender pay gap has narrowed, we also recognise that as well as putting these initiatives in place, improving our gender pay position also requires longer term change.
Our focus in 2019 and future years will be on the following: Women Men Continuing to monitor and review our diversity metrics and using our data to ensure equity in our reward arrangements GENDER BONUS DATA at alllevels: Working to remove any barriers to career progression, Mean bonus gap 60.7% Looking at working patterns or geographical locations: Median bonus gap 11.6% Further roll-out of our female mentoring programme across all functions: The underlying gender bonus gap reflects ahigher proportion of Continuing to drive our inclusion training programme at site level men in senior roles.
The significant increase in our gender bonus which focuses on unconscious bias and subjectivity: gap in 2018 reflects the payment of accrued LTIP bonuses.
Continuing our progress with flexible working to support and PROPORTION OF MEN PROPORTION OF WOMEN promote female retention and career progression: and RECEIVING A BONUS RECEIVING A BONUS Continuing to focus on gender diversity in our entry level programmes.
com 45 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED COMMUNITY We aim to support the communities in which we work, giving opportunities tosupport the causes and projects that are important toour people.
CORPORATE CHARITABLE SUPPORT Bakkavor develops corporate charity relationships as an opportunity to foster positive workplace engagement and the chance to make a difference.
Over the past four years our chosen charities have been The Princes Trust and The Princes Countryside Fund and we have valued the way we have been able to The partnership agreements with One of the biggest local site fundraisers engage with both charities to raise funds these charities came to an end in 2018. takes place annually at the Spalding Fun for their causes.
We therefore undertook a review of Weekend and Party in the Park sponsored charities to support at a corporate level, by Bakkavor for employees, their families In 2018, in support of the Princes Trust, seeking a global charity that focuses on and members of the public.
In 2018, the we undertook many initiatives raising over tackling social issues which all our sites success of the event resulted in 25,000 16,000 for the charity through employee could support and a UK-based charity, given being donated to two local charities in the engagement as well as a financial that 89% of our revenue is generated in the Lincolnshire region WWII Memorial Fund contribution from the Group.
From January 2019, we have agreed and Bostons Salvation Army.
We also included the Palace to Palace Cycle three-year partnerships with Action Against donated monies to other charities and local Challenge, the Future Steps Challenge Hunger and FareShare.
Action Against groups that attended the event.
and our Group Marketing team undertook Hunger works across nearly 50 countries a24 hour 10k marathon.
At our annual Group Responsibility Awards to lead the global fight against hunger and we recognise all the hard work and As part of the partnership arrangement, malnutrition.
FareShare saves good food commitment from our sites to engage and we have supported the Trusts XL destined for waste and sends it to charities support their communities by presenting Programme through hosting World of Work and community groups who transform it a Good Neighbour Award to the business tours at oursites.
We held our 17th World of into nutritious meals for vulnerable people.
which has made the most impact.
In 2018, Work Tour at our Bakkavor Pizza & Bread the Award was presented to Bakkavor Pizza LOCAL CHARITY SUPPORT business in Crewe.
These tours are aimed Harrow site who demonstrated through at giving disadvantaged students first-hand We encourage our sites to support charities their Harrow Cooking initiative local experience of working within the which make a real difference within their engagement with the Council, a community food industry.
local communities and that matter most group, school children, members of the to our employees.
SEF representatives are The Princes Countryside Fund has been the public and local businesses.
They organised heavily involved in organising activities chosen charity for our graduates.
Both our events such as pizza cooking lessons, to fundraise or volunteer with community first and second year graduates organised an arts and food Pizza Party, and handed sustainability projects.
various fundraising activities including a out over 400 pizza slices to residents and Champagne and Canapes Charity Auction commuters at their local train station.
As a result, more than 5,000 was raised and donated to the charity, in addition to the Groups contribution.
46 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report
