Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Transfers Variation of rights % of total voting Ordinary shares may be held in either The rights attached to any class of shares may rights certificated or uncertificated form.
Certificated be varied either with the consent in writing attaching Nature of ordinary shares may be transferred in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value Number of to issued holding in any usual or other form approved by the of the issued shares of that class, or with the Person Barclays share direct or a interested shares capital indirect Company Secretary and executed by or sanction of a special resolution passed at a on behalf of the transferor.
Transfers of separate meeting of the holders of the shares The Capital Group uncertificated ordinary shares must be made of that class.
The rights of shares shall not in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 unless expressly provided by the rights Companies b Inc 1,172,090,125 6.84 indirect and CREST Regulations.
attached to such shares be deemed varied by the creation of further shares ranking equally Qatar The Board is not bound to register a transfer with them or subsequent to them.
Holding of partly-paid ordinary shares or fully-paid c LLC 1,017,455,690 5.40 direct shares in exceptional circumstances approved Limitations on foreign shareholders BlackRock, There are no restrictions imposed by the by the FCA.
The Board may also decline to d Inc 1,018,388,143 5.94 indirect register an instrument of transfer of certificated Articles of Association or subject to the effect Sherborne of any economic sanctions that may be in ordinary shares unless it is i duly stamped, e Investors 923,787,634 5.39 indirect deposited at the prescribed place and force from time to time by current UK laws Norges which relate only to non-residents of the UK accompanied by the share certificate s and Bank 514,068,594 3.00 direct such other evidence as reasonably required by and which limit the rights of such nonresidents to hold or when entitled to do so the Board to evidence right to transfer, ii it Notes is in respect of one class of shares only, and vote the ordinary shares.
a The percentage of voting rights detailed above was calculated at the time of the relevant disclosures made iii it is in favour of a single transferee or not Exercisability of rights under an employee in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance more than four joint transferees except in the and Transparency Rules.
share scheme case of executors or trustees of a member.
b The Capital Group Companies Inc CG holds its shares Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in via CG Management companies and funds.
Part of the In accordance with the provisions of Section connection with certain of the Barclays CG holding is held as American Depositary Receipts.
84 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Groups Employee Share Plans Plans.
The On 14 February 2019, CG disclosed by way of a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, beneficial ownership Employment Act 2015, preference shares may trustees of the EBTs may exercise all rights of 277,002,140 ordinary shares of the Company as only be issued in registered form.
Preference attached to the shares in accordance with of 31 December 2018, representing 1.6% of that class shares shall be transferred in writing in any their fiduciary duties other than as specifically of shares.
usual or other form approved by the Company restricted in the relevant Plan governing c Qatar Holding LLC QH is wholly-owned by Qatar Investment Authority.
Secretary and executed by or on behalf of the documents.
The trustees of the EBTs have d Total shown includes 8,879,783 contracts for transferor.
The Companys registrar shall informed the Company that their normal difference to which voting rights are attached.
Part of register such transfers of preference shares by policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the holding is held as American Depositary Receipts.
making the appropriate entries in the register the Barclays shares held in trust.
The trustees On 4 February 2019, BlackRock, Inc. disclosed by way of a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC beneficial of preference shares.
Each preference share of the Global Sharepurchase EBT and UK ownership of 1,119,810,169 ordinary shares of the shall confer, in the event of a winding up or Sharepurchase EBTs may vote in respect Company as of 31 December 2018, representing 6.5% any return of capital by reduction of capital of Barclays shares held in the EBTs, but only of that class of shares.
other than, unless otherwise provided by as instructed by participants in those Plans e We understand from disclosures that the Sherborne Shares are held via three funds ultimately controlled their terms of issue, a redemption or purchase in respect of their partnership shares and by Edward Bramson and Stephen Welker in their by the Company of any of its issued shares, when vested matching and dividend shares.
capacity as managing directors of Sherborne Investors or a reduction of share capital, the right The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect Management GP, LLC Sherborne Management GP and Sherborne Investors GP, LLC.
Sherborne to receive out of the surplus assets of the of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBTs.
Management GP is the general partner of Sherborne Company available for distribution amongst Special rights Investors Management LP Sherborne Investors which the members and in priority to the holders is the investment manager to two of the funds, Whistle There are no persons holding securities that of the ordinary shares and any other shares Investors LLC and Whistle Investors II LLC.
Sherborne carry special rights with regard to the control Investors Management Guernsey LLC, the in the Company ranking junior to the relevant of the Company.
investment manager to the third fund, SIGC, LP, is series of preference shares and pari passu wholly owned by Sherborne Investors.
On 8 February with any other class of preference shares Major shareholders 2019, Sherborne Investors disclosed by way of a other than any class of shares then in issue Major shareholders do not have different Schedule 13D filed with the SEC beneficial ownership of 943,949,089 ordinary shares of the Company as of ranking in priority to the relevant series of voting rights from those of other shareholders.
29 January 2019, representing approximately 5.5% of preference shares, repayment of the amount Information provided to the Company by that class of shares.
Such Schedule 13D also disclosed paid up or treated as paid up in respect of substantial shareholders pursuant to the FCAs Edward Bramson and Stephen Welker as the ultimate deemed beneficial owners of the Sherborne Shares the nominal value of the preference share Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules and that 505,086,254 of such shares were purchased together with any premium which was paid are published via a Regulatory Information through funded derivative transactions.
or treated as paid when the preference share Service and is available on the Companys was issued in addition to an amount equal to website.
As at 31 December 2018, the Between 31 December 2018 and 19 February Company had been notified under Rule 5 accrued and unpaid dividends.
2019 the latest practicable date for inclusion of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency in this report, the Company was notified that Rules of the holdings of voting rights in its Norges Bank now holds 509,562,903 Barclays shares set out below.
shares, representing 2.97% of the total voting rights attached to the issued share capital and that Sherborne now holds 943,949,089 Barclays shares, representing approximately 5.5% of the total voting rights attached to the issued share capital.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 91 Governance: Directors report Other statutory information Powers of Directors to issue or buy back use the going concern basis of accounting The Directors are also responsible for the Companys shares unless they either intend to liquidate the preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, The powers of the Directors are determined by Barclays Group or the Parent company Directors remuneration report and Corporate the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys or to cease operations, or have no realistic governance statement in accordance with Articles.
The Directors are authorised to issue alternative but to do so.
and allot shares and to buy back shares subject The Directors are responsible for the Disclosure of information to the auditor to annual shareholder approval at the AGM.
Each Director confirms that, so far as he she maintenance and integrity of the Annual Such authorities were granted by shareholders Report and financial statements as they is aware, there is no relevant audit information at the 2018 AGM.
It will be proposed at the of which the Companys auditors are unaware appear on the Companys website.
Legislation 2019 AGM that the Directors be granted new in the UK governing the preparation and and that each of the Directors has taken all authorities to allot and buy back shares.
the steps that he she ought to have taken as dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Repurchase of shares a Director to make himself herself aware of The Company did not repurchase any of its any relevant audit information and to establish The Directors have a general responsibility for ordinary shares during 2018 2017: none.
that the Companys auditors are aware of taking such steps as are reasonably open to As at 19 February 2019 the latest practicable that information.
This confirmation is given them to safeguard the assets of the Barclays date for inclusion in this report the Company pursuant to section 418 of the Companies Act Group and to prevent and detect fraud and had an unexpired authority to repurchase 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance other irregularities.
ordinary shares up to a maximum of 1,706m with and subject to those provisions.
The Directors, whose names and functions Directors responsibilities are set out on pages 51 and 52, confirm to the Distributable reserves The following statement, which should be best of their knowledge that: As at 31 December 2018, the distributable read in conjunction with the Auditors report reserves of Barclays PLC the parent company set out on page 248 to 255, is made with a the financial sta tements, prepared in were 5,282m.
a view to distinguishing for shareholders the accordance with the applicable set of respective responsibilities of the Directors and accounting standards, give a true and fair Following announcement of its intention to of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial carry out a capital reorganisation to convert position and profit or loss of the Company the share premium account of Barclays PLC The Directors are required by the Companies and the undertakings included in the into distributable reserves and subsequent Act 2006 to prepare Group and Company consolidation taken as a whole: and shareholder approval at the Annual General accounts for each financial year and, with b the management r eport, on pages 5 to 39, Meeting on 1 May 2018, this was undertaken regards to Group accounts, in accordance by way of a court-approved capital reduction.
with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The which is incorporated in the Directors report, includes a fair review of the On 11 September 2018, the capital reduction Directors have prepared Group and Company became effective following confirmation of accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted development and performance of the business and the position of the Company the High Court of Justice in England and Wales by the EU.
Under the Companies Act 2006, that the share premium account had been the Directors must not approve the accounts and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together cancelled, with the balance of 17,873m being unless they are satisfied that they give a true credited to retained earnings.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Barclays Group and the Company and of their On filing of the 2018 Annual Report, the profit or loss for that period.
distributable reserves of Barclays PLC would By order of the Board be 24,471m taking into consideration the The Directors consider that, in preparing the cancellation of share premium account and financial statements the Barclays Group and other movements in reserves for the year.
Company has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements Change of control and estimates, and that all accounting There are no significant agreements to which standards which they consider to be Stephen Shapiro the Company is a party that are affected by applicable have been followed.
Company Secretary a change of control of the Company following 20 February 2019 a takeover bid.
There are no agreements Having taken all the matters considered by between the Company and its Directors or the Board and brought to the attention of Registered in England.
48839 employees providing for compensation for the Board during the year into account, the loss of office or employment that occurs Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report because of a takeover bid.
and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and Going concern provide the information necessary for The Barclays Groups business activities, shareholders to assess the Barclays Group financial position, capital, factors likely to and Companys position and performance, affect its future development and performance business model and strategy.
and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed are Directors are responsible for such internal discussed in the Strategic report and Risk control as they determine is necessary to review and Risk management sections.
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, The Directors considered it appropriate to whether due to fraud or error.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors have responsibility for ensuring In preparing each of the Barclays Group and that the Company and the Barclays Group Parent company financial statements, the keep accounting records which disclose Directors are required to: with reasonable accuracy the financial assess the Barclays Group and Parent position of the Company and the Barclays companys ability to continue as a going Group and which enable them to ensure concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters that the accounts comply with the Companies related to going concern: and Act 2006.
92 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: People People Once on board, we have created multiple tools In Europe we held regular consultations with As highlighted in Our culture and people and resources for colleagues at all levels to our European Works Council the Barclays on page 11, we continue to make progress find internal career opportunities and for Group European Forum on a wide range of towards increasing the diversity of our managers to find and assess suitable internal topics including transnational restructuring workforce underpinned by an inclusive candidates.
In 2018 37% of our roles were proposals, in addition to local consultation culture and engaged employees.
This filled by internal candidates.
All colleagues section provides an overview of some who are displaced as a result of restructuring Learning, development and talent of the programmes, initiatives and ways are offered career transition support.
In 2018 management in which we are supporting our colleagues, c. 900 colleagues were supported globally Advancements have been made in our which in turn enables us to support our a take-up rate of over 80% of those impacted approach to learning throughout 2018, customers, clients and the community.
by restructuring, with over 95% satisfied with with a focus on systems and processes as the career transition support provided.
This included launching new digital channels and working in conjunction Performance management with industry-leading partners to keep Effective performance management underpins improving and updating our skills based our values-based culture.
To support our learning solutions.
success, colleagues align their objectives to business and team goals, this is what they We remain focused on identifying talent based Career opportunities will deliver.
Behavioural expectations are set on objective assessment.
We develop our We aspire to be the most accessible, inclusive in the context of our values, this is how they successors and ensure that we have a strong and sought after employer.
Attracting new will achieve their objectives.
We encourage pipeline of internal talent with the potential to talent into the organisation remains key to our connected performance conversations step into critical roles in the future.
Ex officio success, demonstrated through the continued throughout the year and we continue to run positions on the Group Executive Committee growth of newer strategic locations and our global recognition programme to recognise and across the business unit and functional world-class campuses Glasgow, Whippany, the achievements of those who have Executive Committees provided further North West UK and Pune.
Our Early Careers demonstrated our values in the workplace.
development and exposure for senior leaders programmes recruited 1,100 interns, 800 and allowed the leadership teams to work Colleagues are also encouraged to be graduates, and over 530 apprenticeships in involved with the Companys performance closely with talented colleagues who have 2018.
These varied entry points help provide brought new ideas and diverse perspectives by participating in our all-employee share pathways for progression supported by plans, which have been running successfully to the table.
recognised qualifications and, in doing so, for over 10 years.
help to create an internal talent pipeline.
Four Enterprise Leaders Summits across London and New York provided 135 senior Employee communications The Encore!
programme has run globally leaders from Barclays International, Barclays Barclays regularly updates employees on the in selected locations and has been a lever UK and Barclays Execution Services with financial and economic factors affecting the to encourage talented women returners an opportunity to further broaden their Companys performance and the delivery of to Barclays.
fellows are provided understanding of our business beyond their the strategy through Barclays Group CEO and with support sessions to assist with their business area and function and to develop senior leader communications, line manager acclimatisation back into the workforce and an enterprise mind-set.
briefing packs, infographics, videos, interviews Barclays intends to broaden the programme and talking points distributed to employees to continue to enhance our diversity, inclusion This year we also hosted a Women Managing every quarter in accordance with our financial and location strategies with more sites Directors Forum for c. 130 senior female reporting calendar.
leaders from across the Bank who convened in London in October 2018 to create an We also hold a variety of events for employees The Barclays Global Alumni Programme helps so they can hear directly from the Group engaged and mutually supportive global colleagues to stay connected to Barclays and community of senior female leaders at Executive Committee and employees are to other alumni.
Membership has grown to kept regularly informed about what is Barclays and to inspire further actions to over 7,000 since the programme launched in accelerate gender diversity.
happening in their area and across Barclays 2014 and we have a thriving, networked global through regular local engagement initiatives community with members receiving monthly Industrial relations and workforce and communications that allow for discussion e-newsletters, invitations to events, updates Barclays places great importance on our and build awareness and understanding.
about career opportunities and access to constructive approach to global employee Campaigns and colleague stories throughout Barclays Insights as part of their membership.
During 2018 we the year bring to life how we are living continued to work with Unite, our recognised Our Able to Enable programme provides Barclays Purpose, Creating opportunities trade union in the UK and with nine other a platform for candidates with disabilities, to rise and Values: Respect, Integrity, Service, unions and staff associations directly or allowing us to provide more tailored support Excellence and Stewardship on a daily basis, through works councils internationally.
In for them to enter the workforce through providing ongoing evidence of how we are the UK, we consulted extensively with Unite our apprentice channels.
Multigenerational supporting our colleagues, customers and on a wide range of restructuring proposals opportunities have also been opened through clients and the communities and societies and in respect of changes to compensation our Bolder Apprentice Programme.
Our shared aim where there broadly, we have policies and practices in is restructuring consistent with our place to ensure that all recruitment decisions partnership approach to industrial relations are fair and candidate shortlists are diverse.
is to minimise compulsory job losses wherever possible.
This is achieved through voluntary redundancy and extensive redeployment processes and arrangements.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 93 Governance: People People Be Well Barclays well-being programme We are proud of the recognition we have These networks provide a forum for Barclays global wellbeing programme received this year for our diversity and employees to raise awareness of various Be Well has focused on two key areas in inclusion efforts, including: challenges and initiatives, engage in 2018: a refreshed commitment to make development opportunities and to build The Times Top 50 Employers for Women Barclays a mental health confident relationships with colleagues across Barclays 2018 organisation, further development of our and with external constituents in the Stonewall Top Global Employer for LGBT supportive culture and the implementation communities where we operate.
Every network employees, 2018 of new global digital infrastructure as the is open to all employees who wish to support Working Families UK Best for Embedded gateway to the programme.
the firm in accomplishing its diversity goals flexibility for Dynamic Working, 2018 and creating an inclusive culture.
The mental health confident agenda has UK Top 10 employer for Working Families, worked to address both the stigma that can Gender 2018 prevent open conversations about mental Barclays remains focused on improving Department of Work and Pensions Disability health building on Barclays This is Me gender diversity through a workplace Confident Leader, 2017 to 2020 programme while developing colleagues environment and culture that supports and capability to understand, identify and take empowers women.
We also have a keen Business in the Community Best Employer appropriate action where others need help.
for Race 2018. focus on the gender diversity of our senior The global launch campaign involved a film leadership and have established ambitions This year 91% of colleagues reported through of senior leaders and Board members sharing on gender diversity from our Board of our Your View engagement survey that they their personal reflections on mental health Directors to our graduate population, feel able to bring their whole selves to work issues and the important role that support partnering with the Hampton Alexander reflecting our progress in our diversity and from colleagues can play in helping others.
Review and HM Treasury Finance Charter inclusion agenda.
The call to action to colleagues was to to encourage progress across the Financial become mental health confident themselves Services industry.
Our commitment to To help ensure all employees at Barclays have by completing new online development the support and environment to succeed, improving the gender diversity of the programmes on mental health awareness leadership at Barclays is being supported we have seven employee diversity networks.
By year end by an integrated talent management lead over 16,000 colleagues had completed approach which includes data monitoring, awareness and c. 3,500 had completed sponsorship and development programmes the confident module.
and our Win Gender Network, all intended to enhance our ability to achieve our ambitions.
85% of colleagues already feel that their line manager takes a sincere interest in their well-being according to the 2018 Your View survey.
To help translate this consistently into practical action, a new guide Leading our Internally we are committed to: supportive culture was launched in November for managers, addressing key scenarios and Leadership accountability 2020 Gender diversity commitments the range of supportive actions that they including gender diversity Board of Directors 33% can take.
targets and the introduction Leadership 33% Group ExCo and their direct reports The launch in November of a new global of a gender task force Cultural change Be Well portal and online health check has Focusing on a more inclusive Dynamic Working provided access to all Barclays well-being work environment to ensure Progressive parental policies content and support in one place.
The portal all colleagues have the Barclays Win Gender Network incorporates an interactive health check tool  which targets content in the portal according and professional goals Talent management to colleagues identified health risks.
Leadership succession planning Ensuring we are developing Diversity and inclusion Ex officio leadership roles leaders who are equipped to We aim to ensure that Barclays is a workplace Internal mobility meet the demands of a more where everyone is valued as an individual and diverse workforce feels welcomed, respected, supported and Leadership development Unconscious bias training able to be their authentic selves.
Working in an inclusive environment provides employees Global Women in Leadership Conference Enterprise Leaders summits with the opportunity to rise.
Our global Diversity & Inclusion D&I strategy establishes objectives, initiatives and plans : across five core agendas: disability, gender, LGBT, multicultural, and multigenerational.
Engaging men globally in UN HeForShe gender equality in partnership Global Impact Champion with the United Nations Barclays role models Providing enhanced External engagement of Barclays senior women employment opportunities across Financial Services, IT and STEM and attracting diverse candidates Creating new career opportunities Encore!
Returnship Programme Community impact Expanded Apprenticeship Programme 50% female graduate hires Strategic partnerships Womens Business Council 30% Club 94 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information At the end of 2018 the female representation Of our global workforce of 86,800 47,900 UK-wide Gender Pay Gap results 2018 across our Board of Directors was 27%: male, 38,900 female, 81 were senior The Ordinary Pay Gap represents the female representation among the Group managers 58 male, 23 female.
The global difference in the average regular pay for male Executive Committee and their direct reports workforce of 86,800 represents the total and female employees.
The bonus pay gap was 28% and the percentage of female number of employees on a headcount basis, represents the difference in the average bonus Managing Directors and Directors stood at which is a wider scope than the disclosures pay for male and female employees.
We first made a commitment in our provided above which are representative reported is the proportion of males and the 2013 Annual Report that we would aim of full time equivalent FTE.
proportion of females receiving a bonus, and to increase the percentage of women at the proportion of males and females in each Barclays Gender Pay Gap results 2018 Managing Director and Director levels from pay quartile.
Pay quartiles are prepared by UK only 21% to 26% by 2018. ordering the population by ordinary pay from The Gender Pay Gap reflects the difference lowest to highest, and then dividing it into between average male pay and average female That was a stretching goal, which acted four equal sub-populations upper quartile, as a catalyst for significantly increased focus pay in an organisation, which is largely the upper middle quartile, lower middle quartile result of differences in seniority between male on gender diversity at Barclays, including and lower quartile to show how the important changes like dynamic working.
distribution of males and females varies But the reality is, disappointingly, that we It compares all employees and does not take according to each quartile.
missed the target despite our best efforts.
into account differences in the role performed, We are also additionally publishing the Gender One of the principal reasons for us missing individual expertise and experience, or other this target was due to the divestment of the Pay Gap for Barclays PLC, our group holding factors which legitimately impact the way in company with approximately 90 employees.
Africa business which reduced our year-onwhich different employees are paid.
year progress by 2 percentage points.
While this falls below the mandatory reporting Paying our employees fairly and equitably threshold of 250 employees, we believe it is We do still believe, however, that targets relative to their role, skills, experience and important to include this to give the most are an effective way to drive and track our performance is central to our global reward accurate picture of our overall position.
They give us an unambiguous philosophy.
We review our global reward Legal entity Gender Pay Gap results 2018 measure of our success, and they make us structures on an ongoing basis to ensure that focus on what makes the biggest difference Whilst we observe some small positive there is no unfair gender or other bias in how changes, overall our Gender Pay Gap results most quickly.
So we are setting ourselves colleagues are paid.
a target of 28% female Managing Directors are similar to those for 2017.
The average man at Barclays is still more senior than the and Directors by the end of 2021.
We are confident that men and women across our organisation are paid equally for doing average woman.
The Performance Measurement Framework, the same job, unless there are clear business The proportion of men and women at each which is tied to senior managements reasons for different levels of pay such as level compensation, ensures that we are managing of our corporate grades in 2018 is broadly the of experience, specific skills and performance.
Our Gender Pay Gap results Barclays in the interests of all our stakeholders including employees.
The 28% target will We have evolved our approach to reporting will only change significantly when we see for 2018 to also include the overall pay gap for significant changes in the shape of our be included as part of that framework and we will hold each other accountable for it through our UK employees combined, as opposed to employee population.
publishing only by legal employing entity.
This monthly business reviews at the Group There are many drivers for the proportion Executive Committee.
Each of the Group greater transparency enables us to more easily of men and women at each corporate grade.
compare ourselves with other organisations, Executive Committee members will also have For example, in our retail bank we have their own actions, specific to the context in and track progress across Barclays as a whole.
historically, like others in the industry, attracted We have still published entity-specific figures which their business operates.
many women to more junior roles in branches to enable a full, detailed comparison with that are both local and flexible, allowing our To better align how we report on the gender previous years.
diversity of our senior leadership population, employees to balance their work with other commitments.
In our corporate and investment and to more closely align to the definition of senior managers within the Companies Act, bank, where there are a greater number of more senior roles, we have historically the scope of the senior manager population within this disclosure has been revised this attracted more men and we have struggled to find and attract female applicants.
year to reflect the Group Executive Committee and their direct reports.
This represents We have developed many initiatives over a a narrower scope than in previous years, number of years, and although the changes in however in reporting on the Group Executive population are very small year on year, looking Committee and their direct reports, this back over a longer period shows a positive disclosure is now fully aligned to Barclays trend in terms of increasing female seniority.
UK-wide gender pay gap results 2018 representing all UK employees of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Services Limited Ordinary Pay Gap Bonus Pay Gap Receiving Bonus Pay Quartiles Median Mean Median Mean Female Male Female Male UK-wide Q4 29% 71% Q3 47% 53% 42.9% 40.2% 43.1% 73.7% 93.5%91.4% Q2 64% 36% Q1 68% 32% home.
We are pleased to see that our initiatives are to challenge homophobia, biphobia and a paper Building disability and mental beginning to work, but disappointed that transphobia in the workplace and provide health confidence which documents our change has been so slow.
It will take some support to LGBT colleagues.
Independent journey to becoming a more accessible and time to redress the historic imbalance we recognition reflects the progress we are inclusive business.
observe at Barclays and in financial services.
making and the impact of our strategy.
Our policies for hiring and selection, and in We need to focus on how to increase the rate For the sixth consecutive year, Stonewall has the broad management of our teams, require of change.
To do all that we can to achieve recognised Barclays as one of only 12 Top all employees at Barclays to give full and fair this, in announcing our 2021 women in senior Global Employers.
consideration of disabled persons on the leadership target set out above, the Group To further support our LGBT agenda, we have basis of their skills and aptitudes.
As part of CEO has become the accountable Group instituted a new gender neutral title option the Disability Confident scheme we actively Executive Committee member for gender with of Mx, available for a number of countries.
encourage applications from those with support from the Group Executive Committee.
Mx can now be used by anyone who does a disability or health condition, and we LGBT and Spectrum not want their title to denote their gender, continually develop different recruitment regardless of how they identify their gender.
models to remove the barriers to work for Barclays has been helping UK society move forward for 328 years and supporting the Additionally, we are making our buildings people of all abilities.
Our Able to Enable more inclusive as we have established gender internship is just one example.
We encourage LGBT community is one of the ways we do that.
Barclays led the parade at the biggestneutral toilet facilities in London, India, and everyone who is either working with Barclays, Whippany, and will continue this trend as part or considering doing so, to open up and ever Pride event in London as the headline sponsor for the fifth year, with our message of our location strategy.
share information that will help us to provide the support and adjustments, including Love goes the distance.
The theme celebrated Finally, we have expanded our health care how far society and attitudes have moved appropriate training, that they need to be able schemes to meet the needs of our colleagues to feel valued and fulfilled at work.
Barclays forward, yet keeps the focus on the unfinished who identify as transgender.
In the UK we journey that theres more to overcome to policies are designed to provide training, career have expanded transgender specific health development and promotion opportunities achieve full inclusion.
Our message reached care benefits into our private health over half a million people across multiple for all, including employees with a disability care scheme.
communications channels and across the UK over 2,000 Barclays colleagues participated Disability and mental health Reach, the disability and mental health Supporting colleagues with disabilities and in 21 regional Pride events across the UK.
network mental health conditions to achieve their Reach, our disability and mental health An inclusive culture that enables colleagues goals is a key priority.
As part of our role as to bring their whole selves to work is built on colleague network, supports colleagues with a Disability Confident Leader under the disabilities, and physical and mental health having leadership participation and visible role UK Governments Department of Work and models.
Now in its fourth year, our Spectrum conditions, to develop and grow their careers Pensions Disability Confident scheme, Barclays within Barclays.
It has engaged colleagues Allies campaign hosted a successful has taken an active role in encouraging more recognition of International Day Against through a range of campaigns during businesses to join the scheme, which now 2018 including World Autism Week, Deaf Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia exceeds 7,000.
To mark International Day IDAHOBIT globally with leaders pledging Awareness Week and World Sight Day.
of Persons with Disabilities we launched 96 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
