41 The challenge and our response We also actively engage with our supply As we purchase substantial amounts of Being a trusted partner chain in the area of demand forecasting and timber, we implemented a sustainable Housebuilding is a long term business and capacity planning.
We are able to provide procurement and timber sourcing policy the development of sustained business Our principle detailed forecasts of future product demand, in December 2013.
All timber and timber partnerships with landowners, suppliers and allowing suppliers to more accurately products that we purchase via Group We build meaningful, long term sub-contractors, is critical to our success.
match production capacity with our agreements are from suppliers with FSC relationships that make us the developer We continue to work with private landowners, forward requirements.
PEFC chain of custody certification.
of choice for our partners.
We are operators and agents to identify and bring innovating with our supply chain to drive We work with our suppliers to help them to We are a signatory of the Prompt Payment forward land for development.
Divisional land efficiency and meet our customers needs.
introduce the new technologies that we need Code, ensuring we are viewed as a reliable teams continue to work hard to ensure to meet increasingly challenging building partner that suppliers want to work with.
that we are regarded as the housebuilder standards, improve build efficiency and We have zero tolerance for any form of Key highlights of choice by the local landowners and address skills shortages.
We also work with Modern Slavery and ensure that our suppliers agency community.
our sub-contractors to help them to improve have the support they need to meet our Continued to work with a variety We recognise that our suppliers and subtheir environmental and safety performance.
sustainability standards and futurelegislative of partners to bring forward land contractors are critical to the delivery of change via our partnership with the Supply for development our strategic objectives and we invest in Chain Sustainability School.
We aim to be Continued to invest in the relationship with viewed as a sustainable, reliable partner our suppliers and sub-contractors for the future and so engage in continuous Introduction of supplier evaluation and communication with our suppliers holding development programme regular performance and business reviews, and providing training days.
We hold an annual national supply chain conference, that is attended by over 100 of our suppliers, setting out strategic objectives and challenges.
This year they were updated on progress against our sustainability strategy and the forthcoming disclosure requirements on climate change risk.
We remain the only large developer to hold such an event on anational scale.
We believe it is important to engage openly with our suppliers regarding the challenges they are facing and help them identify and address opportunities and mitigate risk.
In order to improve this dialogue we have recently introduced a new, supplier evaluation and development programme, which we believe is the first of its type in the industry.
This programme has been rolled out across the business over the last year.
The development of sustained business partnerships is A crane driver from our partner SIG Roofspace Ltd attaching the critical to our success.
clamp to the Large Format Block in readiness for lifting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 42 Our principles continued The challenge and our response is being preserved as a focal point at our Another important part of supporting Building strong community development on this previous industrial site, communities is through our charity giving.
We dont just build homes, we create which is treasured as a local landmark.
Over the past year we have helped charities communities.
Wherever we have a relationships throughout the country, in total raising over We put great emphasis on working closely development we put down roots, building 1.2m for good causes.
All our divisions with young children and schools as they play from the bottom up.
Without local identity Our principle actively participate in raising money for such a big part in any community.
We go out and supporting infrastructure, developments local good causes and we operate a charity We engage fully with local communities to schools to teach them about health and are just houses as opposed to homes.
Examples of how our and customers when creating new safety, construction and sustainability, and This is why we put so much time and divisions have raised funds include West developments.
We seek to ensure that our we try to involve them in our developments investment in building strong community Scotland raising 80,000 to allow children work creates a positive legacy that helps wherever we can.
Year five pupils at relationships.
Last year we provided over and young people living with cancer to enjoy local communities to thrive.
Staplehurst School in Kent were set the 1,800 school places and handed over 34 local a family retreat in a purpose built sanctuary.
challenge of naming our development, and facilities to communities including sports David Wilson Homes Southern raised asked to choose based on local flora, fauna and leisure, health, youth and community Key highlights 45,000 from a range of activities including and the history of the area.
For instance, at our Marston Park a charity sports dinner, dress down day and Dickens having famously been involved in development near Bedford we are currently Contributed 2.7bn of Gross Value Added in-house raffles for its locally chosen charity a train crash near Staplehurst this was an working on a new 1m sports facility to the UK economic output Swings and Smiles.
obvious choice and the development is now with cricket pitch and community centre.
Raised over 1.2m for national and local known as Dickens Gate.
Once finished the Marston Moretaine Cricket community charities Club will relocate to the new sports buildings.
Supported 45,080 jobs in FY18 Across the country we have also made over 553m in local contributions including affordable housing sales, section 106 physical works and contributions, and the Community Infrastructure Levy benefiting local communities through highway, environmental and other improvements.
Taken all together we provided some 2.7bn of Gross Value Added to the UKs economic output and supported 45,080 jobs this year.
Another important aspect of building communities is incorporating the history of a development wherever possible.
The history of a place is part of the character and interest which makes it unique.
By retaining and refurbishing heritage buildings, through to celebrating archaeological findings, we aim to preserve and enhance communities.
We dont just build homes, Our Wedgwood Park development in Barlaston is on a historic site world famous we create communities.
for its pottery works founded in 1759.
Two employees from our Southampton division, Aaron Wright Without them developments By building high quality homes there it and Stacey Drew, spend a week in India as part of an all-women has helped Wedgwood to stay on the site, volunteer team with Habitat for Humanity for their Women are just houses as opposed Build Project.
thereby preserving local identity as well as to homes.
Equally, the old chimney at Baggeridge brickworks Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC
