40 Our principles The challenge and our response on all sites and our exceptional commitment Keeping people safe to first aid training.
Whilst our drive is to have Increased activity levels across the industry in robust policies and procedures in place to terms of site openings and production volumes Our principle prevent injury and ill health, at the same time combined with shortages of skilled workers the award reflects our commitment to ensure Health and safety is our number one has contributed to an increased risk on our that in the event of an emergency our priority and we are committed to achieving sites.
We maintain stringent standards and employees are trained and have the resources the highest industry health and safety have a continuous focus on health and safety to deal with an incident.
Health and safety is a key with all areas and levels of the business principle for which all of our people Compliance to our SHE management system focusing upon it as their number one priority.
is verified by a programme of site monitoring Getting the basics right, good leadership, and internal and external audits.
During the andhaving commitment from all levels of year, we carried out 6,895 2017: 6,990 management is what delivers good health and Key highlights monitoring visits and achieved an average safety performance in our business.
Our aim compliance rate of 96% 2017: 96%.
isto have a healthy and injury-free workplace.
Achieved target health and safety Our overall aim is to have an injury free We believe all injuries are avoidable and while compliance rate working environment, our objective for the we recognise that entirely eradicating risk is a year was to have an improvement in our Reportable Injury Incidence Rate challenge, we are determined to improve our 5 Steps to safety reportable IIR.
During the year, our IIR increased to 462 2017: 379 per 100,000 performance and reduce the number of increased to 462 2017: 379 per 100,000 employees including sub-contractors injuries occurring in our working environment.
We have continued to operate our 5 Steps persons employed including subtoSafety Campaign and during the year have Our SHE management system is compliant to contractors.
We have already undertaken reviewed and restructured our health and the international standard OHSAS 18001 and areview into factors that have contributed safety training strategy for employees we will be working towards compliance to the tothis increase and will be working with our at all levels within our business including upgraded standard ISO 45001.
The system management teams to drive improvements evaluating a behavioural safety programme isregularly reviewed and is subject to a full inthe prevention of injuries.
Our aim is to in order to seek to improve our performance.
review and update this year.
We complement achieve a reduction to a rate which is more the management system by issuing regular Our SHE management system was reflective of our business commitment bulletins advising our teams on controls reviewed by the British Safety Council tohealth and safety.
required for specific issues that arise within aspart of their 5star Occupational health the business.
The audit provides acomprehensive, independent and We have continued with our strategy to quantified evaluation ofour approach improve the focus on occupational health Monitoring visits tohealth and safety and inJuly 2018 we including awareness campaigns linked to the were informed that we have achieved the well-being of our workforce.
Information has maximum five star rating.
This confirms been provided on occupational health issues, our commitment to best practice in this 6,895 mental well-being and raising awareness area and our structured approach towards ofgeneral health issues that could affect 2017: 6,990 continual improvement.
We have also enhanced our drugs and alcohol policy and commenced Our site managers have again been aprogramme of random sampling across successful at the NHBC Health and Safety Injury Incidence Rate the business.
Awards, achieving ten commendations andnine going on to receive the highly We were honoured to be awarded commended status, a record for the Organisation of the year at the St Johns Group.
Our site manager at Ness Castle, Ambulance Everyday Hero awards.
462 Inverness was awarded the National This reflected our deployment of defibrillators 2017: 379 Award in the Large Builder category.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC
