37 Priorities and principles in action continued Investing in our people KPI Progress in FY18 Objectives The challenge Upper quartile We now have 429 apprentices, Provide a safe working environment 1 employee engagement Skilled workers leaving the graduates and trainees on for all ouremployees and subconstruction industry during programmes or full time education, contractors around 7% of the workforce the financial crisis, alongside Maintain upper quartile UK an ageing workforce, has Maintained upper quartile FTSE 250 performance in our led to a significant skills performance in our engagement survey shortage.
As the volume of engagement survey Seek to reduce employee turnover new housebuilding increases Reduced employee turnover to15% or below by 2020 there needs to be a focus on 79% Rolled out Diversity and Inclusion Maintain our intake of apprentices bringing more people into the 2017: 78% training across the business industry from a more diverse Maintain an average of at least four range of sources.
training days per employee per year Why we measure To gain an insight of, and provide Strategic priority aforum for, employee views.
We aim to attract and retain To retain and invest in the the best people by investing best people and focus on their development and success.
in their development and success.
We seek to create a great place to work, founded on an open and honest culture that embraces diversity and inclusion.
Image: One of our FY18 apprentice carpenters, Helen Ward 1 A ssessed against the UK all sectors comparator group Thorpe, working on site in the West Midlands.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 38 Priorities and principles in action continued Investing in our people Investing in our people to focus upon developing talent within our How we are addressing the skills shortage business, including succession planning, As the UKs largest housebuilder we are to ensure that we have the necessary skills dedicated to playing our part in addressing within our business for continued operational the industry wide skills challenges.
delivery, as well as focusing on remuneration A shortage of skilled workers in our sector and benefits to ensure retention measures means that attracting and retaining the best are in place and are effective.
6 1 people is a priority for the business and we are committed to the development of our Recruiting the talent of the future people in order to drive our success.
We are We continue to develop a number of schemes building a diverse and inclusive workforce to help address the industry wide skills that reflects the communities inwhich shortages and in FY18 we have recruited 204 we operate, delivering excellence for our new apprentices, trainees, and graduates.
customers by drawing on a broad range Our schemes focus on not only bringing new of talents, skills and experience.
All of our talent to the industry but also in retaining employees are, as an absolute minimum, it for the future.
In 2013, we created the paidin accordance with the UK Living Wage.
UKs first ever degree programme in housebuilding, in partnership with Sheffield 5 2 Hallam University, with the first students Training days per employee having graduated this summer with a BSc inResidential Development and Construction.
The course was designed specifically for Barratt employees.
In response to the Skills shortage 4.0 Governments Apprenticeship Levy scheme, we have worked with the HBF, Federation 2017: 4.5 days of Master Builders, and housebuilding peers on the programmes to develop new apprenticeship standards for apprenticeship Number of new apprentices, trainees, levels 36.
We have also worked closely with 4 3 our Apprentice champions to ensure our and graduates recruited during FY18 programmes deliver quality tradespeople who want to work in the industry and our 12 month completion rate continues to rise reaching 82% 2017: 79%.
204 We continue to expand on our successful 2017: 184 ex-forces personnel site management training programme.
This Armed Forces Transition programme recently won Best Talent Development programme at the Employee retention 4.
F ocus on remuneration and benefits to 1.
Apprenticeship Programme 2017 Training Journal Awards.
Including the improve retention improved family friendly During the year, employee turnover 2.
Armed Forces Transition Programme upcoming intake of trainees we will have policies last year decreased by 1% to 17% 2017: 18%.
T raining existing employees: succession There continues to be a significant demand 5.
Collaboration with wider housebuilding via this route, some of whom had little or no planning: Rising Stars event: Academy & industry and utilising MMC and multitude of opportunities for skilled Leadership Programmes: new Learning construction experience and they are proving employees elsewhere in the industry.
ASPIRE graduate scheme and sponsored Management System to be outstanding leaders.
therefore even more important to continue construction and commercial degree Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 39 We are committed to improving the male Men and women employed female ratio across our business through our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy.
Over the past Reports to Executive year, we have made important changes to our PLC Directors Senior Managers Employees Executive Committee Committee family friendly policies to better support our colleagues, and have seen returners from maternity leave increase to 83.6% in FY18 compared to 73.5% in FY17.
All of our divisional management teams have 9 287 6,034 6 29 attended Diversity and Inclusion training workshops, with further training being rolled out to all employees this year.
We will be launching a new career development programme for female employees in 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June FY19, including a mentoring scheme and 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 will be introducing a working mothers Men 56% 62% Men 87% 87% Men 69% 69% Men Men 67% 67% 76% 72% recruitment campaign.
Women 44% 38% Women 13% 13% Women 31% 31% Women Women 33% 33% 24% 28% We will continue to work hard to close our Men total Men total Men total Men total Men total 5 5 251 244 4,152 4,076 4 4 22 21 gender pay gap and ensure that we build a diverse, inclusive and attractive working Women total Women total Women total Women total Women total 4 3 36 37 1,882 1,828 2 2 7 8 environment for all our employees.
Human rights Our respect for human rights underpins We actively participate in the Home Building teams as well as the introduction of an In March 2018, we published our Gender our strategic priorities and is an embedded Skills Partnership which aims to attract new internally delivered NHBC accredited Pay Gap report.
The report identifies that as principle.
We have policies and procedures entrants to the industry, providing the skills warranty programme.
a Group, our mean pay gap stands at 1.3% for today and the future, and supporting the and our median pay gap at 1.6%, which is in place that support the core values of Diversity the United National Universal Declaration supply chain in attracting and developing the low compared to the gender pay gap across skills they need to support our industry.
Our mean bonus gap of Human Rights, and ensure we act in We are committed to delivering our Diversity accordance with our principles in relation to and Inclusion Strategy and we have an active stands at 39.7% with our median bonus gap Equipping the business with the at -6.2%.
Our negative median bonus gap diversity and the Modern Slavery Act 2015. working party in this area.
We have identified relevant skills broad targets in areas such as gender and exists because our sales team, which has Our non-financial KPIs in respect of Health ahigh proportion of female employees, have ethnicity and our aim is to improve our We continue to expand on our Academy and Safety and Employee Engagement diversity and inclusion in all areas over pay structures which include a significant and Leadership programmes this year reflect our belief that it is a fundamental bonus percentage.
We recognise that introducing a new Rising Stars programme human right of our employees to work in a flexible working can help us retain talented for those who are seen as being our leaders safe and supportive environment.
In addition, The figures in our report reflect that we have employees and can be particularly beneficial and managers of the future.
We have now employees undertake training in respect a higher proportion of men working in our for those with caring responsibilities and our also introduced a new learning management ofmodern slavery and we are in the process business, in particular men in more senior divisional offices now operate a more flexible system enabling us to provide enhanced of rolling out Diversity and Inclusion training roles.
The charts show the number of men approach to working.
learning and development for all our to all employees.
and women employed, as at 30 June 2018, employees.
Our Construction and Sales The diversity policy relating to the across our business.
Also shown is the split Academy programmes continue to expand appointment of PLC Directors is set out between men and women on the Executive with the introduction of refresher and onpage 77.
Committee in line with the requirements of advanced selling skills for our sales the Hampton-Alexander review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
