87 Safety, Health and Environment Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the oversee the Groups compliance with the We have continued to monitor our SHE SHE management system: performance targets, our key performance Safety, Health and Environment SHE indicators and our injury incidence rate, all identify and monitor SHE risks or exposures Committee of which are available in the Strategic Report for the business and determine how best The health and safety of our employees on pages 10 and 40.
Our injury incidence rate tomitigate against them: showed an increase during FY18.
Many of and customers and the protection of the establish and maintain policies in respect environment around our developments these are due to individual errors and our of all areas relating to safety, health and focus is on reinforcing the individuals remain the Groups key priorities and are the environment: embedded within the day to day operations responsibility for their own safety.
We will work with our management teams to drive ofthe business.
review the scope of and assess the outcome improvements in the percentage of injuries.
of annual SHE internal and external audits The SHE Committees activities help to There have been no work-related fatalities of and agree necessary actions with the Group mitigate some of our key operational direct employees over the last three years.
SHE Director: risks relating to Health, Safety and the We have continued to operate the SHE Environment.
By receiving reports and receive assessments from the Group SHE challenging those tasked with SHE management system that has been in place Director on specific incidents to gain an for the last few years and which has been performance where necessary, the understanding of how they were caused, Committee helps the business to improve reviewed during the year to comply with the details of the internal and external if any revised ISO standard.
An audit by the British its SHE standards.
It supports and oversees investigations that are being have been Businesses have an impact the direction and implementation of SHE Safety Council of our SHE policies, processes undertaken and details of what steps have and procedures took place in July 2018 and Policy and Procedures through underpinning on stakeholders and the been taken or controls put in place to efficient working practices, preventing we are proud to confirm that we have again mitigate against the incident recurring: and environment in which they been granted 5 star status.
We strive to direct costs associated with incidents, agree and recommend to the and supporting the culture and ongoing ensure that our SHE policies and procedures operate.
At Barratt we Remuneration Committee targets for are kept up to date with the latest regulation sustainability of the Group.
design our developments any SHE performance measures which and best practice and are relevant to the This Committee continues to work closely are to be applied to the annual bonus business through continuous improvement.
and working practices so with the SHE Operations Committee to scheme and monitor performance against The external verification by the British Safety our stakeholders are safe oversee and provide stewardship of the such measures.
Council of our health and safety approach and the environment is and the quality of our policies and procedures We hold at least one joint meeting during Key achievements in FY18 protected.
We believe that our each year enabling the members of the provides a benchmarking service against Each Director carried out a SHE site visit industry standards, but, of more importance Committee to gain more of an in-depth focus onsafety and health during the year.
These visits aim to provide an understanding of the operational issues is the impact our policies have on keeping our improves our efficiency, the insight into how SHE is managed in addition people safe in the workplace.
Consequently, and to discuss them directly with those to providing more detailed information on responsible for day to day SHE management.
all employees are required to familiarise quality of our product and our some of the initiatives we have put in place themselves with these policies, processes During the year two meetings were held, one customer service.
to further improve the SHE culture on our of which was a joint meeting.
and procedures during their induction and sites.
Employee participation is a key aspect attend prescribed health and safety courses The Committee has formal terms of Richard Akers of this and the visit involves a site tour with throughout their time with the Group.
reference, which have been reviewed Safety, Health and Environment the SHE Director and site team during which The SHE training provided to employees and during the year.
The terms of reference are Committee Chairman the challenges to managing risk on site are available at www.
co. uk site based workers is continually reviewed reviewed and discussed.
Not only do these to ensure it is fit for purpose and up to investors corporate-governance.
visits play an important role in ensuring our date.
All Senior Management are required The key aspects of this Committees role as Board has a full understanding of this vital to complete the IOSH Leading Safely defined in these terms of reference are to: part of our business, it also benefits the site training course.
teams to see the emphasis being placed onSHE by the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 88 Safety, Health and Environment Committee report continued To ensure compliance, our network We launched a campaign concentrating Membership and attendance at SHE Committee meetings of in-house SHE professionals assist onoccupational and mental health, offering The Directors who are members of the SHE Committee and their attendance at the two our management teams and continue advice on healthy lifestyles and achieving scheduled meetings during the year are shown in Table 9.
The Groups SHE Director is also to emphasise the application and ahealthy work life balance.
We have created amember and the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
implementation of our SHE management a health and wellbeing calendar which system.
They also carry out site monitoring has been made available to employees Only members of the SHE Committee have the right to attend meetings, however other individuals may be invited, at the request of the Chairman, to attend all or part of any meeting visits to all sites at least monthly, which concentrating on advice relating to different are in the main unannounced, in order to health related topics each month.
where it is deemed appropriate.
monitor the implementation of policies Table 9 SHE Committee membership and attendance to 30 June 2018 and procedures.
The results of these visits Areas of focus for FY19 1 are reviewed by the SHE Director and Member Role Number of meetings attended During FY19, we will: the Committee.
Richard Akers Chairman 2 2 concentrate on the augmentation of We have implemented an ongoing our wellbeing and occupational health Steven Boyes Member 2 2 programme of drugs and alcohol testing for programmes and support our supply chain employees and sub-contractors resulting 1 The Groups SHE Director also attended 2 2 meetings during the year.
to meet this obligation: in sampling being undertaken on a random selection of sites and offices across the progress with our programme of random Note: Group.
Individuals selected for testing are drugs and alcohol testing in line with our X Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
policy in this area: X Number of meetings whilst a Director.
We have refreshed and extended our working look to improve our IIR: and The SHE Operations Committee reports with schools initiative which highlights the update our SHE management system directly to the SHE Committee with the Group potential dangers of construction sites tocomply with ISO 14001.
SHE Director presenting direct reports to their pupils.
The Working Safely with to these Committees and to the Board.
Our most important asset is our people Schools initiative includes a short film The Group SHE Operations Committee is and various puzzles enabling the pupils to and therefore it is important that the safety responsible for implementing and oversight and wellbeing of all employees direct and engage with the subject area, and a number of the overall SHE improvement strategy for of other elements to enhance the learning indirect remains a top priority for this the Group.
Committee and the Group Board.
This has been well received by local schools and our site managers are delivering it across Richard Akers the country.
Chairman of the SHE Committee 4 September 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC
