CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY BCA recognises its place as an employer, both within the industry The Group encourages diversity and is committed to providing an and within the wider environment and aims to conduct its business equal opportunities workplace with a genuinely inclusive culture, in a safe, secure, legal and ethical manner for all interested parties.
maintaining a workplace that is fair, respectful and free from Continuing to maintain its already high standards is vital to the discrimination.
BCA treats its employees and job applicants fairly continued success and development of the Group.
and equally in accordance with its employment practices, policies and procedures and irrespective of age, disability, sex, sexual The Board has overall responsibility for corporate responsibility, orientation, gender reassignment, race, colour, ethnic or national regularly assessing the needs of the Groups stakeholders and origin, religion or belief, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy delegating day-to-day management of these issues to the divisional and maternity or paternity, or membership or non-membership of leaders within the operating businesses where appropriate.
This commitment is reflected in the Groups Code of Groups principles of corporate responsibility, as set out in its Code Conduct.
of Conduct, apply to all employees and sets the minimum expectation for their behaviour.
Individuals are encouraged to apply for employment with the Group and the Group seeks to provide appropriate facilities to help Our employees applicants with a disability with their application and attendance We believe our people are the best in the business so we are for interview, so that they have an equal opportunity to be selected.
committed to treating them properly and with respect.
We seek Whilst employed by the Group, an employees needs may change to make working for BCA rewarding, combining a good working and, where this is the case, the Group will investigate, in environment with opportunities for career development.
consultation with the employee, the possibility of making reasonable and appropriate adjustments to enable them to remain The Group operates initiatives which enable employees to gain in the Groups employment and to undertake their role in nationally recognised professional qualifications.
The apprentice accordance with those needs.
training scheme runs across the Groups UK businesses.
The scheme can be tailored to match available roles and the requirements of The Group has published its statement in respect of the Modern the business with the apprentices skills and interests.
The graduate Slavery Act 2015 and is continuing to address this matter with its training scheme, now in its 16th year, attracts high quality suppliers.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns they graduates from a variety of backgrounds.
Examples of personnel may have through a confidential helpline should they not wish to whose careers have developed while employed by BCA can be seen address any such issue through their line manager.
The Group will on pages 48 to 49. continue to monitor the position and any issues that come to its attention in this respect will be dealt with promptly on a case by Employee involvement and commitment are a key focus.
Groups vision and performance are shared with employees throughout the year through meetings, written and electronic Environment communications and staff training.
Annual conferences recognise The Group strives to maintain its assets, properties, land and employees for their achievements including great performance, boundaries to a condition that does not adversely affect or loyalty and commitment across different areas of the business.
endanger its neighbours and the surrounding communities.
The Group abides by the law and local planning requirements Gender diversity as at 31 March 2018 Female Male Total and considers and responds to issues or concerns raised by its Directors of BCA Marketplace plc 1 5 6 neighbours regarding the operation of its business promptly.
Senior Managers The Groups locations integrate environmental management being direct reports of into their operational systems and procedures.
Environmental the Executive Chairman or performance, in relation to the emission and discharge of pollutants Chief Financial Officer 2 20 22 into the air and water, is monitored as part of the Groups Other senior staff, department operations.
heads and unit and regional managers 59 261 320 All employees 1,931 5,332 7,263 On 3 April 2018 the Group filed its gender pay gap report for the year ending 5 April 2017 for its seven qualifying subsidiary companies.
The Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations 2017 sets out how information should be reported for companies with 250 employees or more and is a measure of the difference between mens and womens average earnings across an organisation regardless of their role or seniority.
It is not the same as equal pay, as the gender pay gap does not show differences in pay for comparable groups of employees.
The report can be accessed at www.
46 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials BCA Automotive investment in its fleet and green technology Since 2015 BCA Automotive has undertaken a substantial programme of investment in its transporter vehicle fleet, incorporating the latest technology available within this specialist market.
BCA Automotive has worked closely with its equipment suppliers to find innovative ways to reduce emissions, reduce carbon footprint and save fuel.
Our new transporters are chosen for economy and environmental efficiency, complying with the latest emissions standards whilst being suited to our specialised needs.
These new vehicles are equipped with Euro 6 engines along with additional features designed to ensure that they operate at the most efficient level of performance.
This includes automatic gear changing systems that assist the driver by selecting the most appropriate and efficient gear, technology that combines vehicle performance information with active prediction, cruise control and map data to assess driving conditions and apply the most efficient fuel strategy.
Automated start-stop technology has been added to assist the loading and unloading process, automatically stopping the transporters engine when it is not required to power lifting the ramps.
This development reduces engine running times during loading by up to 75%, significantly reducing fuel consumption.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEE CASE STUDY Sabrina Brown Dominic Burr Head of customer services, BCA Logistics Regional General Manager, BCA Perry Barr Chairmans Employee of the Year I joined BCA in January 2002 at the age of 21 and instantly fell Her can-do attitude has enabled her to successfully in love with the fast paced buzz of a live auction hall.
My early centralise and rebuild the customer service team in the days in BCA saw me progress through various departments new BCA Logistics headquarters in Birmingham.
within the auction centre environment, giving me a good basic understanding of auction centre management but also I joined BCA in February 2009 as a customer service adviser.
allowing me to learn lots of new skills, sharpen my business Due to the guidance and support I received from my manager knowledge and develop relationships with colleagues that at the time, I was promoted to key account manager, with remain to this day.
responsibility for the Toyota, Nissan and Zenith accounts.
The varied roles that I have progressed through have allowed In 2016 I was approached by the Managing Director me to understand each area of the business.
The Groups BCA Logistics, who asked me to manage the customer services graduate scheme now provides a similar experience, giving team.
I jumped at the chance, as it was my ambition to manage new joiners a 360 view of the business over a 12 month a large team.
As head of customer services I became part of period, during which they experience each area of the business the BCA Logistics management team, I really started to learn and gain a strong basic understanding of BCA and its many about how to effectively manage and motivate a team to functions.
successfully deliver great customer service.
The support from my manager and my team has been paramount to my success BCA has offered me support, training and development and Im so fortunate that the business has invested this trust throughout my career in various forms, from training days and in me.
online courses to secondments and mentoring.
My most recent role, leading the team at the Groups newest auction centre at My dad always said find a job you enjoy and you will never BCA Perry Barr, allowed me to put into practice the skills and have to work a day in your life: I would say I have achieved knowledge that I have learnt from those that have led and this and I feel privileged to work at BCA.
At times it is supported me.
The training, guidance and mentoring I have extremely challenging but, as a team, we do it willingly.
received has helped shape my progression and career I am excited to see what the future holds.
I have held the role as General Manager for Perry Barr since its opening in October 2016.
My role has been to ensure the smooth and efficient running of a 20 acre auction centre in the Midlands that employs 80 staff and can offer in excess of 1,500 vehicles per week for auction.
A typical day could involve meeting customers or suppliers for review meetings, reviewing management accounts, interviewing and recruiting, managing a busy auction day sale, new business meetings with prospective customers or even auctioneering.
It is varied, exciting and challenging, but also very rewarding.
I have recently been promoted to a new role of Regional General Manger and I am looking forward to the new challenge and another exciting year ahead.
48 48 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance Financials Lloyd Haley Rose Saunders Pre-sale administration & sales manager, BCA Bedford Account Manager, BCA Logistics My career with BCA started 20 years ago, four days before my I joined the Group in August 2016 as an administration 17th birthday.
I had completed my work experience placement assistant at BCA Perry Barr.
My role involved preparation for with BCA, which gave me a hunger for more.
I enjoyed the the opening of BCAs new auction centre and the delivery of obvious closeness of the team, can-do attitude, and excellent customer service for new buyers and customers.
unwavering desire to exceed previous sales records, not to mention the excitement of the sale days themselves.
I was encouraged to apply for the BCA graduate scheme, which started in January 2017.
The scheme provided valuable I was lucky enough to be approached by the branch manager support from BCA employees and customers throughout for a position within the sales team, running several high the organisation, and a mentor advised and supported profile vendors.
This was a daunting proposition at the time, my development.
The scheme enjoys strong support from but the manager had faith in me and I unquestionably wanted BCAs senior management team and every graduate has the a career within the BCA family.
opportunity to present to the Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Operating Officer of UK Remarketing.
The scheme was I have been fortunate to have worked at 13 of our UK an extremely valuable opportunity and has been a fantastic locations, small and large, sharing experiences to bring benefits foundation for my future career within BCA.
This has also given me the opportunity to sit on several focus groups, introducing me to a range of In October 2017, I was appointed as an account executive people from plated drivers and gate staff to administration, within BCA Logistics, with a two year personal development transport, sales and operations managers.
plan for transition to the account managers role.
I am now responsible for managing Toyotas account with BCA Logistics, BCA has changed and developed since I joined, but our core and I have just been promoted to account manager!
values remain within our DNA: our customers being at the heart of our business: a can-do attitude: innovation: pride in The scheme has enhanced my development and shown me the our work: modesty: and motivation.
benefits of sharing experiences and working with colleagues across the Group.
The training over the next year will enable I still have the same excitement coming to work today as I did me to enhance my overall management skills and focus on 20 years ago.
I am proud to have contributed to what BCA has mentoring and developing others to achieve their full potential.
become today and to be a part of where we go tomorrow.
Comment from Andrew Yellop, Manager, Defleet & Remarketing, Toyota: I was first introduced to Rose Saunders when she spent a fortnight at Toyota & Lexus Remarketing during early 2017.
Rose stood out for me, as someone who is intelligent, articulate, who listened with the intent of understanding and who could quickly understand and cope with the complexities of the OEM landscape.
When it became clear that Rose would be working within BCA Logistics, at a time when there was a vacancy for our account manager, we pushed for Rose to be considered for the role, as we felt that she would bring an added dimension to the way our account operates.
We have not been disappointed with this decision.
B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 49 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Greenhouse gas reporting BCA is committed to providing a safe working environment The Group is required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report wherever it operates, employing a proactive network of health and Directors report Regulations 2013 to measure and report its and safety personnel, who share knowledge and experience with direct and indirect greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
the aim of fostering best practice and ensuring consistently high standards of safety across the Group.
Health and Safety managers Direct GHG emissions are from sources that are owned or and committees are responsible for monitoring and reporting controlled by the Group.
Indirect GHG emissions are a consequence adherence to the Groups health and safety protocols to their of the activities of the Group that occur from sources owned or divisional leaders and the Health and Safety Executive Committee controlled by other entities.
HASEC which ultimately reports on health and safety matters to the Board.
Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions controlled by the Group arising from the combustion of fuel that results from the Automotive Services fleet Our community and company cars.
This is regardless of whether the vehicles are owned As a key participant of the automotive industry, BCA works with or leased as the Group is responsible for their emissions.
the not-for-profit organisation Ben, which supports automotive industry employees and their families deal with problems they Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions attributable to the Group due may be facing.
Ben provides a wide range of free confidential to its consumption of purchased electricity and gas.
information, advice and support services, including highly regarded care centres at various locations throughout the UK.
Further details The methodology used to calculate emissions is based on the GHG can be found at ben.
uk Protocols Financial Control approach.
Emission factors used are from UK government DEFRA conversion factor guidance In September 2017, a group of 45 employees and customers of applicable to the year reported.
BCA undertook a charity cycle ride from the Groups site at Blackbushe to Paris to raise money for Action for A-T, raising over The report includes the Scope 1 combustion of fuel and Scope 2 93,000 for the charity.
Sponsors included Toyota and Renault purchased electricity and gas emissions associated with the from the manufacturing sector, as well as leasing companies ALD, Groups offices and vehicles for the year to 1 April 2018.
Revenue LexAutolease, LeasePlan and Olgivie and some of the biggest dealer has been used as the intensity ratio as this is a relevant indicator of groups in the country including Arnold Clark, Vertu, Marshall growth and is aligned with the Groups business strategy.
Group, Motorline, Halliwell Jones, Jardine, Ancaster, JCT600, Lookers and TC Harrison.
Insurers Aston Scott and Secure Valeting 2018 2017 also backed the event, while Thrifty provided support vehicles for Absolute carbon emissions tCO the duration of the BCA Paris Challenge.
Building on the success of 2 Scope 1 74,981 71,026 last years ride, a further ride is planned for 2018 from Bedford to Scope 2 12,709 13,229 Amsterdam over 3 days.
87,690 84,255 Revenue m 2,431.5 2,029.7 Carbon intensity tonnes of CO per m 2 revenue 36.1 41.5 The absolute carbon emissions have increased and primarily reflects the impact of the larger Automotive Services fleet and the full year impact of the acquisitions made in the prior year.
The decrease in carbon intensity reflects the revenue growth in UK Vehicle Remarketing and Vehicle Buying.
The Strategic report which comprises the Business highlights, the Health and safety Executive Chairmans Statement, BCA at a glance, Our business The health and safety of our employees, contractors, suppliers and today, Market overview, Strategy and value, Group operating visitors to our premises is taken very seriously by the Group.
review, Divisional reviews, Risk management and Corporate responsibility sections is approved by the Board of Directors and The Groups Vehicle Remarketing divisions operate from over 50 signed on its behalf by: locations across the UK and Europe.
1.4 million vehicles were sold in the current financial year.
In addition, the Group operates at over 225 locations to support the Vehicle Buying division.
As large numbers of vehicles are stored and prepared for sale at these sites and at the physical auctions, members of the public and the Avril Palmer-Baunack Tim Lampert Groups employees come into close contact with vehicles as they Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer move to and from the auction hall.
27 June 2018 The Groups employed and contracted drivers collect and deliver vehicles across both the UK and continental Europe and operate a fleet of over 800 vehicle transporters.
Consequently, the Groups operations are subject to regulations requiring adequate precautions to prevent injuries arising from collisions and impacts with other vehicles moving within the Groups locations and on public roads.
50 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials GOVERNANCE 52 Board of Directors 54 Executive Chairmans governance statement 55 Governance report 57 Nomination Committee report 58 Remuneration Committee report 65 Audit and Risk Committee report 67 Viability statement 68 Directors report 71 Independent auditors report BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51
