com Annual report 2018 Beazley 59 Sustainable business In 2017 the cost to the insurance industry Responsible business committee from natural disasters hit a record $144bn, Our responsible business and 2018 looks set to be similarly catastrophecommittee is chaired by Emma Whiteacre and sponsored by dominated.
While our business entails dealing executive member Anthony Hobkinson.
It reports into the executive committee and the with the financial burden of these losses, we board.
recognise that their impact on lives and livelihoods is far greater.
For this reason, we try to align our responsible business efforts with our natural interest and expertise in risk management and mitigation.
Emma Whiteacre For Beazley, being a Responsible Business is core to our values and actions.
We aim to support our Our aim isnt just to provide Marketplace Our awareness of the social and local and international short-term solutions for our environmental impact of the business communities and clients communities but to provide that we conduct, and how we can by using our resources and sustainable and long-term support global sustainability efforts skills whether its through support through our through the provision of insurance volunteering with the lonely programmes.
For our Inclusivity and diversity elderly and helping to feed Responsible Business strategy, Our vision is to inspire and develop the homeless as part of our we have six areas of focus: people with diverse perspectives global Make a Difference to thrive at all levels of our business Charity programme, creating Our global partnership, fundraising bespoke activities such Responsible underwriting and match funding as Maths in insurance compliance workshops or finding ways We are committed to ensure our Community business is conducted in an ethical to make existing and new How we interact with the people and and honest manner.
It ensures we places in our local area products that have a do the right thing for our stakeholders beneficial impact on our Environment wider society and the Taking responsibility for our own use of environment too.
resources as we conduct our business, to minimise our environmental footprint 60 Beazley Annual report 2018 www.
com Sustainable business continued Charity Our charity efforts go beyond simply making a donation we focus on making a difference, both in our local communities and around the globe Our global partnership with All Hands and All Hands and Hearts Hearts provides different opportunities Our global charity partner, All Hands to use our skills and support international and Hearts, is often there to help communities impacted by natural communities pick up the pieces when disaster.
For Beazley, our charity efforts disaster strikes.
We chose to work with go beyond simply making a donation.
We them because of their innovative focus on making a difference, both in our approach, focused on deploying local communities and around the globe.
volunteers to areas in need, and their relatively small size, which means that All Hands and Hearts works with our involvement can be more impactful.
At Beazley being a volunteers and local partners to rebuild responsible business is a the basic hubs of a community including schools and homes.
Participating in core part of our culture.
We have donated over these relief efforts has enabled Beazley So many employees employees to help to support devastated communities on the ground.
Many people give up their time to $190,000 who are hit by these disasters fall into lend their expertise, to All Hands and Hearts the insurance gap and are unprotected to some degree.
influence and passion as a force for good, both in our local communities Thank you so much for and the wider world.
being a great group to work We encourage and with.
You all carry such support that behaviour, positive attitudes and both because it is the displayed amazing work right thing to do and ethic.
It was an absolute itmakes business pleasure being able to sensetoo.
oversee your arrival to the Yabucoa base.
Youve set Anthony Hobkinson Executive committee sponsor thebar very high!
Puerto Rico volunteering Cia All Hands and Hearts Strategic report www.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 61 Volunteering in Puerto Rico Hurricane Maria devastated Puerto Rico in 2017.
The hurricane was the worst natural disaster ever to hit the island and caused the longest blackout in US history.
Thousands died and many more were left homeless or forced to live in damaged homes.
Beazley offered employees the chance to work alongside All Hands and Hearts on a project to help rebuild damaged homes.
Over 80 employees expressed interest, and, after a blind application process, eight employees were selected.
Beazley colleagues around the world fundraised over $37,000 through Team Puerto Rico international bake sales and quiz nights to support their colleagues during the two week project.
The volunteers were in Puerto Rico from Saturday 1 December to Saturday 15 December.
There they spent two long weeks working hard to restore homes damaged by the hurricane.
Match funding As important as supporting our charity partner is, we also aim to empower our people to take charge of their own fundraising and volunteering.
We offer match funding of $750 or local currency equivalent per employee, and up to $5,000 per team of three employees or more.
Some examples of colleagues who SOS image from Puerto Rico used this are: Conquering Everest Base Camp To support the communities still recovering from the devastating Nepal Five-time marathon runner earthquake, Jon Labram from London To raise money for the charity Healing took the challenge to trek to Everest Base Venezuela, Rafael Guia Vera took on the Camp.
His challenge took almost two challenge of running five marathons in weeks, and he raised over 2,300 for 2018 in Cambridge, Madrid, Budapest, our charity partner All Hands and Hearts.
So far he has raised almost 900, plus match funding from Beazley.
Five marathons in 2018 Jon at Everest Base Camp 62 Beazley Annual report 2018 www.
com Sustainable business continued Charity continued Charity quiz fundraiser Highlights Volunteering in Houston: following the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, our colleagues from Houston and Dallas fundraised and collected toiletries and clothes, and five employees worked with All Hands and Hearts to help restore Clock-to-clock a damaged family home.
Charity runs: over 80 colleagues took part Clock-to-clock challenge in the JP Morgan Run in London, raising To help raise money for his local money for Macmillan Trust in London.
hospice, Hospice on the Weald, Colleagues in the US took part in similar Richard took on the challenge to run, 5k runs for local charities, including kayak and cycle over 360km in The Connection Inc, a Connecticut-based 26.5 hours.
On 24 June, Richard and human service and community three of his friends started a 65km development agency.
overnight run from a clock tower JP Morgan Run Cycle for Survival: employees in our in Kent, UK before kayaking 40km New York City and Chicago offices took across the English Channel.
They part to raise funds for the Memorial Sloan concluded the race by cycling a Kettering Cancer Center, for research final 260km to the clock tower by into rare cancers.
Natural disasters: We respond to During their challenge, they burned large-scale disasters, especially if they approximately 14,000 calories, drank affect the communities where we work.
45 litres of water, ate 35 bananas and We have donated over $15,000 to did over 18,000 kayak paddle strokes.
charities, including the relief efforts They raised over 10,000 as a result.
Houston following three earthquakes and a tsunami in Indonesia, Hurricane Florence in the US, Storm Mangkhut in the Philippines, the Greek wildfires and Hurricane Lane in Hawaii.
These events not only raise donations and awareness for charities, but also help to strengthen employee engagement.
Bake sale Strategic report www.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 63 Community We know our communities have many needs.
Our long-term global approach focuses on young people, vulnerable adults and conservation Highlights Young people We partner with a number of educational charities to help support local young individuals from lower socio-economic backgrounds through their education and into the world of work.
Vulnerable adults Its important to us and our people to support the elderly and homeless in our communities.
We do this through volunteering in programmes to tackle root causes of these issues.
Conservation We adopt an honourable approach to how we should protect and conserve our environment.
By restoring local parks and community gardens, our communities will be better able to enjoy Maths workshop Hague Primary School students these areas.
I thoroughly enjoyed the Access to learning using a class opportunity to ask mentors setof professional devices, rather questions as I learned a lot about than one per class, is a game being an actuary.
Pupils will have more hands on access and teachers Year 11 student willbe able to plan better Thank you so much for your opportunities for children to support, I have been working at useICT across the curriculum.
Hague for 12 years now and we have Fromexperience iPads are more never had so many supportive instantly accessible meaning reading partners: in addition we moretime is spent actually have never had so many children learning than on computers asking for reading partners!
I have loading up and setting them up.
children currently on a wait list who Pupils with special educational I am reading with as they are all needs can enjoy iPads support desperate to have a reading partner.
More pupils can This is amazing and incredibly useSiri, instead of a dictionary motivating for the children who do orteaching assistant.
They can have one as they feel they have develop graphic skills and so something incredibly special.
Teacher School feedback on iPad donations Hague Primary School 64 Beazley Annual report 2018 www.
com Sustainable business continued Community continued Make a Difference Farmington workshop sustaining talent More than 530 employees took part in Make a Difference in 2018 Our colleagues in Farmington hosted a Career Day Make a Difference is our workshop for students from global community volunteering programme.
This year marked a local high schools.
They spent the day learning about Activities were selected based on the business along with potential local need and ranged from working career opportunities within the at a farm to harvesting crops for insurance industry.
local food pantries, sorting food at Make a Difference food banks, preparing and serving meals to the homeless, spending time with local pensioners and upgrading community facilities likes crches and parks.
Make a Difference Career day workshop I love how open Beazley is and how willing the people here are to get to know you, or to just sit and have aconversation.
Camryn Talent Management intern, US Make a Difference Strategic report www.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 65 More highlights in 2018: We launched our bespoke Global intern programme Maths in Insurance workshop, with volunteers supporting 32 aspiring This year over 35 individuals were given internships from students to learn about mathsourlocal communities in our Chicago, London, New York, related roles: Farmington, San Francisco and Singapore offices.
45 Beazley volunteers mentored 15-16 year old students throughout the year: Our interns worked for teams across the business.
As well as having 35 local young people were hired valuable work experience, they spent as summer interns in our UK and time volunteering in local food banks US offices, and three former interns and worked in a global project to have been employed in permanent search for Beazleys next charity roles: partner.
25 Beazley volunteers supported reading and numeracy skills for 50 Interns children from our local community partner, Hague School: For her efforts, our responsible we facilitated and hosted four business assistant, Shakeela workshops for over 100 young Khanom, was awarded Best Project people to increase their knowledge Champion award by the Lord Mayor of the insurance sector and career of London.
development: and we donated over 40 iPads to our local schools.
Shakeela Khanom Internships such as these are essential for the business as they introduce a whole new demographic to the industry.
Internships are also very important to young people for a variety of reasons, the first being that they are given an opportunity to work in aprofessional environment and see whether the corporate world is something Interns they may enjoy as a future career.
Also for many, they may not have any previous connections or opportunity to access these types of highly skilled and highly paid jobs.
Celine Property intern, UK 66 Beazley Annual report 2018 www.
com Sustainable business continued Environment We are committed to minimising our own environmental footprint, and reducing the adverse impacts arising from office-based activities and business travel as laid out in our Environmental Policy As well as ensuring compliance with Taking the environmental Looking forward in London all applicable environmental initiative in Singapore Twentytwo Bishopsgate legislation, we: As part of Make a Difference month, our As we plan to move into our new London monitor our energy consumption, Singapore colleagues spent a day in the offices at Twentytwo Bishopsgate, we are greenhouse gas emissions and blistering heat to clean up a local beach.
making sure that sustainability is a top other environmental criteria, and This inspired another Beazley campaign consideration.
Twentytwo is pursuing are using this data to help identify where colleagues were encouraged to WELL certification, demonstrating its opportunities to improve our pick up litter during their summer holidays commitment to improving and encouraging performance: at their own local beach.
the health and wellness of its community.
source office space that is LEED or BREEAM certified, where The construction company are aware environmental considerations of the impact on local residents and are have been factored in: engaged in community liaison to address any concerns and communicate with local ensure that environmental impacts businesses and neighbours.
are considered and managed during the procurement process.
As a new building, all of its functions will Our focus is on recyclable, recycled, be more energy efficient than our current renewable, and low-VOC volatile Make a Difference Singapore site and in keeping with our other new organic compound materials, offices, we are making sustainable including, but not limited to, office choices wood, vegan leather alternatives supplies and lunch providers: for our furniture and fittings.
regularly review waste management practices to identify opportunities to improve: engage our people to help achieve our goals, encourage them to consider their environmental approach outside of work and keep Make a Difference Singapore them informed of what we are doing: and audit our progress with yearly GHG emissions reports across London, Dublin and our four largest US offices.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 67 Environmental governance Carbon emissions report Environmental and sustainability issues are primarily the responsibility of the Latest Greenhouse Gas Emission figures Commercial Management team, who 1 tonnes CO equivalent 2 set objectives and targets and manage deadlines.
Beazley communicates our Scope 1 Scope 3 Environmental Policy to all employees through the company intranet, as well as through employee induction and training.
39.47 7,357.11 Where appropriate our internal and external stakeholders are required to Scope 2 tCO e employee year acknowledge and adhere to our 2 Environmental Policy and relevant operating procedures.
898.54 7.7 Procurement and outsourcing Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased Scope 3 emissions increased due Where we can, we ensure good working due to expanded scope of reporting to increased business travel by air conditions and employee rights throughout our supply chains.
Our external contracts are governed by our 1 For further information, please refer to pages 76 to 77.
Outsourcing Policy and our Procurement Policy.
Our due diligence in both cases includes assessment of risk management, internal controls, compliance with laws including the UK Bribery Act 2010 and Modern Slavery Act 2015, and information on staff turnover, industrial relations, staff training and recruitment.
We take our obligations to our suppliers seriously and ensure that when we enter into significant outsourcing contracts with new service providers we conduct due diligence on their operations, and carry out site visits to ensure that conditions are suitable.
We maintain ongoing communication and close relations with such suppliers.
We comply with all Lloyds Minimum Standards on outsourcing, and oversee our outsourcing arrangements with annual reviews and updates to our operations committee.
An executive committee member retains full responsibility for each outsourced relationship.
com Sustainable business continued Marketplace Using our influence as a force for good In 2018 we have been taking a more We remain committed to the Lloyds strategic approach to ESG matters, and Disaster Risk Facility DRF, as a We are signatory to the overtly linking them to our business: founding member.
The consortium was ParisPledge for Action, We have been running a crossset up to increase economic resilience business sustainability initiative, by developing innovative solutions the formal initiative for exploring how we can embed social for populations which suffer some of non-state organisations and environmental considerations the most serious losses from natural into our products and business disasters, yet currently have little or supporting the Paris Climate practices.
With the help of external no access to insurance.
While this is experts, we held workshops to a long-term development opportunity, Change Agreement.
focus on the insurance angle with such exposures often being of the global issues we face, considered at the sovereign government As climate change risks rise up the and are consequently pursuing a level and having very long lead-in public agenda, the insurance number of business development times, the DRF has been very active industry is taking steps to ensure opportunities and partnerships in building relations with multilateral that we are sufficiently prepared for across business lines, including financing institutions and relevant both the potential physical impacts clean energy generation and government agencies worldwide.
of more frequent and severe storage, clean technology, climate 2018 was a pivotal year in marine extreme weather events, and the change adaptation, measures to sustainability.
The headline item is transition risks arising from the shift address marine pollution, support the shipping industry defining how to a low-carbon economy.
for environmental pollinators, and the low sulphur fuel regulations will be employment practices liability.
implemented and analysis of how this We are conducting an ongoing will affect the shipping industry as review of  a whole.
More renewable farms have business implications, as well being completed, with offshore wind as convening a working group to leading from the front.
The subsea produce our 2019 ClimateWise team have underwritten a number of report, which will be aligned with accounts which have shown increased the recommendations of the activity in the preparation and Taskforce on Climate-related completion of renewable infrastructure.
Also the hull, liability, cargo and subsea teams will be working with a key oceanographic organisation, supporting their scientific research efforts to better understand the ocean.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 69 Our risk management team assesses The majority of our assets and monitors the broad array of risks approximately 75% are held in a We have reported into presented by climate change, including: portfolio of investment grade fixed ClimateWise, the insurance Pricing risk: income securities managed in-house Catastrophe risk: by the Beazley investment team.
industrys initiative to monitor Reserve risk: Our internal investment process and disclose the risks and Asset risk: applied to these assets incorporates External event risk: an analysis of ESG factors to ensure opportunities associated with Commercial management risk: that we favour those companies who the climate risk protection gap, Credit risk: actively seek to identify and control Regulatory and legal risk: ESG risks.
To support this process since 2007.
Liquidity risk: and we subscribe to the services of Strategic risk.
a specialist provider of ESG and governance research and ratings.
As ClimateWise shifts to incorporate anticipated greater regulatory The remaining assets are outsourced disclosure requirements and the Our risk management of climate to external investment managers recommendations of the Taskforce change risks is described in and invested across a range of asset on Climate-related Financial detail on pages 57 to 58 classes.
We have undertaken an audit Disclosures TCFD, we are of the ESG policy of each manager preparing to significantly increase to understand how they incorporate our reporting efforts in 2019, with an assessment of sustainability into assigned board and executive Responsible investing their investment process and over committee level oversight.
At Beazley, we believe our investment time we may realign our mandates strategy should seek to have a positive to ensure a consistent approach influence on society and the world at is applied.
large and for this reason we incorporate a consideration of environmental, social and governance ESG risks into our decision-making process.
Our view is that this approach is consistent with the objective of optimising total return as companies demonstrating a commitment to a sustainable business strategy and ethical business culture have been shown to enjoy a competitive advantage over time, generating stronger and more stable returns.
com Sustainable business continued Inclusivity and diversity Our vision of inspiring and developing people with diverse perspectives During 2018, we continued our journey Networks towards our vision of inspiring and Colleagues have formed three networks Employee diversity developing people with diverse that focus on the interests of the LGBT perspectives to thrive at all levels of by gender community PROUD@Beazley, colleagues our business, in an environment that from a minority race ethnicity supports and celebrates differences.
Empowered@Beazley and our young Beazley plc board talent Beazley Young Professionals.
Male On gender diversity, the executive committee agreed a range of initiatives 9 During 2018: including diverse recruitment slates and Female PROUD@Beazley supported our talent increased senior leadership accountability management teams review of our for creating and maintaining gender- 3 employee handbooks to be more diverse teams.
We made good progress Total 2018 12 inclusive from an LGBT perspective with our Her Majestys treasury HMT and facilitated Beazley joining a leading Senior management Women in Finance Charter target, which online LGBT recruitment and networking is to increase the women in our senior Male hub called myGwork.
leadership team to at least 35% by the 78 end of 2020.
At the beginning of 2019, Beazley Young Professionals continued Female 32% of our senior leadership team will its expansion into our offices across the be women, compared to 29% at the 32 group.
The network arranged lunch and beginning of 2018.
Total 2018 110 learn sessions, networking events, panel discussions, and screened relevant TED Other actions we have taken to enhance All employees talks, all targeted at the development gender diversity at all levels of our Male needs and interests of our younger talent.
organisation include development, 728 networking and mentoring opportunities Empowered@Beazley launched and Female for our female talent facilitated by Women welcomed its first members.
The network in Banking and Finance, which we joined 656 is focused on helping to create an in 2018.
Our chief executive officer and environment where colleagues from Total 2018 1,384 chairman are members of the 30% Club, different races and ethnicities feel demonstrating our most senior leaders empowered to showcase their skills and commitment to gender diversity.
reach for opportunities across the group.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 71 NexCo Celebrating our differences NexCo is a group drawn from our younger An important part of our vision talent who each represent one of the is creating an environment that executive committee members.
The recognises and celebrates our group works through the monthly differences.
That helps our people executive committee papers, reviewing to feel comfortable with being them and challenging them in a similar themselves in the workplace and way to the executive committee.
The creates the opportunity for Beazley main aims of the idea are to: to benefit from those collective garner more diverse perspectives differences.
As part of that, we on important Beazley matters: celebrated across the group, International Mens and International provide a wider understanding of Womens Days, Black History Month, Beazley strategies and key issues Pride, and World Aids Day.
2018 has been a year of opportunities for this group: and continued focus on our help younger members of the organisation learn about Beazley diversity and inclusion governance and direction setting.
We are proud of our inclusive culture External group membership We are proud members or sponsors of and of our progress on external bodies including: HMT Women gender diversity, which in Finance Charter, Stonewall, Women in Banking and Finance, myGwork, we will maintain.
Business Insurance D&I Institute, 30% Looking ahead, we will Club, Insurance Supper Club, and DiveIn.
They are a helpful source of ideas and apply what we have best practice for us to learn from.
learned from our focus on gender diversity to other forms of diversity.
This includes acknowledgement of the pivotal role that allour leaders and managers play in this journey and the support they require indoing so.
Rob Anarfi Chair, diversity steering group 72 Beazley Annual report 2018 www.
com Sustainable business continued Responsible underwriting compliance Being Beazley is at the heart of everything we do It guides our behaviours, embeds a Prevention, detection and reporting Financial Crime Policy culture of good conduct, and ensures of bribery and other forms of corruption Beazleys executive management is we do the right thing for all our is the responsibility of all employees.
ultimately responsible for preventing, stakeholders.
Senior management have overall detecting and investigating alleged accountability for ensuring Beazleys financial crime activity.
However, all We are committed to ensuring that our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy employees share the responsibility business is conducted in an ethical complies with Beazleys ethical to watch out for possible financial crime and honest manner, and to ensuring obligations, and that all those under and are empowered to take appropriate our continued compliance with all its control comply with it.
applicable bribery and corruption a bribery and corruption risk assessment legislation, including the UK Bribery on an annual basis, analysing our Beazley has operating guidelines for Act and US Foreign Corrupt Practices worldwide business for exposure to reporting suspicious transactions.
Our Code of Conduct policy details higher risk jurisdictions, the distribution our core values and the behaviours channels used and the nature and size Staff complete annual training on to which we require all employees of business we conduct.
anti-money laundering AML and terrorist to adhere, with reference to: financing.
The Financial Crime e-learning Customer conduct protocol Our Gifts and Hospitality Policy and module currently being updated to Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Complaints handling policy include tax evasion.
Staff complete both outline the appropriate behaviour annual training on internal sanctions.
required of all staff and associated Anti-bribery and corruption policy persons, and identify record-keeping Conflicts of interest policy The Financial Crime Policy outlines the requirements and approval procedures.
reporting requirements that the company Employees complete annual mandatory Whistleblowing policy must adhere to depending on the nature training and assessment on financial Acquisition cost protocol of the irregularity.
Financial crime policy Our Whistleblowing Policy allows for Underwriting and Anti-fraud policy.
anonymous reporting: all reports are treated with the utmost confidentiality.
claims due diligence These are communicated to all A record of concerns raised and their procedure employees and are available on our resolution is maintained and considered intranet.
Executive responsibility for annually by the relevant audit and risk The Beazley due diligence procedure, our Code of Conduct policy is with aimed at underwriting and claims staff, committee.
An annual report is made the head of talent management.
to the Beazley Insurance dac, Beazley outlines the customer due diligence requirements before writing a risk or Furlonge Ltd and Beazley plc boards on the operation and effectiveness of paying a claim, and the enhanced due diligence requirements for those in our systems and controls in relation to whistleblowing.
Further information regarding our approach to anti-bribery and corruption can be found on our website.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 73 Beazley has a governance structure Compliance Governance which enable the information security and We have a number of internal privacy function to report on data privacy monitoring policy procedures that govern our approach and security issues without restraint.
Beazleys compliance monitoring team to data and data subjects: We are committed to the rights of a monitor existing business relationships information security strategy: data subject and follow our legal and for AML and sanctions purposes.
regulatory obligations within the various information security master policy: jurisdictions in which we operate.
We information security risk have a global privacy policy aligned to Data security assessment and management European, North American, Canadian We have a mandatory annual training policy: and and Singaporean privacy and breach and assessment programme on data notification requirements.
security and privacy, enriched by regular global privacy policy and privacy awareness campaigns.
We are committed to informing data subjects about what data on them we An information security and privacy collect and process, ensuring we only assessment process is embedded into collect what is required to deliver the our business and technology change services back to them.
to protecting customer and personnel data by having appropriate The groups internal audit department organisational, people and technical undertakes IT related audits as part of its controls and delivering an information risk-based schedule of audit work.
This security programme built around a includes annual audits of IT security and framework of prepare, protect, detect, information security.
Internal audit also respond and recover.
undertakes annual reviews of the groups risk management framework.
Managerial responsibilities for privacy and data security are defined within Beazley policies.
Non-financial information statement Beazley presents its non-financial information NFI statement in compliance with sections 414CA & 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The content required for this statement can be found throughout the report as per the below: Page Chapter reference Environmental matters Sustainability overview: Risk management: Sustainable business: 14-15: 53-77 Directors report The companys employees Our key differentiators: Our business model and strategy: 1-23: 50-83: Sustaining growth: Sustainability overview: Chairmans statement: 85-120 Chief executives statement: Q&A with the chief executive: Operational update: Risk management: Sustainable business: Directors report: Letter from our chairman: Board of directors: Statement of corporate governance: Letter from our chairman of our remuneration committee: Directors remuneration report Social matters Sustainability overview: Chairmans statement: Chief executives 14-21: 59-73 statement: Sustainable business Respect of human rights Sustaining growth: Sustainable business 10-13: 59-73 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters Sustainability overview: Risk management: Sustainable business 14-15: 53-73
