com Sustainability overview Our record of sustained growth as a company isclosely intertwined with our interest in supporting sustainable growth in the world around us.
The future of our business depends upon a sustainable future for our clients, ourenvironment and our communities For Beazley, being a responsible business means we take our environmental, social and governance ESG obligations seriously.
As global trends including climate change threaten our clients interests, it is becoming ever more clear that good business must simply be responsible business.
Global warming may be aggravating flood damage aswarm air can hold far more water than cooler air Insurance is an essential enabler of However, we must also be sensitive human and economic activity.
Without to the undesirable side effects what insurance, the risks inherent in many economists call externalities that may endeavours could prohibit development accompany economic growth.
The consequences of risk our underwriters and our investment events would be unmitigated.
We are professionals are sensitive to these there to protect our clients physical and externalities.
Before binding any risks, financial interests in the event that things our underwriters consider the risks being go wrong.
In this sense insurance is a presented in the widest possible sense, force for progress.
including the potential social and environmental impact of the insurance in question.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 15 On the investment side, we believe our As the insurance industry continues strategy should seek to have a positive to pick up the bill for increasing Maximising and influence on society and the wider world.
extreme weather events, it is starting measuring our impact For this reason we consider ESG risks to re-evaluate on how to perform its Underwriting strategy as part of our decision making process.
role as an enabler of economic activity.
Before binding any risks, our We view this approach as consistent At Beazley, we are on a journey to explore underwriters consider the risks with the objective of optimising total this further.
Our internal sustainability being presented in the widest return, as companies demonstrating initiative considers how we can use possible sense, including the a commitment to a sustainable business our expertise to support and incentivise potential social and environmental strategy and ethical business culture improved social and environmental impact of the insurance in question.
have been shown to enjoy a competitive outcomes.
Investment strategy advantage over time, generating stronger Through our investment strategy, and more stable returns.
We also aim to support the communities we seek to have a positive within which we work by using our influence on society and the resources and skills.
Whether its world at large and we accordingly volunteering with the elderly, feeding the consider environmental, social homeless as part of our global Make a and governance ESG risks in Difference programme, working directly our decision making.
with our global charity partner, All Hands Environmental and Hearts or indeed making business Beazley has reported its decisions that take their social and environmental impacts under the environmental impact into consideration, insurance sectors ClimateWise our aim isnt just to provide short-term initiative since 2007. solutions for our communities but to provide sustainable and long-term Local communities support through our programmes.
In 2018, more than 550 Beazley employees around the world participated in a wide range In recognition of the importance of of activities in support of the transparency in ESG performance, communities where they work we will be making this report available and live, helping young people as a standalone document for the first and vulnerable adults, and restoring time this year.
We know that our local parks and community gardens.
insurance products Charitable giving The company and our employees perform a vital function contributed over $300,000 in protecting our clients to charitable causes in 2018. interests and helping We have contributed over Equal opportunity them to recover from We work with Stonewall to identify the best support for our colleagues disaster.
As a responsible in the LGBT community and with $300,000 Disability Forum to help make business, we also recognise to charitable causes in 2018 our organisation and working our role in trying to environment more disability-smart.
We were the first Lloyds managing ensure that the insurance agent to sign up to the British that we provide, and the Governments Women in Finance Charter.
wider impact of our Prevention of bribery and corruption people, business and Prevention, detection and reporting assets, serve a positive of bribery and other forms of corruption is the responsibility of purpose in this planet all employees.
Senior management have overall accountability for onwhich we all depend.
ensuring Beazleys Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy complies Emma Whiteacre with Beazleys ethical obligations, Our sustainable business Chair of the responsible business and that all those under its control ESG report is described in detail comply with it.
