Key Stakeholder Relationships Maintaining good relationships with our essential stakeholders is key to what we do ensuring our business runs effectively and our homes add value tothe local community.
Customers Investors Our highly trained and dedicated team of Our executive management team meets with Sales Advisors engage and communicate with major shareholders and analysts at least twice a customers from the first meeting, through the year to discuss interim and full year financial results, home reservation stage and on to the final legal answer questions and discuss future actions.
They are always available The Board receives reports from our broker and PR to help ensure that the whole home buying advisors following our interim and full year results process runs as smoothly as possible.
presentations that provide feedback from investors Following legal completion, our Customer Charter and analysts.
sets out the process of engagement with our We encourage all shareholders to attend our AGM.
customers to ensure that the after-sales experience continues to be a positive one.
We seek the views of shareholder representative bodies where necessary, especially on the areas of Our dedicated customer care team at director remuneration and Board succession.
each division is supported by a Group Head of Customer Care and our Customer We respond to ad hoc queries from shareholders Experience Committee.
Employees Suppliers consultants sub-contractors We ensure that our colleagues are well informed We regularly hold meetings and communicate with and have the knowledge they need to operate our suppliers, sub-contractors and consultants, successfully in the best interests of Bellway, our passing on relevant information to each division customers and stakeholders.
Where there is new product information, this is communicated in a timely Our employees receive regular communications manner to each division.
in relation to changes to policies, procedures, services and advice.
We have appointed a Head of Procurement to develop our relationships with and management of With a dedicated Human Resources team our supply chain.
operating during the year, focus has been on attraction, development and retention of talent We strive to maintain long-term working across the business.
relationships with reputable sub-contractors to reduce health and safety risks and to ensure the Senior management regularly attend and present availability and quality of materials and labour.
to the Board and directors visit the divisions, which help to inform the Board on matters that are We strive to maintain long-term working important to our employees.
relationships with our suppliers, sub-contractors and consultants to further strengthen the long-term interests of our business.
Bellway p. l. c. 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Local Government communities and regulators Prior to the submission of a planning application, We maintain national and regional representation we undertake rigorous consultation with the local with Homes England, working closely on their public community in accordance with the consultation land and housing investment agendas.
We are a policy of the local authority.
This involves informing significant partner in the governments Help to Buy communities about the proposed development, programme and, through our presence on national and attending public meetings and exhibitions, forums, contribute to the efficient delivery of this and in consultation with the local authority, major policy initiative.
we listen and act on feedback received where We are an active participant in the Homes and reasonable and practicable.
Community Agencys Delivery Partner Panel DPP3.
This process allows us to ensure the views of the We have national coverage through representation local community and neighbouring land owners in all five regional frameworks and are also a are taken into account as far as is reasonable and member of the GLAs London Development Panel.
Regional and local government policy has a We operate the Considerate Constructors Scheme significant influence on the operation of our on developments where appropriate.
business and we seek to work collaboratively with local authorities and key statutory bodies, ensuring that developments are brought forward efficiently and with regard to local needs.
In London we work closely with the Greater London Authority and London Boroughs, and engage at a senior level with both the Welsh Assembly and Scottish Parliament, working closely on their respective Help to Buy programmes.
Bellway also engages at a strategic level with senior officials within the Ministry of Housing, Communities & Local Government MHCLG, the treasury and the cabinet office to address the pressing issues of accelerating housing delivery, widening home ownership opportunity and the regeneration of communities.
Affordable housing Land owners providers Effective partnership with a range of public We actively seek land for development and are bodies and agencies is central to the success of always interested in hearing from land owners and Bellways business.
We value the opportunities agents who have land to sell.
that partnerships bring and the benefits these Our local teams of specialist land buyers work relationships deliver to the communities we directly with members of the public, commercial build in.
vendors and the public sector alike to realise land We have long established relationships with opportunities.
They are able to consider any site, Housing Association HA partners across the whether greenfield or brownfield and regardless of country, ranging from large national and regional current planning status, and they have direct access organisations to small rural providers.
Together we to substantial funds, allowing for highly competitive work to build communities and improve the offers to be arrived at quickly, subject to Head affordability of housing for local people.
Our engagement with HAs ranges from joint Through our local regional offices we have ventures and strategic partnerships to the ongoing extensive knowledge of local planning policies and delivery of affordable housing on most of our frameworks and have proven expertise in guiding developments.
These relationships are maintained challenging sites through the planning system.
across the Group through regular meetings at In addition to acquiring land outright, we are also national, regional and local levels.
able to consider joint venture and partnership agreements.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23
