Our stakeholders Bodycote's stakeholder model shows how its interactions on various levels contribute towards socioeconomic growth and development.
These exchanges, based on mutually beneficial relationships, provide the basis for the Group's growth and sustainability, which in return provides benefits to employees, investors, customers and society communities.
Investors Capital is rewarded through dividends and share price.
Capital Return on Funds Investment Bodycote: Employees Provides thermal processing services Customers 5,794 employees Productivity that improve material properties Services Our services are knowledge, expertise such as strength, durability provided to the and skill are a major part and corrosion resistance, automotive, aerospace, which in turn... of the Groups intangible defence, energy and Remuneration Sales value.
291m was Improves the lifetime and general industrial paid out as performance of products industries.
Supports businesses and protects lives Focal Future impact talent Society Communities We are committed to building positive relationships with communities where we operate.
10 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 10 14 03 2019 15:54:58 Investors Customers Engagement undertaken Engagement undertaken Annual report and accounts AGM Management of ongoing customer relationship Corporate website, including Investor Relations section Participation in industry forums events Results presentation and post-results engagement with Bodycote plc website www.
com including top shareholders the Annual and Interim Reports Press releases incl.
LSE announcements Reason for engagement Addressing regular analysts enquiries Engaging with our customers helps us to understand Capital markets day their needs and identify opportunities and challenges.
We collaborate with our customers to improve our customers Reason for engagement product characteristics and to develop a project pipeline.
Continued access to capital is important to the long-term performance of our business.
We work to ensure that our Stakeholders key interests investors and analysts have a good understanding of our Customer satisfaction strategy and performance.
Service performance, efficiency and quality Stakeholders key interests Sustainable performance Financial performance and economic impact Governance and transparency Sustainability of performance Employees Society Communities Engagement undertaken Engagement undertaken Annual individual performance reviews Individual employee volunteering Employee advisory councils Corporate website Internal intranet and communications Reason for engagement Annual report and accounts We are committed to building positive relationships with SHE briefings and toolbox talks the communities we operate.
Twitter and LinkedIn communications Blogs Stakeholders' key interests Reason for engagement Future talent pipeline Employee engagement is vital for our success.
We Local operational impact work to create a diverse and inclusive workplace where Safety, health and environment performance every employee can reach their full potential.
We engage with our people to ensure we are delivering to their expectations and making the right business decisions.
This ensures we can retain and develop the best talent.
Stakeholders key interests Reputation Employee development engagement Talent retention Career opportunities SHE performance Diversity and inclusion 11 Stock code: BOY www.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 11 14 03 2019 15:54:58 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
