Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR hierarchy to understand the difference in Forces personnel past and present, and Introduction cultural perceptions between colleagues and their families, are treated with respect the leadership team.
Overall the assessment and fairness.
was positive, and the improvements made This report provides an update Our regional businesses continue to to enhance the standard of communication, on our performance during the contribute significant benefits to the modernise and improve HR policies and communities in which our developments year and further information, deliver increased openness will continue are based through the provision of new and throughout 2019. including relevant policies, can affordable housing supported by a range of be found on our website, Developing our people has also been a community benefits including new facilities major theme.
We have introduced a and green open spaces.
regional businesses actively support the This is complemented by functional communities through local sponsorships Highlights development and continuation of and charitable donations.
These include During 2019 the Group set out a new customer service training.
We also one-off and ongoing support, contributions company ethos to promote behaviours embarked on a major initiative to help and fundraising activities across a number consistent with Bovis Homes values of train specialist contractors in our of causes such as school and school fetes, Integrity, Caring and Quality.
Our commitment to training local sports clubs, hospitals and hospices, underline the importance of positive was recognised by the HBF, which shortlisted roundtables, elderly care, local communities behaviours in all areas of the work we do the Bovis Homes Training Centre as a initiatives alongside financial support for local for our people, customers, the communities finalist in its annual Housebuilder Awards.
we operate within, our operations and subFurthermore, we have increased our The Group recognises the importance contractors, as well as our shareholders.
commitment to apprenticeships by raising of climate change and the collective the intake substantially.
In addition, an internal audit that assessed responsibility we all have to mitigate its the culture of Bovis Homes was undertaken The Group continued its commitment to negative effects.
It is our policy to strive for involving all levels of the organisation.
the nation through its own Armed Forces continuous improvement in this area, by Throughout the review, the auditors looked Covenant.
Bovis Homes is proud to be a increasing our energy efficiency, reducing for alignment and consistency of message supporter of the Armed Forces Covenant and greenhouse gas emissions and minimising across the organisation, but also across the is committed to ensuring that our nations the waste we send to landfill.
2 3 4 1 People Health and safety Environment Community 2018 performance 2018 performance 2018 performance 2018 performance Improve our customer Reduce annual injury Refine our waste Continue to develop satisfaction rating incidence rate reduction strategy our strategic offering to assist with Improve customer Improving leadership Reduce active waste affordable housing service training behaviours per home Continue to build on our Formation of homeEnhancing quality of Reduce active waste relationships and support buyers panel workforce engagement sent to landfill our subcontractors and suppliers Increasing awareness Embed our core values Set target for active of occupational waste per plot across the Group and health risk new joiners Reduce our GHG emissions against Continue to develop our our chosen intensity apprenticeship programme measures Employee engagement score Employee wellbeing initatives See page 40 See page 44 See page 48 See page 52 Key: Priority not met Priority partially met within range Priority met | | 38 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Focusing on our CSR priorities Supporting sustainability, our people and communities || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 39 39 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR People 1 2018 2017 KPIs Staff turnover unplanned 22% 31% Training days 4,505 3,914 Apprentices 37 20 Customer satisfaction rating 4 Star 2 star We are on track to achieve our target of a 4 star rating for 2018.
Based on the HBF star rating relating to legal completions in the annual survey period 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018 to be announced in March 2019 by the HBF During 2018 we also introduced a number Customers Employees of additional employee benefits, including Our continued focus has been on customer The Group operates solely in the UK the cycle to work scheme.
In addition, service with the handover of high-quality and complies with all relevant legislation deals have been agreed with a number of homes to customers remaining a priority.
The Group continues popular consumer brands that allow our to apply its employment policies to not There has been a step change in customer employees to purchase goods and services discriminate between employees, or satisfaction during the year with the at preferred rates.
potential employees, on the grounds of Groups HBF customer satisfaction rating gender, sexual orientation, age, colour, As part of the focus on improved for the current survey year trending creed, ethnic origin or religious belief.
communication, a People Forum continued at 4 star, this is against previous year to run through the year comprising of rating of 2 star.
Bovis Homes passionately believes in employee representatives from each of equality and diversity for all.
To that end, We have continued to work with our our regional businesses.
In addition, a we have a Diversity and Inclusion policy Industry leading Homebuyers panel of confidential employee engagement survey which is rigorously enforced and promoted.
customers who provide valuable insight is sent to all employees every second It is also Group policy to give full and fair and feedback ensuring that the voice month covering a number of topics consideration to the employment needs of of the customer remains at the heart of that are assessed regularly by the senior disabled persons and persons who become everything that we do.
A new weekly podcast disabled whilst employed by the Group influence has been brought to life from the Chief Executive called the Bovis where requirements may be adequately in projects such as the launch of our Homes Bite provides regular light-hearted covered by these persons and to comply new housing range.
Ensuring we have updates on a range of topics including with any current legislation with regard to incorporated their ideas and suggestions business priorities, performance and an disabled persons.
The Groups policies are has enabled us to provide a truly customer opportunity to provide individual and supported by the Groups Dignity at Work centric range of new homes.
collective recognition across the business.
policy which prohibits bullying, harassment or victimisation.
The year has enabled us to continue to The Group believes that it has a key role provide our people with the training, to play in ensuring that employees The total employee turnover rate decreased coaching and development required have an appropriate work life balance.
significantly to 28% 2017: 44% due for professional customer service.
To that end, we are committed to working in part to a reduction in the number We have this year joined the Institute towards ensuring that no employees work of redundancies made during the year.
of Customer Service which is an excessive hours.
In addition, we seek to Furthermore, unplanned staff turnover independent, professional membership minimise weekend and late night working reduced to 22% 2017: 31% which is body for customer service founded in to a minimum and when it is essential.
This membership has provided us Moreover, the Group has introduced employee satisfaction score in 2018, the opportunity for ICS to deliver their a process of buying and selling holiday.
rising to 7.7 2017: 7.3 recorded in accredited training to those leading and Bovis Homes also encourages November 2018.
We now have a number delivering customer service.
of initiatives in order to attract and retain staff, including a benefits portal mybenefitstoolbox which allows our employees to view and amend their benefits from any internet-enabled device.
| | 40 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Putting the focus on people Bovis Homes Annual Supporting our sta to Awards deliver quality for customers | Bovis Homes Group PLC 41 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR We have launched some smaller initiatives The Group auto-enrols new starters Finally, during 2018 a 100 years, 100 to improve employee experience such on to the Peoples Pension scheme, women event saw Bovis Homes employees as a relaxation on our office-based dress alongside operating a defined contribution from a range of backgrounds discuss what code and an improvement to a number of pension scheme which is recommended to could be done to increase the number employee policies.
of women working in construction.
The day included speeches from Lt Col The Bovis Homes Annual Awards The Group has a Share Incentive Plan, Katie Hislop, who talked about her celebrate the talent and dedication of our Save As You Earn share option scheme experiences as a female within the Armed people across the country.
The awards and a Long-Term Incentive Plan to Forces, and Jenny Herdman, the director recognise those individuals and teams that motivate employees and encourage strong for the Home Building Skills Partnership.
particularly represent the Groups values of involvement with the Group.
Recognition Director and employee profile Staff are kept informed of the Groups of our people including contractor of the performance and news from around the The following table shows the gender split year, to reinforce our commitment to the business through a variety of means.
within the Group as at 31 December 2018. supply chain.
We remain committed to our There is the Bovis Homes bite, a weekly In common with the construction industry, valuable apprentice scheme with the intake podcast from the CEO or other ELT the majority of the workforce is male at during 2018 having increased significantly member, which was launched in 2018.
While a lower over previous years.
This is a five-minute audio round-up of proportion of senior management and As well as the company induction news and events, which is broadcast every directors are female, the Group encourages that all new starters attend, the Group Monday, distributed via an email from the and supports diversity, including gender.
continues to develop its appraisal process Group Communications team linking to Bovis Homes gender pay gap report to ensure that its values of Integrity, the audio file hosted on the intranet.
detailing performance and priorities is Caring and Quality are considered and Other communication channels include available on our website.
discussed by employees and their Update News, the quarterly staff Analysis by role and gender line managers.
These values feed into newsletter, and biannual regional many communications with staff, and are roadshows, which see the CEO and GFD Role Female Male Total regularly referenced in the CEOs messages travel around the regional offices in the Non-executive directors 2 4 6 and those of other ELT members and weeks following the full-year and half-year Executive directors 0 2 2 regional directors.
The importance of this City announcements to deliver a bespoke Senior managers 3 20 24 was also cited within the Culture internal presentation to both site and office staff, Managers 77 166 243 audit which reinforced the progress supported by that regions Managing Site and sales staff 129 411 540 made within the business to improve Director.
Each regional business also meets communication and support.
regularly with employee representatives Support staff 224 188 412 to discuss matters that may impact staff.
Apprentices 8 60 68 In terms of mental health, we were the first Two-way communication is encouraged Total 443 852 1,295 house builder to commit as a supporter across all employee engagement platforms of Mates in Mind.
This construction and the whistleblowing policy and contact Analysis by age industry wide initiative aims to increase details are regularly promoted.
of awareness of mental health and reduce Age employees % the stigmas attached to it.
To build on As at 31 December 2018, the Group 21 years 60 4.6 this, all managers attended an absence directly employed 1,295 people 21 30 years 246 19.0 management course which included 2017: 1,203.
In common with the 31 40 years 292 22.5 training on the early signs of mental construction industry, the majority of our health issues, alongside the support that site-based population is employed by our 41 50 years 329 25.4 is available and the support available to subcontractors.
We have expanded our 51 60 years 278 21.5 individuals through the company.
apprenticeship programme to include 60 years 90 7.0 office based and sales roles, whilst In 2016, the Group adopted an AntiTotal 1,295 100 increasing numbers of onsite trade Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy apprentices.
We continued our customer in support of its efforts to combat service training, which included support modern slavery.
A statement in line with from the Institute of Customer Service.
the provisions of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 is available on our website.
| | 42 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility We have a number of partnerships Training Priorities for 2019 established that further enhance the We have continued our investment in Maintain 4 star for the HBF Customer training were able to offer our people.
training during the year to ensure our Satisfaction Survey.
One such example is the Royal Institute employees are equipped to undertake Improve employee retention through of Chartered Surveyors RICS who are the functions for which they are enhanced rewards and benefits offering, supporting the development route employed, and to provide the opportunity leadership training and employee to professional qualification for our for career development equally and wellbeing initiatives, together with a surveying teams.
We have also trained without discrimination.
revised recruitment strategy to attract over 150 specialist contractor supervisors All new starters attend the centralised talented individuals.
in SSSTS Site Supervision Safety company induction on their first day with Training Scheme, making a clear Continued investment in IT to improve the company, with personal emphasis demonstration of our commitment to ways of working and employee on our values from the Chief Executive.
They receive a welcome personally from also been included in mental health a member of the ELT, followed by subject awareness training.
Investment in training to support matter experts providing key information our change programmes including Furthermore, all directors and middle on subjects such as our values, HR, H&S, investment in new processes management have benefitted from a learning and development and IT.
and systems comprehensive residential leadership This is then complemented by regional programme, which has been delivered by Renaming our Whistleblowing policy and functional induction at the normal our own in-house team.
to Speak up to enhance visibility.
place of work from day two.
Our Apprenticeship scheme increased with Training needs are identified against the 37 new apprentices joining 2017: 20.
Groups H&S core training matrix and where there are role specific training Anti-corruption and anti-bribery requirements.
Training needs are further The Group is committed to high ethical, discussed with individual employees as part legal and moral standards and all members of their probation and annual appraisal.
of staff are expected to share this In addition to this, training needs can be commitment.
The Group has adopted an identified on other occasions, either by anti-bribery and corruption policy and has senior directors as a result of a change procedures in place designed to prevent in business need, or as a result of an such issues from arising.
individual changing position or being promoted.
The Group has an educational All subcontractors are made aware of sponsorship policy to support employees our policies relating to anti-bribery and personal development and will meet course corruption and encouraged to adopt their expenses, including allowing day release, own policies.
and others are encouraged to use our whistleblowing service to report any Employees continue to receive regular suspicion of bribery or corruption.
training as a matter of course on topics In 2018 Bovis Homes heavily promoted such as health, safety and environmental the whistleblowing policy, which included matters, IT, management, sales and matters relating to bribery, and corruption customer care.
The sales training that were fully investigated.
We now programme is embedded into normal have a robust investigation process for all business, further HR training for managers allegations, and we share lessons learned has evolved, General Data Protection to the entire company, so our people Regulation GDPR and information appreciate that their concerns are listened security training have been undertaken to, and where appropriate action is taken.
A total of 4,505 training days were delivered during the year via All employees are subject to the Groups our Group Learning & Development team corporate hospitality policy.
Details of 2017: 3,914, equivalent to 3.5 days per corporate hospitality are reviewed by the employee 2017: 3.1.
Additional training Audit Committee on a regular basis.
is also arranged by our regional businesses where they identify specific needs.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 43 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR Health and safety 2018 2017 KPIs 2 RIDDORs 21 22 Total Recordable Injuries 220 238 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR 0.11 0.11 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR 1.14 1.17 As part of our bottom-up safety management strategy and to better align to industry standards leaders, we have adjusted the way we report in 2018 by focusing on lagging indicators such as RIDDORs and recordable incidents.
These indicators will tell us how we have performed in the past to help build upon our existing foundations.
They also provide a forum for We are continually looking to improve our Getting our teams subcontractors to provide feedback for systems, and 2019 will see the introduction involved in bottom up example in respect of near-misses and of Biometric systems for our construction agree improvements implemented.
Our system will safety management be designed to cater for online inductions, Health and safety remain a fundamental During 2018 work commenced to refresh reading and importing of CSCS SmartCard priority, with this topic being one of the our health, safety and environmental system, and photographic information first to be covered in all executive meetings supported by a new Health, Safety and including uploading of data such as training and highlighted early at our new starter Environment Director.
This has underlined records, inspection records, insurance induction and with clear linkage to our the importance of both the highest possible documents, risk and method statements.
standards and the significance of our values The intention is to free-up valuable time for and behaviours both today and in the future.
The Bovis Homes safety awards recognise site managers by carrying out all checks up As part of this, we are implementing a this with excellent performance in health front, prior to people arriving on site.
new three-year strategy plan to support and safety at our developments rewarded continuous improvement.
This year there In parallel the filming of the Bovis Homes were awards for two divisional site winners, induction video has commenced.
It is These ongoing improvements have two regional winners and two that anticipated that both workers and visitors continued to deliver a reduction in our were highly commended.
In recognising will be able to access these videos on-line annual injury reporting indications with a performance, more emphasis has been through a dedicated hyperlink which will reduction of total recordable injuries down placed on planning, attitude, team communicate with the biometric system and to 220 2017: 238. relationships as well as performance.
can be accessed by an App on their phone.
Bovis Homes operates an internal inspection During 2018 the roll-out of refreshed regime which features an overall H&S Priorities for 2019 standard operating procedures commenced performance KPI which has been set for all During 2019 we will improve our and will continue to mid-year 2019. sites and provides a Gold Green Amber quality, environmental, health and safety We are identifying current gaps in the Red Black dashboard indicator that is performance.
We will do this by: business between departments and setting updated by the regions daily.
This continues up a fit-for-purpose platform that is available to be well received by site teams and has Strengthening our environmental, health to everyone, regardless of location.
This is to increased the level of engagement with both and safety teams, committee structure and ensure appropriate communication and an site management teams and contractors and safety management system: understanding of the protocols in place.
is consistent with our strategy to bring about Continuing to take a sensible, behavioural change.
There has also been an increased proportionate approach to managing the emphasis on stakeholder engagement, Furthermore, we actively promote worker hazards associated with our work activities.
supported by the new management system.
engagement at site level through daily Our bottom up approach ensures our activity briefings DABs.
These provide specialist contractors are involved, right from an opportunity for site management to the start, to deliver improved consistency.
communicate with subcontractors in respect of tasks scheduled to occur that day and particular risks that may arise as a result.
| | 44 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Bottom up safety management Ensures Create Top down approach greater strong safety collaboration culture More compelled to comply Collaborative Information used decision making to justify decisions Employee consultation Experienced Real world based experience qunti cation Bottom up approach Committed to health and safety Comprehensive health and safety training for all employees | Bovis Homes Group PLC 45 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR Case study Jack Allen, Site Manager at Bovis Homes Whitehouse Park in Milton Keynes NHBC Seal of Excellence Pride in the Job team around me.
I work with a fantastic Jack, 23, wins national Seal group of dedicated individuals who take of Excellence award for his pride in every aspect of their roles.
Feedback from the customers on site A young site manager at a Northern Home reflects the hard work and dedication Counties location has praised his team the whole team have put in.
I would like after winning top national recognition to thank Bovis Homes and also all the for quality excellence.
Jack Allen, who works at Bovis Homes Jack, who attended Walton High school, Whitehouse Park location, received the started his career in house building as a National House Building Council NHBC s labourer and storeman and worked his Seal of Excellence, having been in the role way up to site manager.
Outside of work, he enjoys socialising with Rising star Jack was picked out of 16,000 friends and family and going to the gym.
other site managers to win a Pride in the His achievement highlights Bovis Homes Job Award 2018 for the Southern region, drive to build quality new homes and which then put him in the running for the deliver for its customers in its Northern Seal of Excellence.
The accolade is presented to the best site Jack is one of six Bovis Homes site managers across the country.
managers who won Pride in the Job Jack, from Woburn Sands, said: I feel awards across England this year.
It is the very proud and honoured to have won the housebuilders highest number since 2012.
This is a massive To determine the Pride in the Job Award milestone in my career and has been winners, judges assessed the skills something I have aspired to achieve.
demonstrated by the site managers in their But it would not have been possible day-to-day work, over 12 months.
without the hard work and support of the | | 46 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility 100 years, 100 women Education is the key to encouraging women into the industry say female construction colleagues The day included speeches from Lt Col Katie There are huge opportunities working Education is the key to Hislop, who talked about her experiences as within construction.
If you work for a house attracting women into a female within the Armed Forces, and Jenny builder, it doesnt necessarily mean you are the construction industry, Herdman, the director for the Home Building working out on a building site.
We have jobs Skills Partnership.
ranging from marketing, sales and graphics according to female house to commercial, technical and surveying.
building staff who attended It was really interesting day, which will not Weve had women start in these roles, and only help us to move forward as a company, a special event organised then move to more site-based roles, or vice but also help the industry as a whole, versa, explains Vicky.
As well as having a range of break-out sessions where ideas were Rachel Colin currently works as an With a need to increase skilled labour in fed back to the room, we also asked the assistant site manager at Bovis Homes construction to meet the housing demand, attendees a variety of questions to help us Didcot location.
and with only a small percentage of those find out and explore what they felt were the working within the industry being female, She said: As part of my architectural important factors in helping to encourage Bovis Homes brought together women from engineering degree, I did a year in placement women into the industry.
across its business to find out how this could and as part of this I worked out on site and be changed.
In response to How can we encourage I loved it!
women to work on our sites?
and What Since women were given the right to vote I really enjoy that every day is completely can we do to improve the number of women 100 years ago, there have been huge strides different.
You can go to work thinking working in house building?
the most popular in the rights for women and equality, but that you know what the day holds, and answer was education.
females are still in the minority within the then it will completely change!
I really like house building sector, says Vicky Beckwith, Weve noticed at many of the career fairs the problem-solving aspect of it and the Head of Human Resources at Bovis Homes.
that weve attended that girls seem to bypass organisation and project management side of We are aware that there is a certain us, thinking that house building is a job for the job too.
The tradesmen are really downperception of the industry and were keen men.
However, theres so much variety and to-earth and straight-talking and its great to try and change this.
opportunity within the sector and we think being outside.
we need to start changing these perceptions The 100 years, 100 women event saw Bovis Homes is now evaluating the results and encourage more women, says Vicky.
Bovis Homes employees from a range of from its polls and reviewing suggestions backgrounds discuss what could be done Bovis Homes employs nearly 1,295 people, made by its staff as it looks at implementing to increase the number of women working with 34 percent women.
The house ideas to encourage more women into the in construction.
builder currently employs 13 women on its company and the industry.
developments as site managers, assistant site managers and in trades.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 47 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR Environment 3 KPIs 2018 2017 Recycling 94% 94% Waste per plot 5.94 5.72 GHG emissions 1.71 2.01 During 2018 we benefited from a full year We now have a fully segregated waste The Group has adopted of having a single waste and recycling policy across all regional and at site an environment policy and partnership with Reconomy.
The 2018 level, and regular monthly management recognises its responsibilities reporting period showed a modest information is made available at all increase in overall waste per plot with levels to support monitoring and to protect and enhance consistant data from our landfill and corrective action.
the environment and to recycling outputs giving us insight to the next actions we will take.
Overall our level minimise, so far as it is of recycling remained steady at 94% and safe, practicable and we are making significant progress in economically sound, any reducing waste and expect 2019 to show further improvements.
adverse environmental impact of its activities.
Tonnes 2018 2017 The Group seeks to minimise its impact Total waste diverted from landfill 23,972 21,167 on the environment through a number of activities including reducing waste from Comprising: Timber 3,094 1,985 its activities, limiting as far as practicable our greenhouse gas emissions, ecology Plaster 3,291 1,522 and sustainable water management and 19 1 Hazardous the maintenance or incorporation of open space in our developments.
Other 17,568 17,659 The Group recognises that as a leading Total waste to landfill 1,469 1,375 national home builder it needs to minimise its impact on the environment.
We always Comprising: Timber 0 0 aim to operate efficiently, reducing waste Plaster 0 0 and minimising the energy and natural resources we use.
Hazardous 0.2 2 Other 1,469 1,373 Total waste 25,441 22,542 Number of plots 3,759 3,645 Aggregation of multiple sources for 2017 and prior.
We continue to research and develop more efficient build processes and modern methods of construction which should reduce the amount of waste generated from our activities.
| | 48 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Protect and enhance the environment Aiming to take a sustainable approach | Bovis Homes Group PLC 49 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR A joined up approach to waste management Case study All waste and recycling segregation at source, the partnership to monitor cost and waste have enabled services for Bovis Homes achieved further success in 2018. the swift identification of any corrective are managed by its In March 2018 Bovis Homes Group and actions, thereby ensuring the delivery of appointed partner, Reconomy the UKs Reconomy refreshed the waste policy to Bovis Homes waste management KPIs.
leading provider of outsourced waste the regional business units.
Bovis Homes Regular reporting and communication management services.
Since first joining gave this additional focus during weekly have also led to the creation of a regional forces in 2009, the two companies have conference calls, supported by Reconomy league table for waste performance, formed a close working relationship, with so that waste is now a focal point at which has fuelled internal competition an ongoing commitment to minimising all Regional meetings.
Furthermore, and driven further improvements.
waste volumes, increasing recycling rates Reconomy provided monthly visits to all Tony Filson, and reducing waste sent to landfill.
sites, providing onsite support, tool box Reconomy talks, and support where required.
By moving away from the use of general waste skips and implementing a focused, Regular review meetings with Build group-wide policy of effective waste Directors, together with the production of a monthly management dashboard During the year, measures were operated GHG emissions have been calculated using Greenhouse gas emissions to collect emissions data from our emission factors from UK Governments We continue to recognise the importance construction sites.
Where this data was GHG Conversion Factors for Company of climate change and minimise our impact incomplete at the year end, we have Reporting 2018.
Scope 1 emissions arise on the environment.
extrapolated total emissions by using i an from the consumption of gas at our averaging approach to extend data to a facilities, diesel on construction sites and Our impact on climate change also means full year for sites with part-year data, and UK business mileage in fleet cars.
Emissions that careful thought is given to the homes ii applied an average calculated from all from air conditioning in offices have been that we build.
Our preference is for a sites to sites returning inadequate data.
excluded as not being material.
Scope 2 fabric first approach to ensure that the The calculations allow for sites which emissions represent purchased electricity.
heating of space, which has the greatest opened and closed during the year.
Scope 3 emissions represent business impact on a homes energy efficiency, mileage completed in private vehicles.
is mitigated as far as possible within the actual construction of homes.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 with prior year comparatives We continue to review green energy provision on our developments, including Emissions from: 2018 2017 2016 Unit the use of photovoltaic roof tiles in place Combustion of fuel at our facilities and construction sites of traditional panels.
4,902 5,638 4,780 as well as fleet vehicle use Scope 1 emissions We have revised our company car policy to Purchased electricity Scope 2 emissions 1,336 1,522 1,627 limit CO2 emissions and have renewed our forklift truck fleet and specified machines Total GHG emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 6,238 7,160 6,409 to be no more than 2 years old, to ensure Scope 3 emissions private vehicle mileage improved efficiency.
483 786 677 Companys chosen intensity measurements: Performance and 1 methodology i Total GHG emissions per legally completed unit 1.78 2.17 1.77 GHG emissions have been reported from ii Total GHG emissions per 1,000 sq ft legally completed 1.71 2.01 1.69 all sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Tonnes of CO e. Tonnes of CO e per legally completed unit.
Tonnes of CO e per 2 2 2 Report Regulations 2013.
These sources 1,000 sq ft legally completed.
1 re stated to include scope 3 emissions.
fall within the Groups operational control.
Priorities for 2019 The Group does not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not Reduce our GHG emissions against our chosen intensity measures.
included in the consolidated financial To reduce the cost and tonnes per sqft built statements and are outside the boundary Measure and therefore maximise skip volume to ensure skip capacity is fully utilised on site.
| | 50 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Open space, ecology and sustainable water management Our developments are about more than remains and any mitigating actions that and any potential for localised flooding.
just homes and the incorporation of open may be required.
This involves active consultation with the space and communal areas is considered at Environment Agency and water authorities We work closely with local authorities to an early stage.
to ensure that there is, as a minimum, no retain and protect trees wherever possible impact from our development on local All of our sites are subject to extensive and provide mature environments for flood conditions.
Our approach is not pre-construction assessments.
Our ecology local wildlife populations.
Where trees to acquire sites on flood plains and to assessments include an evaluation of the are removed, we aim to provide a net incorporate sustainable drainage systems suitability of habitats for protected species improvement to the number of habitats, where appropriate for the development.
and proposals to mitigate the impact of through planting and the inclusion of bird our developments more generally.
and bat boxes and other wildlife habitats.
We specify Forestry Stewardship Council Mitigating measures can include FSC or PEFC certified timber is used for all All sites are reviewed at acquisition stage translocating species and creating wildlife of our developments.
to determine the likely ground conditions corridors.
An archaeological assessment will and the type of surface water measures also be undertaken to determine whether required to limit surface water discharge a site is likely to contain archaeological Case study House builder Bovis Homes What goes in each bin?
paves way to land ll-free future Red lid: Black lid: White lid: Recycling General Paper waste Plastic bottles All paper Plastic cups including Food waste Plastic con dential Bovis Homes in Bishops Cleeve has Theyve brought in new recycling Fruit peelings containers documents achieved zero-to-landfill status after practices, such as replacing desk bins Crisp packets Tins Cans This is shredded All other All other by Printwaste an incredible transformation that with our eco-sort recycling bins, and recylables non-recyclables has seen a recycling overhaul at its positioning these effectively within Western region headquarters.
Our employees have been very quick Desk bins have been replaced with Theyve also achieved zero-to-landfill to adapt to the changes and we are eco-sort recycling bins and improved its status at their Bishops Cleeve site, and seeing increasingly positive results as we waste management system as part of we are now working hard to achieve progress our waste management.
a green strategy that will now see the this across their other two sites in Bovis Homes is committed to processes implemented in the companys Stafford and Coleshill.
reducing its carbon footprint and this Stafford and Coleshill locations.
This has been an incredible is the latest in a number of steps we Cheltenham-based recycling and transformation, and shows how, with have taken, including reducing our shredding firm Printwaste, which has a few simple changes and a whole paper storage, to achieve this.
worked with Bovis Homes for 14 years, team effort, we can all go green.
Bovis Homes representatives also has been part of the success story and visited the Printwaste offices to find Bovis Homes made the changes as praised the changes.
out more about its operations as part General Data Protection Regulation of the process.
Simon Vincent, business development GDPR came into effect and underwent manager, said: Bovis Homes decided a waste audit which looked at where its The two companies have been in to expand their partnership with us, waste streams are deposited.
partnership for more than 14 years, and now have a tailor-made waste when Printwaste recycled the Simon Bond, facilities co-ordinator at management system in place.
home builders used IT equipment, Bovis Homes, said: We are thrilled electrical waste and shredded with the changes we have made after confidential documents.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 51 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR Community 4 KPIs 2018 2017 Affordable housing completions 1,192 1,072 Planning obligations spend 25.7m 26.4m During the year we continued to build on We have relaunched our trainee assistant The Group has a CSR policy our affordable housing offering by working site manager programme and specifically which supports the creation with RPs and government agencies to targeted military service.
Working with of sustainable developments offer a range of different tenures providing a social enterprise Salute my Job who solutions that meet the affordable housing sourced suitable candidates, 1 4 of that are designed for needs of our partners and the communities those who were successful to join the social inclusion.
We offer Help to Buy and our own The Group has also continued its policy We recognise that we have a fundamental Trinity Discount Scheme for Armed of helping ex-servicemen and women find role in tackling the countrys housing Forces personnel as part of our Armed new roles in the Company through the supply challenge and work with registered Forces Covenant.
Career Transition Partnership CTP, and providers to provide affordable housing supporting staff members who choose to across a range of different tenure types.
We have been working with a number be members of the Reserve forces.
We also offer the Governments Help to of providers to develop a bespoke Buy Scheme on all of our developments.
specification for the homes we deliver to As part of our commitment to supporting RPs in response to the growing demands our servicemen and women, we have As part of each development we create they are under.
specifically devised our two exclusive we commit to provide resources and armed forces schemes to make the process improvements to the local area in Of our 3,759 homes 2017: 3,645 a little easier.
agreement with the local authority.
completed in 2018, 1,192 were sold to RPs, representing 32% of the homes we The All Inclusive Discount Scheme We work with our supply chain to ensure sold 2017: 1,072 and 29% specifically designed to help individuals that they are appropriately resourced to buy a brand new home as simply and and have the relevant skills and, prior to Armed forces covenant affordably as possible.
When this all appointment, conduct due diligence on inclusive package is combined with the Bovis Homes is proud to be a supporter suppliers and subcontractors.
Government Help to Buy - Equity Loan and of the Armed Forces Covenant and is We provide assistance and sponsorship the Forces Help to Buy initiatives, in what committed to ensuring that our nations to local good causes and support our we call Trinity, it provides the ultimate Forces personnel past and present, employees in raising money for charities home buying assistance.
and their families, are treated with that are important to them.
A copy of our Supply chain specific commitments can be found Affordable housing on our website.
In recognition of this We continue to work with our supply Working collaboratively with our public commitment, Bovis Homes has been chain to ensure timely delivery of our sector partners is central to the way we awarded the Silver Award of the Defence homes in an environmentally and operate, and we are proud to be playing a Employer Recognition Scheme.
Our suppliers and key role in tackling the countrys housing subcontractors are involved at an early We regularly attend Career Transition supply challenge.
We work with local stage in site development to ensure Partnership recruiting events for members authorities and registered providers RPs to adequate resource planning is in place of the armed forces.
Some of our own ensure the provision of affordable housing and health and safety remains a number staff who are themselves veterans support on the majority of our developments in a one priority.
service leavers at the events to provide way that meets local needs.
examples of what can be achieved in their next career.
| | 52 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Creating vibrant new communities Supporting our customers on their new home adventure | Bovis Homes Group PLC 53 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR The use of local and regional suppliers of local communities and provisions such make facilities available to staff, with local means that our developments provide as affordable housing, open space and fundraising days.
Charitable donations and benefits for the wider community, educational needs.
sponsorship are managed by each regional through job creation and opportunities business to ensure that local causes and During the planning phase for our for other local businesses to support charities important to staff are given priority.
developments, we always seek to the development.
incorporate leisure and amenity areas Our regional businesses actively support the We collaborate with our supply chain on the together with integrating developments communities in which they serve through a development of skills for the industry, with into local public transport infrastructure.
number of local sponsorships and donations.
our apprenticeship programme incorporating Where appropriate, local resident travel These include one-off and ongoing secondments to learn key construction skills.
vouchers may be provided to encourage sponsorships, donations and fundraising We offer work experience placements to use of public transport.
activities across a number of causes such those attending school and college.
as school and school fetes, local sports Our larger developments will often include clubs, hospitals and hospices, roundtables, We work with our suppliers to provide provision of a local school, which will also elderly care, local communities initiatives innovative designs and products as well as benefit the local community.
and financial support for local and providing training on topics such as health national charities.
All of our sites have defibrillators installed and safety and site supervisor safety.
and staff are trained how to use them.
In order to support our staff, we also offer a In return for our commitment, our suppliers These can be called upon by local payroll giving initiative to enable employees must meet our anti-bribery and ethical communities and we have also taken the to contribute to their chosen charities conduct standards.
A whistleblowing step to ensure that these defibrillators directly from their salary.
procedure is in place to support our remain within the local area once our contractors and their staff.
Priorities for 2019 Continue to develop our strategic offering Community and infrastructure Charity to assist with affordable housing.
improvements The Group continues to support fundraising events and local sponsorship opportunities Continue to build on our relationships All of our developments are subject to that are important for our staff.
Staff have and support our subcontractors and extensive public consultation prior to work been involved in activities and supporting suppliers trough regular meetings and commencing, which identifies the needs local good causes.
We have continued to training opportunities Case study Back to school to promote housing challenge A trainee Assistant Site Manager at Southern Counties Nightingale View returned to her former school to encourage young people to consider a career in the construction industry.
Amanda McCuloch was part of a team of construction ambassadors who visited Henry Beaufort School in Winchester.
The group, which included experts from My former teachers who were there opportunities there are in housebuilding, sales, marketing and build, talked to were very impressed with what we were she said.
parents and pupils about the opportunities doing too!
You just dont know what is out there available, how to get into the sector and The construction ambassadors, who have unless you are given the information you the skills required.
participated in a Construction Industry need.
I also think that apprenticeship It was great to be back at school Training Board programme, attend career schemes are hugely important and should to introduce construction to pupils, events in places such as schools and be talked about a lot more in places, she said.
They were asking all about prisons.
Alix Laflin, Marketing Assistant such as prisons, for those who might not apprenticeships, other routes into the at Bovis Homes, said more construction necessarily know that this is an option industry and what qualifications they need.
ambassadors were needed to help those available to them.
from all backgrounds enter the industry.
It was fantastic to see a good mix of male We were all very proud to be at Henry and female pupils asking us about the I think its super-important based on my Beaufort School showcasing what industry and there were a lot more students own experience, as before I started at Bovis opportunities Bovis Homes than parents too, which was a great sign.
Homes I was really unaware of the great can offer.
| | 54 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Case study S106 school contribution Marking a monumental milestone in the development of the new Devon community, Sherfords first primary school Sherford Vale is now officially open and welcoming pupils.
Sherfords first primary school Located at the heart of Sherford and WeST, which has a proven track record in gone into bringing the school to life.
Its taking just a year to complete, with education excellence locally.
completion is a testament to how far the construction and infrastructure firm new community has come in just a few Rob Haring, CEO of WeST said: Morgan Sindall leading its construction, years and this progress will continue, It is fantastic to greet the very first the children aged between 2-11 years with three more schools set to open in the Sherford Vale pupils and their families, as old are the first of 420 pupils set to coming years.
well as celebrating the landmark moment attend the new school.
Pupils were with those who have helped make the Nigel Whelan, Area Director at Morgan greeted by high-quality facilities, statenew school a reality.
It has been an Sindall, said: Its been a pleasure to of-the-art equipment, and indoor and exciting journey to see the plans for work alongside our partners and staff at outdoor learning and play spaces.
Sherford Vale come to fruition, with the school during the construction of Sherford Vale is set to offer a rich and the firm aim of providing outstanding Sherford Vale.
The new school is an balanced curriculum, with an emphasis education to the children of Sherford and outstanding facility that will create an on providing outstanding teaching its surrounding area.
"inspiring and motivational space for pupils across science, technology, arts, maths to come to learn every day. """
Our vision is focused on academic and PE, in addition to a wide variety of excellence and success for all children, Devon County Council leader, John Hart, extracurricular activities.
Teaching will also who will be encouraged to think creatively, said: Its absolutely vital when we are focus on sustainability, taking advantage while being given opportunities to take trying to create new communities that of Sherfords extensive Country Park, part in a wide range of activities and sports, people putting down roots there know that woodland and wildlife habits.
which has a proven track record in local they will have the facilities they need to go The new school represents a 6m educational excellence.
investment into community infrastructure Bradley Davison, Sherford Consortium said: I was pleased that Devon County Council and has been funded by the Sherford We would like to welcome the Class of was able to contribute 1 million towards Consortium the partnership of award- 2018: the first pupils, their families, and ensuring the new school was up and winning homebuilders, Bovis Homes, Linden teaching staff to Sherfords first school.
running as people move into Sherford.
Not Homes and Taylor Wimpey with 1m This is one of the biggest milestones in only will it provide an excellent education also pledged towards its creation by Devon the towns development and an incredible for the children, but I hope it will become a County Council.
The school is sponsored amount of work and investment have real focal point for everyone living there.
and run by the Westcountry Schools Trust Strategic report approval The strategic report outlined on pages 2 to 59, incorporates the financial highlights, the Chairmans statement, the strategic review, the Chief Executives report, the financial review, the risks and uncertainties review and corporate social responsibility review.
By Order of the Board Earl Sibley, Finance Director 28 February 2019 | Bovis Homes Group PLC 55 | | 56 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Saxons Plain, West Durrington | Bovis Homes Group PLC 57
