Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are Environmental expenditure usually established on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 $million Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
2018 2017 2016 Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions Operating expenditure 501 441 487 appear in Financial statements Note 23.
Capital expenditure 449 487 564 Clean-ups 31 22 27 Environmental expenditure relating to the Gulf of Additions to environmental Mexicooil spill 428 249 262 remediation provision For full details of all environmental activities in relation to the Gulf of Increase decrease in Mexico oil spill, see Financial statements Note 2.
137 228 804 decommissioning provision Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, Regulation of the groups business treatment or elimination of air and water emissions and solid waste is BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, often not incurred as a separately identifiable transaction.
Instead, it pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals forms part of a larger transaction that includes, for example, normal production, trading, biofuels, wind, solar and shipping activities, are operations and maintenance expenditure.
The figures for subject to a broad range of EU, US, international, regional, and local environmental operating and capital expenditure in the table are legislation and regulations, including legislation that implements therefore estimates, based on the definitions and guidelines of the international conventions and protocols.
These cover virtually all American Petroleum Institute.
aspects of BPs activities and include matters such as licence Environmental operating expenditure of $501 million in 2018 2017 acquisition, production rates, royalties, environmental, health and $441 million showed an overall increase of 14% the largest element safety protection, fuel specifications and transportation, trading, of which was due to higher expenditures associated with sustaining pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes, and foreign exchange.
and increasing production volumes in the Gulf of Mexico region.
Upstream contractual and regulatory framework Environmental capital expenditure in 2018 was lower overall than in 2017 largely due to lower spend resulting from the divestiture of the The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
North Sea Forties Pipeline System and lower expenditure on Arundel, Clair and Schiehallion fields.
These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled Clean-up costs were $31 million in 2018 2017 $22 million company and are sometimes entered into with private property representing increases in oil spill clean-up costs and other associated owners.
Arrangements with governmental or state entities usually remediation and disposal costs as well as costs related to the take the form of licences or production-sharing agreements PSAs, replacement of underground storage tanks in the US.
although arrangements with US government entities are usually by In addition to operating and capital expenditure, we also establish lease.
Arrangements with private property owners are also usually in provisions for future environmental remediation work.
Expenditure the form of leases.
against such provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for, not included in environmental operating expenditure reported for such develop and produce a commercial discovery.
holder bears the risk of exploration, development and production Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up activities and provides the financing for these operations.
In principle, is probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably the licence holder is entitled to all production, minus any royalties that estimated.
Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal are payable in kind.
A licence holder is generally required to pay plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive production taxes or royalties, which may be in cash or in kind.
typically, BP may explore for, develop and produce hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in exchange for The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather than and abatement programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
often depend on the extent of contamination, and the associated impact and timing of the corrective actions required, technological PSAs entered into with a government entity or state-owned or feasibility and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of future controlled company generally require BP alone or with other programmes could be significant and may be material to the results contracting companies to provide all the financing and bear the risk of operations in the period in which they are recognized, it is not of exploration and production activities in exchange for a share of the expected that such costs will be material to the groups overall results production remaining after royalties, if any.
of operations or financial position.
In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and Additions to our environmental remediation provision increased in production activities, and in some cases production licences are 2018 largely due to the scope reassessments of the remediation limited to only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration plans of a number of our sites in the US and Canada.
Both exploration and production licences are generally for a environmental remediation provisions in 2018 included $8 million in specified period of time.
In the US, leases from the USgovernment respect of provisions for new sites 2017 $8 million and 2016 $7 typically remain in effect for a specified term, but may be extended million.
beyond that term as long as there is production in paying quantities.
The term of BPs licences and the extent to which these licences may In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oil and gas be renewed vary from country to country.
producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production BP frequently conducts its exploration and production activities in facility, a provision is established that represents the discounted value joint arrangements or co-ownership arrangements with other of the expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
international oil companies, state-owned or controlled companies and or private companies.
These joint arrangements may be In 2018, the net decrease in the decommissioning provision, similar incorporated or unincorporated arrangements, while the coto the decrease in 2017, was a result of detailed reviews of expected ownerships are typically unincorporated.
Whether incorporated or future costs, partially offset by increases to the asset base.
unincorporated, relevant agreements set out each partys level of We undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews participation or ownership interest in the joint arrangement or cotake account of revised cost assumptions, changes in ownership.
Conventionally, all costs, benefits, rights, obligations, decommissioning requirements and any technological developments.
liabilities and risks incurred in carrying out joint arrangement or coownership operations under a lease or licence are shared among the joint arrangement or co-owning parties according to these agreed ownership interests.
Ownership of joint arrangement or co-owned BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 291 See Glossary
