Strategic report performance Sustainability BP Sustainability Report 2018 publishes April We aim to create long-term value for our shareholders, partners and society by helping to meet growing energy demand in a safe and responsible way.
Safety and security Value to society Our 2018 sustainability focus areas Climate change Ethical conduct These sustainability issues are the ones that could impact Managing our impacts Our people our business the most and that are of greatest interest to our stakeholders.
Process safety events Safety and security number of incidents Safety is our number one priority and a core value.
Our aim is to have no accidents, no harm to people and no damage to the environment.
150 We are working to continuously embed and improve personal and process safety and operational risk management across BP and to 100 strengthen our safety management.
50 Our approach builds on our experience, including learning from incidents, operations audits, annual risk reviews and sharing lessons learned with our industry peers.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Tier 1 Tier 2 Managing safety BP-operated businesses are responsible for identifying and managing operating risks and bringing together people with the right skills and competencies to address them.
Our safety and operational risk team Recordable injury frequency works alongside BP-operated businesses to provide oversight and workforce incidents per 200,000 hours worked technical guidance, while our group audit team visits sites on a 0.8 risk-prioritized basis to check how they are managing risks.
Our operating management system 0.6 Our operating management system OMS is a group-wide framework 0.4 designed to help us manage risks in our operating activities and drive performance improvements.
It brings together BP requirements on 0.2 health, safety, security, the environment, social responsibility and operational reliability, as well as related issues, such as maintenance, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 contractor relations and organizational learning, into a common Workforce 0.31 0.24 0.21 0.22 0.20 Employees 0.27 0.20 0.19 0.20 0.15 management system.
Contractors 0.34 0.28 0.22 0.23 0.23 Our OMS also helps us improve the quality of our activities by setting a American Petroleum Institute US benchmark a a common framework that our operations must work to.
We review International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmark a API and IOGP 2018 data reports are not available until May 2019. and amend these requirements from time to time to reflect our priorities.
Any variations in the application of OMS, in order to meet local regulations or circumstances, are subject to a governance process.
Recently acquired operations need to transition to our OMS.
See page 44 for information about contractors and joint arrangements.
Preventing incidents We carefully plan our operations, with the aim of identifying potential hazards and having rigorous operating and maintenance practices applied by capable people to manage risks at every stage.
We design our new facilities in line with process safety the application of good design and engineering principles.
We track our safety performance using industry metrics such as the American Petroleum Institute recommended practice 754 and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers recommended practice 456.
See Glossary 43 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 2018 2017 2016 Cyber threats a Tier 1 process safety events 16 18 16 Cyber attacks are on the rise and our industry is subject to evolving risks b from a variety of cyber threat actors, including nation states, criminals, Tier 2 process safety events 56 61 84 c terrorists, hacktivists and insiders.
We have experienced threats to the Oil spills number 124 139 149 security of our digital infrastructure, but none of these had a significant Oil spills contained 63 81 91 impact on our business in 2018.
Oil spills reaching land and water 57 58 58 We have a range of measures to manage this risk, including the use Oil spilled volume thousand litres 538 886 677 of cyber security policies and procedures, security protection tools, Oil unrecovered thousand litres 131 265 311 ongoing detection and monitoring of threats, and testing of response a Tier 1 process safety events are losses of primary containment of greater consequence and recovery procedures.
such as causing harm to a member of the workforce, costly damage to equipment or exceeding defined quantities.
To encourage vigilance among our employees, our cyber security b Tier 2 events are those of lesser consequence.
c training programme covers topics such as email phishing and the correct Number of spills greater than or equal to one barrel 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
classification and handling of our information.
We collaborate closely In 2018 we saw a reduction in the number of tier 1 and tier 2 process with governments, law enforcement and industry peers to understand safety events.
We investigate incidents including near misses.
And we and respond to new and emerging threats.
use leading indicators, such as inspections and equipment tests, to monitor the strength of controls to prevent incidents.
We also use Security and response techniques that help teams to analyse and redesign tasks to reduce the We monitor for hostile actions that could harm our people or disrupt chance of mistakes occurring.
our operations, focusing on areas affected by political and social unrest, terrorism, armed conflict or criminal activity.
We take steps to help Keeping people safe people stay safe when they are travelling on business.
Our 24-hour All our employees and contractors have the responsibility and the response information centre monitors global events and related authority to stop unsafe work.
Our safety rules guide our workers on developments which means we can assess the safety of our people staying safe while performing tasks with the potential to cause most and provide timely advice if there is an emergency.
The rules are aligned with our OMS and focus on areas such as working at heights, lifting operations and driving safety.
We run exercises and drills to test our procedures to help ensure our people are prepared in the event of an emergency.
We conducted a We monitor and report on key workforce personal safety metrics in line two-day oil spill response drill in the UK North Sea involving more than with industry standards.
We include both employees and contractors in 200 people, including regulators.
This was designed to test plans as part our data.
of our annual crisis and continuity management programme.
We also Tragically we suffered one fatality in 2018.
In our lubricants business a held a number of large-scale exercises in the US.
heavy goods driver working for one of our contractors in the US was Working with contractors and partners struck by a passing vehicle while checking a tyre.
We are deeply More than half of the hours worked by BP are carried out by contractors.
saddened by this loss and are working closely with our contractors to Through bridging and other documents, we define the way our safety continue to improve safety and to seek to prevent injuries in our work management system co-exists with those of our contractors to manage together.
For our contractors facing the most serious risks, we 2018 2017 2016 conduct quality, technical, health, safety and security audits before d Recordable injury frequency 0.20 0.22 0.21 awarding contracts.
Once they start work, we continue to monitor their Day away from work case safety performance.
e frequency 0.048 0.055 0.051 Our OMS includes requirements and practices for working with Severe vehicle accident rate 0.04 0.03 0.05 contractors.
Our standard model contracts include health, safety and d Incidents that result in a fatality or injury per 200,000 hours worked.
We expect and encourage our contractors and e Incidents that result in an injury where a person is unable to work for a day shift or more their employees to act in a way that is consistent with our code of per 200,000 hours worked.
conduct and take appropriate action if those expectations, or their We saw an overall decrease in our recordable injury frequency and day contractual obligations, are not met.
away from work case frequency.
Our goals stay the same to have no Our partners in joint arrangements accidents, no harm to people and no damage to the environment.
There In joint arrangements where we are the operator, our OMS, code is always more we can do and we remain focused on achieving better of conduct and other policies apply.
We aim to report on aspects of results today and in the future.
our business where we are the operator as we directly manage the Technology performance of these operations.
We monitor performance and how New technologies are helping us increase the amount and quality of data risk is managed in our joint arrangements, whether we are the operator we gather from our operations and speed up our analysis, allowing us to or not.
For example, our Brazilian biofuels business is spread Where we are not the operator, our OMS is available as a reference across geographically remote locations, so we introduced a digital point for BP businesses when engaging with operators and platform to connect our people and vehicles to a central control room.
We have a group framework to assess and manage This provides 24-hour, real-time information about whats happening, BPs exposure related to safety, operational and bribery and corruption helps us monitor and analyse behaviour and aids improvements around risk from our participation in these types of arrangements.
We also use in-vehicle monitoring systems and appropriate, we may seek to influence how risk is managed in cameras to improve transportation safety.
arrangements where we are not the operator.
Emergency preparedness The scale and spread of BPs operations means we must be prepared to respond to a range of possible disruptions and emergency events.
We maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity management plans and work to build day-to-day response capabilities to support local management of incidents.
44 See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic report performance consistent with the Paris goals.
Subject to shareholder approval at our annual general meeting, we will provide more information on this in future reports.
Climate change Risk management The world needs more energy but with fewer carbon We recognize the significance of the energy transition and the risks and emissions.
BP is playing an active role in meeting opportunities it presents.
As part of their review of BPs strategy, the board and executive team considered risks and opportunities associated this dual challenge.
with climate change and the energy transition, in the context of different paths expressed in the BP Energy Outlook which looks at long-term The Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD was trends and develops projections for world energy markets over the next established by the Financial Stability Board with the aim of improving the two decades.
reporting of climate-related risks and opportunities.
Our reporting provides information supporting the principles of the Under BPs risk management policy and the associated risk TCFD recommended disclosures.
management procedures, our operating businesses are responsible for See bp.
identifying and managing their risks.
Risks which may be identified include potential effects on operations at the asset level, performance at Strategy the business level and developments at the regional level from extreme Our strategy is designed to grow shareholder value while also helping weather or the transition to a lower carbon economy.
to meet the dual challenge.
We believe it is consistent with the climate As part of our annual planning process we review the groups principal goals of the Paris Agreement, which calls for the world to rapidly reduce risks and uncertainties.
Climate change and the transition to a lower greenhouse gas emissions in the context of sustainable development carbon economy has been identified as a principal risk see page 55. and eradicating poverty.
This covers various aspects of how risks associated with the energy A key element of our strategy is our reduce, improve, create transition could manifest such as in the policy, legal and regulatory framework, where we have set measurable, near-term targets for environment, technological developments and market changes.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our own operations and Similarly, physical climate-related risks such as extreme weather ambitions for improving products to help our customers and are covered in our principal risks related to safety and operations.
consumers lower their emissions, and creating low carbon See page 53 for more information on how we manage risk.
In 2019 we are supporting a resolution from a group of institutional investors to describe in our corporate reporting how our strategy is Climate governance BPs governance framework applies equally to the management and committees in BP bring together cross-segment and of the various aspects of climate change and the transition to a cross-functional expertise of relevance to this area, including lower carbon economy.
In addition to the oversight provided by the those set out below.
executive team, the board and relevant committees, various groups BP governance framework See page 69 Renewal committee Reviews strategic, commercial and investment decisions outside of core activity and related to new lines of business.
Chaired by our deputy chief executive.
New energy frontiers steering committee Oversees strategy and development of growth opportunities in low carbon business models that can be scaled up to create new businesses for BP.
Carbon steering group Focuses on strategy, policy, performance oversight and collaboration relating to carbon management activities across the group.
Chaired by our vice president of carbon management.
Upstream carbon Downstream advancing the steering committee energy transition committee Focuses on the delivery of lower carbon plans in the Upstream.
Develops and drives the implementation of advancing the energy Chaired by our chief operating officer of production, transformation transition in the Downstream.
Chaired by our head of technology, and carbon, Upstream.
Downstream and BP chief scientist.
Key: Executive-level committee Cross-functional committee Business and segment committee 45 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 We have set targets and aims to reduce emissions in our operations, Our low carbon ambitions improve our products to help customers reduce their emissions and We aim to advance a low carbon future through what create low carbon businesses.
We are already in action and have made we call our reduce, improve, create framework.
good progress in 2018 against these ambitions.
com sustainability for more information on the actions we are taking and bp.
com targets for specifics on our goals.
Reducing Improving emissions in our operations our products We are targeting zero net growth in our operational emissions out We are continuing to innovate with fuels, lubricants and chemicals that to 2025.
We aim to deliver this through sustainable greenhouse gas can help our customers and consumers lower their emissions.
GHG emissions reductions totalling 3.5Mte by 2025, by targeting a methane intensity of 0.2% and, as necessary, with offsets to keep net emissions growth to zero.
2018 progress 2018 progress Z ero net growth in operational emissions.
C ollaborated with Neste to explore opportunities to increase supply of sustainable aviation fuel.
2.5Mte of sustainable GHG emissions reductions since the beginning of 2016.
This includes actions Launched Castrol GTX ECO, made using a base oil to improve energy efficiency and reduce methane blend of at least 50% re-refined base oil, in the US.
Gave UK drivers the option to offset the CO 2 Methane intensity of 0.2%.
emissions from the fuel they buy from us, through our BPme fuel payment app.
From waste to fuel Weve invested in Fulcrum BioEnergy, which is constructing the first commercial scale waste-to-fuels plant in the US.
The facility aims to use technology, developed by BP and Johnson Matthey, to help convert household rubbish that would otherwise be sent to landfill, into fuel for transport.
Fulcrum, in which BP owns an 8% interest, estimates that when it begins commercial operations, the plant will be able to convert around 175,000 tons of waste into about 11 million gallons of fuel each year.
175,000 tons of waste to 11 million gallons of fuel Detecting methane As a colourless and odourless gas detecting leaks of methane can be challenging.
For several years weve used hand-held infrared cameras to detect small leaks before they become larger ones.
Improvements in technology now make it possible to quantify the emissions that these cameras detect, helping us to better target and prioritize our responses.
We piloted this technology in Azerbaijan and the US in 2018 and plan to deploy the cameras more widely in 2019.
46 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic report performance 2018 progress Creating low carbon businesses I nvested $500 million in low carbon activities, such as FreeWire which supports development of rapid mobile electric vehicle charging.
We are building up our renewable energy portfolio focusing on biofuels, biopower, wind and solar.
And together with our dynamic Worked with OGCI to help progress the Clean Gas venturing arm we are working on multiple fronts through joint Project, see page 48. ventures, creative collaborations and new business models.
As at 31 December 2018 Advancing solar UK Australia Lightsource BP has doubled the number of countries Completed the UKs biggestAwarded the project to provide where it has a presence since December 2017. ever unsubsidized solar power 105MW of solar power to Belfast deal to supply AB InBev, the Snowy Hydro, the countrys Lightsource BP sites Budweiser brewer, with fourth-largest national energy Wales 100MW of solar power at its retailer, through a 15-year UK operations in South Wales power purchase agreement.
US Agreed to bring 25MW of locally generated solar power to western US, Dublin and through new collaborations Amsterdam Limerick in California and New Mexico Milan San Francisco Philadelphia over 20 year terms.
Madrid Cairo Mumbai Brazil Announced plans to develop solar and smart energy storage Chennai solutions for Brazils domestic, commercial and industrial sectors.
So Paulo Sydney Melbourne India Established EverSource Capital Egypt 5 new with Everstone to manage the Formed a joint venture countries Green Growth Equity Fund Europe with Hassan Allam aiming to raise up to $700 million of Extended operations into Utilities to develop and in 2018 investment in low carbon energy the Italian and Iberian operate utility scale infrastructure projects across India.
47 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Metrics part of the project.
This is currently $40 per tonne of CO equivalent, 2 We report direct and indirect greenhouse gas GHG emissions on a with a stress test at a carbon price of $80 per tonne.
Until late January carbon dioxide equivalent CO e basis.
Direct emissions include CO 2019 we used these specific prices in industrialized countries, but have 2 2 and methane from the combustion of fuel and the operation of facilities, now expanded this to apply globally.
and indirect emissions include those resulting from the purchase of Working with others electricity and steam we import into our operations.
We work with peers, non-governmental organizations and academic There was a decrease in our direct GHG emissions in 2018.
The primary institutions to address the climate challenge.
reasons for this include actions taken by our businesses to reduce The Oil and Gas Climate Initiative OGCI currently chaired by our emissions in areas such as flaring, methane and energy efficiency as group chief executive Bob Dudley brings together 13 oil and gas well as operational changes, such as increased gas being captured and companies to increase the ambition, speed and scale of the initiatives exported to the liquefied natural gas facility in Angola.
undertaken by its individual companies to help reduce manmade GHG a Greenhouse gas emissions MteCO e emissions.
OGCI announced a collective methane intensity target 2 for member companies in 2018.
The target aims to reduce the collective 2018 2017 2016 b average methane intensity of the groups aggregated upstream oil and Operational control gas operations to below 0.25% by 2025, compared with the baseline of Direct emissions 48.8 50.5 51.4 0.32% in 2017.
See page 46 for information on BPs methane intensity.
Indirect emissions 5.4 6.1 6.2 c BP is working with OGCI Climate Investments to help progress the BP equity share UKs first commercial full-chain carbon capture, use and storage project.
Direct emissions 46.5 49.4 50.1 The Clean Gas Project plans to capture CO from new efficient gas-fired 2 Indirect emissions 5.7 6.8 6.2 power generation and transport it by pipeline to be stored in a formation a Our approach to reporting GHG emissions broadly follows the IPIECA API IOGP Petroleum under the southern North Sea.
The infrastructure would also allow other Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions.
We calculate CO emissions based on the 2 industries in Teesside to store CO captured from their processes.
The 2 fuel consumption and fuel properties for major sources.
We do 2 not include nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride as project, which is currently undergoing a feasibility study, could be in they are not material to our operations and it is not practical to collect this data.
b Operational control data comprises 100% of emissions from activities that are operated by BP, going beyond the IPIECA guidelines by including emissions from certain other activities such as contracted drilling activities.
c BP equity share data comprises 100% of emissions from subsidiaries and the percentage of emissions equivalent to our share of joint arrangements and associates, other than BPs share of Rosneft.
Managing our impacts The ratio of our total GHG emissions reported on an operational control We work hard to avoid, mitigate and manage our basis to gross production was 0.22teCO e te production in 2018 2017 2 environmental and social impacts over the life of 0.24teCO e te, 2016 0.24teCO e te.
Gross production comprises 2 2 our operations.
upstream production, refining throughput and petrochemicals produced.
Accrediting our lower carbon activities The way our businesses around the world understand and manage To reinforce our ambitions, we implemented our Advancing Low Carbon their environmental and social impacts is set out in our operating accreditation programme, which aims to inspire every part of BP to management system.
This includes requirements on engaging with identify lower carbon opportunities.
stakeholders who may be affected by our activities.
To gain accreditation by BP, each activity must meet certain criteria, In planning our projects, we identify potential impacts from our activities including delivering what we call a better carbon outcome.
This means in areas such as land rights, water use and protected areas.
We use the either reducing GHG emissions, producing less carbon than competitor results of this analysis to identify actions and mitigation measures and or industry benchmarks, providing renewable energy, offsetting carbon implement these in project design, construction and operations.
For produced, furthering research and technology to advance low carbon or example, as part of our exploration activities in So Tom and Prncipe, enabling BP or others to meet their low carbon objectives.
we are using underwater sound recorders and an autonomous vehicle to help understand the distribution and movement of marine mammals.
Deloitte conducts independent assurance on the Advancing Low The outcomes of this will inform our approach to planning for potential Carbon activities, including assessing the application of BPs process future activities.
and criteria for accrediting activities, and GHG emissions offset and Every year our major operating sites review their performance and set saved within the programme.
These can include measures on flaring, A total of 52 activities met the criteria for accreditation or reaccreditation greenhouse gas emissions and the use of water.
These include emission reductions in our See page 44 for information on our oil spill performance.
operations, carbon neutral products, more efficient ships, investments in electrification and support for low carbon technologies.
com advancinglowcarbon for details on the programme We review risks related to management of water in our portfolio and Deloittes assurance statement.
each year, considering the local availability, quantity, quality and regulatory requirements.
In our gas operations in Oman an area Calling for a price on carbon where the availability of fresh water is extremely scarce we withdraw BP believes that well-designed carbon pricing by governments provides brackish water under permit from a local underground aquifer that is only the right incentives for everyone energy producers and consumers used for industrial purposes.
We desalinate the water and use it for alike to play their part in reducing emissions.
It makes energy drilling and hydraulic fracturing.
We completed a modelling study in 2018 efficiency more attractive and makes lower carbon solutions, such to assess the sustainability of this water supply.
The results of the study as renewables and carbon capture, use and storage, more cost have been incorporated into a long-term water management plan to competitive.
We use a carbon price when evaluating our plans for certain large new Air quality projects and also those for which emissions costs would be a material We put measures in place to manage our air emissions, in line with regulations and industry guidelines designed to protect the health 48 See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic report performance of local communities and the environment.
In our shipping business, we We disclose information on payments to governments for our upstream introduced three new liquefied natural gas carriers to our fleet in 2018. activities on a country-by-country and project basis under national The carriers are designed to use approximately 25% less fuel and emit reporting regulations such as those in effect in the UK.
We also make less nitrogen oxides than our older ships.
payments to governments in connection with other parts of our business such as the transporting, trading, manufacturing and Hydraulic fracturing marketing of oil and gas.
We aim to apply responsible practices to the design of our wells to mitigate potential risks associated with hydraulic fracturing.
For example, We support transparency in the flow of revenue from oil and gas we install multiple layers of steel into each well and cement above and activities to governments.
This helps citizens hold public authorities below any freshwater aquifers.
We then test the integrity of each well to account for the way they use funds received through taxes and before we begin the fracturing process and again at completion.
Hydraulic fracturing creates very small earth tremors that are rarely felt We are a founding member of the Extractive Industries Transparency at the surface.
Before we start work we assess the likelihood of our Initiative EITI, which requires disclosure of payments made to and operations causing such activity.
For example, we work to identify received by governments in relation to oil, gas and mining activity.
natural faults in the rock.
This analysis informs our development plans As part of the EITI, we work with governments, non-governmental for drilling and hydraulic fracturing activity, and we seek to mitigate this organizations and international agencies to improve the transparency risk through the design of our operations.
In 2018 we continued to support EITI implementation in a number of countries where we operate, including See bp.
com environment for more information.
com tax for our approach to tax and our payments to governments report.
Value to society We aim to have a positive and enduring impact Human rights on the communities in which we operate.
We are committed to respecting the rights and In supplying energy, we contribute to economies around the world by employing local staff, helping to develop national and local suppliers, dignity of all people when conducting our business.
and through the funds we pay to governments from taxes and other We respect internationally recognized human rights as set out in agreements.
the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Additionally, our social investments support community efforts to Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at increase incomes and improve standards of living.
These include the rights of our workforce and those living in $114.2 million in social investment in 2018 2017 $89.5 million, 2016 communities potentially affected by our activities.
In India we developed a training programme to help We set out our commitments in our human rights policy and our code motorcycle mechanics working in small enterprises develop additional of conduct.
Our operating management system contains guidance skills in business management and customer service.
Since it began in on respecting the rights of workers and community members.
2009, the programme has trained more than 200,000 mechanics.
We are incorporating the UN Guiding Principles on Business and We aim to recruit our workforce from the community or country in Human Rights, which set out how companies should prevent, address which we operate.
We also run programmes to build the skills of and remedy human rights impacts, into our business processes.
Our businesses and develop the local supply chain in a number of focus areas include the ethical recruitment and working conditions of locations.
For example, in 2018 we launched an initiative with oil contracted workforces at our sites, responsible security, community and gas peers in Senegal to support local company efforts to achieve health and livelihoods, and mechanisms for workers and communities to international standards and improve their ability to bid for work with raise their concerns.
In 2018 our actions included: Nationals employed Reviewing the risk of modern slavery in prioritized locations, including on-site assessments in some cases and addressing findings.
Working with a number of our peers to create an oil and gas industry framework for human rights supplier assessments with a particular focus on labour rights.
Azerbaijan 91% Egypt 78% Developing clear expectations on labour rights and a systematic Trinidad Oman 77% & Tobago 96% approach to modern slavery risk management to build into business Indonesia 96% systems and processes.
Angola 87% Continuing to develop capability on modern slavery and labour rights for our employees and selected contractors, as well as taking steps to raise worker awareness of their rights.
Assessing the practices of private security contractors and the way we See bp.
com society for more information on how we generate work with public security forces in our operations in Georgia, in line value to society.
with our continued implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Tax and transparency Security and Human Rights.
We are committed to complying with tax laws in a responsible manner See bp.
com humanrights for more information about our approach to and having open and constructive relationships with tax authorities.
We paid $7.5 billion in income and production taxes to governments in 2018 2017 $5.8 billion, 2016 $2.2 billion.
49 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Anti-bribery and corruption BP operates in parts of the world where bribery and corruption present a high risk.
We have a responsibility to our employees, our shareholders Ethical conduct and to the countries and communities in which we do business to be We are committed to conducting our business in an ethical and lawful in all our work.
Our code of conduct explicitly prohibits engaging in bribery or corruption in any form.
ethical, transparent way, using our values and code of conduct to guide us.
Our group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures include measures and guidance to assess risks, understand relevant Our values laws and report concerns.
They apply to all BP-operated businesses.
We provide training to employees appropriate to the nature or location of their role.
A total of 10,957 employees completed anti-bribery and corruption training in 2018 2017 12,500, 2016 13,000.
We assess any exposure to bribery and corruption risk when working with suppliers and business partners.
Where appropriate, we put in place a risk mitigation plan or we reject them if we conclude that risks are too high.
We also conduct anti-bribery compliance audits on selected suppliers when contracts are in place.
For example, our upstream business conducts audits for a number of suppliers in higher-risk regions to assess their conformance with our anti-bribery and corruption contractual requirements.
Potential areas for improvement are shared Our values represent the qualities and actions we wish to see in BP.
with our suppliers and where necessary, this enables us to work with They inform the way we do business and the decisions we make.
We them to find ways to strengthen their procedures.
We issued a total of use these values as part of our recruitment, promotion and individual 27 audit reports in 2018 2017 36, 2016 25.
We take corrective action performance management processes.
with suppliers and business partners who fail to meet our expectations, See bp.
com values for more information.
which may include terminating contracts.
The BP code of conduct Lobbying and political donations Our code of conduct is based on our values and sets clear expectations We prohibit the use of BP funds or resources to support any political for how we work at BP.
It applies to all BP employees and members of candidate or party.
We recognize the rights of our employees to participate in the political Employees, contractors or other third parties who have a question process and these rights are governed by the applicable laws in the about our code of conduct or see something that they feel is unethical or countries in which we operate.
For example, in the US we provide unsafe can discuss these with their managers, supporting teams, works administrative support for the BP employee political action committee councils where relevant or through OpenTalk, a confidential helpline PAC, which is a non-partisan committee that encourages voluntary operated by an independent company.
employee participation in the political process.
All BP employee PAC contributions are reviewed for compliance with federal and state law A total of 1,712 concerns or enquiries were recorded in 2018 2017 and are publicly reported in accordance with US election laws.
The most commonly raised concerns were about fair treatment of people, workplace harassment We work with governments on a range of issues that are relevant and protecting BPs assets.
to our business, from regulatory compliance, to understanding our tax liabilities, to collaborating on community initiatives.
The way in which we We take steps to identify and correct areas of non-conformance and interact with those governments depends on the legal and regulatory take disciplinary action where appropriate.
In 2018 our businesses framework in each country.
dismissed 50 employees for non-conformance with our code of conduct or unethical behaviour 2017 70, 2016 109.
This excludes dismissals of We are members of multiple industry associations that offer staff employed at our retail service stations.
opportunities to share good practices and collaborate on issues of importance to our sector.
We aim for alignment between our policies See bp.
com codeofconduct for more information.
and those of trade associations, but understand that associations positions reflect a compromise of the assorted views of the membership.
Gulf of Mexico oil spill The term of appointment of the ethics monitor, who was appointed under the administrative agreement with the US Environmental Protection Agency, came to an end in March 2019.
In his final report the ethics monitor confirmed that BP had successfully completed the recommendations he had made.
50 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic report performance At the end of 2018 we had five female directors 2017 3, 2016 3 on our board.
Our nomination committee remains mindful of diversity when considering potential candidates.
Our people For more information on the composition of our board, see page 58.
BPs success depends on the wholehearted Workforce by gender contribution of a talented and diverse workforce.
Members as at 31 December Male Female Female % Board directors 9 5 36 Executive team 11 2 15 Group leaders 286 89 24 Subsidiary directors 1,161 233 17 All employees 47,171 25,824 35 A total of 24% of our group leaders came from countries other than the UK and the US in 2018 2017 24%, 2016 23%.
Inclusion BP is committed to creating a positive and empowering workplace in which all employees feel valued for the work they do and the impact they make.
Our goal is to create an environment of inclusion and acceptance, where everyone is treated equally and without discrimination.
BP employees a To promote an inclusive culture we provide leadership training and Number of employees at 31 December 2018 2017 2016 support employee-run advocacy groups in areas such as gender, Upstream 16,900 17,700 18,700 ethnicity, sexual orientation and disability.
As well as bringing employees Downstream 42,700 42,100 41,800 together, these groups support our recruitment programmes and Other businesses and corporate 13,400 14,200 14,000 provide feedback on the potential impact of policy changes.
Each Total 73,000 74,000 74,500 group is sponsored by a senior executive.
Service station staff 17,400 16,800 16,200 We made progress in a number of important areas in 2018.
For example, Agricultural, operational and we worked with MyPlus, a disability consultancy, to increase our seasonal workers in Brazil 3,400 4,300 4,600 understanding of the needs of disabled candidates in our application and Total excluding service station hiring processes.
And we launched our gender transition guidelines to staff and workers in Brazil 52,200 52,900 53,700 support employees who are transitioning, or helping someone who is.
For more information see Financial statements Note 35.
We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, Our industry relies on creative and scientific thinking to solve some of promotion, training and reward for all employees regardless of the worlds biggest energy problems.
We focus on attracting and ethnicity, national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, marital developing innovative and capable individuals, while also maintaining status, disability, or any other characteristic protected by applicable laws.
Where existing employees become disabled, our policy is to provide The group people committee helps facilitate the group chief executives continued employment, training and occupational assistance oversight of policies relating to employees.
In 2018 the committee where needed.
discussed remuneration policy, progress in our diversity and inclusion Employee engagement programme, modernizing and strengthening our attractiveness as an Managers hold regular team and one-to-one meetings with their staff, employer, our talent and learning programmes and long-term people complemented by formal processes through works councils in parts of priorities.
We regularly communicate with employees on factors that Attraction and retention affect BPs performance, and seek to maintain constructive relationships A total of 296 graduates joined BP in 2018 2017 314, 2016 231.
We with labour unions formally representing our employees.
were named the UKs highest-ranking recruiter in the oil and gas sector To better understand how employees feel about BP, we conduct an in The Times newspapers Top 100 Graduate Employer rankings in 2018. annual survey.
The overall employee engagement score in 2018 was We invest in employee development with an average spend of around 66%.
Pride in working for BP was at the highest level $3,200 per person.
This includes online and classroom-based courses in a decade at 76% in 2018. and resources, supported by a wide range of on-the-job learning and mentoring programmes.
The area where our employees scored us as needing attention was in the efficiency of our processes and ways of working.
We know we still Diversity have work to do to streamline our processes and drive the benefits of We are committed to making our workplaces reflect the communities digitization throughout BP.
Share ownership The gender balance across BP as a whole is steadily improving, with We encourage employee share ownership and have a number of women representing 35% of BPs total population 2017 34%, 2016 employee share plans in place.
For example, we operate a ShareMatch 33%.
We are working to improve these numbers further by, for plan in more than 50 countries, matching BP shares purchased by our example, developing mentoring, sponsorship and coaching programmes employees.
We also operate a group-wide discretionary share plan, to help more women advance.
But we still have work to do at the which allows employee participation at different levels globally and is executive and senior levels.
linked to the companys performance.
com ukgenderpaygap for data and more information on our gender pay gap in the UK.
See Glossary 51 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Modernizing the whole group Smart glasses used across BPX Energy Using wearable technologies We are using augmented reality AR New technologies are helping devices such as smart glasses across to modernize our operations BPX Energy.
Technicians can use the and improve safety, performance glasses to transmit real-time video to experts and efficiency right across our anywhere in the business and they can then Digital vests business.
And we are testing a return AR-enabled instruction back to the In Oman, where temperatures can reach technician all while keeping their hands range of wearable technologies to 55C, we are testing technologies such free.
We are now using the mobile platform understand how they can support as biometric vests to protect our people to troubleshoot equipment, conduct safety our people in a variety of roles.
Working verifications and deliver remote training.
in extreme heat can trigger fatigue, This is helping increase productivity and dehydration and stress and this can contributing to improvements in the safety affect safety and effective performance.
and efficiency of our operations.
The lightweight vest is designed to prevent this by monitoring location and core body temperature and transmitting data about heart and respiratory rates.
It sends an alert if there is a potential concern or a real emergency.
As technologies like these evolve, we will continue to trial them in our operations, so that we can roll out those that are the best fit.
Temperatures in Oman can reach 55C 52 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
