Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Enabling responsible behaviour Playing a positive role in the communities in which we live and work is important to us.
We use legitimate tax reliefs for the purpose for which they were Community intended and aim to pay the right amount of tax in the territories We look to build relationships with organisations that can create in which we operate.
We believe in fostering professional working access to opportunity and we have built partnerships with charities relationships with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC and other tax and social enterprises that cover the whole of our office network.
authorities and we work with industry bodies and HMRC on supporting initiatives to reduce complexity and unintended In England, we continued our existing relationship with Enabling commercial consequences in the development of tax legislation.
Enterprise, whose vision is that one day every student will leave school equipped with the skills, workplace experience and Ethical investments aspirations they need to succeed.
See the panel on page 43 to read about an example of our worktogether.
We also play a role in enabling clients to behave responsibly, by providing portfolios that take their ethical investment We also continued our association with the Winning Scotland preferences into account see our Environmental, Social and Foundation, helping young people in Scotland build vital skills Governance Reference Guide on our Investor Relations website.
Supplier initiatives In Ireland, we launched a new partnership with An Cosn, which aims to empower people of all ages through education.
We also The Group is largely UK-based and provides financial services.
continued our activities with Career Ready, which prepares young Itdoes not act as a producer, manufacturer or retailer of any people for the world of work, hosting events inour London and physical goods.
As a provider of financial services, we do not have Ipswich offices, as well as providing a small team of mentors from a long or complex supply chain our main suppliers are providers our Cardiff office.
of support services such as information technology, market data relating to financial assets and property services.
Throughout our office network there is a clear distinction between those community activities with a charitable or socialpurpose, While we consider our suppliers to be at relatively low risk of and those whose purpose is primarily to generate business.
engaging in practices of modern slavery and human trafficking, we nevertheless remain committed to preventing the occurrence Every office has a Corporate Responsibility CR ambassador of any such practices both in our business and in our supply chain.
whose role it is to ensure that everyone in the office has the opportunity to volunteer or support their chosen charitable The Groups Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement endeavour.
With the support of the Board, a full-day workshop and can be found on our website.
conference was held in London during May, bringing together the CR ambassadors and the senior management team, to exchange The environment CR best practice ideas and create a sense of cohesion and At Brewin Dolphin, our main environmental impacts are largely coherence in our CR efforts.
through UK-based travel and the consumption of resources and emissions at the buildings in our branch network.
We do all we can Tax strategy to reduce any such impacts through sensible policies and initiatives Our tax strategy, as published on our website, outlines our including Green IT and recyclingprogrammes.
See page 78 for governance arrangements, our approach to tax risk and details of Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
taxplanning, and how we interact with tax authorities.
Wemanage In a number of specific initiatives during 2018, we continued to tax risk within our Group-wide risk management and governance drive down the use of paper in our office and when communicating framework.
As befits our operating structure and straightforward with our clients.
Our clients can now use the MyBrewin client portal business model, ourappetite for tax risk is low.
to view their portfolios and valuations, if they wish and this is While we are mindful to run our business in a cost-effective manner proving to have an impact in this area.
in line with our obligations to our shareholders, we do not In addition, we implemented a drive to eradicate the use participate in aggressive tax planning or condone abusive tax of disposable cups throughout our branches by providing practices which would contravene our ethics and culture.
For our full environmental statement, please see page 78.
co. uk CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Community activities Small grants Payroll giving Under this scheme, employees can nominate community All of our employees get the chance to contribute to charity organisations with which they are involved to receive a grant directly from their pre-tax salary.
Brewin Dolphin matches of up to 1,000, a donation that can be highly meaningful for the donations by up to 20 every month.
Matching donations totalled individual and office involved as well as the recipient.
During the 56,000 in 2018, up 30% on the previous year.
As a result of our year, 55 organisations received small grants.
peoples efforts, we received the Charities Aid Foundation Gold Award for Payroll Giving for the third successive year.
Fundraising matching To help maximise the amazing work of our people, the Company donates an additional 100 if they raise over 100 or 200 if they raise more than 1,000.
During 2018, 176 employees raised an incredible 104,500, boosted by 20,450 in match-funding.
Glasgow An employee from our Glasgow office raised 16,500 for The Prince & Princess of Wales Hospice in Glasgow by taking part in its annual A Little Less Strictly Come Dancing fundraiser.
As one of the charitys ambassadors, he took some persuading to take part, but once signed up his commitment to training and taking himself out of his comfort zone was immense.
BBC Strictly stars Oti Mabuse and dance partner Giovanni Pernice also hit the floor.
Collectively the dancers helped raise more than 100,000 for the cause the most ever raised since the dance event was launched in 2010.
The dancers wowed the 600-strong sell-out audience, which was hosted by Carol Smillie and David Farrell.
Volunteering During the year, 41% of our people volunteered full or half days of their time to get involved in their communities.
We are already ahead of our 2020 target 40%, a fantastic achievement.
Here are just some of their stories: Birmingham Newcastle London Four employees from our Birmingham A team from our Newcastle office went to Two teams from the London office spent office joined close to 90 other volunteers hostels, breakfast and after-school clubs a day at Oasis Hub Waterloo with to plant 1,000 trees in a single day for to help the FareShare charity distribute Waterloo Foodbank, which provides Forest of Hearts, providing a perfect excess food across the North East.
They emergency food for people in crisis.
The environment for the at-risk insects.
also took out-of-date fruit to a biomass volunteers spent their time weighing, plant a far cleaner solution than landfill.
sorting and packing food parcels.
