Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information OUR PEOPLE How employee engagement translates to performance Our experience has demonstrated that having an engaged workforce contributes tothe Groups ability to meet its growth ambitions.
Our culture and values Employees We launched our Group values Genuine, Expert, Ambitious We believe that an inclusive culture in which employees are highly in 2016 with the widespread involvement of employees and the engaged enables everyone to thrive.
Our aim is that all employees feedback of clients and prospective clients.
We are working on feel valued, listened to and able to contribute to their team and embedding these values into the organisation.
In 2018, we ran Brewin Dolphins goals.
As a market leader in our industry we want anew Group-wide scheme, The People Awards.
Through peer to attract and retain the best talent because we recognise the recognition, they reward employees who live our values or importance of diverse and creative thinking to our future success.
contribute to their communities in an exceptional way.
Our human resources HR policies and guidance, and corporate We received 150 nominations, all made by employees.
From responsibility CR activities contribute to high levels of employee these, our eight-strong judging panel, representing all levels of engagement and wellbeing.
This helps us to deliver the best seniority, chose 46 winners.
These people were the guests of outcomes for our employees and drive growth.
honour at our first-ever Brewin Dolphin People Awards dinner How we recruit, develop and retain talented people regardless atEdinburgh Castle in January.
of their background is important.
Having a workforce comprising At the same event, 57 employees received long-service awards motivated and engaged people at every level enables us to deliver marking at least 25 years at Brewin Dolphin, emphasising the against our growth KPIs, particularly when it comes to growing Groups strength at retaining talent.
client numbers and the proportion of their wealth that we manage.
At 83, our employee engagement survey score was one Diversity and inclusion percentage point pp higher in 2018 than the previous year, and Our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workforce starts atthe seven pp above the benchmark for the financial services industry.
top, with the aim of enabling diversity throughout the organisation This was pleasing, as strong employee engagement leads to to gain permanent momentum.
Getting the gender balance right people showing more commitment to the Group, their colleagues atthe top of the Group sets the tone forthe rest of the business.
It also demonstrates high levels of pride, loyalty and Our Chairman and CEO are members of the 30% Club, withits advocacy in the organisation, and delivers the tangible advantage goal of achieving a minimum of 30% women on FTSE boards and of contributing to low rates of employee attrition.
This reduces the senior teams.
We have already reached this target for both our costs of recruitment and onboarding, while enabling our clients to Board and senior management team and will maintain our focus gain from the benefits of a settled and experienced workforce.
We have also signed the Women in Finance The 2018 survey continued to show key drivers of engagement Charter, which commits us and other signatory firms to working are above the average for our sector.
Forexample, The interests with HM Treasury to build a more balanced and fair financial of the firm are aligned with theinterests of our clients was 10pp services industry.
above the financial servicesindustry benchmark: and My role makes the best use of the skills and abilities that I have was 8pp Such initiatives ensure we are focused on increasing gender above the same benchmark.
diversity at senior management and leadership levels.
In2018, wewere ranked number 27 among companies inthe FTSE 250 As mentioned earlier, we also saw a significant rise in satisfaction forthe proportion of women on our Board byHampton Alexander, with the infrastructure and resources available to employees, the independent review body that aims to increase the number of supporting their ability to deliver what clients and our business women on FTSE boards, Executive Committees and their need.
This included a very high rise 11pp in satisfaction with the directreports.
equipment provided across the organisation, driven by the desktop We are committed to increasing the cognitive diversity of our workspace refresh seepage23.
Board and senior management teams.
To this end, we seek to The survey results also emphasised how important it is to appoint people from a wide range of backgrounds with broad employees that they are given the opportunity to contribute more experience of the financial services industry and the evolving widely to society through corporate responsibility activities.
single area of greatest over-performance in the 2018 survey related We are also members of other organisations promoting diversity to the opportunity to do good at Brewin Dolphin, 19pp ahead of in several forms, including the Disability Forum, Business in the the financial services industry benchmark.
There was also a strong Community and the Outstanding LGBT business network.
and improving score relating to the opportunity for team members to be involved inCR activities.
co. uk OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED More broadly, our Diversity and Inclusion Committee see page 51 Learning and development for more information has a programme of work to ensure that we We are proud of all the opportunities we offer our people to learn are focused on diversity in all its aspects.
We consider our learning and development to be activities underpin several organisation-wide initiatives, the most best-in-class and a competitive differentiator.
For our client-facing mature of which is our Women at Brewin initiative.
Now in its professionals, we ran several initiatives to developthe talent and third year, this is a powerful exemplar for the organisation, create the skills we need for the future.
These included: demonstrating how a new initiative can rapidly become the norm.
the second year of our Financial Planning Academy, During 2018, a nationwide Women at Brewin roadshow enabled part-funded by the Apprenticeship Levy to meet the needs female employees to discuss the issues that matter to them as of those individuals keen to become paraplanners.
At the they progress their careers.
time of writing, 24 salaried trainees representing people from diverse backgrounds and an age range of between In a range of further internal initiatives, we continued to run 19 and 48 are experiencing this innovative approach to Diversity & Inclusion workshops, which are now established professional development.
asan ongoing feature of our development and training programme.
We also run Diversity & Discrimination training forall managers to continued investments of time and resources to ensure those create awareness of issues they may encounter in the workplace advisers who are already qualified are well trained to give the and to foster an inclusive workenvironment.
This is an area we take very seriously, and we are committed to continuous investment in the professional We continued our mentoring initiative for LGBT employees, which development of our people.
enables people to discuss issues of importance to them.
We have putting 12 individuals through a sponsored MBA programme at also joined the cross-company 30% Club mentoring scheme with the Cranfield School of Business to enable them to fulfil their 10 mentors and 10 mentees.
Recruitment is a vital area of focus for diversity issues, and we 16 participants joined our Executive Leadership Programme, were pleased over the last year to have recruited equal numbers going through an intensive 12 months of immersive learning of women and men.
We are working hard to ensure that there is which included input from psychologists, strategists and leaders no bias in our recruitment activities, including how we present the from other industries.
Brewin Dolphin brand in our advertising.
our year-long emerging talent programme, which aims to give Pay and performance our up-and-coming talent the skills they need for long-term success.
With 53 participants in 2018, this is part of our We continued to strengthen the link between performance continuous focus on assuring the quality of our future andreward with strong performance management processes, managers, from junior roles right through to the most senior including training for all managers.
We are committed to ensuring our reward packages reflect best an internal Aspire management training programme, market practice.
For example, this year we have added amedical involving 100 managers.
service that allows 24 7 access to a doctor, either online or by phone.
See below for details of further new wellbeing initiatives.
In addition, we continued work on preparing for the revised SeniorManagement and Certification Regime SMCR, which is We are confident that we pay men and women the same for due for implementation in late 2019.
We formed a project team equivalent work.
Our gender pay gap is a reflection that we have and initiated training to prepare our professionals for this key more men in senior roles.
Narrowing the gender pay gap will take regulatorychange.
time for us and the wider financial services industry, but we are actively working towards this goal.
Succession planning We continue to plan proactively for succession.
Our track Employee wellbeing record of developing internal leaders is impressive, with the Care for the wellbeing of our people is an important part of three client-facing leaders on the Executive Committee having ourculture.
been promoted from within the Group.
We conduct formal succession planning see page 52 not only for the Board and the Our engagement survey score in this regard is 9pp above the Executive Committee but also further down into the organisation to financial services industry benchmark of 73, following the launch create the pipeline of tomorrow.
This has resulted in our recent of a new intranet site through which we deliver advice, guidance Head of Office appointments for Bristol, Reigate and our new and information on how to access public services and employee WestEnd office coming from within the Group.
This was supported by events in our London, Edinburgh and Newcastle offices featuring information sessions and resilience workshops.
We are in theprocess of training mental health first aiders for all ouroffices.
