Business Environment Business Environment Principal Group risks A summary of all the risk factors including the Overview Time frame principal risks which are monitored by the The principal risks that may affect the Group Short term Board through the Groups risk register is set are set out on the following pages.
out in the Additional disclosures section on Medium term Each risk is considered in the context of the pages 270 to 284.
Long term Groups strategy, as set out in this Strategic @ Assessment of Group risk Report on pages 8 and 9.
Following a Strategic impact description of each risk, its potential impact During the year, the Directors have carried Growth and management by the Group is out a robust assessment of the principal risks summarised.
Clear accountability is attached and uncertainties facing the Group, including Productivity to each risk through the risk owner.
those that would threaten its business model, Winning organisation future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Group has identified risks and is actively monitoring and taking action to manage the Sustainability The principal risks facing the Group have risks.
This section focuses on those risks that remained broadly unchanged over the past the Directors believe to be the most important @ year with regards to Marketplace, Excise and Considered in viability statement after assessment of the likelihood and Tax, Operations, Regulation and Litigation Yes potential impact on the business.
Due to improved pricing delivery these risks are within the control of the Group over recent years and better geographical No and other risks besides those listed may affect diversity following the acquisition of RAI the Groups performance.
Some risks may be the inability to obtain price increases and unknown at present.
Other risks, currently impact of increases on consumer affordability regarded as less material, could become thresholds is no longer a principal risk.
The viability statement below provides a The risks listed in this section and the activities broader assessment of long-term solvency being undertaken to manage them should and liquidity.
The Directors have considered be considered in the context of the Groups a number of factors that may affect the internal control framework.
This is described resilience of the Group.
Except for the risk in the section on risk management and injury, illness or death in the work place the internal control in the corporate governance Directors have also assessed the potential statement on pages 68 to 70.
This section impact of the principal risks that may impact should also be read in the context ofthe the Groups viability.
@ Denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part cautionary statement on page 296. ofBATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
@ Viability statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, owing to the inherent uncertainty arising due to ongoing litigation and regulation the period over which the Directors consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability is three years.
In making this assessment the Directors have considered the Groups continued strong cash generation from operating activities.
This assessment included a robust review of the principal risks that may impact the Groups viability as indicated on pages 49 to 52 which are considered, with the mitigating actions, at least once a year.
The Directors also took account of the Groups operational and financial processes, which cover both short-term 1-2 year financial forecasts, 2-3 year capacity plans and longer-term strategic planning.
The assessment included reverse stress testing core drivers that underpin the specific risks to ensure the business is able to continue in operation, whilst not breaching the required gross interest cover of 4.5 times see page 39.
Each impact would, individually, have to be between 5 times and 10 times worse than a prudent annual forecast, or would all have to arise simultaneously with no mitigating or corrective actions to affect the Groups ability to meet the liabilities as they fall due.
Due to the level of borrowings carried on the balance sheet, the Group may be exposed to movements in interest rates.
The Directors noted that, as stated in note 23 in the Notes on the Accounts, the Group sets a minimum of 50% of interest rate as fixed on shortto medium-term borrowings, minimising the risk of interest rate fluctuation impacting viability over the period.
At 31 December 2018, the ratio of floating to fixed rate borrowings was 21:79 2017: 19:81.
The Directors noted that the Group would be able to adjust certain capital requirements, including but not limited to the investment in the Groups manufacturing infrastructure in the short term and the 6 billion credit facility 2018 undrawn, to mitigate the impact of the effect ofthe above principal risks, each of which have specific mitigation activities as disclosed on pages 49 to 52.
The Group is subject to inherent uncertainties with regards to regulatory change and litigation, the outcome of which may have a bearing on the Groups viability.
The Group maintains, as referred to in note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts Contingent Liabilities and Financial Commitments, that, whilst it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case, the defences of the Groups companies to all the various claims are meritorious on both law and the facts.
If an adverse judgment is entered against any of the Groups companies in any case, an appeal may be made, the duration of which can be reasonably expected to last for a number of years.
48 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
