Strategic Report HOW SUSTAINABILITY CREATES VALUE We continue to deliver strong economic, social and environmental performance Aligned to the corporate strategy, our 2020 sustainability strategy We provide clear guidance on the high social, environmental and is built around four focus areas, which address major social, ethical standards we expect of employees and suppliers through economic and environmental trends to create value for our policies such as our Supplier Code of Conduct, Local Charter and stakeholders and the business.
The effectiveness of our strategy and policies can be seen in our strong social and environmental performance, which reduces risks and creates positive outcomes.
Customer Orientation Right Places Capital Efficiency Expert People Wellbeing Community Futureproofing Skills and opportunity Create places that promote Make a positive contribution Protect and enhance asset value Develop skills and opportunities health, improve productivity locally and behave so our places through environmental stewardship, to help local people and and increase enjoyment are considered part of the including energy generation and businesses grow local community efficiency, materials innovation and flood risk reduction Customers Communities Shareholders Partners Occupiers and people Local people and organisations Investors and co-investors Local authorities, suppliers at our places and employees 2018 highlights include We design for wellbeing in 7,580 children participated in our 17% increase in renewable 742 local people progressed everything we do.
This includes Young Readers Programme with energy generated by solar into jobs and 159 employers collaborating with suppliers to the National Literacy Trust and panels at our places this year recruited through Fort Kinnaird promote a culture of wellbeing customers, across 25 retail centres to 800,000 kWh, with more Recruitment & Skills Centre, at our places.
New facilities and three London campuses.
We also including our customers.
We launched at Broadgate support procured 97% of all electricity support this as part of Bright the wellbeing of construction from certified renewable Lights, our skills and We know that when children workers, designed by local sources, as an RE100 partner.
enjoy reading and have books students at the University of of their own at home, they do East London.
better at school, at work and in It is encouraging to see large Excellent service.
We are able life: yet a third of children left commercial real estate to turn recruitment around Theres real enthusiasm primary school last year unable investors like British Land very quickly due to filling our from the team for their new to read well.
Our partnership seeking to reduce their carbon interview slots immediately facilities, which have the feel with British Land takes us to footprints and futureproof following advertising our of a high street restaurant.
the very heart of this issue.
Jeff Tidmarsh Jonathan Douglas John Macdonald-Brown HR Manager Broadgate Framework Design Director of the National CEO of Syzygy Renewables Marks & Spencer, Fort Kinnaird Manager at Sir Robert McAlpine Literacy Trust 24 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Case studies: sustainability in action Input Meadowhall How our integrated 60m approach to sustainability refurbishment investment including 51 million enhanced our construction spend, applying placemaking expertise refurbishment of to transform the look and feel of the centre Meadowhall this year.
Output 69% 1 i n 3 of construction spend construction jobs were awarded to firms within filled by people living 25 miles, including small inSheffield local businesses Outcomes 36m boost for the regional Contributing to unanimous economy, including planning support for the 26 million for small leisure extension businesses 400 24 jobs for Sheffield apprenticeships supported residents or created through the Meadowhall refurbishment Input Broadgate How Broadgate Connect, 325,000 part of our Bright Lights invested in Broadgate Connect since 2012, along skills and employment withsupport from British Land management programme, has created tangible outcomes in the local community since 2012.
Output 264 East London jobseekers received employability training, building their skills Outcomes 3.7m 22 social value added Broadgate suppliers through upskilling and and occupiers getting jobseekers into recruited talent employment 262 East London jobseekers Helping secure the supported into jobs and skills our business, supply 24 into apprenticeships, chain and customers creating positive futures need for the future for themselves For more on Principal risks, see For more on Sustainability performance For more on Sustainability, including pages 52 to 55. measures, see pages 175 to 176. strategy, performance and policies, see w w w. britishland.
com sustainabilit y British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25
