Our stakeholders As well as our people, our main stakeholders are customers, communities, lenders, pension schemes, suppliers, government and regulatory bodies.
Our people Awards People are the key to transforming our business.
We Once again were in The Times Top 100 Graduate want BT to be a place where people feel engaged Employers.
Were one of only three companies in the and inspired to be the best they can be.
We want IT and telecoms sector to feature in the top 100. them to use their skills and our technology to deliver great products and services for customers, Recognition communities and societies around the world.
Weve been named large employer of the year at Our people strategy is summed up by our ambition to be a great the Scottish Training Federation and the BPP awards, place to work.
We want to deliver a great customer experience by and creative and digital employer of the year at the getting our employee experience right.
That means making BT a Asian apprentice awards.
place where our people can do brilliant things.
At the heart of this are our values.
Were extremely proud our apprenticeship programmes have recently been graded excellent in They guide our decisions and behaviours.
all areas in the latest Education Scotland audit.
All of our people have a role to play in bringing our values to life wherever they are and whatever job they do.
investing for growth We never stop learning whether thats on the job or in face-toour workforce face training.
Our digital academy platform enables our people to At 31 March 2018 we had 105,800 full-time equivalent FTE solve problems and share knowledge and ideas with colleagues.
employees in 59 countries, with 82,200 based in the UK.
Its how we adapt to a changing world and rise to tomorrows As our business evolves to meet our customers needs, we aim to challenges.
This year weve launched these new learning reskill and redeploy our people to avoid redundancies where possible.
programmes: Last year in the UK we redeployed almost 850 people, letting us keep experienced people with the skills we need for the future.
More than a A refreshed induction for third of our redeployed people are in engineering or customer service.
Global new joiner new hires, globally.
Weve Weve further developed their skills through training programmes.
programme rolled out corporate induction events and launched a new hiring talented people website for new joiners, Weve increased awareness of BT as a brilliant employer by which gets 14,000 visits a publishing engaging and informative careers content on social month.
In 2017 we were recognised by Marketing Week as one of the Best Places For Marketeers To Work.
Our content is continually liked and shared across social media and A suite of foundation-level Business Essentials weve had over 1.3 million visits to our careers site.
online learning resources for everyone in BT, covering 18 This year, excluding acquisitions, we hired almost 14,100 people, of core skills.
These workshops help Management Essentials Weve hired almost 2,400 engineers into Openreach as improving people managers to have the quality of our customer relationships remains central to our better conversations with people strategy.
The online platform helps them get to Finally, we have converted almost 840 skilled agency workers to grips with the fundamentals permanent employees because we recognise how important it is to of managing people at BT.
keep experience inside our business.
hiring more apprentices Following 2016s launch of the Fibre Academy and showcase, weve We hired more than 2,100 new apprentices across the group in opened a new training centre called Open Street.
This is more than double the previous years intake, Openreach fibre and copper network from exchange to customer following the introduction of the apprenticeship levy in April 2017. premises, with a working exchange, street cabinets, houses and We plan to take on a further 4,600 apprentices next year.
It includes the end-to-end underground and over ground accessible network for our engineers to train and hiring more graduates accredit on.
Its open for network demonstrations for BT as well as This year, we recruited 460 graduates globally, and we plan to hire our external customers.
investing for change In such a fast moving industry we must invest in the skills, capabilities, methods and tools to define and deliver change in the 22 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion right way.
Weve developed a new change approach to improve our BT % Fav.
change customer experience, growing our business and making BT an even better place to work.
Engagement outcome 74% 2% our change approach Leading our people 59% 5% We define change by understanding where we are today and what we and our customers need.
We create a solution to deliver the change.
Managing our people 81% 2% And through this cycle, we take steps to engage our people.
Empowering and 61% 2% leadership equipping our people This year, weve invested heavily in leaders.
Weve appointed 42 senior leaders, with 19 of these coming from other organisations.
Enabling outstanding customer 64% 3% Weve launched the Connected Leaders development programme experience to identify the type of leaders we want to attract and develop internally.
Its been a huge success: with over 39,000 people accessing the online development platform, 8,000 leaders Working together 65% 2% completing a personal development assessment and more than 700attending our learning programmes.
Personal growth 73% 3% Weve also launched two new development programmes targeted at We tell our people about company results, major business decisions people with high potential.
and other things that affect them through lots of different channels.
Leaders regularly meet their teams through roundtables, town hall debates, site visits, webcasts and blogs.
In 2017 18, weve taken on Future Leaders more than 300 people with We also listen to our peoples concerns through more formal high potential and engagement with our European Consultative Council, the developed them to become Communication Workers Union, Prospect and EE employee leaders for the first time.
More than 40% of the 2016 17 cohort have gone volunteering on to become managers.
our 2020 ambition Weve identified more than Senior Talent 80 senior leaders as having Programmes high potential for the future, Inspire two-thirds of and started accelerating 66% our people to volunteer their career development.
As part of our commitment to support charities and communities, engaging our people page 26, our people get up to three working days a year to Around 93,000 86% of our people responded to our Your volunteer.
Volunteering means they can use their skills, energy and Say engagement survey in January 2018.
Its our highest ever enthusiasm to tackle an issue or make a practical difference in their completion rate.
The survey results show improved overall communities.
Our volunteering website lists opportunities and lets engagement at 74%.
Theres been a steady everyone log activities centrally.
improvement in many categories since June 2017.
This year more than 2,000 of our people spent almost 5,000 days supporting our work to build a culture of tech literacy as Barefoot and Work Ready volunteers see page 26.
Overall, 39% of our people registered their volunteering activity this year.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 23 Our stakeholders continued diversity at work five years ago.
Weve strengthened our wellbeing support services We want a diverse workforce that matches our customers and through a peer-to-peer scheme and our success rate in getting delivers our business goals.
people with mental illness back to their normal work has risen to97%.
In March 2018 we reported our first Gender Pay Gap data under new government guidelines, relating to data from April 2017.
Our Pay and benefits gap is below the UK average.
But we are still working hard to be We regularly review our pay and benefits to make sure theyre more diverse and inclusive, and to have women better represented competitive compared with similar companies.
at all levels in our business.
Most of our UK-based engineering and support peoples pay is Around 26% of our workforce and 28% of our management are negotiated through collective bargaining with our recognised trade women.
Three out of eleven Board members are women 27%.
This means everyone gets treated fairly.
Our managers 42% of our new executive hires have been women.
pay ranges are also set at competitive levels.
We work out bonuses through a mix of business performance and personal contribution.
By 2020 we want women in 40% of our most senior roles.
To support this, were widening our Tech Women programme which Our executives may also get long-term share awards.
These are develops talented BT women into senior roles where theyre discretionary and aligned to the long-term strategy of the company.
This year we extended the programme to 172% What they get is determined by the groups performance over a more women than last year, including those outside the UK.
Executive directors must keep hold of those March, the programme won the BQF Innovation in Diversity award.
shares for two more years.
Weve also launched an extra employee network to connect mums In line with regulation, incentives for Openreach people are who are returning to work.
Our maternity return rate is 86%, tied to a combination of personal contribution and Openreachs measured one year after women returned to work.
performance, not the wider group.
And these are paid in cash, not BT shares.
Weve been named in the Business in the We support our people through retirement savings plans and Communitys 100 Top Employers for Best country-specific benefits.
In the UK, after extensive consultation, well be removing the Around 12% of our people have a Black, Asian or Minority Ethnic eligibility for the majority of BT Pension Scheme members to accrue BAME background.
Around 19% of our external appointments future benefits in that defined benefit scheme.
Instead, these come from a BAME background.
members and existing members will benefit from an enhanced contribution structure in our UK defined contribution plan the BT Sponsorship helps build an environment where diversity is valued.
This will provide more equal benefits So our senior leaders have had Inclusive Leadership workshops to across BT people in the UK and keep our pensions fair, flexible and help them overcome unintentional bias in decision making.
also appointed executive sponsors for women, women in tech, race, disability and LGBT.
You can read more about this on page 137. health, safety and wellbeing Improving our peoples wellbeing is just the right thing to do.
But it also drives better business performance.
The latest research is helping us determine what we need to do to foster good physical, psychological and emotional health in our workplace beyond our commitment to zero avoidable harm.
Our global health, safety and wellbeing policy sets out our approach and the Executive Committee and Board regularly monitor progress.
Our accident rate has dropped by a further 11% to its lowest-ever level and far fewer injuries are serious.
Our risk profile is changing as we recruit more young people and weve responded by enhancing training and improving health and safety systems.
Fewer people took time off sick this year and our absence rate has dropped by 1% to 2.3% against our 2.24% target.
Mental health is still our biggest focus.
We endorse all the recommendations of the UK Governments Stevenson Farmer review.
Today work-related problems account for 16% of people seeking psychological support, compared with 36% 24 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STRATegic RepoRT goveRnAnce FinAnciAl STATemenTS AddiTionAl inFoRmATion providing access to fast broadband Customers We listen to our customers, and have been investing our 2020 ambition to improve the experience they get from BT.
More than 9 out of 10 people Our customers include UK individuals, households, businesses of all in the UK will have access to sizes and public sector organisations, plus companies around the globe.
9 10 our fibre-based products and services You can read about our markets, customers and the services we offer them in our customer-facing units section, from page 48.
Some of our customers are also competitors.
Thats because we sell This year we supported the Governments initiative to deliver wholesale products and services to other communications providers superfast speeds 24Mbps or higher to 95% of UK homes and in the UK and overseas.
Thanks in part to community fibre partnerships, our fibre broadband network now passes more than 27.5m premises.
Our original 2020 ambition above has now been superseded by the new Communities and Society Openreach targets for fibre access page 76.
We are also extending a Were at the heart of the UKs digital strategy.
our mobile network coverage across the country page 57.
We use the power of communications to make a better world.
The promoting digital inclusion greatest impact we make to society and the economy is through our products and services, underpinned by our networks.
our 2020 ambition This year we invested nearly 36m in initiatives that further our We will help 10m people societal and environmental ambitions and contribute to economic overcome social disadvantage, growth.
That figure includes cash, time volunteered, and other in-kind 10m through the benefits our contributions.
Over the last five years weve invested a total of 166m.
products and services can bring Total investment in society Year ended 31 March Society is changing.
Digital is at the heart of this.
Everybody should have both the access and skills to make the most of the m 40 digital world.
Since setting this ambition in 2015, weve helped 4.6m people overcome social disadvantage: 35 Our portfolio includes a lot of products and services for elderly, 30 disabled and  people.
And this year 25 we established a partnership with the charity Action on 20 Hearing Loss, to develop new propositions for their customers.
15 Weve connected vulnerable communities in many parts of the 10 world, bringing access to education, employment, financial support and healthcare.
Our Connecting Africa initiative this 5 year won the World Economic Forums New Vision for 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Development award.
We collaborate with our industry partners to develop new products BT Group plc Board Committee for Sustainable and Responsible to help the most vulnerable.
This year saw two highlights through Business oversees these initiatives, in line with our shared value our partnership with TechHub: policy.
We summarise progress on our societal ambitions below, with We launched Zone V zonev.
com to make it easier for elderly our environmental ambitions reported on page 31. or disabled people to use smartphones.
Tackling cybersecurity, we also ran a competition to Secure And there are more details in our Delivering our Purpose the nation.
The winning SME Chorus Intelligence uses data report: bt.
com deliveringourpurpose analytics to support police in building intelligence cases to help solve crimes.
Through our collaboration with Doteveryone, we continue to research public attitudes towards digital technologies.
We use the results to help get more people online and develop the skills to make the most of technology safely.
Our advisory role to the Governments digital skills partnership means we can inform policy development and help shape the work of the public sector, NGOs and industry.
uk government publications uk-digital-strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 25 27.1 32.5 35.0 35.6 35.9 Our stakeholders continued Building skills for the next generation Lenders our 2020 ambition We pay close attention to our credit metrics.
Our lenders, mainly banking institutions and bondholders, play an We will help 5m children receive important role in our treasury and balance sheet strategy.
better teaching in computing 5m and tech skills These relationships are vital as we finance our business.
You can read more about this on page 154.
Young people need tech know-how to thrive in the digital world.
But theres a risk that the next generation wont have the skills to do the jobs of the future or shape a more inclusive society.
As we Pension schemes build the UKs future digital infrastructure, we can use our national footprint to help the next generation make the most of technology Our pension schemes need to be fair, flexible and in life and work.
Starting in primary schools, the Barefoot Computing Project helps to We must make sure our pension schemes are fair, flexible and equip teachers to teach children computational thinking like logic, affordable for all members.
We operate defined contribution and sequencing, abstraction and programming the building blocks of defined benefit pension schemes.
Most BT people working today tech literacy.
With our partners BCS, the chartered institute for IT, are in the BTRSS defined contribution scheme.
We also operate the weve now helped train more than 57,000 teachers and, through BTPS defined benefit scheme which has around 300,000 members.
them, more than 1.6 million children.
You can read more about this on page 137.
As children get older, we want to help them make more conscious choices in their online lives.
So this year weve worked with 5Rights on an innovation hothouse to find new ways to help 8-13 year olds navigate the commercial realities of the internet.
As they prepare to leave school, Work Ready gives 16-24 yearolds particularly from disadvantaged backgrounds the skills development and work experience opportunities theyll need to succeed in a tech-enabled workforce.
Supporting charities and communities our 2020 ambition We will use our skills and technology to help generate 1bn more than 1bn for good causes This year we helped to raise around 109m for good causes.
MyDonate, our commission-free online fundraising and donations platform, covered nearly 63m of this.
Our fundraising activities focused on three main charity partners, Cancer Research UK, Comic Relief and UNICEF UK.
We provided Text to donate for the charity appeals we supported.
They included big regular appeals like the BBCs Children in Need and raising money for the victims of the Grenfell Tower fire and Manchester Arena bombing.
Since setting this ambition in 2012, weve helped generate a total of 531m toward our 1bn target.
26 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STRATegic RepoRT goveRnAnce FinAnciAl STATemenTS AddiTionAl inFoRmATion ethical standards in our supply chain Suppliers We want our suppliers people to work in safe and fair conditions.
To We use suppliers from across the world.
We only help us assess the risks, we send an ethical standards questionnaire choose ones that operate ethically and responsibly.
through an online portal or an industry standard self-assessment tool, Ecovadis.
We follow up with anyone identified as high or Our suppliers provide products and services that help us execute medium risk, based on their responses.
We source from across the world and have suppliers in more than 150 countries.
We spent around 13.7bn with suppliers We also visit supplier sites to make sure they meet our standards.
Around 92% of our spend is with This year we visited 52 sites 2016 17: 63 sites around the world.
To add to our resources, we trained four people in our India team to international audit standards.
And they have since contributed to We have around 450 procurement people in 29 countries working the assessments carried out this year.
We published our second Modern Slavery Act Statement in August.
This year we made a significant investment in our presence, This year the focus was on due diligence practices in our supply capability and skill set within India, growing our team by 66.
makes up 32% of our procurement organisation.
Around 50 of our people took part in exchange visits to share best practice across We continued complying with the Dodd-Frank Act and the Security cultures and enhance our capability.
This is moving us towards our and Exchange Commission SEC requirements, by checking whether ambition of having a single global procurement team.
suppliers products contained minerals from conflict areas.
In June2017 we filed with the SEC our report for 2016 with the SEC, procurement transformation which described our conflict minerals approach and reflected the This year there was a major reshuffle of our procurement team, with responses we received from suppliers.
a lot of changes: We created three buying teams two focusing on our indirect paying our suppliers own use and direct customer procurement needs and a third This year the average time between a supplier invoice and us paying focusing on all our non-UK spend.
We appointed new CFU-focused experts to manage conversations between procurement and CFUs.
Suppliers can also choose to use the BT Supplier Finance scheme which offers contracted suppliers the chance to be paid early.
This We created a new scorecard which balances our performance between cost savings and things like risk, innovation and cuts financing costs for whoever participates, large or small, and is particularly good for SMEs who make up around 50% of our supply people.
We remain a signatory of the UK Prompt Payment Code and We used external consultants and international benchmarks to support government initiatives to encourage small business growth.
understand the full range of commercial opportunities of our procurement categories and improve efficiency.
We carried out a detailed cost analysis of our complex HM government networking equipment to identify further opportunities to reduce component costs.
Were one of the largest suppliers of networked IT With the University of Cambridge and a strategic supplier, we services to the UK public sector.
are collaborating on research to investigate how technology We work with almost 1,800 organisations across central, local and could be used to help vulnerable communities affected by devolved government.
And we support some of the UKs most vital climate change, and bridge digital divisions in society.
services including critical infrastructure, welfare, tax, health and social care, police and defence.
choosing our suppliers We want to know who were doing business with and whos acting Our public affairs team look after our UK political relationships.
So we: Theyre responsible for Westminster politicians and policy advisers pick suppliers using principles that make sure we act ethically and Whitehall the Government, including civil servants on all issues and responsibly of policy.
Theyre not responsible for operational issues like selling check that the goods and services we buy are made, delivered or maintaining contracts and services.
Thats the job of Business and and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible Public Sector see page 59. way We have solutions designed for both central and local government.
measure things like suppliers energy use, environmental impact and labour standards as well as working with them to One of our most important contributions is helping organisations deliver better public services while keeping data secure.
example, this year weve supported the Metropolitan Police with the worlds largest rollout of body-worn video cameras.
Were also You can find out more at selling2bt.
com rolling out wi-fi which will allow front-line officers and more than 20,000 civilian staff to work more flexibly.
Supporting the armed forces community The Government recognises us as one of the UKs leading supporters of the armed forces community.
This year: British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 27 Our stakeholders continued the MoD renewed the Employer Recognition Scheme ERS In September 2016 the Gold Award it first gave us in 2014 Review of European Commission EC we helped make the MoDs new Military Mental Health European rules for proposed a review of the Helpline a reality.
Launched in February 2018, its targeted at the communications Common Regulatory serving personnel and their families allowing them to access sector Framework.
As part of this the help, advice and support they need outside of work, review, the EC wants to anytime, anywhere in the UK.
encourage investment in very high-capacity networks civil resilience and other obligations and update consumer Another aspect of our relationship with government is that we can protection rules to reflect be required by law to do certain things and provide certain services.
new types of services such For example, under the Communications Act, we and others have as over-the-top providers.
to run or restore services during disasters.
The Civil Contingencies Negotiations are ongoing.
Act 2004 also states that the Government can impose obligations To protect audiences in an on us and others at times of emergency or in connection with civil contingency planning.
on-demand, internet environment, the EC is The Secretary of State for the Home Department can also require us reviewing copyright and rules for audio-visual media to take certain actions if theyre in the interests of national security.
Regulators We advocate clear, predictable and proportionate The UK is due to leave The UKs exit from the the EU in March 2019. regulation.
EU Depending on any transition Communications and TV services are regulated in the UK and period or trade agreements, around the world.
This is to make sure that communication it may no longer have to providers CPs and broadcasters stick to common standards and follow the EU Regulatory rules, and that nobody is disadvantaged by providers with strong Framework and other rules.
Existing regulations are recognised as having overseas regulation helped make the UK The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely.
communications market one This can hinder our ability to compete and provide the services our of the most competitive in customers want.
We continue to press incumbent operators around the world.
UK consumers get the world, and their regulators, for fairer, cost-related wholesale low prices and the best access to their networks.
superfast broadband coverage in the major EU european Union eU regulation countries.
So while existing In EU countries, electronic communications networks and services regulations might be are governed by Directives and Regulations set by the European fine-tuned to suit specific Institutions.
These create an EU-wide framework the Common UK market conditions, we Regulatory Framework for fixed and wireless telecoms, internet, dont expect fundamental broadcasting and transmission services.
The Directives are there to encourage competition, which in turn leads to better investment, lower prices and increased quality of service in fixed and mobile networks, and better protection for consumers.
They require national regulators to review markets for significant market power SMP every three years and where relevant, to put in place appropriate and proportionate remedies.
They also include rules covering spectrum, consumer protection and universal service obligations.
28 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion UK regulation and ofcom price regulation of our main wholesale products The UK telecoms and broadcasting industries are regulated primarily The following table shows which wholesale products provided to by Ofcom the UKs independent regulator, within the framework CPs are subject to price controls in markets where we have SMP.
set by European rules and UK regulations.
Annual charge control current charge Ofcom operates under the Communications Act 2003, which gives products 2018 19 control ends it its powers and duties.
Fixed call termination 0.0323 ppm 31 March 2021 Ofcoms main duties are to champion citizens interests on communications matters, and to further consumers interests by Mobile call termination 0.495 ppm 31 March 2021 promoting competition.
0.489 ppm from 1 June Under the 2003 Act, Ofcom sets conditions that CPs must stick 2018 to.
Some of these the General Conditions apply to all CPs.
They deal mainly with things like protecting consumers, access and ISDN2 CPI-CPI 31 March 2021 interconnection, and allocating and transferring phone numbers.
ISDN30 CPI-CPI 31 March 2021 Other conditions apply only to certain companies who are universal service providers or who are found to have SMP in a particular Metallic Path Facility MPF 85.46 31 March 2021 market.
Ethernet up to and including CPI-13.5% 31 March 2019 Were the designated universal service provider in the UK except 1Gbps in geographies where for the Hull area where that role is taken by KCOM Group and have d BT has SMP to provide basic, affordable fixed-line services to all consumers.
We also have to provide public payphones.
Generic Ethernet Access 69.59 31 March 2021 GEA 40 10 We have SMP in a number of markets including Business Connectivity such as Ethernet and backhaul, Fixed Access e a b c Partial Private Circuit PPC CPI-3.5% 31 March 2019 including LLU, GEA and WLR, Wholesale Broadband Access and Narrowband such as Call Origination.
Thats why Ofcoms market reviews are so important to us.
Interconnect circuits CPI 0% 31 March 2021 In July 2017 Ofcom confirmed it would pence per minute.
Ofcoms strategic release us from the Undertakings once review of digital the arrangements for our voluntary other regulatory decisions and activities this year communications commitments were all in place.
This Business connectivity market review BcmR included the employees working for In April 2016 Ofcom published its Final Statement on its Business Openreach being transferred to Connectivity Market Review.
We disagreed with some aspects of this Openreach Limited and adopting the and appealed these to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT.
new model of functional separation for In July 2017 the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT upheld our Openreach to secure greater strategic appeal on product market, geographic market and core network and operational independence.
In November 2017, the CAT quashed Ofcoms decisions on these aspects and told it to reconsider.
Implementation of the new arrangements has gone well.
In response, Ofcom revoked the relevant parts of the 2016 BCMR.
It Openreach Limited has been legally then imposed temporary SMP findings and obligations on Ethernet incorporated and the members of the services until March 2019 using exceptional and emergency Openreach Board were appointed as powers.
Directors of Openreach Limited in December 2017.
The Openreach senior Ofcom consulted on adding dark fibre to the temporary obligations leadership team voluntarily with effect from April 2018.
On 12 April 2018 Ofcom confirmed transferred to Openreach Limited in that it would not be adding a dark fibre remedy to the temporary January 2018.
SMP remedies imposed in November 2017.
We have worked hard to implement all of the necessary changes that we can Wholesale local access market review WlA at this stage, and on 9 April 2018 BT Following the WLA market review in 2017, Ofcom made changes to formally adopted all the elements of Local Loop Unbundling LLU and Virtual Unbundled Local Access the Commitments and Governance Protocol that can be adopted without triggering the TUPE transfer.
We a continue to work towards the TUPE of Local Loop Unbundling.
all employees working for Openreach c Wholesale Line Rental.
to Openreach Limited as soon as d The whole of the UK except the Central London Area, the central business districts of practicable.
Birmingham, Glasgow and Leeds, and the Hull Area.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 29 Our stakeholders continued a VULA product regulation.
MPF is still subject to a CPI-based Standalone landline telephone services b charge control.
SMPF had its charge control removal and replaced After a review of the Standalone Landline Telephone Services with a fair and reasonable pricing obligation.
market, Ofcom has accepted our voluntary proposal to reduce line rental prices by 7 a month.
Ofcom has introduced a charge control for the GEA 40 10 lower speed product.
The 55 10 and 80 20 products are subject to fair, This price cut works with our further promise to only raise call and reasonable and non-discriminatory obligations, though not subject line rental prices in line with inflation CPI each year.
It also sits to a charge control which means we still have some flexibility in alongside our commitment to engage with voice-only and split how we price these other products.
purchase customers who use us for landline and someone else for broadband to make sure they are fully aware of potential savings Along with charge controls, Ofcom has implemented new minimum available to them.
Reduced line rental for voice-only customers service level obligations MSL and a cap on duct and pole access came into effect from 1 April 2018. prices.
Broadband Universal Service obligation USo Wholesale broadband access market review WBA In December 2017 the UK Government rejected our proposal to In June 2017 Ofcom consulted on the wholesale broadband access deliver universal broadband voluntarily.
It proposed that the area with SMP Market A should be reduced from 10% to 2%.
Ofcom have also proposed removing the Instead, the Government used secondary legislation to introduce charge control on our IP Stream Connect product.
Weve responded a USO on broadband.
It will give consumers the right to request to the proposals and expect a final statement from Ofcom in at least a 10Mbps broadband connection from 2020.
Well work summer 2018. closely with government, Ofcom and industry to make it happen.
narrowband market review nBmR deemed consent Ofcom completed a review of the narrowband market on In March 2017 Ofcom found that Openreach had breached 30November 2017.
This covered fixed call origination, call certain contractual and regulatory obligations by inadequately and termination and WLR.
It found that we held SMP in all these areas.
retrospectively applying Deemed Consent to reduce compensation payments to CPs between January 2013 and December 2014.
But it also recognised that alternative voice services were strengthening competition.
Deemed Consent is an agreed contractual process between Openreach and its CP customers, which allows Openreach to Ofcom decided to deregulate charge controls to fair and reschedule the delivery date for providing dedicated business reasonable charges, remove undue discrimination obligations for services known as Ethernet in a number of specific circumstances.
Wholesale Call Origination WCO and bring in extra obligations on Wholesale Call Termination including price controls and no undue On 27 March 2018 Openreach reported to Ofcom that it had, in its discrimination.
view, complied with the requirements set out in Ofcoms decision.
mobile regulation We estimate the total amount of compensation payments will On 24 September 2015 Ofcom published its final spectrum annual amount to around 300m.
licence fees statement for 1800MHz and 900MHz spectrum.
It trebled EEs 1800MHz spectrum fees from c25m to c75m per Automatic compensation year.
Following commencement of the Digital Economy Act 2017, Ofcom now has greater powers on automatic compensation.
In EE, supported by other mobile network operators, challenged March 2017, it consulted on proposals for introducing automatic that.
The Court of Appeal quashed the Statement on 22 November compensation.
It has accepted an updated industry scheme from 2017.
It found that Ofcom should have considered its wider leading communications providers, including us.
European law duties when setting the licence fees.
EE will pay licence fees at the previous level until Ofcom issues a new This voluntary scheme will automatically compensate fixed voice determination.
EE, along with other mobile network operators, is and broadband customers if they lose service, have a delayed order, seeking repayment of the historical overpaid licence fees.
The scheme is due to start in February 2019, following extensive systems development.
On 20 March 2018 the auction for both bands went ahead with results announced on 5 April 2018.
BT EE were awarded 40MHz of 3.4GHz spectrum.
The location of the spectrum assignments within the 3.4GHz band were determined after further bidding in an assignment round on 10 April.
BT EE were allocated the 3540 3580 MHz spectrum frequencies.
This result supports our 5G leadership ambitions.
b Shared Metallic Path Facility SMPF.
30 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion our net positive carbon impact The environment Were already a net positive company.
That means we help our For over 25 years weve been a leader in tackling customers cut their carbon footprints by more than double our own climate change.
emissions including our supply chain.
Were aiming for a 3:1 ratio by 2020.
We set our first carbon reduction target in 1992.
In 2008 we were one of the first companies in the world to set a science-based target to cut our carbon emissions intensity, by 80%.
We achieved our 2020 ambition that four years early.
Now weve gone a step further, setting an Enable customers to reduce their ambitious new target in line with the Paris Agreement on climate carbon emissions by at least change.
3:1 three times the end-to-end carbon impact of our business Our leadership in sustainability and how to report it is widely recognised: we kept our place in the top 10 of Newsweeks Green rankings, which track the environmental performance of the 500 largest publicly-traded global companies.
Carbon Clear rated us 3:1 ambition 2016 17 2017 18 as the second-best FTSE 100 company for carbon reporting.
We achieved A ratings from CDP on climate change and supply chain Customer savings Mt CO e 10.0 11.3 2 engagement.
Our impact Mt CO e 5.6 5.1 2 On top of that, we continue to manage energy and water use: support the principles of a circular economy, and take seriously our Ratio 1.8:1 2.2:1 responsibilities for the environment: Our Environmental Management Compliance Steering Board Cutting our customers carbon footprints monitors performance against our environmental policy.
It Many of our products and services help reduce our customers reports to the Audit & Risk committees of our business units, carbon footprints.
This year we earned 5.3bn from these products, to regional governance committees outside the UK, and to our 22% of our total revenue.
We assess climate-related and other environmental risks within Reducing our own emissions our enterprise risk management framework page 33.
This year weve set new ambition, which has been approved by the This year our environmental management systems have been Science-Based Targets Initiative.
It aligns our impact with the most certified to ISO14001 standards in Belgium, Colombia, France, ambitious aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and the UK.
1.5C by the end of the century.
Were a signatory to the Climate Disclosure Standards Boards fiduciary duty and climate change disclosure.
our new 1.5c ambition Our Delivering our Purpose report at By 2030, we aim to cut our bt.
com deliveringourpurpose has more details.
a carbon emissions intensity by 87% 87%, compared with 2016 17 levels a measured by tonnes CO e per value 2 added, for scope 1 & 2 emissions.
To meet this target, were speeding up plans to cut our vehicle fleet emissions.
This year weve added more plug-in hybrid models to our company car list.
Were also exploring new ways to decarbonise our property estate and improve efficiency through technologies like IoT.
We report our greenhouse gas emission sources in line with UK regulations.
In the last year weve reduced our total worldwide CO 2 equivalent CO e emissions by 8.9%.
This year our scope 1 & 2 2 intensity totalled 26 tonnes CO e per m gross value added: 2 adecrease of 6.8% from last year.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 31 Our stakeholders continued a Our worldwide greenhouse gas emissions Our worldwide energy use Year ended 31 March Year ended 31 March CO e 2 Ktonnes GWh 2,900 6,000 2,800 5,000 2,700 4,000 2,600 2,500 3,000 2,400 2,000 2,300 1,000 2,200 2,100 0 b 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Scope 3: Including supply chain, customer use of our products, 100% renewable electricity and other indirect emissions such as employee commuting.
We maintain our commitment that by 2020 we will buy all our Scope 2 : Indirect emissions from the generation of our purchased energy electricity from renewable sources, wherever markets allow.
Scope 1: Direct emissions from our own operations eg fuel combustion.
Weve now renegotiated most of the electricity contracts we took on when we acquired EE, in line with that commitment, and were working on the rest.
Overall this year 82% of our UK electricity, and CO e Ktonnes 2016 2017 2018 2 81% worldwide, came from renewable contracts up from 78% and Scope 3 4,391 5,233 4,758 b 77% respectively last year.
Scope 2 51 184 160 180 Scope 1 172 179 We also launched campaigns to encourage our suppliers, employees Total 4,614 5,596 5,099 and home-mover customers to switch to buying renewable energy.
Scope 1 2 intensity: 21 28 26 other environmental impacts CO e tonnes per m value added 2 Beyond our carbon footprint, we manage a range of other impacts, We now include all scope 3 emissions in our reporting.
EE data is included from 2017 onwards.
including the following: Figures exclude third-party consumption.
Scope 2 data uses market-based calculation.
For full methodology, and further data, see bt.
Water use We mainly use water in our offices and canteens, and in the cooling About two-thirds of our emissions come from our supply chain.
systems in our data centres and exchanges.
We continue to monitor Were working with our suppliers to reduce their impacts too.
By water use and target leaks.
We'five seen a 1% increase in our overall 2030 we want to cut their emissions by 29% compared with consumption this year, largely due to the adiabatic cooling systems 2016 17.
This year, weve seen their emissions fall by 6.3%.
we're introducing to cut our reliance on refrigerant gases.
cutting our energy use Waste and recycling This year our overall energy consumption dropped by 1.7%.
Weve We work with our suppliers to minimise whatever materials we use, cut our energy bill by nearly 29m, cumulatively saving 250m and we reuse or recycle equipment and materials whenever we can.
In Great Britain, we spent around We offer take-back schemes on many consumer products, including 370m on energy and fuel 2016 17: 341m.
Complying with national regulations, we use specialist contractors to manage hazardous waste responsibly.
a We restate previous years data when we think subsequent information is materially significant like replacing estimates with measured figures.
b 2016 17 energy figures restated see bt.
