STRATEGIC REPORT STAKEHOLDER INTERESTS Responding to changing needs SHAREHOLDERS CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES As the owners of our business, ensuring Customers are key to our business.
Our business is nothing without its that shareholders understand our They are our route to market and we people, and attracting and retaining highpurpose, vision, strategy and performance work with them as partners on joint quality talent is critical to our success.
in a clear and transparent way is business plans to create shared value fundamental to our future prospects.
How we engage How we engage How we engage We engage shareholders regularly We communicate on a regular basis Our culture is based on our values which through results, routine announcements, with our customers.
As well as dayare embedded into our business, as we meetings, roadshows and conferences.
to-day operational contact, we have know that having a high-trust, values-led regular reviews of joint business plans to culture is a critical enabler of business We publish our results to the London ensure that we deliver our shared goals.
For this reason, we run Stock Exchange, webcast our We engage customers through a variety a company-wide annual employee presentations and make transcripts of means from face-to-face meetings to recognition programme where peers and presentations available on our conferences and events to calls, emails, nominate their colleagues who have corporate website.
webinars and hosting customer-facing role-modelled our values.
We are proud websites online platforms.
to participate in the Great Place to Work annual survey.
We support our managers to build high-trust relationships through investing in their development and training: we work with recognised trade unions across our markets: and we have mechanisms for formal engagement across our markets for example the Employee Involvement Forum in our GB business.
Relevance to business Relevance to business Relevance to business model and strategy model and strategy model and strategy Investors are a key source of capital, Our customers are our main route to Attracting and retaining great talent in our enabling the business to invest and grow.
market to reach consumers and we business is a critical enabler to delivering work in partnership with them to create our strategy.
Read more Read more Read more see pages 8-9 see pages 8-9 see pages 8-9 6 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONSUMERS COMMUNITIES GOVERNMENTS Our purpose as a business is to make Playing our part in creating vibrant, Britvic is politically neutral.
We do not lifes everyday moments more enjoyable ourishing communities through make donations to political parties nor do through providing fantastic-tasting drinks supporting direct and indirect job creation, we receive donations or services from for consumers for every occasion.
working with local community groups political parties.
However, the regulatory and supporting local charities is vital environment in which we operate can as we can only thrive if the communities have a profound impact on our business we operate in thrive too.
and so we seek to engage openly and transparently with governments in our markets directly and via industry bodies to represent the views of our stakeholders on issues that affect our business.
How we engage How we engage How we engage We engage with consumers in a variety We engage with all local stakeholders We engage with relevant government of ways.
We proactively ask consumers where we operate and encourage departments directly and via industry what they think and feel about our brands our employees to support their local bodies.
We comply with all relevant across our markets and categories: we community in a variety of ways, from paid laws that regulate political activity.
continually review market data and insight volunteering to match-funding charitable to maintain our deep understanding giving to drinks donations, as well as of consumer trends: and, through our supporting a variety of charities across our consumer engagement team, we ensure markets corporately, through our brands, that consumers can reach us across and in partnership with our customers.
every channel letter, phone, email or social media.
Relevance to business Relevance to business Relevance to business model and strategy model and strategy model and strategy Through our unique understanding of Through our A Healthier Everyday We work proactively with policy makers consumer needs and occasions we sustainable business programme we on shared societal issues, for example derive the insight that we need to create help our communities to thrive, as the public health challenge and climate compelling consumer propositions for our our business can only succeed if the change.
In addition, the public policy customers and so create shared value.
communities in which we operate do environment can potentially have a too.
Strong communities support a better large impact on our ability to operate quality of life socially, economically, our business and we engage with environmentally and culturally for our policy makers on issues that affect, employees and consumers.
or could affect, our business, consumers and colleagues.
Read more Read more Read more see pages 8-9 see pages 8-9 see pages 8-9 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 7
