Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our people People underpin everything we do and are the focus of our business.
Our decentralised organisation, can-do attitude and talented, committed workforce are key to our success.
Investing in our people ensures that everyone can fulfil their individual potential, while creating an inclusive and collaborative environment means that all of our people can make a broader contribution to our success.
We pride ourselves in being an employer Workforce engagement and investing Total workforce Gender split at 31 December 2018 of choice and we work actively to develop in our people capability and create opportunities for We take the engagement, well-being, employee progression.
We want our people diversity and reward of our people seriously to feel empowered and be recognised and conduct regular surveys and research for their commitment, innovation and across the Group.
In our biennial employee 36% contribution to Bunzls growth.
Our aim is survey undertaken this year, our response to foster an environment that is inclusive rate was 85% and our overall engagement 64% and diverse throughout, where each score was 74%, both significantly above individual is treated equally and fairly with the relevant external benchmarks.
We invest A particular area of focus following the to attract and develop great people and our previous employee survey results was Male 12,164 acquisitions bring an additional rich pool refreshing our global employee newsletter, Female 6,842 of talent to Bunzl.
the Source, which was also launched as an app in 2018.
We were therefore very pleased Senior management The power of a global team that the number of people agreeing with Gender split at 31 December 2018 We are proud of our peoples personal and the statement The Source gives a good professional achievements, both within overview of the Groups operations around the Bunzl family and in the wider world, the world was one of the most improved as they represent us through their work results in the survey.
We use a range of other 13% and involvement in their local communities.
methods to engage with our employees We run our businesses locally and managers including listening groups with frontline are empowered to make a difference workers, site visits, digital and online apps, accordingly.
We have strong processes to video messaging and holding meetings 87% recruit great people and a system that gives with groups of workforce representatives.
employees career progression opportunities In addition, regular daily and monthly team and help us to fill roles internally.
In addition, briefings allow us to receive continuous Male 379 our acquisitions continue to be a valuable feedback from our workforce.
Female 55 source of management talent for the Group bringing further skilled people into Bunzl.
During the year we continued to demonstrate Average number of employees Our people are talented individuals and our our commitment to developing our people By business area culture enables them to be creative and through investment in various training and customer focused in their work.
apprenticeship programmes, helping people start their careers.
We also redesigned our global leadership programme which brings 17% together leaders from different cultures, 35% backgrounds and nationalities and focuses 21% on innovation and external best practice, introducing new thinking and ideas for the 27% business.
The new programme will be officially launched in the spring of 2019.
North America 6,531 Continental Europe 5,007 UK & Ireland 4,037 Rest of the World 3,210 36 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements We encourage employees to take charge of their development and career growth and look to appoint from within the organisation wherever we can.
It is our people who continue to deliver the Groups strategy for the individual businesses and we will look to continue to invest in our people to ensure that we attract and retain the best talent.
Rewarding for performance We aim to ensure that everyone who works for Bunzl is treated and paid fairly.
Locally our businesses are empowered to run a variety of recognition schemes to reward going the extra mile and living the Bunzl values.
We have good employee benefits throughout and are constantly seeking to innovate.
For example in our UK & Ireland businesses, we have focused on overall employee well-being with the introduction of an Employee Assistance Programme, broadening the life assurance provision to employees outside of our pension plans Employee Information and Consultation Forum and piloting financial education solutions.
EICF UK & Ireland and Continental Europe Equality and diversity A group of elected representatives have met annually since 1996 as part of the EICF.
We believe that diversity across Bunzl drives In 2018, 10 representatives from the UK & Ireland and Continental Europe business better performance and a stronger Company.
areas met in Amsterdam to share information on issues that are important to our We recognise that diversity is essential for employees in these businesses.
The business area Managing Directors, the Group introducing different perspectives into debate Finance Director and the Director of Group Human Resources also attended the meeting.
Our business culture is underpinned by our corporate responsibility The most recent financial results of the Group were shared and discussed as well framework which sets out the legal, ethical, as the achievements and plans from a regional perspective.
In addition, the social and environmental standards of representatives were updated on the developments in corporate responsibility and the behaviour we expect from our employees.
employee engagement survey plan for 2018 was shared.
The representatives raised All of Bunzls policies seek to respect questions that their colleagues wished to be discussed and gained input from all the human rights standards defined by both people present at the meeting.
It was considered a successful meeting providing internationally agreed principles and our own another opportunity to build engagement with, and two-way communications cultural values.
Given the decentralised between, the Groups senior management and the wider workforce.
nature of the Group, actions to promote diversity in the workforce are taken locally, During 2019, we will build on the successful EICF structure and look to establish with a number of ongoing initiatives such as alternative arrangements in other business areas to ensure that the Board of directors an initiative in the Netherlands designed to has an understanding of wider workforce engagement and areas of interest.
promote diversity of age Young Bunzl see the case study on page 38 for more details.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 37 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our people continued In 2018 we reported for the first time our Supporting community projects and Health and wellness gender pay gap relating to our relevant employee fundraising Maintaining good health is crucial for our employee population in Great Britain.
We continue to encourage employees employee well-being both at work and at Our results showed, as in most companies, to take part in community support and home and we actively encourage this by that women are less well represented at the sustainability programmes.
We know that providing health checks and sponsoring top of the organisation.
We also have an community support makes a meaningful exercise programmes.
This gives our over-representation of men at more junior difference to our colleagues.
We provide workforce opportunities to maintain and levels across the business.
Gender balance resources and opportunities for Bunzl enhance their health, maximise their fitness at the top changes slowly, as we have a people to get involved in local community and improve their capacity to work safely stable senior management team which is projects and to contribute to social impact and effectively.
This benefits both the mainly male and with long tenure.
These fundraising activities individual and our business.
our business we are investing in actions that championed by our employees locally are will help close the gap over time.
We review supplemented by donations made at Group diversity data at Board level as part of the level.
For example, in 2018 significant talent review process.
donations were made to Macmillan Cancer Care and St John Ambulance.
Total workforce age profile at 31 December 2018 17% 20% 24% 39% Under 30 3,250 30 39 4,632 40 54 7,398 Over 55 3,726 I have really enjoyed meeting others through Young Bunzl Young Bunzl and learning In order to ensure we retain, as well as attract, younger people to our Dutch about their businesses.
businesses, the management team in the Netherlands has been strengthening the I now have a much wider network and opportunities to collaborate for those employees under 35 years old.
Events were held during 2018 to enable this target population from different network of colleagues operating companies to meet and connect.
Activities have included guest speakers to share and discuss ideas on relevant topics of interest and opportunities for people to share their ideas and and experiences with.
thoughts with the leadership team as well as talk to colleagues in other businesses.
This has been very well received from those taking part and more events are Dennis Roijakkers planned for 2019.
Sales Account Manager at Worldpack the Netherlands 38 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Talent management in action Bunzl believes in developing and promoting talent from within and, as a result, there were some significant senior leadership Bunzl has always focused on my potential rather changes during 2018.
These recent changes demonstrate that than my existing experience and continues to Bunzl supports the building of great careers across geographies invest in my development.
I am thrilled that my and sectors.
When our people are prepared to move, they can access unrivalled opportunities to experience different cultures career has found its home at Bunzl and excited and build a great portfolio of skills.
to continue to grow with the business.
Patrick Larmon retired as CEO of our North America business Katy Vu area at the end of 2018 after 28 years of service at Bunzl.
Chief Financial Officer, Bunzl North America Jim McCool, who joined Bunzl in 1998 and held a number of senior management positions, most recently as Chief Financial Officer for North America, was appointed his successor after an extensive development and selection process.
This gave rise to an opportunity for a new Chief Financial Officer in North America, a position filled by Katy Vu.
Katy joined Bunzl plc in 2013 in a finance role and went on to head up the Internal Audit team.
Katy has most recently been Managing Director for our Central and Eastern European part of the business.
Following Katys relocation to take up her new role in the US, Scot Gregory, formerly General Manager for Bunzl Anaheim in California, moved to lead the Central and Eastern Europe team, where he has brought knowledge and expertise from the North America business area.
These examples of senior leadership changes demonstrate our commitment to identifying and, more importantly realising, the talent and potential of people within the business.
Key performance indicators Performance What we said we What we plan would do in 2018 What we did to do in 2019 2016 2017 2018 Employees Engaging with our employees with clear communications and the provision of training and development opportunities Employee turnover: 11.7% 13.0% 14.6% Continue to monitor From our monitoring we are seeing an increase in voluntary Continue to Voluntary turnover and take employee turnover in our business.
The movement in the monitor turnover action where levels of voluntary employee turnover tends to reflect the and take action necessary.
economic conditions in the countries in which we operate where necessary.
and low unemployment levels, particularly in North America, rather than any intrinsic reasons related to the Group.
Our key employee and management populations remain stable.
Gender diversity: 10% 11% 13% Extend the training We continued to promote womens development and Raise awareness and Women at senior further and training across the Group and use case studies to highlight further develop management level encourage wider female role models.
for opportunities for wider participation.
Employee engagement 76% 74% Undertake an The results of the employee survey have been analysed Detailed action plans index score employee survey in detail and, as appropriate, working parties or local to be devised to during 2018. forums and listening groups have been set up to address address significant the issues raised.
issues raised and celebrate successes.
