Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Corporate responsibility We are committed to ensuring that our business is conducted in all respects according to rigorous ethical, professional and legal standards.
We are a responsible employer that provides our employees with a safe working environment and promotes a positive and supportive culture which values commitment, openness, honesty and respect for everyone.
Our extensive and flexible supply chain As well as day-to-day operations, our Strategy, framework and materiality offers our customers the opportunity to business relies on developing solid We believe that positive actions with respect choose from a wide range of goods and and stable relationships with all of our to CR are not only desirable in their own services to meet their commercial needs.
We believe in managing right but are also of potential economic and Our supply chain management processes our business with integrity and making commercial benefit to the Group.
A strong ensure that those goods are responsibly sustainable, long term decisions.
reputation for CR can provide business sourced, manufactured and delivered.
We advantage and contribute to shareholder offer a wide product range to our customers Sourcing value.
Conversely, perceived weakness in and provide our support and expertise on We source everyday essential non-food items CR may damage our reputation and cause the sustainable aspects of our products, for a number of market sectors including risks.
Bunzls good practice in sustainability enabling them to make informed choices, foodservice, grocery, safety, cleaning & has again been recognised by its taking into account sustainability, functional hygiene, retail and healthcare.
We are able FTSE4Good listing and CDP formerly and commercial criteria.
Our efficient to offer a wide range of items which satisfy Carbon Disclosure Project score.
Details of one-stop-shop operating model allows our customers demands, including offering our strategy and framework in relation to CR our customers to benefit from a lower cost alternative products which have a lower can be found on the Bunzl plc website in the and environmental impact of doing business.
Our quality Responsibility section at www.
assurance quality control team based in Business context Shanghai monitors and works with our Materiality We are a focused and successful specialist key direct suppliers in Asia and elsewhere Understanding our material issues is international distribution and services to ensure that appropriate corporate important to enable us to manage our Group with operations across the Americas, responsibility CR standards are in place.
CR related impacts and stakeholder Europe and Asia Pacific.
It also helps to focus the purchasing, consolidation and delivery Consolidation our resources, engagement and reporting of a broad range of everyday items, our We have an extensive operations footprint activities by addressing those issues most customers are able to focus on their core across more than 30 countries.
The products material to our business.
Our current areas businesses, achieve purchasing efficiencies available from our broad range are therefore of focus are: and savings, free up working capital, never far from where they need to be, allowing business conduct code of ethics: training to improve distribution capabilities, reduce us to meet our customers needs quickly and ensure everyone understands our standards: carbon emissions and simplify their internal easily, as well as reducing the number of administration.
deliveries, thereby cutting fuel usage, carbon supply chain: responsible sourcing, emissions and internal administration.
working as partners with our suppliers to We do not manufacture any products but encourage high levels of CR and ethical as part of our business strategy we source Distribution trading initiatives: and procure branded, own brand and With our fleets of delivery vehicles and employees: engaging through clear unbranded products globally.
These third party carriers, we are able to get communication using a variety of products are then consolidated into our products to our customers in a timely channels, as well as the provision of extensive global warehouse infrastructure, manner.
Our flexible delivery service allows training and development opportunities: giving our customers a one-stop-shop our customers to increase the efficiency solution to help reduce or eliminate the and competitiveness of their own operations.
health & safety: improving safety in our hidden costs of self-distribution and reduce warehouses and on our vehicles and their environmental impact.
We also offer ensuring that everyone takes personal several delivery options to ensure our responsibility for this: customers receive their products when and where they are needed.
40 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements A sustainable approach to single-use plastics 2 1 The environmental impact of singleuse plastics is an increasing priority throughout society.
It is a complex issue as there are many plastic products for which limited viable alternatives exist today.
Many of our customers have ambitious commitments to reduce their plastic waste footprint.
As a leading distributor of a variety of plastic-based products, Bunzl is on the frontline and takes a proactive approach.
Our scale and unique position at the centre of the distribution system gives us a powerful opportunity to be part of the solution working in partnership with our 3 5 customers and our suppliers to find and promote alternatives to single-use plastics when possible and to support the development of innovative 4 products to increase compostability and recyclability.
1 Reusable cups made from coffee husks We are agile when it comes to 2 Food containers made from polylactic acid PLA, a renewable plastic changing our product range and see 3 Cups made from recycled polyethylene terephthalate PET this as an opportunity for growth.
4 Many of our businesses have found Compostable coffee cups alternatives through innovation and 5 Paper based food packaging in close collaboration with suppliers.
We also pursue opportunities to increase awareness about collection environment climate change: reducing and recycling together with our our and our customers impacts on supply chain partners and the public.
the environment by reducing carbon Business conduct code of ethics emissions, promoting the reduction of waste The Groups business conduct code of ethics Some examples of our work in this and providing innovative products and policy is disseminated to every employee as area can be found in the Customers services to meet their sustainability needs: a guide to how employees are expected to section on page 47. conduct themselves both from a corporate community: providing support by and individual perspective.
The policy clearly encouraging employee fundraising and states that employees should avoid conflicts donating to charitable projects and good of interest, provides guidance on the giving were received through our confidential causes that benefit the communities we and receiving of gifts and entertainment, whistleblowing process, Speak Up, none of work in: and prohibits illegal payments as well as political which related to any issues of material concern.
customers: developing and offering a full donations and reinforces the need to comply product range and delivering these products with laws, rules and regulations, protect All directors, managers, sales to our customers efficiently, thereby confidential information and company assets representatives and purchasing staff enabling them to benefit from a lower and maintain high standards in relationships are required to undertake all of the CR environmental impact of doing business.
with our customers and suppliers.
e-learning modules which have been Where appropriate, we partner with developed and enhanced since their original customers to identify products and services No material breaches of our business conduct launch.
There are now a total of 11 modules to minimise waste and provide expert code of ethics policy were recorded in 2018. which provide an overview of the business advice on more sustainable alternatives.
However, some minor incidents relating to conduct code of ethics policy and antiemployee conduct, such as theft or misuse of bribery issues such as facilitation payments, These issues are governed by a policy the Groups property, did occur and were dealt gifts and entertainment and training framework, which is approved and with during the normal course of business modules on competition law and identifying monitored by the Board, with using Group HR policies and procedures.
In and addressing modern slavery concerns, implementation at a business area level.
the reporting year 10 2017: 13 calls or letters the latter being rolled out in 2018.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 41 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued and the Ethical Trading Initiative.
The analysis included a review of CR audit process covers the geographies direct risks the likelihood of a social issue Supply chain with high levels of social risks, which are arising directly in the economic sector Price is only one consideration in our predominantly countries in Asia.
Since 2017 country of the supplier as well as the purchasing decisions and factors such we have also audited suppliers that are based indirect risk the likelihood of a social issue as quality, availability, our customers in geographies with medium risks.
In 2018 we arising in the supply chain of a supplier preferences and our policies are also taken have, in addition to our Asian audits, carried tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers.
The vast majority of our out audits in Mexico, Turkey and Colombia.
products are sourced locally by our The analysis confirmed that the vast businesses but many products are sourced Suppliers who are unable to meet all the majority of Bunzls direct suppliers are based elsewhere if it is appropriate to do so.
requirements after an initial assessment in countries with comparatively low levels of We work with our suppliers with the aim audit are given the opportunity to comply social risk.
It has also deepened our insight of ensuring that the products we supply fully within a period of time which is deemed into the social risk factors in countries with are, wherever possible, manufactured from appropriate for the circumstances.
If a serious high relative risks such as China, India and sustainably sourced raw materials and seek breach is identified following assessment, an Indonesia, several other countries in Asia to increase the range of sustainable products action plan is documented and the supplier and countries with medium social risks such that are made from recycled materials or is expected to commit to addressing all as Mexico, Turkey and a number of other are themselves recyclable or compostable.
the areas where discrepancies have been Eastern European countries.
The industry We also continue to refine our processes to identified.
The process of improvement sector approach that we followed allowed ensure that imported paper and wood-based via this method is principally reliant on the us to identify the sectors representing the products are manufactured from legally commitment of the suppliers management highest risks in our supply chain.
To this end, we have team owner agent to ensure that all areas reviewed our Asian supplier audit process are addressed.
If we have reason to believe We have used the results of the analysis in 2018 and we will add to our audit process that the supplier is not making sufficient to identify a number of actions to further a review of the sources of wood fibres in our or committed progress, this could lead to enhance mitigation of social risks in our products to try to ensure that paper-based a suspension in the relationship until such supply chain.
These actions include more products are sourced sustainably.
time that we are confident that all areas in-depth audits in high risk countries, are being satisfactorily addressed.
Bunzl use of enhanced checklists, further Each business area is responsible for companies reserve the right to cease a enhancement of communication of our CR implementing appropriate processes to relationship with a supplier if it is found that standards to high risk suppliers and the assess key suppliers compliance with unacceptable practices are being employed development of supplier management tools the relevant CR standards and to monitor at any sites used for producing or sourcing for use by local Bunzl businesses.
performance and improvements against Bunzl products.
Such practices include use such standards.
of child, forced or bonded labour, illegal Engagement with suppliers discrimination, wages not meeting local We work with our suppliers to help them Our supplier code of conduct defines the minimum requirements, not providing prevent CR issues arising and to address principles and standards that Bunzl expects adequate days of rest and any other breach of them if they are found.
In 2018 we started suppliers of goods and services to adhere to.
local or applicable international requirements to expand our approach from audit and The supplier code is available in several for workers welfare and conditions of monitoring to more collaborative solutions.
languages and is actively communicated to employment.
Suppliers that are being We believe that building relationships, key suppliers, particularly in those countries monitored and assessed due to identification capacity and trust with suppliers is critical with increased risk of modern slavery and of a serious breach are periodically reported when it comes to preventing and identifying other social risks.
to, and reviewed by, the Board.
After a first successful supplier training event in 2017, Auditing In 2018 we carried out a total of 539 2017: we organised another supplier conference To assist the business areas, we have our 503 audits of suppliers located in Asia, in Shanghai to showcase examples of good own quality assurance quality control and worked with those suppliers where practice and build awareness of social department based in Shanghai which unacceptable standards were identified to compliance issues.
The focus of this years performs regular audits of our direct suppliers resolve any non-conformities.
Five suppliers conference was on discussing case studies in Asia to ensure that they meet international did not make sufficient progress to address and establishing an active dialogue with standards, as well as testing factories the concerns and we have subsequently and between suppliers about practical and production capabilities and their quality ceased our relationship with those suppliers.
effective approaches to deal with modern assurance and quality control systems.
slavery issues and other social risks.
Employees terms and conditions of work, Social risk assessment of supply chain The conference was attended by 32 customer service capabilities, hygiene In 2018 we completed a quantitative analysis suppliers and this year included six management systems and their policies and of material social risks in our worldwide prospective suppliers.
The event helps practices on environmental issues are also supply chain.
Economic sector data and to develop local expertise and build the checked.
We expect our suppliers to meet social risk factors from a range of data business case for suppliers to achieve better or exceed local legislative requirements sources have been applied to our global productivity, quality and employee retention.
and applicable international requirements supplier data.
The analysis allows us to for workers welfare and conditions of rank suppliers against human and labour employment, such as those set by the rights identified by internationally agreed International Labour Organization ILO standards, taking account of geography and 42 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Incidence rate Training Average number of incidents per We have rolled out a CR training module month per 100,000 employees which specifically covers social risks, Health & safety including modern slavery.
This training Health and safety remains a priority for 123 module is mandatory for all of our senior Bunzl and it is our aim that no employee or 110 management as well as senior sales other person should be injured as a result 101 95 representatives and procurement employees.
Regrettably, in the 2018 81 The training has helped our employees to reporting period there was one fatality understand and recognise social risks that 2017: none.
The incident took place at one might occur in our supply chain and to of our facilities in Australia and involved inform them of the appropriate actions that a warehouse employee who was stung by a 14 15 16 17 18 should be taken if such risks materialise.
bee on his face in the car park.
This brought 12 months to 30 September.
on a severe allergic reaction, which after a very short period led to his death.
Severity rate Average number of days lost per Employees human rights After several years of solid improvement, month per 100,000 employees Bunzl adheres to the Universal Declaration of our incidence and severity rates in 2018 are Human Rights and upholds the Fundamental up by 17% and 25% respectively, although Principles and Rights at Work policies, they are still below the rates seen in 2016 defined by the ILO, as well as applicable local and prior years.
One factor that impacted laws.
The countries in which Bunzl operates this increase is the challenging conditions have their own laws banning child and in the employment market worldwide.
forced labour and promoting human rights.
Tight employment markets are leading to increased employee turnover and shorter We monitor the age of our own workforce job tenures.
This has a negative impact on across the world.
Bunzl does not restrict its injury rates as less experienced employees 14 15 16 17 18 employees in any of the countries in which have an increased risk of being involved 12 months to 30 September.
it operates from joining a trade union if in a workplace injury.
This impact is Included in the external auditors limited they wish to do so.
More details about particularly significant in North America assurance scope referred to on page 48. our employees can be found in the Our where unemployment is at a historical low The data for 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 was also assured as detailed in the respective people section of this Annual Report on level.
We have therefore improved our new Annual Reports.
In 2018, the methodology of pages 36 to 39. employee onboarding programmes in North reporting lost time accidents in France has been improved.
To ensure consistency and America.
This included an increased focus comparability to data reported in previous years, Group safety performance figures The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires on ergonomics training for new employees.
in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 have been certain businesses to produce an annual adjusted accordingly.
statement that sets out the steps these In 2017 and 2018 the number of employees businesses have taken during the financial increased significantly due to acquisitions.
year to ensure that slavery and human It is our aim to help businesses acquired trafficking are not taking place in their to achieve the desired Group safety level operations and supply chains.
This as soon as possible but in some cases this requirement affects Bunzl plc and a process requires time.
The acquisition of number of operating companies in the UK.
Hedis in France had an impact on our Group The current Bunzl slavery and human safety rates in 2018.
Approximately 32% of trafficking statement has been approved the increase in the incidence rate in 2018 by the Bunzl plc Board of directors and is was due to accidents that occurred at Hedis.
available on our website, www.
This year we have worked on increasing environmental, health and safety EHS awareness by greater and improved coordination of EHS matters in certain regions through enhanced communication of our EHS standards and by organising various health and safety campaigns across our business areas.
As a result, the completeness of accident reporting in some areas has improved.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 43 4,307 3,603 2,409 1,890 2,370 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued Waste We continue to invest in premises and hazards and the introduction of pre-shift Tonnes per m revenue equipment to improve the safety of our stretching programmes has also helped to employees and others.
Although we aim to increase vigilance.
France Hygiene, which 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 minimise the risks which occur, particularly has the highest incidence and severity rate 0.8 0.8 0.8 relating to the operation of our warehouses in the Group, strengthened its training 0.8 0.7 and vehicles, incidents involving manual programmes, specifically introducing 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.8 handling, falling, slipping and tripping and programmes for drivers on handling 1.7 impact with equipment remain the highest hazardous situations during product causes of accidents and days lost.
Together deliveries and after-sales technicians these hazards represent 75% of incidents on chemical risks and electrical safety.
All our businesses 14 15 16 17 18 are required to comply with Group policies In 2019 we will be focusing our health and Incinerated waste issued through the Corporate Responsibility safety priorities on mitigating the impact of General waste and Sustainability Committee which the tighter employment markets, bringing Recovered recycled waste reviews the Groups safety performance businesses acquired to the desired Group 12 months to 30 September.
In 2018 we reviewed level and further embedding a proactive and updated our internal EHS standards safety culture across Bunzl, with the aim to ensure that they reflect the legal of restoring the trend of improvement of our Scope 3 carbon emissions requirements in the countries in which we incidence and severity rates.
Tonnes of CO e per m revenue operate as well as industry best practices.
2 The implementation of Group policies is Details of our performance from 2014 to 2018 0.2 audited by a team of safety professionals are provided in the bar charts on page 43.
0.4 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.3 and safety standards are also reviewed as The accident data provided covers more than 1.6 0.1 1.0 1.3 1.2 part of our internal audit process.
13.0 0.3 12.5 11.7 11.5 1.1 9.6 Our primary method for distributing the goods that we sell is the use of delivery vehicles.
Consequently, geographical Environment climate change regions have placed considerable emphasis We seek to minimise the contribution of on training programmes for drivers.
Each of Bunzls operations to climate change and 14 15 16 17 18 these programmes has its own specific focus to prevent other harmful effects on the Waste but all are aimed at reducing accidents and environment.
Operational efficiency forms Electricity transmission injuries on the road.
The UK & Ireland part of a long-established and successful Business travel businesses have fitted commercial vehicles strategy to develop the business and the Third party carriers with multiple cameras, side proximity reduction of energy consumption is an 12 months to 30 September.
sensors and audible left turn and reversing integral part of this.
Our facilities worldwide warnings to improve road safety both for our operate to Group standards and we promote drivers and for other road users, as well as environmental awareness throughout the to reduce vehicle damage.
Our policy of leasing premises where we have our largest fleet, we have provides flexibility in the configuration of rolled out two new road safety training our footprint to optimise the efficiency of programmes in 2018.
Many fleet locations our distribution.
Bunzl had no significant now have their own certified trainer, who is environmental incidents in 2018. responsible for training new and existing drivers and completing check rides with all Our reported environmental data includes all drivers on an annual basis.
As a result of this businesses that are subsidiaries of the Group training, drivers have improved their hazard for financial reporting purposes, with the perceptions, including reversing, lane exception of those recent acquisitions where changes and proper use of mirrors leading to there has been insufficient opportunity for the a 12% reduction of preventable commercial businesses to adopt our reporting guidelines.
vehicle accidents per mile driven in North The revenue from these businesses is not America.
In France Hygiene, where we have included when calculating the indexed our largest commercial fleet in Continental emissions.
All acquisitions made prior to Europe, all drivers commercial, sales and the 2018 reporting year are now providing after-sales employees were retrained in environmental data.
The reported data safe driving and road risks.
covers around 98% of the Group by revenue.
Our warehouse safety observation We integrate our environmental reporting programmes in North America have led with our financial reporting through the to increased reporting of near misses and annual budget review.
Businesses provide have improved visibility of safety incidents.
commentary on their environmental We have seen increased engagement of our performance and set targets for the following business leaders, safety committees and year.
Environmental data is reviewed and employees in identifying and correcting agreed by the relevant Finance Directors.
44 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Greenhouse gas emissions Data for the period 1 October to 30 September Tonnes of CO e 2 Base year 2010 2017 2018 Scope 1 95,249 92,687 99,848 Scope 2 28,757 30,451 31,615 Total gross emissions 124,006 123,138 131,463 Total carbon emissions per m revenue 26.3 15.0 15.0 I ncluded in the external auditors limited assurance scope referred to on page 48.
The data for 2017 was also assured as detailed in the 2017 Annual Report.
A number of locations in UK & Ireland, Natural gas is principally used for the In addition, as energy contracts are renewed, Asia Pacific and Continental Europe have heating of buildings and depends strongly businesses are moving to low carbon renewed their ISO 14001 certification.
At Group level, energy where this makes commercial sense Currently, measured by revenue, the consumption of natural gas increased and is supported by the local infrastructure.
approximately 24% of the Groups operations by 28% in 2018, primarily due to colder In the UK & Ireland we have moved to a are certified to ISO 14001.
Certification is weather conditions in North America and central electricity supply contract with low based on processes and practices which are the inclusion of natural gas usage of DDS carbon electricity.
implemented Group wide through our EHS locations an acquisition in 2017 in our management programme, although some report.
These locations are in relatively Scope 3: We are continuing to refine the parts of the business have not elected to colder geographical areas, leading to higher data collection for our Scope 3 carbon become formally certified.
Our reporting comprises emissions from third party carriers, business Carbon emissions Scope 2: Electricity consumption has flights, waste and electricity transmission Scope 1: Fuel for transportation remains increased by 9% as a result of an increase losses.
The majority of the businesses which our highest source of CO e emissions, in warehouse space due to acquisitions and have been acquired since 2010 do not have 2 contributing 81% of Scope 1 and 61% of the organic growth of the business.
Per of their own fleet and, in addition, all our combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Of those revenue, our electricity consumption has businesses, irrespective of whether they emissions relating to transportation, almost remained almost unchanged at constant have their own fleet, will distribute a 80% are generated by our fleet of commercial exchange rates.
Lighting is our highest proportion of goods by third party carriers vehicles.
Fuel represents a significant cost category of electricity consumption and we where it is more efficient and cost-effective to the business and we are focused on continue to review the return on investment to do so.
The bar graph on page 44 shows maximising the efficiency of our fleet through on low energy lighting at all our sites that third party carriers produce the largest regular replacement and maintenance of worldwide as the technology progresses proportion of our reported Scope 3 emissions.
vehicles, route optimisation, the use of vehicle and improves the efficiency of such lighting.
Our Scope 3 emissions in 2018 increased telematics and driver training programmes.
We also fit voltage optimisers where this is due to the acquisition of businesses without In North America, where we have our largest beneficial.
During the year new projects, commercial vehicle fleets in North America commercial fleet, a new routing programme predominantly in Continental Europe, and due to overall sales growth.
Bunzl is an has been implemented throughout 2017 and have been carried out to upgrade lighting.
international company and business flights 2018.
This has enabled us to utilise our own Together with projects carried out in 2017, are essential for the effective management fleet assets more efficiently and save fuel.
and taking full effect in 2018, the savings and growth of our business.
We increasingly The purchase of more fuel efficient provided by the upgrades represent use alternative means of communication commercial vehicles has also led to improved approximately 4% of our electricity such as video and telephone conferencing fuel economy.
The combination of these consumption.
Other locations are being and all flights are justified according measures provided a 5% improvement considered for potential LED lighting projects to business needs and are subject to in fuel efficiency during the year.
This to determine the available incentives and authorisation by senior management.
In 2018 has resulted in an annualised saving of anticipated payback.
In North America, we have completed a quantitative analysis of approximately 0.9 million litres of diesel fuel.
we are in the process of upgrading the environmental impact of our worldwide fluorescent lighting to LED lighting in an supply chain.
We used supplier data and At Group level, diesel consumed by our additional 15 warehouse locations and industry data taking account of geographies commercial fleet increased by 5% mainly further upgrades are also planned in other and products to determine our supply chain due to sales growth.
We seek to minimise business areas.
All new buildings designed carbon emissions.
Our estimated Scope the number of miles that our vehicles travel as Bunzl warehouses have the specification 3 supply chain emissions are 6.3 million empty on the road by backhauling, typically of LED lighting.
2 using empty vehicles to collect stock from suppliers.
In France, the use of telematics has contributed to the 12% decrease in fuel usage by our commercial vehicles approximately 140,000 litres of diesel.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 45 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued Waste Water This is supplemented by donations made Reduction and segregation of waste Direct water usage is not a significant at Group level to charities predominantly continues to be an area of focus and the data environmental impact for our business as it in the fields of healthcare, disability, provided covers approximately 94% of the is principally confined to staff hygiene and environment and education, often in the Group by revenue.
Despite including this in workplace cleaning.
Our estimated water communities where our operations are 3 our Scope 3 emissions calculation, we have, usage is 150,000 m of water per year.
Where possible and appropriate, for transparency, continued to provide waste As we do not manufacture any of the goods Bunzl also looks to donate stock free of data separately.
In 2018 we carried out an we sell, water discharges, apart from internal charge in-kind.
Group wide, Bunzl internal survey of our waste reporting sanitation, are limited to rainwater run-off donated a total of 607,000 to charitable methodologies.
This survey included a from the yards of Group locations where the causes during 2018.
This does not include systematic review of our processes to water is treated by interceptors in accordance amounts donated by Bunzl in matching measure, monitor and report on the waste with local legislation.
funds raised by employees for local charities.
that is generated across our businesses.
We have identified various improvements An example of an environmental charity to our processes which will be implemented we supported in 2018, is #LeedsByExample, in 2019.
Community an environmental research campaign Bunzls operations are international but launched by a UK charity, Hubbub.
This will help to improve consistency our strength lies in the local nature of our The charity has strong ties within the and accuracy of waste measurement businesses.
We support the communities packaging supply chain and a reputation and reporting, although accurate waste where our employees live and work for delivering impactful research projects.
measurement remains challenging in and encourage fundraising activities #LeedsByExample is a high profile six month geographies with less advanced waste championed by our businesses and their pilot project designed to boost the recycling management infrastructures.
We will also employees locally.
For example, there have of disposable food and drink packaging in work to enhance further the waste recycling been various charity runs in the UK, the Leeds.
Supported by a collaboration of rates at our facilities.
Netherlands, Switzerland and France companies from the food and drink sector, which raised money for charities including the campaign will promote, test and evaluate Alzheimers research and those supporting different methods of encouraging recycling people with physical disabilities.
packaging on the go using a range of eye-catching communications and designs.
Thank you Bunzl for the money raised by this tremendous initiative which will help many people with a disability participate in activities that simply would not be possible without your invaluable support.
Marc Damen Tour fide Bunzl Continental Europe Director of charity fide Zonnebloem The Tour fide Bunzl is an annual fundraiser for a Dutch charity supporting people with physical disabilities.
On a beautiful summer day in 2018, 65 employees from Bunzl Netherlands and its suppliers took to their bikes and completed a tough tour course with a number of challenging climbs.
The cyclists raised a total of 37,000 for charity fide Zonnebloem.
The charity helps create a society in which people with physical disabilities can participate without restrictions through the organisation of social and recreational activities.
46 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Research data will be independently Some examples of Bunzl businesses offering customers in attendance, the customer evaluated and openly shared with interested products and services with increased forum provided an open platform for parties in the UK government and the food sustainability can be found below.
education and discussion on the current and drink, packaging and recycling industries.
issues surrounding single-use packaging in Earthwise is a brand of eco-friendly products the catering and hospitality industry.
This In 2019, we aim to continue our charity in North America.
The reusable Earthwise event was one in a series of forum meetings, programme with an increased focus on shopping bag is an environmentally friendly, aimed at bringing customers together to sustainability charities.
sustainable alternative to the plastic and share best practice and discuss innovation paper bags mostly found at grocery stores, opportunities in response to regulatory For more information on all of Bunzls retail shops and department stores.
BCS has been spearheading CR policies and activities please visit the supplying millions of reusable bags to change for a more material responsible Responsibility section of our website, retailers nationwide, Earthwise supports future as part of its ongoing Sustainable www.
customers to achieve their sustainability Future programme.
Another example in North America is our distribution business in the Seattle The Bunzl Netherlands BELIEVE area.
This business has a long term programme puts direct action on Customers relationship with a large supermarket sustainability at the heart of the business.
As part of our policy to provide our customer with strict environmental The programmes five sub themes Be customers with high quality products and standards.
Over the years the business Sustainable, Be Fair, Be Green, Be Different services, businesses within the Group are relationship between Bunzl Seattle and the and Be Happy are rolled out across all constantly developing and sourcing new customer has grown, largely due to Bunzl businesses in the Netherlands and have products.
Our aim is not only to satisfy Seattles successful mission to supply led to numerous operational improvements, changing customer requirements but also the customer with the most sustainable customer partnerships and sustainable to give ourselves a competitive advantage products available on the market.
Bunzl works with its Seattles partnership with this customer customers in the development of new, is an excellent example of how a focus Multiline Denmark is one of our businesses redesigned or substantially improved on sustainability can give companies that has set up a customer hotline for products.
Many Bunzl businesses adopt a competitive edge.
Another example can responding to questions from customers partnerships and source innovative products be found in the case study on page 48. about sustainability aspects of our products.
to help their customers be responsible users Like many other Bunzl businesses, of disposable packaging and reduce their Bunzl Catering Supplies BCS is an the business has a green catalogue that waste footprints.
We aim to provide example of a business in UK & Ireland that was updated in 2018 and which includes customers with expert advice and answers is working closely with customers to more than 50 pages with sustainable regarding sustainable products, through understand better their plastic packaging alternatives to conventional products.
customer hotlines, seminars, forums and footprint and to reduce their environmental The catalogue also contains a comprehensive communication materials e. g. brochures and impact.
The business has been helping list of terms, symbols and definitions of product factsheets.
All products are delivered customers by recommending alternative sustainable products and behaviour.
to the customer by Bunzls one-stop-shop material types and consolidating their service.
This consolidated product offering packaging ranges to either fully recyclable or minimises the number of deliveries to fully compostable materials.
In November customers and fleet miles required.
2018, BCS hosted a Sustainable Future customer forum in London.
With 11 national Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 47 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued Earth Fares packaging program is designed around a focus on sustainability, quality and cost-effectiveness.
We actively work with our suppliers to support Earth Fares desire to provide their customers with eco-friendly packaging options that align with their natural, organic food offerings.
Tom Emge Sr Vice President, National Accounts Earth Fare North America Bunzl North America Several locations of Bunzl North Americas distribution network service Earth Fare, a growing customer with 50 stores across 10 states.
Earth Fare has an ambitious sustainability mission to reduce the impact on the environment.
Over the past nine years, Bunzl has been partnering with Earth Fare to meet their sustainability goals by providing packaging and store supply options that are recyclable, compostable or made from post-consumer materials.
For example, all hot food to-go containers are made from plant-based, compostable materials.
A limited assurance engagement is Non-financial performance information, External assurance substantially smaller in scope than a including greenhouse gas quantification We engaged  LLP reasonable assurance engagement in relation in particular, is subject to more inherent PwC to undertake a limited assurance to both the risk assessment procedures, limitations than financial information.
engagement, reporting to Bunzl plc only, including an understanding of internal It is important to read the selected CR using International Standard on Assurance control, and the procedures performed in information contained in this Annual Report Engagements ISAE 3000 Revised : response to the assessed risks.
In order to in the context of PwCs full limited assurance Assurance Engagements Other Than reach their opinion, PwC performed a range opinion and the Companys Corporate Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial of procedures including making enquiries of Responsibility Performance Reporting Information and ISAE 3410: Assurance relevant Bunzl management, and evaluating Guidelines which are also available in the Engagements on Greenhouse Gas the design of the key structures, systems, Responsibility section of our website.
Statements over the three non-financial processes and controls for managing, KPIs on page 19 and the data on pages recording and reporting the selected 43 and 45, in each case that has been information.
This included analysing and highlighted with the symbol.
PwC has testing over a number of sites selected on the provided an unqualified opinion in relation basis of their inherent risk and materiality to to the relevant KPIs and data and their the Group, to understand the key processes full assurance opinion is available in the and controls for reporting site performance Responsibility section of our Group website, data and to obtain supporting information.
Finally, PwC performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the selected information in relation to two sites in UK & Ireland, 24 sites in North America and six sites in Continental Europe to check that data had been appropriately measured, included, collated and reported.
48 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements CR risks CR risks are considered as part of the Groups risk management process, as set out on pages 51 to 55, but none are considered to represent principal risks to the Group.
A number of CR risks which could impact the Groups business have been identified and these are set out below together with the steps taken by management to mitigate such risks.
Principal CR risk Description of risk and how it might affect the facing the Group Groups prospects How the risk is managed or mitigated Lack of adherence to the Groups CR policies could result The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures CR compliance in a variety of issues including those relating to including those relating to anti-bribery and corruption in failures inappropriate business practices, accidents at work and place throughout the business as well as an established increased levies due to levels of waste or carbon emissions.
Regular training in all areas of CR takes place using our suite of e-training modules.
Climate change may result in higher frequency of The Group often has multi-site facilities with products Loss of operating extreme weather conditions.
This could result in some of stocked in more than one location, as a result of which the facilities the Groups facilities being affected or employees being Group usually has the ability to distribute products from unable to attend for work.
Business continuity plans are in place to unavailability of staff minimise the impact of any such issues.
The Group is not a manufacturer and has many The Groups key suppliers are principally multinational Suppliers noninternational suppliers.
The failure of one of the Groups organisations with high standards of operations.
Suppliers compliance with key suppliers to adhere to recognised CR standards could are monitored by the Groups purchasing departments and affect the Groups reputation.
the quality assurance quality control department based in good CR practices Shanghai audits key direct suppliers throughout Asia and oversees audits carried out by third parties elsewhere.
All key suppliers and suppliers in countries with increased social risk are made aware of the Groups CR aspirations.
We have developed a supplier code of conduct that defines the principles and standards that Bunzl expect suppliers of goods and services to adhere to.
Legislation relating to certain plastic based products, Bunzls scale and unique position at the centre of the Reduction of demand including the introduction of new taxes, is increasing, distribution system should enable the Group to utilise the for certain single-use particularly in Europe.
Together with growing consumer opportunity to provide customers with more sustainable awareness of environmental concerns, these legislative solutions.
Bunzl will continue to work proactively with plastic products measures are likely to reduce demand for single-use customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to promote and plastic disposable products.
support a more sustainable approach to single-use plastics.
At the same time, the demand for sustainably sourced, recyclable or reusable alternatives will be increasing.
These risks are seen to be counterbalanced by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business environment as previously outlined in this report.
Key performance indicators Performance What we said we What we plan would do in 2018 What we did to do in 2019 2016 2017 2018 Health & safety Improving safety in our warehouses and on our vehicles Reduction in accident -8% -20% 17% Reduce the Group After years of solid improvement, the accident incidence rate Reduce the incidence rate accident incidence increased by 17% and the accident severity rate increased by 25%.
Group accident % change year on year rate by 5% from 2017. incidence rate by In 2018 our incidence and severity rates have been negatively 5% from 2018. impacted by increased employee turnover and shorter job tenures, leading to a higher number of less experienced employees who Reduction in accident -33% -22% 25% Reduce the Group Reduce the have an increased risk of being involved in a workplace injury.
severity rate accident severity rate Group accident Another factor is incidents taking place at recent acquisitions % change year on year by 5% from 2017. severity rate by which are in the process of implementing Group standards.
Key initiatives in 2018 included improvement of new employee onboarding programmes, refreshing of training programmes for drivers, aimed at reducing accidents and injuries on the road, and new safety awareness programmes.
We also continued to work with recent acquisitions to bring them up to Group standards.
I ncluded in the external auditors limited assurance scope referred to on page 48.
The data for 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 was also assured as detailed in the respective Annual Reports.
In 2018, the methodology of reporting lost time accidents in France has been improved.
To ensure consistency and comparability to data reported in previous years, Group safety performance figures in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 have been adjusted accordingly.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 49 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued Key performance indicators continued Performance What we said we What we plan would do in 2018 What we did to do in 2019 2016 2017 2018 Environment climate change Reducing our impact on the environment by reducing carbon emissions Carbon emissions: 12.6 11.3 11.4 Reduce emissions The 2018 figure represents a 1% increase in Scope 1 Reduce emissions by Scope 1 tonnes of by 1% against 2017. emissions versus 2017, including the effect of foreign 1% against 2018.
CO e m revenue exchange rate fluctuation.
At constant exchange rates 2 This reduction target This reduction target the emissions reduced by 2%.
excludes any foreign excludes any foreign exchange translation Fuel for transportation contributes c. 80% of Scope 1 exchange translation effect on revenue emissions.
Reduction of these emissions is primarily effect on revenue numbers.
driven by fuel efficiency improvements including regular numbers.
replacement of vehicles, use of vehicle telematics and driver training programmes.
At a Group level, diesel consumed by our commercial fleet per m revenue decreased by 5% at constant exchange rates.
Scope 1 emissions are also impacted by weather conditions influencing the fuel needed for heating of buildings.
As a result of the relatively cold winter in North America, and first time reporting of acquisitions, our Group natural gas usage increased by nearly 28%.
Carbon emissions: 4.5 3.7 3.6 Reduce emissions The 2018 figure represents a 3% reduction in Scope 2 Reduce emissions by Scope 2 tonnes of by 2% against 2017. emissions versus 2017, including the effect of foreign 2% against 2018.
At constant exchange rates the 2 This reduction target This reduction target reduction in emissions is 5%.
excludes any foreign excludes any foreign exchange translation Our Scope 2 emissions take into account changes to the exchange translation effect on revenue average country specific emission factors, but do not take effect on revenue numbers.
into account low carbon electricity purchases representing numbers.
The remaining improvement in the Scope 2 index has been driven by the continued implementation of low energy lighting.
17.1 15.0 15.0 Reduce emissions The 2018 figure represents no change in total Scope 1 Reduce emissions by Total Scope 1 & 2 by 1% against 2017. and 2 emissions versus 2017, including the effect of foreign 1% against 2018. emissions tonnes of e m revenue exchange translation.
At constant exchange rates the CO 2 This reduction target This reduction target reduction in emissions is 3%.
excludes any foreign excludes any foreign exchange translation exchange translation effect on revenue effect on revenue numbers.
Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are represented as an index against m revenue.
The foreign exchange translation effect in the 2018 reporting year, caused by the movement in the exchange rates of sterling against other currencies during the 2018 reporting year compared to the 2017 reporting year, was to decrease the reported reduction in emissions by approximately 3%.
Suppliers Responsible sourcing, working as partners with our suppliers to encourage high levels of CR and ethical trading initiatives Supplier CR audits and 449 503 539 Further expansion of We have rolled out a CR training module which specifically More in-depth audits assessments covering our CR audit covers social risks, including modern slavery.
environmental and programme into The CR audit programme was further expanded into Continue to optimise social standards geographies with geographies outside Asia with medium levels of social risk and expand our audit number of audits medium levels of by carrying out audits in Mexico, Turkey and Colombia.
assessments carried out social risk.
We have completed a quantitative analysis of material social risks in our worldwide supply chain.
Community Providing support to our local communities through employee fundraising, matched funding and donations of stock and cash to charitable organisations Charity donations 712 742 607 Continue to support Bunzl supported a variety of projects for healthcare and Continue charity 000s relevant charities.
Donations to charities in 2018 programme with were lower compared to 2017 as some businesses had fewer increased focus opportunities to donate stock and some sales events, during on sustainability which donations were previously given, were not held in charities.
We expect that donations will return to previous levels in 2019.
