STRATEGIC REPORT LUXURY MARKET ENVIRONMENT THE LUXURY MARKET IN 2017 LUXURY CONSUMERS Despite challenging conditions, the luxury goods market Luxury consumers continued to evolve at an unprecedented showed signs of recovery in calendar year 2017 with pace, favouring fashion and newness and becoming more 1 industry growth of 5% compared to -1% in 2016. connected with brands than ever, particularly through social media.
UNCERTAINTY AND VOLATILITY In 2017, the luxury industry continued to operate against FASHION AND NEWNESS abackdrop of high uncertainty and volatility.
Diplomatic The luxury consumers appetite for fashion and newness strain and economic and foreign exchange fluctuations continued to heighten, with fashion increasingly being used increased in frequency.
The US and Asia were confronted to express consumer viewpoints, values and personal style.
with growing nuclear tensions while Europe faced Luxury brands responded to this trend by expanding their challenges from the impacts of Brexit and terrorism.
fashion-forward offerings, as well as increasing their customer engagement.
This level of unpredictability has become the new norm, and luxury players must continue to be agile and cautious POLARISATION to compete in this perpetually changing environment.
By Consumers continued to demonstrate polarised spending focusing on the variables that are within their control, such between brands, orienting towards luxury items or mass as brand positioning, the flexibility of their supply chain and market brands.
Consumers grew increasingly confident delivery capabilities, players can enhance stability.
inmixing across price points and brands, with brand outperformance seemingly being driven by rich product MAJOR ECONOMIES IN 2017 designs and distinctive and consistent brand messaging.
Despite the backdrop of high uncertainty and volatility, theglobal economy grew 3% in 2017, a small acceleration PERSONALISATION versus 2016 at 2.4%.
This reflects a rebound in investment, Personalisation has become the new norm and, according 2 manufacturing activity and trade.
Once again, luxury to a Linkdex survey, 70% of US customers expect some 4 demand outpaced overall economic growth, increasing sortof personalisation from online businesses.
However, the performance by region was mixed, luxury fashion market, this personalisation has taken withAsia the top performer.
severalforms, including brand storytelling, product recommendations and bespoke or customised products.
International travel delivered strong momentum with arrivals growing by 7% in 2017, the greatest increase in DIGITAL 3 seven years.
This trend was felt in the luxury sector, Luxury consumers today are more connected to brands wheretourist spend increased by 6% versus a local than ever before.
Customers favour convenience and use 1 spendincrease of 4%.
digital as their primary source of research, giving them greater price transparency.
It is estimated that 70% of 5 Asia luxury purchases are influenced by online interactions.
Luxury demand rebounded in mainland China with growth of 15% after several years of stagnation.
This was in part led In Japan and South Korea, more than 50% of e-commerce by repatriation of local spending due to lower geo-pricing is via smartphone or tablet.
Similarly, in China over 80% 4 differentials and stricter inbound tourist checks.
Japan ofonline shopping is done on mobile.
Future customer grew 4%, aided by the depreciation of the Yen in the engagement and conversion continues to be highly second half of the year, which bolstered tourist spending.
dependent on digital capabilities and innovation.
South Korea was impacted by geopolitical tensions between 1 North Korea and the US and Chinese tourist restrictions.
SUSTAINABILITY Customer attention to sustainability has increased, with Other regions 66% of global consumers willing to pay more for sustainable 4 The US underperformed as luxury demand continued goods.
In 2017, fashion brands made major advances to todecrease.
Local consumption improved but tourists step up sustainability, making it an integral part of the favoured European and Asian destinations due to the product lifecycle.
Europe saw a recovery in local consumption and inbound tourist flows following the terrorist events 1 ofthe previous year, contributing to 6% growth.
TheMiddleEast was hindered by oil price volatility andgeopolitical tensions.
21 STRATEGIC REPORT LUXURY TRENDS PRODUCT HIGHLIGHTS 2017 saw diverse performances across channels Bags continued to lead growth in 2017, while shoes and products.
Industry growth is expected to continue and jewellery gained momentum.
Apparel underperformed into 2018. overall sector growth, but within this, luxury streetwear outperformed.
CHANNEL DYNAMICS All distribution channels delivered growth in 2017, Apparel grew below market average at 3% with e-commerce growth particularly strong, albeit While the overall apparel category underperformed from a smallbase.
compared to wider sector growth, consumers responded tonewness with fashion-forward players continuing to Retail 8% takemarket share.
In addition, product categories such After several years of rapid store expansion, major luxury asT-shirts and down jackets posted double-digit growth brands now have well-established global networks.
As a asmillennial consumers responded to heightened brand 1 result, store openings were a less important growth driver investment in luxury streetwear.
Brands instead chose to focus on optimising like for like sales growth by upgrading store interiors and the in Bags 7% 1 store service proposition.
Occupying a significant proportion of the luxury goods market at c. 20%, bags continue to provide dynamic growth 1 Wholesale 3% driven by both price and volume.
The traditional wholesale channel continued to underperform compared to the retail channel as consumers Shoes 10% Jewellery 10% increasingly favoured online, multi-brand retailers over Both shoes and jewellery, two entry-level customermore traditional bricks and mortar offerings.
Growth in converter categories, delivered double-digit growth.
This wholesale was supported by specialty stores, where was likely due to a catch-up from their relatively undercurated, niche offerings were closely tailored to penetrated starting base, as well as their accessible 1 customers' needs.
pricepoint appealing more widely to the growing Asian 1 middle class.
Digital 24% Digital, now 9% of industry sales, continued to be the OUTLOOK highest-growing channel, having sustained unparalleled After a better than expected 2017, industry experts are average annual growth of c. 25% between 2013 and 2017. forecasting growth of 4%-5% per annum in the medium 1 Asia and Europe were the main growth engines.
This willbe driven by sustained global GDP growth, in2017, 39% of sales came from e-tailers, digital only strong luxury consumer travel flows, the prominence of wholesalers.
Own-brand websites, such as burberry.
com, theChinese middle class, and potential benefits from contributed 31% and the remaining 30% came from UStax reforms.
Drivers of top-line luxury industry growth will continue Travel retail 12% to be supported by like for like sales performance, Travel retail was supported by the overall strength rather than space expansion and volume, or likefor inglobaltravel.
The number of Chinese visitors into likeprice increases.
Polarisation between players in the destinations such as Europe, Japan, Hong Kong and Macau industry is anticipated to intensify further, with the gap increased year on year, with the latter three in particular between winners and losers widening.
benefitting from more favourable exchange rates towards 1 the end of 2017.
Bain & Company Luxury Goods Worldwide Market Report October 2017 2.
The World Bank Global Economic Prospects January 2018 3.
World Tourism Organisation 2017 International Tourism Results January 2018 4.
The Business of Fashion and McKinsey & Company The State of Fashion 2018 November 2017 5.
Bain & Company and Farfetch The Millennial State of Mind May 2017 22 STRATEGIC REPORT 23
