14 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Working Responsibly with Our Stakeholders Our commitment to working responsibly and our ability to execute our strategy depend on understanding who our stakeholders are and engaging effectively with them.
Engaging with our stakeholders is something engagement plans are bespoke and We also respond directly to concerned that forms part of our day-to-day activities.
It regularly updated to reflect changing individuals and organisations on specific is a part of how we all do our jobs.
We have stakeholders and their concerns as issues.
In 2018, the wide variety of topics defined criteria to identify our stakeholders projects evolve.
raised included our company strategy and which follow the principles of internationally financial position, and our approach to and recognised standards.
During the year some of our key stakeholder performance across corporate responsibility engagement activities included: issues including climate change.
Most of We have well structured stakeholder Presenting to analysts, investors and these topics were dealt with during engagement procedures in place at a shareholders at regular investor shareholder meetings held regularly corporate and project level which enable us roadshows, half year and full year analyst throughout the year and individual meetings to identify and assess issues amongst our briefings, the Annual General Meeting and elsewhere in line with our approach to stakeholders and then address and respond industry conferences.
respond to enquiries in a timely and to them.
We do this through tailored Participating with peers at industry events appropriate manner.
For more information engagement with specific stakeholders, Safety briefings for employees please see our Corporate Responsibility disclosure of information and monitoring of and contractors.
com workingstakeholder opinions and actions.
We also Public and statutory consultations responsibly draw on the knowledge of our local staff, our regarding proposed operational activities.
corporate staff, external agencies, partners Working with community partners to and consultants.
Stakeholder project develop local impact benefit plans.
Our key stakeholder groups Investors and Investment Peers Investors Community Business Governments Governments Partners and Regulators Employees Local Community Interest group Business Partners Peers Emergency InterSupport Governmental Agencies Organisations District Suppliers and Local Contractors Authorities Non-Governmental Employees Organisations NGOs Local Labour Groups Communities and Unions Media 46 Read more: Working Responsibly on P46 1 AccountAbilitys AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard AA1000 APS.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Strategic Report Case study Working with joint venture partners, Transfer of Operatorship in Senegal Our absolute priority in the transfer of operatorship to our joint venture partner Woodside has been on ensuring continuity of, and for, our many different stakeholders in country who are a critical part and indeed beneficiaries of the Senegal SNE development project.
Cairn and Woodside share the same in country from security, to data, to investment programmes, has transferred fundamental commitment to international compliance, to finance and corporate to Woodside in a similar capacity.
We good practice and as such our approach responsibility.
look forward to continuing to work as to ensuring this project continues to be collaboratively as we have done to managed in a responsible and respectful The continuity of our approach to social date in our new role on the project as manner is shared.
investment to date has also been of great non-operator.
We are delighted that In practice that has meant ensuring that as part of this process one of our key Charlie Youngs Woodside has all the information it needs employees who has been instrumental Pre-development Integration to take over as operator and build on the in setting up and managing our key social Manager for Senegal four years of operations that Cairn has delivered to date.
This has involved a high level of stakeholder engagement, not only between Cairn and Woodside, but also with the Senegalese Government and regulators, communities and our employees and contractors in country.
Communicating the change in operatorship in advance and as clearly as possible to all those who might be affected has been paramount.
In effecting the actual transfer, we assigned one focal person in each organisation responsible for managing the process and five key work streams Cairn and Woodside at launch of Senegals Institut National du Petrole et du Gaz.
covering all aspects of our operations
