Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Sustainability Marketplace We are committed to building our As an investment company, we are committed to a long business for the long term.
term investment strategy and to maintaining effective relationships with those companies in which we invest.
To this end, we consider the impact We take board seats in our unquoted investments and use these to maintain close relationships with managements of our business on the marketplace, of those companies.
Additionally, we hold frequent workplace and environment.
meetings with managements and review internal documents, such as management accounts and reports.
We also make considered use of our voting rights.
As a consequence of our involved investment style, we would expect to vote in line with management recommendations, but are prepared to abstain or vote against recommendations where we consider they are not in the interests of our shareholders.
We continue to meet with our shareholders and listen to any concerns they may have.
Workplace Caledonia has in place a set of polices intended to protect employees from unlawful discrimination, offer them a working environment where they have a right to be treated fairly, with consideration and respect, and support high standards of conduct and performance.
These policies assist in ensuring that the company meets applicable health and safety standards and treats disabled employees in accordance with its statutory obligations.
These policies are communicated to employees by way of a staff handbook provided at the time of joining, with periodic updates thereafter.
In addition to a grievance procedure, which allows employees to raise concerns either formally or informally, there are formal whistleblowing arrangements in place, which enable members of staff to raise any issue of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct of the companys business, confidentially and independently of line management.
A formal performance appraisal process, through which employees may be set objectives on an annual basis and their achievement against those objectives assessed at the end of the year, is intended to ensure that employees have a clear view of their performance and the ability to develop their potential within the company through additional training where necessary.
Together with team meetings and company-wide briefings, this provides staff with the opportunity to be closely involved in the success of the business.
30 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Equality and diversity Greenhouse gas emissions We believe that a diverse workforce will create the Caledonias carbon footprint has been estimated in line optimum environment in which our business will thrive with the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Corporate and grow.
Accounting and Reporting Standard GHG Protocol and Defra guidelines.
We are committed to creating an inclusive environment where our employees can develop and contribute fully.
The sources of greenhouse gas emissions shown in the table below are from the companies included in the In formulating and implementing our employment and consolidated financial statements.
We do not have recruitment policies, we ensure that they are at all times responsibility for reporting any emission sources from compliant with all relevant UK legislation.
Recruitment, companies that are not included in our consolidated development and promotion are based solely on financial statements.
suitability for the job to be done.
We will not discriminate on the basis of gender, sexual orientation, age, race, GHG emissions nationality, disability or political or religious belief.
Operational scope Source of GHG emissions in year Unit Scope 1 Combustion of fuel 23 Tonnes The table below provides the gender split at different direct emissions and operation of CO e levels within the business.
2 facilities Air conditioning Male Female Female number number % refridgerant loss Company car use Board 8 1 11 Senior managers 13 4 24 Scope 2 Electricity purchased 80 Tonnes All employees 33 28 46 indirect emissions for own use CO e 2 Scope 3 Business travel 485 Tonnes Environment indirect emissions CO e 2 Caledonias environmental impact is limited.
However, any Total 588 Tonnes measures taken to reduce this impact demonstrate the CO e 2 companys commitment to improve the environment and Key performance Scope 1, 2 and 3 11 Tonnes indicator normalised to full time CO e can have direct benefits through reductions in costs for 2 employee equivalent per FTE energy and consumables.
Caledonia moved back from its temporary offices in Stratton Street to the newly refurbished Buckingham Gate property, providing a modern and energy efficient office environment, at the end of August 2017.
As part of the property refurbishment, old mechanical and electrical plant has been replaced with more reliable and sustainable equipment.
Caledonia has also taken the opportunity of the office move to encourage staff to recycle more paper, cardboard, glass, plastic, batteries and printer cartridges and to print less.
The refurbished offices are equipped with audio visual equipment and dining room facilities, reducing the need for business travel.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 31
