t n e m t n e e g l a a T n a m H w e e a l l l - t b h e a i n n g d n o t i t n s e i People strategy, HPBs and values l 62 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Our People: Driving Value Our people, with their skills and experience, represent our most important resource.
Through them, we develop and nurture the right relationships required to deliver our strategy.
Our people are critical to our success and are considered one of our key corporate responsibility concerns.
In 2018 our people focus was on five key themes, each underpinned Talent acquisition by our people strategy, high-performing behaviours HPBs and values, and As the business grows, it is essential that supported the continued development of our high-performance culture: we have a planned programme of talent acquisition to ensure that we can continue to deliver our strategy.
In 2018, we experienced significant talent growth, particularly in our Norwegian and Latin American assets.
u We qualified as an operator in both the UK and Norway and, with an ambitious exploration drilling campaign planned over 2018-19, it was essential that we grew our talent base in the Norwegian organisation to be able to deliver our programme.
Consequently, we have strengthened the core team in Norway across various disciplines, including HSE, geoscience, drilling and finance, both through hiring and through internal promotions and the secondment of talent from other parts of the Group.
Having been awarded two licences in Mexico in mid-2017 and establishing an office base in Mexico City, a key focus was building a new in-country team to manage our local operations.
In addition to sourcing individuals with the right skills and experience, this also required us to navigate the complex local employment framework, establish benefits providers and ensure that we could attract the very best talent.
Whilst challenging, by mid-2018, we had successfully established a small, core in-country team, who are now fully focused on progressing our licence activity and commitments.
a q T c a e E n g m a p g l e o y m t n e e e e n t m d p n a o l y e r v o t e a d l u s g m e R e t s y s Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Strategic Report Talent management To match the aspirations of our business strategy, it is vital that we attract, retain and develop the best talent, enhance our breadth of diversity, and ensure our people are deployed in roles and activities that will add the most value.
One of our key priorities, therefore, is to continue our work on our robust talent management strategy.
Assessing our effectiveness Geoscience conference An internal audit of Managing Talent was conducted in 2017 to assess the background, education, training, sector or were scheduled to participate in phase II effectiveness of the processes we had in experience, organisational tenure and of the programme.
place to identify current and future talent personality types cognitive diversity.
needs, and to recruit or develop the talent Learning and development we will need.
The review also considered Were continuing to develop our diversity As in prior years, learning and development processes to maximise talent retention.
metrics to keep pace with, or be ahead of, has continued to be actively undertaken emerging expectations from the industrys across the Group both to support the delivery The review highlighted several positive governance bodies as well as our broader of our objectives and to further develop our observations, from identifying talent stakeholder communities.
Some of our people to enable them to realise their career requirements and aligning incentives with current diversity metrics are detailed below.
The learning and development performance, through to developing leaders activity was delivered in a variety of different and engaging with staff.
There were also Management development bootcamp forms including: traditional classroom some recommended areas for improvement programme training: overseas secondments: workshops: regarding talent management.
We have We believe managing people so that they conferences: field trips: and e-learning, therefore adopted a new three-tiered can perform at their best is the key to being a to ensure that all learning styles could be approach, as follows: high-performing organisation.
In total, close to 1,200 days expectations of our people managers were dedicated to training and development abilities to support and motivate their teams activity across the Group over the year As part of our talent management strategy we identified key roles in and deliver optimum results.
equating to six days per employee.
our business that require focused investment through an accelerated Our Management Bootcamp is a bespoke At the beginning of the year, to tie in with the programme.
development programme for people commencement of our 2018 performance managers, designed to support individual, management cycle, all staff across the Group Our new young leadership team and Company success.
We completed participated in internal workshops on writing programme will be used to phase 1 of the programme in early 2018 and SMART performance and behavioural accelerate the development of our evaluated its impact on participants.
The workshops supported the pipeline of future leaders.
development of individual 2018 personal For most of our people, our robust Given the success of the programme and the objectives, integrated with the team and management performance system amount of positive post-attendance feedback, Group KPIs and helped position everyone includes annual objectives and we progressed to a second phase of for success as well as ensuring there was development plans agreed with management development during 2018.
Four full alignment of our 2018 deliverables.
As a natural output new modules were designed and delivered from this process, high-performers between September and November 2018: Other training courses focused on how we will be diverted into either or both relevant managers have two years to could achieve greater efficiencies in the way of the above tiers.
undertake all four of the modules.
By the end we work, including priority management, of the 2018, 77% of our people managers had project management, internal consultancy, and various software application skills sessions.
Diversity and inclusion Our approach to diversity and inclusion across our Group is congruent with the Were continuing to develop our diversity metrics to keep pace with, or ahead of, emerging expectations from the industrys governance bodies as well as our broader Corporate Code of Governance in that we stakeholder communities.
Some of our current diversity metrics are detailed below: recognise its relevance to the markets in which we operate, all our stakeholders and 47% of Cairn staff were women, down 1% 46 average age at Cairn, unchanged the communities we serve.
100% of staff returned to work following The Board continued to include two female We are firm in our view that diversity and maternity paternity adoption leave, the members, unchanged from the prior year.
inclusion are not simply about meeting same as in 2017.
This equates to 22% of our Board.
quotas: we aim to make the diversity of our organisation work for the benefit of our people 11.5% of Cairn staff worked part-time, 3% of the workforce had a disability, and shareholders.
We recognise diversity in down from 13% in the prior year.
unchanged from 2017. all its dimensions: national origin, age, race 25% of management roles were held by 19 different nationalities were employed at and ethnicity, religion belief, gender, sexual women, down from 30% in the prior year.
Cairn, two more nationalities than in 2017. orientation and marital status.
We also focus on other inherent traits such as socioeconomic 64 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Our People: Driving Value continued In addition to their annual conference, our geoscientists continued to develop their Case study: technical knowledge with each member of our geoscience team attending one of a series Summer intern programme of field trips to Salt Lake City in the USA, Karoo in South Africa or the Pyrenees in Spain.
We also continued to facilitate the Every year, we run a summer internship programme, offering development of our staff through placements across various functional disciplines.
In September 2018, secondments to other parts of the Group.
our latest intake of interns finished their time with us.
Some were still In 2018, these included several overseas in the third year of university, while others were taking their first steps secondments for members of our Wells, into corporate life.
The benefits of such assignments are far-reaching, helping Unlike previous years, all nine students The group presented their ideas to to broaden exposure to different projects, started at the same time, spending up to members of both the Senior Leadership interfaces, regulations and practices and, four months in our Edinburgh office.
They and Management Teams, challenging importantly for geoscientists, different were encouraged to bring fresh thinking perceived wisdom and questioning the geological basins.
The business also benefits and a new perspective to our work and status quo.
As well as impressing the from the thought diversity that arises from the were set an initial challenge around how senior team with their confidence and opportunity to gain different perspectives.
to best work as a cohort before they communication skills, they also identified embarked on their internships across a 132k of potential savings that could be To ensure awareness, understanding and variety of separate departments.
As a achieved through new processes and compliance on important governance, cohort, they were also tasked with a team greater efficiency regulatory and security topics, mandatory project aimed at identifying efficiencies e-learning was also implemented across across the business.
the Group, which included comprehensive modules on business ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, GDPR and cyber security.
My time spent as an intern at Cairn was an extremely enriching and exciting experience!
Whilst there, I had the rare Encouraging and supporting a future opportunity to work across three separate departments, giving pipeline of talent within oil and gas We continued our sponsorship of and me a real feel for each departments involvement in the attendance at the Geological Society projects at Cairn and a greater insight into the energy industry Edinburgh Career Fair in Edinburgh.
Whilst in the prior years, this was a very well attended event which included career and industry different departments, I had the chance to work with a variety presentations covering different areas of people on real projects impacting the Company.
The of geology and academia as well as an employees at Cairn were extremely welcoming, often looking exhibition consisting of industry and out for me, and the HR team really took into consideration professional bodies and higher education institutions promoting MSc and PhD my development.
One of our recent graduate geoscientists presented at the event to In addition to this, I was lucky enough to be involved in the highlight her own educational and career journey and provided insight into the role Summer Intern Project.
This gave me the rare opportunity to of a geoscientist in the oil and gas industry.
present business improvement ideas to the Senior Leadership Team at Cairn, an opportunity not many interns get!
All in all We also supported the 2018 Midlothian Science Festival, which comprises a series of the experience was not only invaluable but allowed me to get STEM-focused events dedicated to engaging, hands-on insight into the energy sector all whilst developing educating, and inspiring people of all ages and many skills that will help me progress in my career.
backgrounds in the field of science.
In addition to supporting the festival by means of a Peter, 2018 Cairn summer intern financial donation, two of our geoscientists also volunteered at the Dino & Rocks Day, which aimed to help showcase the various sub-disciplines of geoscience.
Over the course of the two weeks the festival managed to attract around 10,000 visitors, with more than 300 attending the Dino & Rocks Day.
In addition, we ran a summer intern programme for nine university students from June to September see case study right as well as providing work experience opportunities to eight school children.
The Kilt Walk 2018 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Strategic Report Employee engagement on benefit-related procedures along with Regulatory and systems development Our people are the foundation on which our application forms and links to the relevant Our workplace policies are designed to success is built, and we are committed to policies.
It was designed to have the same recognise and reward our employees providing the best possible employee look and feel as the TRS to ensure clarity contributions, offer opportunities for experience.
Within a positive, collaborative and consistency of understanding for staff.
professional development and support them work environment, we aim to create the with the right systems so that they can deliver conditions in which all our people can Health and well-being our annual work programme.
develop and fulfil their potential.
Providing a safe working environment and maintaining peoples health and well-being General Data Protection Regulation GDPR Employee engagement pulse surveys are core corporate responsibilities and of On 25 May 2018, the new EU GDPR legislation It is widely recognised that the way paramount importance to Cairn, forming came into force.
Throughout 2018, we have employees feel about their place of work the basis of everything we do.
worked to ensure all processing of personal materially affects the performance of that data is carried out in compliance with these organisation.
We need to enable our people In July 2018, we launched a new health and new regulations.
This has involved extensively to be the best they can be at work, which well-being programme: the key aim of which documenting all processing of personal data, means employees need to feel respected, is to help inform our staff about the ways in including processing performed by third party involved, heard, well led and valued by their which their behaviour and lifestyle can affect vendors on our behalf.
In addition, we have colleagues and managers alike.
We need to their health and well-being.
The programme published revised privacy notices to ensure create the conditions in which employees can seeks to ensure that information is that we are transparent with individuals on offer more of their capability and potential.
understood, to help people explore their how we process their data.
values and attitudes and, where appropriate, In 2017, the Managing Talent internal audit to help them change their behaviour.
Where we have identified gaps in our data identified a gap in our means of assessing processing practices, we have an active plan employee satisfaction and gathering feedback A programme of activities, focusing on the two of remediation, which is underway.
In addition, from staff and consequently recommended broad themes of mental health and nutrition, mandatory GDPR training has been the re-instatement of employee satisfaction was launched in the UK and Norway, with a implemented across the business.
A Data surveys, the last of which had been conducted global rollout to follow in due course.
Privacy Coordinator is also now in place to almost five years ago.
Activities have included free fruit every day, a provide support to the Group and ensure weekly breakfast club, guided lunchtime and ongoing compliance against the regulations One of our KPIs in 2018 was therefore to weekend walks, a running club and on-site and internal risk governance.
develop and implement an employee massage.
Regular lunch and learn sessions engagement strategy.
As part of this strategy, have been held on topics such as dementia, Such is the importance of this new legislation following a successful initial pilot, monthly mindfulness and depression.
that, in September, we engaged our internal employee engagement pulse surveys were auditor to undertake an audit of our implemented across the Group in Q4 2018.
We have also delivered well-being compliance against GDPR.
The report was The pulse survey approach is a move away programmes such as a pedometer challenge very positive and did not include any from the traditional annual survey to a more a virtual walk from Stavanger to Mexico City, unexpected outcomes or any high-risk dynamic temperature check using short, stair-step challenge and Kilt Walk.
A recent exposure to the business.
A very small regular surveys that provide real time insights session held in Edinburgh on building number of lower risk observations were and allow us to track progress over time.
resilience in business saw staff from Dakar, made, all of which are being addressed.
London, Mexico City and Stavanger attend While it is too soon to measure the output via video conference.
Continued embedding of new Enterprise from the surveys, initial indications are strongly Resource System ERP positive and the participation rate for Q4 2018 To support the launch, we invited a workplace With the implementation of our new ERP was 90%.
We anticipate that in time, the well-being consultancy to run voluntary in August 2017, a concerted effort has been outputs will enable us to assess engagement drop-in sessions and undertake biometric made to fully embed the new system and levels and gather feedback from colleagues testing.
In both Edinburgh and London, related processes to ensure a consistent on a wide range of topics.
employees could have their heart rate, platform across the Group.
With the Edinburgh, cholesterol and body fat levels measured, London and Stavanger offices now fully Rewards and benefits guide as well as be given their metabolic age.
operational and Mexico City on track for At Cairn, we strive to be an employer of This information helped inform staff on the a January 2019 implementation, we are choice.
Employee benefits offer a way to choices they make on their lifestyle.
beginning to realise the benefits in terms attract and retain employees, contribute of shared business practices, increased towards improving staff well-being and We also continue to offer optional annual compliance of key user processes, enhanced enhance engagement.
We offer a competitive health assessments for all members of staff.
cross-Group visibility, less paperwork, more benefits package, with many excellent This benefit has been popular since it was accurate record keeping and ease of reporting.
benefits and it is important that we find first introduced three years ago.
appropriate ways to regularly promote the available benefits to our staff.
Recognising the impact of social interaction and strong working relationships on mental Cairn provides an annual Total Reward health, we have continued to provide staff This Strategic report has been Statement TRS to demonstrate the total with opportunities to socialise on a team, approved by the Board and is signed value of an employees compensation and functional, and Company basis including on their behalf by benefits package.
However, to ensure that our team-building events and away-days, our staff are fully informed and taking full annual family day, summer dinner in Stavanger, advantage of the benefits on offer at Cairn, quiz night and a ceilidh.
One of the largest in March 2018 we launched a new Rewards events, held in late August, involved all our and Benefits Guide for UK based employees.
geoscientists from across the Group gathering Simon Thomson The online guide was designed to be as in Edinburgh for a three-day Geoscience Chief Executive user-friendly as possible and provides staff Conference.
A similar event was held in May 11 March 2019 with immediate access to detailed information for all finance staff from across the Group.
