34 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Our people A new people strategy A robust process was undertaken during With more than 63,000 employees A focus for Capita during 2019, as we the autumn of 2018 to define the purpose continue to reshape the organisation, will across Capita, a peoplefocused of Capita, refresh the corporate values, be on a continued programme of work strategy is fundamental for and define the behaviours and manager which will drive further investment in our creating an engaged workforce, commitments which underpin the culture employees, their careers and training.
who will act as ambassadors of the company.
Our purpose we create This will include developing the employee better outcomes was launched in January for the company, and for value proposition which sits alongside the this year.
It states why we exist as a company companys branding, purpose and values.
creating better outcomes for our and, through many proof points both internal colleagues, clients, customers and external, we are already starting to bring Resourcing and communities.
this purpose alive and create a motivating Having the right calibre of people at Capita and inspiring guide by which, beyond just The appointment of Capitas first Chief is critical to succeeding in delighting our generating profit, decisions and actions People Officer in April 2018 offered the clients, customers and communities.
opportunity to define our new HR2020 As part of the HR2020 strategy, resourcing people strategy and strengthen the people The Capita values remain the same open, has now been aligned to the current and leadership team to enable us to deliver ingenious, collaborative and effective.
future transformation activities across the this strategy across the organisation.
However, their refreshed explanation, and business, ensuring the company attracts The company-wide operating model aligns the new behaviours and management the right mix of people, and that there is a to and underpins the people strategy, which commitments expected of our employees broad mix of skills and diversity of thought is itself made up of six key pillars and aims to are at the core of the programme which to continue to drive success.
Over the past nurture a culture at Capita of development, will follow through into 2020 to embed year, Capita has recruited more than 20,000 inclusivity and wellbeing, in which people how we act and drive an improvement in people across its global operations but, are proud to work.
with a highly competitive and continually changing marketplace, attracting and Following on from the McKinsey Employee engagement retaining employees requires more than Organisational Health Index undertaken at Improving the culture and engagement just a job.
Current and future employees the company in December 2017, a further with employees at all levels within Capita are now increasingly interested about the survey of how our people feel about Capita was one of the companys transformation additional benefits offered to support their was carried out between September and workstreams throughout 2018 and continues working and home lives.
We had a strong response to be a focus in 2019.
The objective was and improve our ability to attract and retain 66% to the new Our People Survey, to develop a culture where our people feel the best people, the HR2020 strategy will showing that our people recognised the they matter and understand how their role deliver initiatives, such as a revised market change in the direction and leadership of contributes to the success of the business.
competitive benefits package, as well as the company and valued it.
One of the defined career pathways, and improved outputs was the employee net promoter 1 access to learning and development score eNPS, which will be a measure of opportunities through the Capita Academy.
The eNPS was selected as one of the five performance metrics for the companys 2018 long-term incentive plan LTIP for senior management, with a positive swing of between 6 and 12 points required for the condition to be met.
We will monitor the progress of the eNPS closely over the three-year performance period.
1 The employee net promoter score eNPS is calculated based on one question: On a scale of 0-10, how likely is it that you would recommend us to a friend or colleague.
Based on the number an employee selects, they are categorised as a: promoter score between 9-10 : passive 7-8 : or detractor 0-6.
The final eNPS is the difference between the percentages of promoters and detractors.
The lowest possible score is -100, the highest 100.
Because the biggest range of scores is for detractors, final totals are frequently negative.
A total score above zero can be considered good, while any positive swing indicates an improving business.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 35 To reduce attrition rates and retain our Since 2017, overall employee retention rates pools that help to deliver the right skills and best people, we are also making it easier have reduced, from 79% to 72%, which can capabilities for future business requirements.
and more attractive for employees to move be attributed to the significant, ongoing The process also supports our current internally within the business.
We have workforce, as we can identify where we need change across the business.
been promoting Capitas unique and diverse to develop our people with the right skills to In addition, to help retain great people and market offering and highlighting the vast support the needs of the business through understand future resourcing requirements, array of opportunities within different our multi-year transformation.
workforce planning has been developed sectors and divisions.
The Talent Hub allows and deployed company-wide.
This is to current employees to explore and apply for encourage the business to think about new opportunities internally before roles are long-term workforce needs, aligned to the advertised externally: and over the past year corporate strategy.
Our resourcing team 16,000 people at Capita have found their can now prepare and build virtual talent next job internally.
People strategy pillars Employee engagement Responsible business Reward We want all our people to feel like We want to do the right thing for We want to rebuild employee trust they matter and understand how they our people, the environment and through a transparent meritocracy contribute to the success of Capita.
which recognises our people for both how and what they contribute.
Resourcing Performance and Systems, process development and administration We want to ensure an appropriate pipeline of talent, so we have the right We want to create the climate and tools We want simple and consistent systems, people in the right positions, for now that help our people be all that they and processes that are easy to use and and for the future.
36 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Our people continued To embed change successfully throughout Performance and the organisation, there has also been a development strong focus on developing leaders and managers to highlight the importance Strengthening leadership of the right values and behaviours for a After the arrival of Jon Lewis as Chief successful business.
The Capita Academy Executive Officer in December 2017, a was launched in 2018 and in December ran a senior leadership review was undertaken successful pilot, equipping existing managers to assess the appropriateness of the with the appropriate tools to support the team to drive forward the magnitude of development of our talented people and to change required for Capita.
As part of this consistently embed the new purpose, values review, a new Executive Committee has and behaviours across the business.
been set up, comprising some existing management together with a number of new Learning and development appointments.
The Executive Committee is now made up of six divisional and eight The diverse market offering at Capita creates Operating model workshop functional executive officers, as well as the a variety of opportunities for our people Discussions among Capita employees Chief Financial Officer, all of whom report across different sectors, businesses and on shaping the future structure of in directly to Jon and meet at least once industries which supports our ability to our business a month.
attract and retain our great people.
A critical role of the people function at Capita is to The introduction of key roles such as Chief ensure that we can provide all our employees People Officer, Chief General Counsel with access to varied career opportunities, and Chief Transformation Officer has whether that be progressing upwards, created a balanced new leadership team.
moving laterally into a new business or Strong functional leads are now able to drive making a complete change of career path.
change by setting an appropriate strategy We will be working on developing these with clear governance for their business area, paths across the business through 2019. as well as defining the functional framework and agenda to drive adoption of new The Capita strategy creates a requirement governance, structure and compliance across to bring new skills into the business.
same time, we need to ensure we can develop current employees to be able to A focus of the Executive Committee is to take on new roles and help implement and identify the desired culture and improve drive forward the changes required for engagement across Capitas skilled our success.
Where new roles have been 63,000-strong workforce, with the aim of identified, managers are required to consider harnessing the collective strength of our current employees for positions and post talent pool across all levels of the business.
these internally on the Talent Hub before The newly strengthened executive team opening up the role externally.
The hub has with the right calibre of people from a variety been successful in improving mobility within of backgrounds and sectors brings together the business and the Look closer, go further in one team the greater diversity of thought campaign continues to promote this at all required to drive transformational change.
levels and areas within the business.
In 2018, 10,306 employees were successful in finding their next career move internally.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 37 Workforce development is also critical To achieve our goal, weve invested in a Systems, process and to ensure we are able to satisfy external systematic review of our data, and insights administration market demands, while continuing to delight from employee and client feedback.
Weve To support the significant changes being our clients with innovative solutions and assessed whats worked well and what could undertaken throughout the business, improving service standards.
We continue work better to develop a new inclusion investment was secured to implement a to invest in our people as a priority, so that and wellbeing strategy, which sets out new global HR system which will simplify learning and development opportunities are our priorities and key metrics on how we processes and improve efficiency for all accessible across our global operations to all measure our progress, as detailed below: employees.
Workday was selected as the new employees, regardless of level or location.
Valuing difference because every single system to be deployed in 2019, alongside The Capita Academy will be deployed one of us is different, be that how we look, a newly established project team that has fully in 2019 and made accessible to all speak, act, or where we come from.
mapped all company-wide processes to employees.
The purpose of the academy Gender parity 48% of our global ensure that the new HR system can improve is to provide better quality training and workforce at all levels is female, but this and simplify the way our people work focus capability development into key proportion is not yet reflected at the globally.
The outcome of the new system will strategic skill-sets deemed vital for the leadership level.
empower our people to take ownership of companys transformation and future their own data and better utilise our global Improve data intelligence and reporting success.
The academy will initially comprise delivery centres with the digitisation of more across the business so that we can five business-wide learning programmes, standard processes.
identify where we need to invest, and what using a variety of means to deliver content roles and skills are needed to reflect the and develop capability across sales, diversity of our communities.
Responsible business people management, IT, finance and Geographically relevant targets to reflect project management.
Inclusion and wellbeing the differences between the regions in In 2018, we committed to increasing our which we operate.
Reward focus on diversity, inclusion and wellbeing, This approach will enable us to deliver our so that we were able to strengthen our Rewarding our people fairly, transparently inclusion and wellbeing activity in a way that approach and deliver tangible outcomes that and in line with the market is critical for accelerates the pace of change and provides make a positive difference to our people.
building trust, and ensuring that we retain sustainable and embedded inclusive practices We are delivering on our promise, with our great people and remain competitive in which focus on delivering better outcomes inclusion and wellbeing being a key focus the job marketplace.
for all our people and our communities.
theme for our new responsible business A full audit and assessment of the current strategy and a common thread throughout This is an exciting time for Capita and our benefits offered globally at Capita was our people strategy.
We are committed to inclusion and wellbeing agenda.
Were doing carried out in 2018 in order to help improve having a workforce that reflects the diversity things differently, opening up employee our offering.
We want to ensure we are of our communities and is inclusive, so that engagement and development opportunities able to provide benefits which are marketall employees can bring their whole selves through our employee networks, embracing competitive, flexible and suitable for all to work.
Our updated values and behaviours the leadership of our Executive Committee employees in a range of locations across also place a greater emphasis on the inclusive and, importantly, working with our business the world.
culture and behaviour we expect of all our leads so that inclusion and wellbeing are employees and those working on behalf In addition, to provide employees with integral components of how we do business of Capita.
greater transparency around employment and how we live inclusively at Capita.
structuring, remuneration and career development, work was started with IBM in 2018 to implement a consistent, global job framework.
A job framework is a critical component of any organisation and will enable our people to understand how they can progress their career at Capita, while providing benchmarks and guidance around remuneration for all roles in the business.
This project will be completed by the end of 2019, with all employees mapped to a job family and framework.
38 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Our people continued Gender pay gap Employee gender diversity Capitas workforce profile has an effect, as at many other organisations, on our gender pay Board ExCo gap.
We are disappointed that our pay gap has increased since last year and recognise 19% that this is simply not good enough.
We have 29% a long way to go but are committed to understanding, proactively reducing and eventually eliminating our gender pay gap.
Since we last published our gender pay gap results, weve started investing through our people and responsible business strategies in activity that will shift the 71% 81% dial positively in improving gender equality.
Male Male Our Chief People Officer and new Inclusion Female Female and Wellbeing Director are responsible for creating an inclusive workplace for all our people.
We recognise that achieving 1 gender parity is part of the solution and, as Senior management All employees such, is a key pillar of our new inclusion and 19% wellbeing strategy.
Our gender pay differential for Capita for 2018 compared with 2017 is detailed below: Hourly pay 2018 2017 48% 52% Mean average pay differential 31.2% 26.8% Median mid-point pay differential 23.4% 25.3% 81% Male Male Despite an increase in our pay gap from 2017, Female Female our ranking within the Hampton-Alexander Review 2018 has improved and we are now ranked 110 in the FTSE 250 up from 219 1 Senior management includes directors of subsidiary legal entities as per requirements of the Companies Act section 414C 8 c ii and 414C 10 b. in 2017.
The Hampton-Alexander Review is an independent review body which aims to increase the number of women on FTSE boards, with an important focus to improve womens representation in senior leadership positions.
As a business, Capita recognises and is committed to our role in achieving the reviews objectives.
Our improved ranking is predominantly due to having more women on our Board and in our newly formed Executive Committee.
To achieve this, we ensured that at least one female candidate was included on the shortlist of all Executive Committee recruits.
This is a step in the right direction, but we recognise we still have a way to go to really change and achieve real gender parity across Capita.
More detail is disclosed in our Gender Pay Gap Report on our website at www.
