Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 39 Responsible business Working responsibly for all our stakeholders Last year, we invested 1.5m in our local Our cross-cutting theme of operating Responsible business is integral to communities and our people volunteered responsibly covers our approach to our company purpose, operating more than 5,000 hours.
governance, business ethics, supplier model and strategy.
With our new management, client relations, and health In addition to the progress achieved in 2018, leadership team in place, we have and safety.
we have committed to tackling issues which strengthened our commitment to: directly affect our clients and communities, be a trusted, accountable partner: The four focus themes are: such as youth unemployment, digital create an inclusive culture where Youth skills and jobs: more than exclusion, gender equality and climate 200 million young people globally are our people are proud to work: and change.
As a business, we understand the unemployed or working while living in magnitude of these issues and recognise operate our business with full 1 poverty : we will empower 100,000 that, with the support and dedication regard for the needs of society young people in the communities we of our people, we can make a significant and the environment.
serve to progress into the world of contribution and be part of the solution.
work through our business operations, With the launch of our purpose, backed by products and services, and responsible a clear set of values and behaviours, weve Defining responsible business business programmes.
refocused our approach to addressing the At Capita, we affect the lives of millions of most material challenges that our business Digital inclusion: as many as 11.3 million people, either directly or indirectly, every and society face.
Were calling it our people in the UK are lacking basic digital day.
Through our customer conversations, 2 responsible business strategy as it defines skills : we will equip 10,000 people in the business operations, digital solutions and how true to our purpose we create better communities we serve with the digital skills responsible business programmes, we have outcomes for our people, our communities required for todays world.
a unique opportunity to be a force for good, and the environment.
Inclusive workplace: so that all employees helping address global challenges and making can bring their whole selves to work and We have already made some significant a positive contribution to society.
to address gender equality which still commitments: deciding to put two Our five-year responsible business strategy holds women and girls back, especially employees on our Board: agreeing a UK was defined in consultation with colleagues, in the technology sector: we will have a pension deficit recovery plan: updating clients, investors and community groups workforce that reflects the diversity of our our supplier payment terms in the UK and to identify the most relevant sustainability communities and is inclusive.
Ireland: and refocusing our charitable giving.
issues that Capita should be addressing.
Many of our people across our business Sustainable innovation: climate change Our strategy prioritises our actions around are sharing their skills and expertise to is now affecting every country on every these issues through one cross-cutting 3 address global issues.
continent : we will reduce our contribution theme and four focus themes.
to climate change and support our clients do the same through our products and services.
Embedding responsible business across our operations Were responding to the relevant global challenges our business and society face through a cross-cutting theme and four focus themes.
Operating responsibly Governance, business ethics, supplier management, client relations, and health and safety Youth skills and jobs Digital inclusion Inclusive workplace Sustainable innovation Empower 100,000 people Equip 10,000 people We will have a workforce that We will reduce our contribution progress towards the world with digital skills reflects the diversity of our to climate change and support of work communities and is inclusive our clients to do the same Our strategy demonstrates our contribution towards achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, as shown above.
org global topics youth-employment lang--en index.
org areas-of-work digital-inclusion 3 https: www.
org  climate-change-2 40 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Responsible business continued Governance Tackling youth unemployment in South Africa Accountability for our responsible business strategy sits with our Chief People Officer Capita South Africa is committed our Life Skills programme which gives and the Executive Committee who report bito supporting two of the countrys them the opportunity to access lifeannually to the Board on progress against our greatest challenges education and skills training, such as goal-setting, strategy and goals.
The Executive Committee youth employment.
The Capita South conflict management and study skills.
provides oversight of the strategy, ensuring Africa Scholarship Programme is our We continue our partnership with appropriate resource is in place to deliver the commitment to assisting our employees Sinenjongo High School to support the programmes.
A central responsible business children with access to education.
lack of work readiness skills, helping function oversees the strategy, developing In 2018 we had 86 beneficiaries in the create meaningful opportunities and and delivering business-wide programmes, programme with 15 graduating from careers for young South Africans.
monitoring performance against stated goals and raising awareness of responsible business practices across all the functions and divisions.
As we deliver our strategy through 2019, we will be strengthening our governance and creating action groups which will be responsible for delivering detailed action plans for each of our focus themes.
Delivering our strategy Youth skills and jobs At Capita, we are a support services leader in the education sector, delivering a range of services to schools and academies.
Our software solutions support 21,000 schools and 160 universities and colleges in the UK, to help them access information on emerging trends and highlight areas of excellence and underperformance.
As our products and services support schools to thrive, we also support young people to develop the abilities and skills to prepare them for the workplace.
By 2023, we want to have empowered 100,000 young people to progress towards work with the help of our products and services, and through our business operations.
Our new charity partnerships with Teach First and Young Enterprise will enable our people to volunteer their skills in local schools and colleges.
We continue to bring talented people into our organisation through our apprenticeship scheme.
In 2018, we had 456 apprentices working across our businesses.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 41 Charity partnership with the Enabling social mobility Alzheimers Society Many people never get the chance to succeed simply because of where they We had a successful year of fundraising were born or lacked the opportunities and volunteering for our charity to progress in life.
Lack of social partnership with the Alzheimers mobility is a global issue and at Capita, Society.
Our one-year partnership, we are well placed to encourage which ended in June 2018, created and drive action.
Therefore, a focal more than 1,300 new Dementia point of our responsible business Friends and delivered dementia themes is social mobility delivering awareness training to 60 employees.
programmes that support all the The goodwill of our people saw us raise communities we live and work but more than 218,000, which is used to more specifically those areas with support the invaluable services that Salford Digital Eagles low social mobility.
This year, we the Alzheimers Society delivers.
Urban Vision, our joint venture with were the proud sponsors of the UK Salford City Council committed to Social Mobility Awards an awards tackling digital exclusion by signing programme delivered by the charity up to the Salford City Council Making the Leap.
The council is the first in the country to team up with Barclays to train employees Inclusive workplaces to help their colleagues embrace Last year, we committed to increasing our new technology.
Digital Eagles aim focus on diversity, inclusion and wellbeing.
to improve thousands of lives by The purpose of our commitment was to equipping and supporting people to create an environment where our people reap the benefits of the digital world can bring their whole selves to work and such as surfing online safely, improving enhance diversity of thought across the job prospects or keeping in touch with business to create better outcomes for our loved ones.
We currently have three clients and customers.
We are delivering Digital Eagles involved in the scheme.
on our promise and have developed an Digital inclusion inclusion and wellbeing strategy alongside At Capita, we are at the forefront of the the wider People transformation plans all digital revolution, unlocking value for our underpinned by the updated values and clients through digital transformation, data behaviours.
All of these now place a greater analytics and automation.
Alongside this, emphasis on how managers, leaders and we understand that rising digitisation can their teams can create a more inclusive make products and services less accessible to environment for everyone.
We have therefore committed For more information about our approach to equipping 10,000 people with digital and gender pay gap, please refer to page 38 skills, enabling them to reap the benefits of in our people section.
the digital world we live in.
Partnering with local community groups and charities, we will develop and deliver a digital skills programme that helps community centres reach more people, while we will also train our people to become digital champions, sharing their skills in local communities.
42 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Responsible business continued We will also be working with our six divisions Sustainable innovation to identify the products and services we As a business with more than 300 sites deliver that already help our clients respond and 63,000 people worldwide, we have and adapt to climate change.
an impact on the environment.
This is a result of the energy we use to run our Annual greenhouse gas emissions buildings, the waste we generate and the We measure our environmental performance business travel we conduct.
We measure through reporting our carbon footprint our environmental performance through annually in terms of tonnes CO equivalent 2 reporting our carbon footprint annually in tCO e and tonnes CO equivalent per 2 2 terms of tonnes CO equivalent tCO e and 2 2 person.
We report separately on our direct tonnes CO equivalent per person.
We have 2 emissions from Capita controlled and owned set a goal to reduce our contribution to sources Scope 1, indirect emissions from climate change and support our clients to do consumption of electricity, heat or steam the same through our products and services.
Scope 2 and emissions from third parties Helping London to lead on Scope 3.
This ensures our compliance to We have successfully reduced our emissions climate change Part 7 of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic between 2017 and 2018 by 4% and will strive Capitas Zero Carbon Housing Report and Directors Report Regulations to improve this further by continuing with Team, part of Capita Real Estate and 2013 which requires certain disclosures in our energy reduction programme across Infrastructure, is leading the delivery respect of greenhouse gas emissions the our UK portfolio.
This programme was of the Mayor of Londons domestic Strategic Report GHG Emission disclosures.
launched in 2015 and has already provided energy efficiency programme, Capita with savings of 4.4m.
The programme aims to we will improve the quality and scope of our reduce emissions from existing environmental performance data, with the homes in London through energy ambition to set a science-based target in efficiency and renewable energy 2020 to reduce emissions even further.
Our Zero Carbon Team Annual greenhouse gas emissions 2018 2017 2016 has been working closely with the Greater London Authority to design, Scope 1 19,975.68 22,605.38 18,137.00 develop and deliver the pan-London Scope 2 45,174.51 54,261.61 65,094.00 programme and has so far supported Scope 3 36,277.00 29,264.29 34,317.00 the investment of more than 130m in energy efficiency measures in 37,000 Total gross tonnes of CO e 101,850.96 106,131.29 117,489.00 2 homes in London.
This has reduced the Total gross tonnes of CO2e 1m revenue 26.33 25.56 26.97 equivalent of 32,000 tonnes of carbon Total gross tonnes of CO e headcount 1.52 1.52 1.61 dioxide per year, lowered the energy 2 costs of an estimated 4,500 fuelNotes: poor households, while water-saving Restated 2017 emissions data to improve the accuracy of reporting, using actual data to replace estimations.
measures in more than 1,000 homes Scope 1: Emissions from Capita sources that are controlled by us, including the combustion of fuel, company owned vehicles and the has saved the equivalent of 16 million operation of our facilities.
Scope 2: Emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3: Emissions from non-owned sources related to Capitas activities, including business travel.
Methodology Our disclosures cover sources of our greenhouse gas emissions from our operations in UK, Ireland, Europe Poland, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, India and South Africa.
Capita converts the consumption data into a carbon footprint with consideration to the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institutes WBCSD WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, together with the latest emissions factors from the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra or, where available, the latest industry factors, such as hotel stays from the Green Tourism Board Scheme.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 43 understand the right protocols and procedures: Over the last two years, we have conducted Operating responsibly and ensure that we are creating a safe a survey of our key clients to provide a view For Capita to operate as a responsible working environment, which reduces the risk of their satisfaction.
This survey is intended business we are now educating our managers of accidents and ill health.
The system has to help us identify where there is potential to and leaders about their part to play, with the enabled Capita to reduce its accident rate yearadd further value to our clients operations.
on-year, with a reduction of 25% from 2017 One of the outputs is the customer net The commitments identify ways which 1 to 2018: and we are committed to continuing promoter score cNPS, which will be a managers and leaders can ensure we are this improvement annually in all areas of the measure of our business performance.
operating in the right way for our customer, business.
To encourage a better work-life The cNPS was selected as one of the five clients and people.
We are committed to balance, we also provide opportunities for performance metrics for the companys embedding responsible business practices flexible working 14% of our employees are 2018 long-term incentive plan LTIP for across our global operations.
part-time and have introduced technology senior management, with a positive swing to enable employees to work remotely.
Supplier relations of between 6 and 12 points required for the condition to be met.
We will monitor the With 34,657 suppliers, we recognise that Bribery progress of the cNPS closely over the threeCapitas supply chain is critical to the We do not tolerate bribery and corruption.
companys success, and the agility, speed and Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy applies value we need to be competitive.
In addition Protecting our information and data to all Capita businesses and employees.
to the work we do for people in our local Protecting the data of our clients, our The Risk and Compliance teams monitor communities, we also want to support local company and our people is one of the most compliance against this policy, ensuring businesses to grow and succeed.
68% of our fundamental and important responsibilities all parts of the business are aware of their suppliers are classed as small and mediumwe have.
Our Data Protection and Information responsibilities in terms of charity donations sized enterprises SMEs, which equates to Security Policies, Standards and Procedures and sponsorships, and facilitating payments, 19% of supplier expenditure across Capita.
ensure we treat personal information correctly, gifts and hospitality.
All employees must We aim to source responsibly, working with in accordance with the law and best practice.
complete Financial Crime training annually.
our suppliers to enhance the sustainability When we process personal information Human rights of what we buy.
Over the past year, including sensitive personal information, we we enhanced the questions we ask of our ensure that we comply with these policies, We aspire to conduct business in a way that new and renewing suppliers to ensure standards and procedures including its values and respects the human rights of all we work with suppliers who uphold our collection, storage, use and safe destruction.
Our Human Rights Policy ethical principles.
In addition, to help stamp details our commitments to upholding the In order to ensure compliance with the Data out modern slavery, we continue to audit principles of human rights, as set out in the Protection Act 2018 and General Data our material and high-risk suppliers.
UN Declaration of Human Rights and the Protection Regulations, we have implemented International Labour Organisation Core In October, we updated our supplier a comprehensive programme including a Labour Principles.
We comply with all relevant payment terms, committing to pay small and network of trained privacy professionals who legislation, including the UK Modern Slavery micro businesses 50 employees, 10m provide expert help and assistance for anyone Act which is detailed further online.
turnover within 14 days and SMEs 250 handling data within our business or on behalf employees, 50m turnover within 30 of our clients.
Code of Conduct and speaking up days.
In the year ended 2018, we paid 76% of whistleblowing We continue to raise awareness of the micro organisations within 14 days and 77% importance of data protection and privacy We are due to launch a new Code of Conduct of our SME suppliers within 30 days or less.
through our mandatory data protection that will build on and replace our Ethical In both cases, over 95% were paid within training and ongoing training programmes, Code, to set out what is expected from every 60 days.
in particular the Think Privacy, Think person working for, and with our businesses, Client relations Security campaign.
We take a holistic approach to the way The Code will be underpinned by our global Health and safety we support our clients, listening to their policies including our Speak Up Policy which We conduct our business activities in a needs and requirements to provide the sets out the channels available to any person manner that aims to prevent the injury and ill right solutions to help them deliver their who works for or with us to raise any concerns health of our people and others.
Our global services more effectively and efficiently, blow the whistle that our policies are not health and safety management system sets solve challenges and maintain their being followed correctly or that something is the required standards across the company competitive positions.
We also look to work illegal, unethical or does not comply with our to ensure that our people and businesses collaboratively with our clients, tackling local Code of Conduct.
socio-economic issues and delivering longterm value to their communities.
1 The customer net promoter score cNPS is calculated based on one question: On a scale of 0-10, how likely is it that you would recommend us to a friend or colleague?
Based on the number a client selects, they are categorised as a: promoter score between 9-10 : passive 7-8 : or detractor 0-6.
The final cNPS is the difference between the percentages of promoters and detractors.
The lowest possible score is -100, the highest 100.
Because the biggest range of scores is for detractors, final totals are frequently negative.
A total score above zero can be considered good, while any positive swing indicates an improving business.
Note: The information required to be contained in the non-financial reporting statement under section 414CA Companies Act 2006 is set out in this responsible business section.
Other relevant information about Capitas business model, key performance indicators and approach to risk management are detailed in the strategic report on pages 152.
