24 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Divisional strategy and performance continued People Solutions People Solutions provides a full suite of HR offerings across the employment life cycle.
They include leading market positions in recruitment process outsourcing RPO, learning process outsourcing, HR service including payroll, and pensions and benefits administration, which are supported by our proprietary digital platforms, Orbit, Hartlink and Tessello.
We also provide attraction, screening and performance management services, and best-in-class fire prevention and protection training facilities from the Fire Service College.
Adjusted revenue Order book Our strategy In April 2018, we brought our existing HR businesses together under a single leadership 498.3m 715.3m team for the first time, to create the People 2017: 520.5m 2017: 786.5m Solutions division.
Our strategy is to derive benefits from the Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating margin new structure, by creating and leveraging a single sales engine and realising cost savings.
40.7m 8.2% We are investing in our core products and platforms, developing a suite of new 2017: 62.7m 2017: 12.0% products and solutions, strengthening our analytics capability and growing our scalable, repeatable solution.
Employees Key regions UK India 5,800 US Europe Key services and contracts Key markets Screening Corporate Financial Technology benefits services Recruitment Utilities Pension Central HR services Defence administration government Learning Education Army Local services recruitment government Revenue by market Revenue by type 33% 40% 59% 60% 8% Public sector Long-term contractual Private sector Short-term contractual Transactional Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 25 Divisional financial summary Strategic priorities 20182020: 2018 2017 change Integrate multiple HR businesses into a m m % single end-to-end HR services business.
Adjusted revenue 498.3 520.5 4.3 Upgrade core products and technology Adjusted operating profit 40.7 62.7 35.1 platforms across key client services.
Adjusted operating margin 8.2% 12.0% Develop an enhanced external and cross-divisional sales function and culture.
Our markets and Sales and operational Invest in value-add advisory and growth drivers performance analytics services to enhance core The UK market for people services was Our forward order book was 715m at yearHR offering.
valued at 6bn in 2018 and is expected to end.
We signed a number of new contracts in Build on and replicate existing solutions grow at an annual growth rate of 5% through the year, including the provision of resourcing to achieve scale.
Capita is a services for the Home Office and German leading provider in most segments, including energy company Innogy, the management 2018 progress against benefits administration where we have of apprenticeships for the Department of strategic priorities: an 8% market share, learning process Work and Pensions and provision of learnings outsourcing with 21% market share and services for Vodafone.
We also extended Creation of a new division with new recruitment process outsourcing with 12% our learning services contract with a major leadership team and operating model.
The market is being driven retail bank.
Investments in people and process by a customer propensity to buy digital to address specific operational We started investments in: the development self-service, a move away from large-scale under performance.
of a digital onboarding product to contracts to modular product buying, where complement our suite of hire to retire Investments made in sales, technology customers require expert advisory support as services: the next generation of the Orbit platforms and digital.
they transition to digitally-enabled operating benefits platform, onto which a number of Met cost-out targets.
In the learning market there is clients were migrated: our KnowledgePool a shift away from traditional classroom Identified additional opportunities for learning booking system: and the candidate training to online personalised and informal automation and offshoring.
portal of our pre-employment screening development, and the market is experiencing Cultural change programme aligned system to improve customer experience.
Players with digital platforms with Capita-wide, refreshed values and access to data and analytics are likely to We have re-set our partnership with the and behaviours.
innovate and win market share.
Army on the Recruiting Partnering Project RPP at a senior level and the contract is starting to show signs of improvement.
Financial performance The number of regular soldier recruitment Adjusted revenue fell by 4.3% as a result applications were at a five-year high at the of declines in our transactional businesses time of writing this Annual Report and were Capita Resourcing and Learning Services, working hard to reduce the amount of time which were impacted by the transition to it takes to be offered a job in the Army.
a new public sector training framework, The contract aims and performance were the previously Civil Service Learning, and the subject of an National Audit Office report in transfer of the Contingent Labour One CL1 December 2018, the findings of which related public sector resourcing contract to a new to what are now largely historical contract provider in the second half.
issues, and we attended a Public Accounts Committee with the Army in January 2019.
Adjusted operating profit decreased, We have been open about mistakes made in reflecting the above decline in revenue, the past and we know there is still a lot for us investment to strengthen the business to do to deliver on our commitments.
and lower margins in Employee Solutions, which have yet to be offset by cost reduction actions.
