Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Planting at Covent Garden It is important to us that we conduct our business in a responsible way.
Our programme of Corporate Responsibility CR initiatives sits at the core of Capcos business, with a focus on three themes: people, community and environment, underpinned by a commitment to the highest standards of business practices.
Although Capco owns assets totalling 3.3 billion, the Company is managed by a relatively small team of people.
Our employees are therefore key to the success of our business and we provide a range of support and training opportunities that enable us to develop the right talent to implement our strategy and help individuals to maximise their potential.
As long-term stewards of two major London estates, we support initiatives that aim to address social problems faced by the communities in which our estates are located.
Our work with these communities focuses on initiatives that maximise opportunities for young people, address homelessness and support ex-military personnel.
We are committed to minimising the impact of our operations on the environment, employing a forward-looking approach to air quality, environmental and sustainability issues, and implementing initiatives which improve the quality of the environment for all, such as pedestrianisation and increasing greenery at Covent Garden.
We target the highest standards of health and safety and ethical practices in areas such as modern slavery, tax evasion and bribery and corruption, and expect the same standards from our suppliers.
Community and environmental initiatives across the business are managed by our asset teams and overseen by the CR Executive Committee.
This report provides updates on the progress made against our 2018 CR targets, and explains more about our activities in each of our areas of focus.
com 41 Corporate responsibility continued OUR APPROACH We monitor and assess the effectiveness of our CR strategy and It is our intention to benefit the communities in which our assets measure impact in three areas: people, community and are located, providing development opportunities to our talented environment.
In addition, we monitor health and safety standards people and respecting the environment.
See pages 43 & 44 See pages 45 & 46 See pages 47 & 48 PEOPLE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT TALENT COMMUNITY PROGRAMMES ENERGY AND CARBON Our teams of highly skilled and motivated We work hand-in-hand with the MANAGEMENT people are critical to the successful delivery communities in the areas of London in We are committed to improving the energy of our business plan.
We aim to develop which we invest, and have programmes efficiency of our portfolio and to lowering careers within the Company and promote centred on young people, the homeless and our carbon emissions.
We continue to meet from within whenever possible.
our energy target and have increased our purchase of energy via renewable energy tariffs at Covent Garden.
REWARD EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES We reward performance against objectives We work with specialist providers to deliver set through competitive salaries, an educational programme to primary and RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT discretionary bonus and share awards.
secondary schools in Covent Garden and We are committed to integrating Earls Court, designed to introduce children responsible and sustainable practices into of school age to specific issues affecting the delivery of projects and development.
CULTURE their areas of London.
Floral Court, our mixed-use development The business is both fast-moving and in the heart of Covent Garden, achieved entrepreneurial.
We have a high-performance three sustainability certifications: Level 4 culture in which innovation and creativity CHARITY PROGRAMMES Code for Sustainable Homes, BREEAM are encouraged.
We have long-standing relationships with Excellent rating for domestic selected charities which are aligned with refurbishment and BREEAM Very Good our CR strategy to help young people, GIVING BACK rating for retail.
ex-services personnel and the homeless.
We aim to make a difference in the communities in which our assets are located SUSTAINABILITY INDICES and have well-established associations with We maintain our commitment to volunteer organisations and chosen participating in industry sustainability charities.
We facilitate volunteering indices and benchmarks.
We continue to be opportunities for our employees and are included within the FTSE4Good Index and proud of their commitment and responded to the CDP climate change engagement with our CR programme.
programme and the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB.
See page 49 HEALTH AND SAFETY We are committed to providing the highest standards of health and safety across our property activities to offer the highest levels of protection for our employees, supply chain partners and the members of the public who interact with our business operations.
WE ENCOURAGE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES AT WE SUPPORT INITIATIVES THAT EMPLOYEES TO PARTICIPATE COVENT GARDEN PROMOTE EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING IN OUR CR ACTIVITIES Residents herb barrow at Covent Garden Fruit baskets are available in our offices for all employees Capco employees volunteered at the annual Apple Market Challenge 42 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements PEOPLE 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS People are the key to our success.
Well-being Capco employees participated in a 30-day 500 750 mile We aim to develop careers by promoting talented challenge.
A combined total of 7,256 miles was completed.
individuals to positions of leadership.
We ran a series of development sessions which covered topics including mental health awareness and resilience, and received positive feedback across the business.
TALENT Our aim is to manage talent effectively and ensure that we have Leadership development sufficient capability to realise our strategy.
We regularly undertake We enhanced the capability of our senior leadership team succession planning exercises to review the talent pipeline and through a business coaching programme.
progress individuals according to capability.
Diversity and inclusion We have a graduate recruitment programme for top graduates Capco has supported a number of diversity initiatives who pursue an internal programme of training and mentoring, throughout the year, including Real Estate Balance, and we which will ensure they are well prepared for the Royal Institution have refreshed our diversity and inclusion policies.
of Chartered Surveyors RICS Assessment of Professional Competence APC.
Each graduate is assigned an experienced Capco counsellor and supervisor who guide them through the APCprocess.
OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2019 New opportunities that arise in the business are advertised Performance internally and we aim to promote internal candidates in order Recognising that our people are our most valuable asset, in toenhance career development and encourage mobility across 2019 we will seek to further improve employee performance theCompany.
and professional standards across the Company.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Leadership capability Capco training and development programmes are designed to We will further enhance the capability of the leadership strengthen our teams and challenge aspiring leaders.
team through coaching and a series of internally delivered Individual training and development needs are identified and bespoke workshops.
discussed at performance review meetings with line managers.
Diversity and inclusion During 2018, our employees recorded 987 hours of training activity.
We will continue to support initiatives that aim to increase We sponsor individuals undertaking further professional diversity and inclusion within the property industry and qualifications, and encourage continuous learning, reflecting our strengthen a diverse talentpipeline.
We recognise that coaching and mentoring can have significant impact on behaviours and key employees continue to benefit from BENEFITS bespoke coaching programmes.
In addition to core elements, we reward people with an attractive package of additional benefits, which includes private medical PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT insurance and dental cover.
The Company contributes up to 10 per Annual performance objectives for individuals are agreed at cent of salary into the MyCapco pension scheme.
performance review meetings, which take place at the beginning of the calendar year.
Performance is measured against objectives set Our policy is to enable employees to take their full annual leave for the previous year and individual performance ratings underpin entitlement of 28 days per annum, rising to 30 days after four discretionary annual bonus awards.
We regard the giving of regular and direct feedback as a core LIFESTYLE PROGRAMME competency of effective leadership and encourage line managers In 2018, our lifestyle programme covered matters including to appraise performance regularly during the year.
well-being, resilience, mental health and financial matters such as mortgages and retirement planning.
CULTURE Capco has a high-performance culture, reflective of our business strategy.
Capco people operate with integrity and are supportive of colleagues across the business.
Employees are particularly engaged with the business and understand the difference they can make in progressing our strategic objectives.
We have an inclusive approach and aim to help people develop and realise their potential.
Capco people are results-driven and brave in their approach to new ideas.
Many of our people are in new roles and have assumed increased levels of responsibility since joining Capco.
We support new parents returning to the workplace, and encourage our people to adopt a healthy attitude to work-life balance and to participate in the community.
com 43 Corporate responsibility continued REWARD The aim of our reward strategy is to compensate people for high WE ENCOURAGE OUR EMPLOYEES performance and to incentivise them to strive to improve.
TO SUPPORT OUR CR ACTIVITIES Core compensation packages at Capco comprise three elements: base salary, discretionary performance bonus and discretionary share awards.
We regularly benchmark our approach to reward to ensure that we are appropriately competitive in the market.
Awards are made in April of each year and take account of performance ratings discussed at performance review meetings.
All Capco employees are eligible to receive share awards so that everyone can participate in the success of the Company.
These awards have a three-year performance period and are subject to corporate performance conditions.
DIVERSITY We believe that every person in the Company has a part to play in generating value and we understand fully the benefits of a diverse workforce.
Diversity is considered when making appointments at all levels.
A number of Capco employees participated in fundraising for the London Air Ambulance We are keen to develop female talent across the business and provide executive coaching to our senior leadership team.
There is strong female representation across the business.
A summary of Gender diversity % gender diversity across the Company is set out to the right.
We support a number of initiatives which aim to increase diversity 100 1 8 56 within the property industry, including being a signatory to the 9 RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark, a member of the Employers 75 Network for Equality and Inclusion ENEI, a member of Real Estate Balance, a sponsor of the Reading Real Estate Foundation and supporting the Pathways to Property work experience 50 7 programme.
Capco is a corporate member of British Property 39 Federation BPF and supports the BPF Futures programme.
During the course of the year, Capco held a number of diversity 25 awareness sessions for all employees.
HUMAN RIGHTS 0 Board Senior All management employees This report does not contain specific information on human rights excluding issues as this is not considered necessary for an understanding of Directors the development, performance or position of the Companys Male Female business.
However, Capco has adopted a CR policy and a supply chain policy which reflect a responsible approach to human rights.
MODERN SLAVERY In accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Board has WE SUPPORT A NUMBER OF approved a Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, DIVERSITY INITIATIVES which has been published on our website.
The statement details the steps we take to avoid slavery and human trafficking in our own operations and in our supply chain.
We believe that our own operations present minimal risk, but recognise that a higher level of risk is posed by the suppliers we engage with to provide goods and services.
During 2018 we provided further guidance to our employees on modern slavery risks, ensured that our commitment to combatting modern slavery was reflected in our sustainability framework and continued our engagement with suppliers.
44 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements COMMUNITY 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS During 2018, Capco continued to work to benefit Education programme We extended the number of schools that participate in the the communities in which we operate and to Capco Education Programme in collaboration with our support our chosen charities.
committed over 600 hours to CR-related activity Local initiatives and volunteered to help with CR projects, We delivered a range of local community and education projects that have benefited people of all ages.
meeting our target for the year.
Charitable donations Benefiting the communities in which our assets We developed closer ties with our chosen charities which align with our CR strategy, and have provided 72,000 of support to are located is the cornerstone of the stewardship charitable causes.
Employee CR engagement Capco staff remain committed to participating in CR-related SUPPORTING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY activities and undertook over 600 hours of CR-related activity Community events during the year.
Capco continues to support a range of community events at Covent Garden and a number of employees volunteered to help run the events.
In 2018 these included: OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2019 Sponsorship of a formal wreath-laying event in the Covent Garden Piazza in commemoration of the centenary of the WW1 Community facility Armistice, in association with the local residents and the Lord We will continue to make community space available at Lillie Mayor of Westminster City Council Road for use by local groups.
In partnership with the West End Community Trust, providing a day trip and Christmas lunch to elderly local residents.
Educational Programme We will extend the number of schools that participate in the Sponsorship of the Covent Garden Community Association Capco Education Programme, building further on our success Christmas Carol concert held in St. Pauls Church with school children of all ages.
Sponsorship of Recruit London, which assists the long-term Employee CR engagement unemployed into work.
46 Westminster residents were placed We will encourage employees to engage in CR initiatives and into full-time employment with local Covent Garden businesses contribute 500 employee hours to supporting CR-related and 13 residents were provided with work experience projects.
Volunteering programme We will promote a volunteering programme with Construction Youth Trust, LandAid and Urban Land Institute ULI.
EARLS COURT COMMUNITY OPEN DAY Earls Court community engagement includes regular communityevents at the Earls Court Project Room.
Families areable to participate in a range of activities, view models and presentations on the Earls Court development and ask questions of Capco representatives.
Activities in 2018 included Easter egg decorating, bunting designing, hand-held windmill decorating andflower crown arranging and a Christmas open day with a wreath-making workshop.
District stewardship Capco continues to fund additional security for the Covent Garden estate due to the high national security threat level.
This includes 24-hour monitoring of CCTV and extensive patrolling of the estate throughout the day and night.
To help improve air quality in the area, we have commissioned signage encouraging drivers to turn off their engines whilst queuing in traffic to help improve air quality and have consolidated deliveries to our Covent Garden office to reduce the number of vehicles visiting the district.
A dedicated residents herb barrow on the Piazza has been provided for use by all residents.
Easter flowers at an Earls Court community open day www.
com 45 Corporate responsibility continued CHARITABLE SUPPORT Crisis at Christmas SUPPORTING CRISIS AT CHRISTMAS Capco supported Crisis, the national charity for homeless people, as our charity partner for Covent Gardens Christmas campaign.
Approximately 16,500 was raised for the charity over the Christmas period.
Refuge As part our annual Beautython campaign, Covent Garden supported Refuge, who provide specialist support for women experiencing domestic violence.
700 was raised for the charity.
Mousetrap Theatre Capco supported a charity event organised by Mousetrap Theatre Projects, which supports disadvantaged children and children with special needs in accessing local theatre.
Perennial Covent Garden participated in this years Chelsea Fringe Festival, sponsoring the creation of a garden on the Piazza in support of Capco supported Crisis over the Christmas period Perennial, the charity supporting people in horticulture.
The garden was situated in the Piazza for two weeks, encouraging donations from the public.
London Community Foundation PLANTING AND GARDENING In collaboration with the London Community Foundation, we have donated 180,000 to provide grants to support community activity in the Earls Court area.
The projects fall under the three criteria of Get fit, Get support and Get involved and include a number of youth projects, classes, homework clubs, nutrition and well-being projects and trips for older people.
Emergency services Capco donated 10,495 towards the funding of child and newborn manikins, used in emergency services scenario training sessions.
In collaboration with the London Air Ambulance, Capco hosted a Retail Apprentice Challenge in the Covent Garden Piazza, raising approximately 2,500 for the charity.
A number of employees from the Covent Garden office took part in the challenge.
Lifelites Capco raised over 11,500 for the charity Lifelites, which is based near Covent Garden, through a golf day held in September.
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES Apple Market Challenge The hugely successful Apple Market Challenge, run in conjunction with sixth form students at a Business Enterprise School, Ursuline High School Wimbledon, entered its twelfth year and has involved over 6,700 children since its inception in 2006.
Pupils from 10 schools, including both the Covent Garden primary schools, presented products that could be sold from the Apple Market in Planting and gardening workshop with local school children the Covent Garden Market Building.
Little Architect Earls Court Capco supported an Architectural Association School of Through our collaboration with our education partner, Urbanwise Architecture project with pupils from St. Josephs primary London, Capco worked with children from six primary schools in school, Covent Garden.
The project focused on the Victorian era the Earls Court area on a range of educational projects focused on ofdesign, the Great Fire of London and the Roman Empire.
The projects focused on what makes a great place to live with specific focus on home design, housing construction and Gardening materials and local area issues.
They also spent some time Covent Gardens Head Gardener undertook a planting researching the history of the Earls Court area, which involved andgardening workshop with children from St Josephs history mapping and survey work looking at different types primaryschool.
Construction Youth Trust Urban Plan Project Capco supports Construction Youth Trust, which aims to inspire We collaborated with the Urban Land Institute on their UrbanPlan and enable young people to overcome barriers and discover a career Project, working with Year 12 students from Fulham College and in construction.
This programme targets schools with a high students from Chelsea Academy.
This programme helps young proportion of socially or economically disadvantaged students and people understand the role the real estate industry plays in reviving works with a diverse demographic of young people to introduce and regenerating urban areas and brings to life the urban them to career opportunities in construction.
Initiatives in 2018 environment through a series of interactive workshops included a number of speed networking and careers events for and team challenges.
students and parents at Ark King Solomon Academy in Westminster.
46 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ENVIRONMENT 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS Capco aims to minimise the impact of our Lowering carbon emissions 98 per cent of electricity purchased for Covent Garden from operations on the environment.
We apply a renewable energy suppliers.
responsible and forward-looking approach to Sustainability certification environmental issues and the principles Achieved Level 4 Code for Sustainable Homes and BREEAM of sustainability.
Very Good & Excellent certification for Floral Court.
A greener Covent Garden ENERGY MANAGEMENT Introduced new planting across Covent Garden and a new In 2018 we continued our efforts to lower our energy usage Head Gardener to enhance greenery and improve air quality.
and met our target to reduce energy use by three per cent on a like-for-like basis compared to 2017.
At Covent Garden Market Award for sustainability reporting electricity usage was lowered by 15 per cent as we introduced Maintained Silver Award in EPRA Sustainability Best Practice further energy efficient LED lighting.
We also carried out  for Reporting awards and as a constituent saving audits and purchased 98 per cent of our electricity from of FTSE4Good.
Diverting waste from landfill Improving the energy performance of our assets in response to the At our head office and Covent Garden office operations, we Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards MEES has remained a diverted 100 per cent of non-hazardous waste from landfill priority.
We have improved the Energy Performance Certificate and continued with our efforts to improve recycling.
EPC rating to E or better on all our Covent Garden properties, removing all ratings of F or lower, and achieved an EPC rating of at least C for all new residential apartments at Floral Court.
OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2019 AIR QUALITY We recognise that improving air quality remains a priority for Energy management those living and working in, or visiting London.
In 2018 we have Lower energy use by 3.5 per cent for managed areas on a continued our discussions with Westminster City Council to like-for-like basis compared with 2018 and maintain this ascertain if further streets in Covent Garden can be made target annually until 2021. pedestrian-friendly.
In advance of this, we have commissioned mobile signage encouraging drivers to turn off their engines if Air quality they are queuing in traffic, which will contribute to improving We will promote our no-idling campaign in Covent Garden air quality.
and review further opportunities for more pedestrian friendly areas.
GREENING OUR PLACES At Covent Garden, we expanded our greening programme by Waste and water management installing planting to building facades on Floral Street and creating At Covent Garden, we will continue to identify opportunities a pocket park in Conduit Court.
We aim to increase planting over to consolidate waste collections and divert waste from landfill.
time to provide a biodiverse environment which will assist in Responsible development improving air quality.
We will refresh our sustainability framework for projects and WASTE AND WATER MANAGEMENT development to recognise emerging policy and improved We have maintained our efforts to improve recycling rates and 100 industry standards.
per cent of waste was diverted from landfill for our head office and Covent Garden office operations.
We raise awareness of how our employees can improve recycling rates in our operations by sharing information on our intranet pages.
In an effort to reduce plastic waste, the Covent Garden office has switched its milk deliveries so AIR QUALITY that milk is provided in re-usable glass bottles.
We monitor water use across our portfolio and actively seek opportunities to install more efficient water-using equipment during our refurbishment works and new developments.
Capco has introduced signs discouraging engine idling.
com 47 Corporate responsibility continued GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Capco continues to monitor and report all greenhouse gas emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We prepare the report by following the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard published by the World Resources Institute WRI and adopt the operational consolidation method, as this reflects where we can influence energy use.
For Scope 2 emissions, those arising from generated electricity usage, we report in two ways.
Firstly, we calculate the location-based emissions which reflect emissions according to the energy mix of the National Grid.
Secondly, we also report market-based emissions which reflect the energy mix provided by our energy suppliers.
This helps us to demonstrate the reduction in emissions as a result of purchasing energy from suppliers who generate renewable energy.
Capco has engaged Ramboll UK Limited to provide independent verification of the 2018 greenhouse gas emissions assertion, in accordance with the industry recognised standard ISO 14064-3.
The location-based method reports emissions as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e 2 2.
The market-based method reports emissions as tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO 2 RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT We are committed to delivering new developments responsibly and INTRODUCING PLANTING AND GREENERY to embedding sustainable practices.
Our Environmental Policy and Sustainability Framework set out to our contractors and suppliers the standards our developments are to meet.
We are currently reviewing our Sustainability Framework in light of the new London Environment Strategy and emerging New London Plan.
Across our major projects, we use industry certification programmes including BREEAM and Code for Sustainable Homes to help us maintain high standards of sustainable design.
For Floral Court, our mixed-use development in the heart of Covent Garden, we have achieved three certifications: Level 4 Code for Sustainable Homes, BREEAM Excellent rating for domestic refurbishment and BREEAM Very Good rating for retail.
Capco remains an active member of the UK Green Building Council.
SUSTAINABILITY INDICES In 2018 we maintained our commitment to participating in industry sustainability indices and benchmarks.
We continued to be included within the FTSE4Good Index, responded to the CDP climate change programme and GRESB, and again received a Silver Estate greening at Floral Court award for reporting in line with the EPRA Sustainability Best Practice Recommendations for Reporting.
For more information on our reporting visit www.
48 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS We are committed to providing the highest Our key projects received industry best practice awards in recognition of their health and safety achievements.
standards of health and safety at our assets and We improved health and safety performance across our expect our supply chain to support us in development project sites through enhanced engagement and achieving this commitment by applying a client sponsorship of initiatives with our contractors.
responsible risk-based approach to the IOSH Managing Safely training was completed by relevant management of health and safety.
Group employees, alongside a suite of other health and safety training initiatives.
MILESTONES Health and safety practices were promoted across the Group 2018 saw a number of important projects safely completed in using various channels of engagement.
This included practical completion As a result of our focus on leading indicators, there has been a of the first phase of the Lillie Square development and the Floral Court downward trend in Accident Frequency Rate AFR and residential development in Covent Garden, and successful fide-rigging RIDDORs on our estates.
of the heavy lifting crane, following completion of the demolition of the Earls Court Exhibition Centres.
Construction of the next phase of the Lillie Square development is well-underway and the scheme continues to demonstrate the highest standards of health and safety.
OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2019 Capco takes a proactive approach to ensuring the highest standards of health and safety across the business with a focus on leading indicators.
Continue to maintain exceptional health and safety standards This saw over 150 inspections by both internal and external parties.
in all of the working environments we control.
Consistently Capco continues to be a Client Partner of the Considerate Constructors strive to achieve best practice in all our activities.
In addition Scheme CCS or the Scheme, reflecting the Companys to this commitment, our 2019 health and safety objectives commitment to ensuring that our contractors provide the highest are to: standards of health and safety on Group construction projects.
As a Maintain visible leadership and culture in safety and health Client Partner, Capco encourages the contractors we engage to be registered with the Scheme.
We expect compliance with all aspects of Give health equal billing as safety with employees and the Schemes Code on our registered sites.
Capco is also a participating contractors member of the Construction Clients Leadership Group.
Recognise achievement internally and through industry In 2018, Capco received a number of health and safety awards, including awards a Gold CCS Award for Lillie Square Phase 1 and a Silver CCS Award for Enhance compliance dashboard reporting the demolition of the former Earls Court Exhibition Centres.
The demolition project also won Client of the Year Award at the CDM Association of Project Safety Awards.
REPORTING No work-related employee fatalities were recorded in 2018 or since GOVERNANCE Capcos inception.
There was a total of three RIDDOR incidents At a Group level, the health and safety governance and reporting reported across the Group during 2018.
The AFR for Capco framework continue to function effectively across the business.
The development projects at the end of 2018 stood at 0.13.
We Sector Safety Leadership Teams SSLTs met regularly during the year benchmark our development projects AFR against the Health and to consider health and safety matters for each asset and to implement Safety Executive HSE Construction Industry Standard of 0.77. the Groups Occupational Health and Safety Management System Capcos Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR for 2018 was OH&SMS at operational level.
We have created heat maps to enable us to carry out trend The SSLTs are overseen by the Group Safety Leadership Team GSLT, analysis for near misses and minor injuries reported.
This has which is chaired by our General Counsel & Director of Corporate allowed us to focus our resources on areas across where Services and championed by the Managing Director and Chief improvements can be made.
Investment Officer, who is responsible for health and safety at Board level.
The GSLT continues to review health and safety performance across the Group regularly throughout the year, and facilitate the sharing of lessons learnt and best practice across the management team.
Health and safety is a standing item on the Boards agenda and the Board receives regular formal reports on health and safety, summarising health and safety performance, risks and achievements across the Group.
The sections of the Annual Report which make up the Strategic In line with our OHSAS 18001 compliant OH&SMS, a detailed health Report are set out on page 83.
The Strategic Report has been and safety management review was undertaken during the year to approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2019. ensure that the system remained appropriate and continued to operate effectively.
Capcos Group-wide major incident response plans were On behalf of the Board also tested and refreshed during the year.
TRAINING A range of health and safety related training was provided across the Group in 2018, which included IOSH Managing Safely training for relevant employees.
In addition, a number of employees received mental health first aider training, sessions on mental Ian Hawksworth health awareness were held for employees, and health and safety Chief Executive awareness was promoted across the business.
