Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR AIMS MANUFACTURING AND SOURCING Card Factory is committed to providing products of excellent We are proud that the majority of cards sold in our stores are quality and value to our customers the lifeblood of our designed and manufactured by us in the UK.
In achieving this we recognise and understand the cards and other products are sourced from a broad supplier importance of showing all of our stakeholders how we take our base throughout the UK, Europe and the Far East, corporate and social responsibility CSR seriously.
Our aim is for CSR to be embedded within our culture: for it to Supplier auditing guide management and employee behaviour: and to have clear We are continuing to develop our supplier factory auditing responsibility and accountability both for our CSR strategy programme to ensure it provides reasonable assurance that and for the actions necessary to execute it.
we are trading with suppliers that operate ethically, and who also produce good quality safe products that comply with all We do not have a separate CSR function as it is intrinsically relevant laws and standards.
We carry out audits using important in every role.
The Board has overall responsibility third-party specialists to ensure consistency in assessment.
for CSR and how we manage and monitor performance.
We do not place purchase orders with any new suppliers until Our CSR activity is focused on the following key topics: they have satisfied our onboarding process and we have received satisfactory audit results.
Except in very exceptional Customers circumstances, where existing suppliers are outside of the EU Manufacturing and Sourcing and our purchases from them in the last financial year exceeded 50,000, we require separate ethical and technical Environment audits commissioned by us to have been completed before we Health and Safety make any further order.
Colleagues Ethical audits Community The ethical audits we commission use criteria, SA8000, which is an auditable certification standard developed by Social CUSTOMERS Accountability International.
It encourages organisations to Our business is built on providing great quality products, develop, maintain, and apply socially satisfactory practices in service and value to our customers.
The SA8000 standard is the most recognised social certification standard for factories and organisations Key achievements during the year were: worldwide.
The audit scope includes: child labour, forced labour and disciplinary practices, health and safety, rolling out EPOS and contactless payment across all of our discrimination, freedom of association, collective bargaining, stores helping us to serve customers faster and improve working hours, remuneration and the environment.
customer experience: increased focus and investment on customer insight Ethical audit results are categorised as either Satisfactory, through increased customer research ensuring we continue Needs Improvement or Needs Major Improvement.
If an to listen to our customers and develop our service and audit indicates a supplier Needs Major Improvement we will proposition: seek to ensure that an appropriate corrective action plan is put in place by the supplier and that the relevant member of the investments in fixtures and fittings across our store estate buying team is informed so that no further orders are placed to improve merchandising and customer experience: with that supplier until a re-audit has been carried out and an introducing LiveChat to enhance our customers ability to acceptable result has been achieved.
interact with our Getting Personal customer service team on a one-to-one basis: In exceptional circumstances, where an unsatisfactory audit result occurs and the supplier concerned has an order in focusing on our customers online journey making it easier progress, the matter is brought to the attention of a senior and quicker to shop, add to their basket and checkout: member of the supply chain team so we can decide how to introduction of a multi variant testing system whereby our proceed.
In certain instances this has resulted in financial loss customers click choice shapes our future website where an order is cancelled or refused on the results of such development: an audit to ensure we maintain integrity over our supply chain.
launching over 2000 new designs across cards, gifting and Technical audits dressings online to give our customers greater choice: The technical audits we commission focus on a suppliers continued investment in our social media presence and capacity to produce the number of goods we require safely, in direct dialogue with our customers online via Instagram accordance with our specifications and all relevant standards and Facebook, aided with the use of influencers enables including those relating to labelling.
Technical audit results are our customers to interact with us instantly on their channel expressed as a percentage and, if the result is 95% or lower, a of choice: and corrective action plan is sought for the non-compliances found in the audit and a suitable timeframe is agreed with the enabling customer reviews for our Card Factory online supplier and monitored.
If the original audit result is less than businesses allowing our customers to tell us directly what they think about the service they have received and the 75%, a re-audit is arranged after evidence of corrective actions has been received.
If we are not satisfied with the results of the quality and value of the products they purchase.
re-audit we will not make any further orders with that supplier until the issues are rectified.
The continued development of our products and service, both of which contribute to our retail proposition and customer experience and continue to underpin our position as the UKs leading specialist greeting card retailer a position we intend to keep.
28 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials Trading companies In our day-to-day operations we also seek to ensure that all We continue to use trading companies in the Far East who paper and paper board materials classified as waste are source certain products on our behalf but retain the separated and recycled and this is supported by our waste commercial relationship with their manufacturers.
We are management services provider who only use landfill as a final continuing to develop our audit programme to ensure we have resort once all other disposal methods have been exhausted.
greater transparency over this part of our supply chain and have begun to commission confidential audits of the ENVIRONMENT manufacturers our trading companies use.
These audits We recognise our operations impact the environment and the preserve the identity of the manufacturers but provide us with policies we adopt are important to our business and its assurance they operate ethically and are capable of producing stakeholders.
Our objective is to reduce our impact on the safe, high quality products in the quantities we require.
environment, from material sourcing to customer use and Through this process we aim to minimise the number of disposal, across the following key topics: relationships we have with trading companies, simplify our supply chain and improve transparency.
Waste recycling We recognise the impact waste generated from our activities We ask all of our suppliers to comply with our supplier has on the communities we operate in.
We proactively look to compliance manual and we have continued to strengthen our reduce the level of waste generated and maximise the quality assurance and inspection operations, utilising thirdproportion of waste that is recycled.
party partners in the Far East to complement our own team with the medium-term goal of having a colleague dedicated to We continue to educate our teams to maximise the level of inspecting products at source prior to shipment.
waste that can be recycled and minimise the number of collections required to reduce the associated carbon footprint We have been a member of Sedex, a large and recognised of waste collection and movement and to minimise store waste membership organisation which shares ethical trade data with sent to landfill.
members, since 2013 and we actively encourage our current orprospective suppliers to join this organisation, if not All of our store locations have the facility to recycle paper, alreadymembers.
cardboard and plastic-based materials which constitute a very large proportion of store waste either through the use of The audits we commission and the information provided dry mixed recycling containers in which 95% of waste through our Sedex membership help us to monitor human deposited must be recyclable or waste containers which allow rights issues through our supply chain and we support this more specific separation of materials with the latter mainly with periodic visits to the factories of key suppliers by our being in shopping centres with centrally managed facilities.
The continued investment in our sourcing team during the year gives us capacity to support greater scrutiny Our distribution centres in Wakefield also operate a recycling of supplier practices.
programme to ensure all plastic and cardboard materials are bailed on site and removed for recycling.
In July 2017, we published our first annual compliance statement in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
In Packaging it we outlined the processes we currently have in place and the We use a third-party consultancy to ensure we meet the steps we intended to take during the following twelve months requirements of the UK Packaging Waste Regulations and to develop our supply chain management procedures and to purchase the appropriate level of packaging recovery notes.
give assurance to our stakeholders that we take our commitment seriously.
A copy of the statement is available on The majority of the products we sell are designed in-house our transactional website www.
co. uk and on our which affords us the opportunity to reduce packaging waste investor relations website www.
for both products and transit packaging.
We continually seek to improve this, and this also helps us to reduce container and Paper-based products road transportcosts.
In our UK manufacturing operations, appropriate due diligence is undertaken to ensure, so far as practicable, that we comply Energy with the EU Timber Regulations EUTR.
We have also Electricity is the main form of energy we consume and we analyse continued to develop the level of controls over paper-based consumption across our entire estate, including our distribution materials within our products, sourced from the Far East, to centres, our manufacturing facility and our stores.
Where possible, replicate the level of due diligence we undertake within our own we look for opportunities to reduce our consumption and reduce manufacturing facilities with those of third-party suppliers.
wastage by introducing new procedures or making use of available technology.
As we have previously reported, this work Our main trading subsidiary, Sportswift Limited which trades was supplemented by an energy audit carried out under ESOS.
as Card Factory, and our UK manufacturing operation, Printcraft Limited, are both FSC Forest Stewardship Council Operationally, we have continued to focus on: certified.
This has and will continue to assist in providing a more robust and simplified supply chain over which to comply, Monitoring electricity usage so far as practicable, with EUTR and in demonstrating the During the year we continued to invest in installing smart transparency we have over our sourcing of paper-based meters into our existing and new stores to allow us to measure materials from sustainable sources.
electricity usage on a half-hourly basis.
Although weve not quite achieved our aim of having these in place across the whole We are committed to working with our key third-party estate, we do hope to achieve this during the current year.
suppliers to ensure that products on sale in our stores are manufactured using FSC certified material.
Our long-term goal We will continue to use the energy usage data we receive to is that, so far as possible, all paper-based and wood-based support our store colleagues in reducing energy waste and products sold in our stores are produced using FSC certified consumption.
In addition, well continue to review and perform material by 2020, actively developing and promoting a policy electrical audits to ensure the equipment we use or inherit is to maximise the use of wood fibres from forestry operations energyefficient.
certified by the FSC within our supply chain.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Completing the installation of LED lighting in our stores Annual comparison and emissions intensity During the year, we completed the installation of tCO e 2017-18 2016-17 Reduction 2 energy-efficient LED lighting across our existing stores.
All of Total emissions 16,071 19,604 18% the new stores we open in the future will have LED lighting Emissions intensity 38.1 49.2 23% installed.
In the existing stores, for which we have comparative data, we have reduced our daily electricity usage by an expressed in tCO e per m turnover.
Methodology and emission factors In addition to its cost efficiency, LED lighting enhances both These emissions were calculated using the methodology set out in the updated greenhouse gas reporting guidance, the customer experience and working conditions for store colleagues given the nature of the lighting and the fact that it Environmental Reporting Guidelines ref.
PB 13944, issued by emits less heat.
the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in June 2013.
Further details of the methodology applied in We are currently assessing whether LED lighting would calculating these emissions can be found on Card Factorys investor website www.
similarly benefit other areas of our business where it is not currently installed.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The health and safety of all our employees, customers, Fuel efficiency We invest to improve fuel efficiency and reduce the number contractors, visitors and members of the public is of paramount importance to the Group.
ofmiles travelled as part of our commitment to reducing energyconsumption.
All colleagues are responsible for ensuring that stores and other working environments are safe and operated without We operate a fleet of company cars and vans in which we aim to include, as far as practicable, more fuel-efficient vehicles significant risk.
Health and safety is incorporated into our day-to-day practices, including colleague induction, and we and for which we monitor fuel consumption.
support and reinforce this through training programmes which With our third-party distribution partners, we have actively help to mitigate health and safety risks.
taken steps to reduce miles travelled for store deliveries from our national distribution centre in Wakefield.
By working in Whilst the Board has ultimate responsibility for health and safety, it is managed on a day-to-day basis by our compliance partnership with our carriers and making changes to our business processes, we are now sorting a large proportion of and safety teams.
These have been restructured to better fit our deliveries destined for the northern parts of the United the business.
The Compliance and Safety Retail Team now report to the Retail Director and the Compliance and Safety Kingdom and Scotland so that they are processed through northern distribution hubs.
Warehouse and Support Centre Team report to the Supply Chain Director.
These changes have allowed the opportunity ESOS to build stronger relationships with the teams they support.
In 2015 16, with the support of our energy consultants, we Both teams continue to liaise with line managers in all parts of the business to ensure compliance with our policies and that carried out our first audit under The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS.
During the year, we all colleagues receive appropriate training.
The two teams continue to work together using their collective knowledge implemented some of the recommendations for energy efficiency savings and continue to look for other opportunities and expertise to ensure our operations remain safe.
to make the Group more energy efficient.
Compliance and safety meetings are held throughout the year Voltage Optimisation at Printcraft and are attended by representatives from key operational teams with appropriate escalation to the senior management At our print facility, Printcraft, we invested a significant sum in a voltage optimisation unit and a new transformer for the team where material issues or risks arise.
As a manufacturing facility, Printcraft consumes a lot objective of the decisions taken at these meetings is to make our stores and workplaces safe places for customers, of energy and requires high voltages to operate.
The optimisation unit regulates the voltages coming into the colleagues and visitors alike.
facility and ensures that excess voltages, which occur naturally in all supplies, are sent back to the supplier.
This reduces The compliance and safety team also analyses trends and takes consumption, reduces the safety risks associated with excess a proactive approach to managing health and safety practices.
voltages and helps lengthen the life span of all electrical powered equipment at Printcraft.
Typically a voltage Additionally, our activities during the year have sought to develop how we collaborate and communicate across the optimisation unit in a facility like Printcraft will save 9.9% of the annual electricity consumption which equates to an Group in addressing health and safety matters and to estimated 40,000 per annum.
For Printcraft, this saving has streamline processes and procedures.
been guaranteed by the installation company.
Key activities and developments during the year included: Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions teams restructured and now reporting into relevant Greenhouse Gas Statement for the Group operational areas: GHG emissions for the Group for the year ended 31 January 2018, in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e, were: the creation of a role dedicated to dealing with health and 2 safety related transport claims, meaning that claims are Source tCO e % 2 now given focused attention, reports produced and trends highlighted: Fuel combustion stationary 66.4 0.4% Fuel combustion mobile 1,258.8 7.8% Health and Safety training both the annual and new Fugitive emissions F-gas 203.8 1.3% starter Retail health and safety training has been updated Purchased electricity 14,541.5 90.5% to make it more user friendly.
The new format is a booklet with positive feedback to date from our store colleagues: TOTAL 16,070.6 30 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials Investigations a change to the accident, incident and near Tell Karen gives colleagues the chance to share directly miss investigation process now enables consistent formatting with the CEO, their thoughts on how we can grow the of investigations whilst ensuring all details are logged.
business and provide our customers great service: a quarterly letter from our CEO to all colleagues: The Board periodically receives reports on health and safety regular retail news bulletins, providing operational matters throughout the Group including details of any material instructions to all of our stores: incidents and remedial actions.
weekly internal communications providing colleagues with COLLEAGUES news of events, new starters and celebrations across the Our colleagues across the Group are critical to Card Factorys Group: ability to deliver the great products and customer service an online message board communicating key operational which underpin our success.
We employ more than 7,000 messages to all stores via our intranet: permanent colleagues.
During the Christmas trading period, colleague numbers increased to more than 13,000 across the regular meetings with regional and area managers ahead of Group, taking into account temporary seasonal workers.
key trading periods who then share key messages with storecolleagues: The focus during the last year has been investment in store manager visits to our support centre to discuss and colleagues with the introduction of a talent mapping and review Card Factorys retail proposition: career development programme for our support centre colleagues and our ACardemy programme for our store Board and senior management team members regularly visiting stores to assess the retail proposition and get colleagues.
Our ACardemy programme allows the Group to home grow our next Assistant Store Managers and Store feedback from colleagues and customers, particularly Managers by providing crucial learning and development to during key trading periods: and shape their futures within our stores.
visits to our Mock Shop, a representative Card Factory store at our support centre which reflects the layout of a Following its launch, our candidate management system, typical Card Factory store as it progresses through each which was introduced to support recruitment of seasonal trading season.
This provides a visual representation of colleagues, has simplified our recruitment process giving back what we aim to achieve in our stores and also gives crucial time to our store and support centre colleagues.
It has colleagues the opportunity to provide feedback on our also allowed us to onboard new colleagues to our teams in retail proposition.
COMMUNITY Other key activities during the last year have been: We recognise the importance of being responsible members the launch of the Groups Mission, Vision and Values: of the communities in which we work.
We look to support charitable causes that can benefit from our growth.
the definition and launch of our apprenticeship strategy: the introduction of a more structured definition of job Card Factory is proud to have been supporting Macmillan rolesand levels across the Group that will provide greater Cancer Support since 2006 and honoured to receive The transparency over future development, progression Extraordinary Commitment Award.
andreward: Colleagues and customers at Card Factory take part in the launch of mycardfactory which offers discounts and multiple fundraising events, ranging from loose change rewards to all of our colleagues in the Group across a donations to the annual National Bear Raffle in our stores, as variety of retailers and leisure activities: and well as the sale of Macmillan Christmas cards.
our Executive Board and senior business leaders working in stores on our busiest trading day of the year to support our For a number of years, a group of colleagues from across our colleagues over the Christmas season.
business have also competed in the Great North Run attracting sponsorship from colleagues, friends and relatives.
We are an equal opportunities employer with a diverse workforce: our policy is to recruit, develop, promote, support During the year we raised 589,564 for Macmillan which is an and retain skilled and motivated people regardless of incredible achievement and one of which all our colleagues disability, race, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, should be proud.
gender identification, marital status or age.
We have raised over 5,000,000 for Macmillan and we intend to At the end of the financial period the percentage breakdown of continue this very successful partnership with Macmillan, whose male and female colleagues across the Group was as follows: valuable work helps to ensure that no one faces cancer alone.
% Male % Female In addition to the money we raise for Macmillan, we have also FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 donated 192,804 each to the British Heart Foundation, Alzheimers Society, and the NSPCC.
These three charities Board 71 67 29 33 were chosen by our colleagues to benefit from the sale of Senior management team 62 78 38 22 plastic carrier bags in England, following the introduction of All employees 21 21 79 79 the 5p carrier bag charge in October 2015.
We intend to continue donating these sums to charitable causes.
We regularly communicate with our colleagues in a variety of ways including: We also introduced Make A Wish as our charity partner to our our employee engagement survey and employee focus Republic of Ireland stores.
groups which include periodic listening groups with our CEO : Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 Card Factory is proud to have been supporting Macmillan Cancer Support since 2006.
32 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials We have raised over 5 million!
On behalf of everyone at Macmillan Cancer Support, I just wanted to say an enormous thank you to all of the staff and customers of Card Factory for reaching an incredible 5m milestone.
We want to reach and improve the lives of everyone living with cancer and we couldnt do this without your continued support.
Thank you Sharon Cottam Partnership Manger, Macmillan Cancer Support Total raised to date: 5,243,162 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33
