Sales Relationships We sell the majority of our cruises through travel agents and tour operators that serve our guests in their local regions.
Ourindividual cruise brands relationships with their travel agents are generally independent of each of our other brands.
Ourtravel agents relationships are generally not exclusive and travel agents generally receive a base commission, plus the potential of additional commissions, including complimentary tour conductor cabins, based onthe achievement of pre-defined sales volumes.
Travel agent partners are an integral part of our long-term cruise distribution network and are critical to our success.
We utilize local sales teams to motivate travel agents to support our products and services with competitive sales and pricing policies and joint marketing and advertising programs.
During fiscal 2018, no controlled group of travel agencies accounted for 10% or more of our revenues.
We also employ a wide variety of educational programs, including websites, seminars and videos, to train agents onour cruise brands and their products and services.
All of our brands have internet booking engines to allow travel agents to bookour cruises.
We also support travel agent booking capabilities through global distribution systems.
All of our cruise brands have their ownconsumer websites that provide access to information about their products and services to users and enable their guests to quickly and easily bookcruises and other products and services online.
These sites interface with brands social networks, blogs and other social media sites, which allow them to develop greater contact and interaction with their guests before, during and after their cruise.
We also employ vacation planners whosupport our sales initiatives byoffering our guests one-on-one cruise planning expertise and other services.
We are a customer service driven company and continue to invest in our service organization to assist travel agents and guests before, during and after their cruise.
We believe that our support systems and infrastructure are among the strongest in the vacation industry.
Ourinvestment in customer service includes the development of employees, processes and systems.
We continually improve our systems within the reservations and customer relationship management functions, emphasizing the continuing support and training of the travel agency community.
Sustainability Ourreputation and success depend onhaving sustainable and transparent operations.
Ourcommitment and actions to keep our guests and crew members safe and comfortable, protect the environment, develop and provide opportunities for our workforce, strengthen stakeholder relations and enhance both the communities where we workas well as the port communities that our ships visit are vital to our success as a business enterprise and reflective of our core values.
We strive to be a company that people want to workfor and to be an exemplary global corporate citizen.
We voluntarily publish Sustainability Reports that address governance, stakeholder engagement, environmental, labor, human rights, society, product responsibility, economic and other  issues and performance indicators.
These reports, which are not incorporated in this document but can be viewed at www.
com, were developed in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines established bythe Global Reporting Initiative, the global standard for reporting onenvironmental, social and governance policies, practices and performance.
We have been publishing Sustainability Reports since 2011.
In order to support our environmental strategy, our environmental management system is certified in accordance with ISO14001.
We have also developed a set of 2020sustainability goals reinforcing our commitment to the environment, our guests, our employees and the communities in which weoperate.
Ourten goals listed below are aimed at reducing our environmental footprint while enhancing the health, safety and security of our guests and crew members and ensuring sustainable business practices across our brands and business partners: Environmental Goals Reduce intensity of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e emissions from operations by25% by2020 2 relative to our 2005baseline Continue to improve the quality of our emissions into the air bydeveloping, deploying and operating advanced air quality systems across our fleet Increase usage of ship-to-shore power connection capabilities 18
