Increase Advanced Waste Water Purification System coverage of our fleet capacity by10percentage points by2020relative to our 2014baseline Continue to improve our shipboard operations water use efficiency by5% by2020relative to our 2010 baseline Continue to reduce waste generated byour shipboard operations by5% by2020relative to our 2016 baseline Health, Safety andSecurity Goals Continue to build onour commitment to protect the health, safety and security of guests, employees and all others working onour behalf Sustainable Workforce andCommunityGoals Continue to build a diverse and inclusive workforce and provide all employees with a positive work environment and opportunities to build a rewarding career to further drive employee engagement Further develop and implement vendor assurance procedures ensuring compliance with Carnival Corporation & plcs Business Partner Codeof Conduct and Ethics Continue to workoninitiatives and partnerships that support and sponsor a broad range of organizations for the benefit of the communities where weoperate Reflecting onour commitment to sustainability and to play a leading role in matters of environmental protection in the cruise industry, weare expanding our investment in the use of lowcarbon fuels, in particular, LNG.
We have 11next-generation LNGcruise ships onorder, including AIDAnova, entering the fleet in December 2018, the first cruise ship in the industry to be powered at sea byLNG.
Pioneering a newera in the use of lowcarbon fuels, these newships will have the ability to use LNGto generate 100percent of their power both in port and on the open sea - an innovation that will reduce emissions to help protect the environment.
In addition, wecontinue our partnership with TheNature Conservancy, one of the worlds leading conservation organizations.
Theyare leveraging our partnership in their efforts to restore coral reefs, protect marine ecosystems and promote natural habitats for marine environments to help reduce the impact of storms and rising sea levels in coastal communities.
Employees Ourshipboard and shoreside employees are sourced from over 100countries.
Excluding employees onleave, we employ an average of 88,000shipboard employees onboard the 104ships weoperate, which includes crew members and officers.
Ourshoreside operations have an average of 12,000full-time and 2,000part-time seasonal employees, including seasonal employees of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours which significantly increases its workforce during the late spring and summer months in connection with the Alaskan cruise season.
Ofour total employees, 23,000are female and 79,000are male.
Asof November 30,2018, three of the 11 members of our Boards of Directors are female.
Ourfive executive officers are male and twoof the seven members of our leadership team are female.
We have entered into agreements with unions covering certain employees onour ships and in our shoreside hotel and transportation operations.
Thepercentages of our shipboard and shoreside employees that are represented bycollective bargaining agreements are 58% and 23%, respectively.
We consider our employee and union relationships to be strong.
We source our shipboard officers primarily from Italy, the UK, the Netherlands, Germany and Norway.
The remaining crew positions are sourced from around the world, with the largest contingent from the Philippines, Indonesia and India.
We utilize a limited number of manning agencies to help locate and hire most of our shipboard employees.
Training Ourcruise brands are committed to providing appropriate hotel and marine-related training to ensure that our shipboard crew, including officers, have the knowledge and skills to properly perform their jobs.
We provide a diverse range of shoreside and shipboard training for our hotel staff before and after they join our ships to further enhance their skills.
Specifically, weprovide bar, entertainment, guest service, housekeeping, leadership, management and restaurant training.
Depending onthe brand, wewill also provide our hotel staff with in-depth English, German and Italian language training.
All our hotel staff also undergo extensive safety training and, depending ontheir position, will pursue advanced safety certifications.
We partner closely with manning agencies to help provide this training in Manila, Philippines: Jakarta, Indonesia: and Mumbai, India.
