Strategic Report Delivering our Responsible Business Ambitions Our Responsible Business Ambitions will help us realise our strategy to deliver for the changing needs of our customers and be atrusted corporate citizen, an employer ofchoice and a 21st century energy and services company, driving long-term shareholder value.
The world of energy is evolving, the social and environmental climate we operate in is under pressure and our customers needs are changing every day.
In this rapidly shifting landscape, energy remains at the centre of how we run our lives, and we are determined to use our capabilities to make a positive impact.
Using the UN Sustainable Development Goals as a guide, we have mapped the challenges facing society against our business capabilities, to better understand how we can make the greatest difference.
Our biggest responsibilities are to innovate continuously in ways that make our customers lives easier, to tackle climate change, to create a skilled and inclusive workforce that is capable of driving our business forward and to support our local communities.
That is why in 2019 we are launching our 2030 Responsible Business Ambitions a set of 15 goals that contribute to a more sustainable world.
We will focus on delivering for our customers, enabling all our customers to use energy more sustainably and building the workforce of the future all of which will help us to create stronger communities.
Our Ambitions are underpinned by our Responsible Business Foundations which ensure we have strong underlying policies, processes and practices in place to get the basics right and act with integrity.
Non-financial reporting statement We are confident that this approach will maximise the positive In line with the Non-Financial Reporting Directive, we have impact we have in society and put us in the best position to set out where the relevant information we need to report succeed as a business now, through the energy transition against can be found: and beyond.
Business Model pages 16 to 17 Anti-Bribery and Corruption page 65 Whisteblowing pages 65 and 85 The subsequent pages share the progress we Human rights pages 65 and 111 have made across our focus areas during 2018 Social matters pages 58 to 59 and 64 to 65 and we look forward to reporting in full against Environmental protection pages 54, 60 to 61 and 85 to 86 our new goals next year.
Employees pages 53, 62 to 63, 78 and 85 to 86 Where principal risks have been identified in relation to any of the matters listed above, these can be found on pages 41 to 51.
Explore more about our Responsible Business Ambitions at centrica.
com responsibility View Our Code, policies and standards at centrica.
com ourcode Read our full set of Key Performance Indicators on Pages 18 to 19 56 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our 2030 Responsible Business Ambitions Helping you run your world in ever more sustainable ways Our ambition for Customers Our ambition for Climate change Our ambition for Colleagues Delivering for Enabling all our Building the workforce our customers customers to use energy of the future more sustainably Through the latest innovations and Were developing vital skills and a commitment to service, were a more inclusive workforce to Were helping to shape a low making our customers lives easier ensure we deliver for our customers carbon future by enabling our customers, the energy system and our business to use energy more sustainably Deliver solutions to Help our customers Empower people make our customers reduce emissions in with future skills lives easier line with Paris goals Inspire and develop 100,000 Help customers understand Help our customers reduce people with essential STEM skills and manage their energy better emissions by 25%, by direct Build a more 3% and indirect action Give customers peace of mind inclusive workplace through tailored propositions Enable a decarbonised and connected technologies Attract and develop more energy system women into STEM with 40% Develop solutions to help our of STEM recruits to be female customers run their worlds Deliver 7GW of flexible, Aspire for senior leadership distributed and low carbon Satisfy our customers to reflect the full diversity technologies as well as with excellent service of our labour markets provide system access and optimisation services Make it simpler for people Help 1 million carers stay to deal with us in ways that in or return to work via Reduce our own emissions work for them active promotion of in line with Paris goals carer-positive policies Demonstrate we are on track with Paris goals and develop a path to net zero by 2050 Our ambition for Communities Creating stronger communities By offering our knowledge and expertise, were empowering communities to take control of their energy and tackle pressing social issues Apply new energy technologies Collaborate across sectors to drive positive change to improve local communities Deliver 5 billion of value for communities Encourage our people to share their through new and distributed energy skills by volunteering over 100,000 days technologies Deliver 2,500 skills development Deliver 300 million in energy efficiency opportunities for young people savings to public and essential services not in education or employment Our Responsible Business Foundations Our Ambitions are underpinned by strong foundations that ensure our business operates with integrity Flagship goal Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Strategic Report I Delivering our Responsible Business Ambitions Delivering for our customers Through the latest innovations and a commitment to service, we are making our customers lives easier Deliver solutions to make our customers lives easier We aim to deliver innovative products and services that provide customers with peace of mind and save them time and money.
Cumulatively, we have sold nearly three million Hive connected home products which give customers greater control with just a tap on the app from smart thermostats, plugs, lights and cameras, to contact and motion sensors.
This has led to 82% of customers saying Hive has given them a simpler way of controlling their home.
In the UK, Hive products have been accredited by security experts and the police as effective tools for preventing crime.
In 2019, we took our first steps into connected care with the launch of Hive Link.
Developed in partnership with Carers UK, Hive Link helps carers check that their loved ones are getting on with their day as usual if they cannot be there with them.
It also provides reassurance to the loved one that someone is there if needed.
This is made possible through Hive Links ever-learning algorithm that continually interprets data captured through Hive sensors and plugs placed carefully around the home.
These trigger an alert if there is an unusual change from normal patterns of behaviour, such as the front door being left open for longer than normal.
This increased level of awareness gives carers peace of mind and helps them enjoy conversations with their loved ones that are less about checking up, and more about having a normal chat.
Since launching, Hive Link has won an award for innovation in the Tech for a Better World category at the Consumer Electronics Show, the world's largest consumer technology event.
Our leadership of the UKs smart meter roll-out is helping homes and businesses to run more smoothly by providing accurate bills and insight into how much energy is being used and its costs in real-time.
To date, we have installed nearly seven million 100m smart meters.
Investment in our Centrica Innovations fund to Another way we are helping customers improve the way they accelerate new technologies and ideas that manage their energy is with our Fixed Energy Plus offer for transform our customers lives businesses in North America.
The offer gives large energy consumers access to real-time usage and alerts them when there is a peak load on the grid, so that they can proactively lower their usage and be rewarded with lower capacity costs.
Nav Dhinsa Distributed energy solutions are also making it possible for @NaavKD You know youre old when you get businesses to operate and optimise their energy like never before.
excited by the new @HiveHomeUK thermostat In 2018, we expanded our offer from Centrica Business Solutions that was fitted this morning!
to the Republic of Ireland, Netherlands and Hungary, giving more customers the opportunity to improve performance, strengthen Being able to control my heating and hot water resilience and create opportunities for growth by using distributed on my phone is what was missing in my life.
To build resilience further, we are looking to 23 Oct 2018 offer enhanced cyber-security solutions based on capabilities acquired through our Centrica Innovations investment in Indegy, Kerry Thompson which detects anomalies using advanced machine learning and @kerrymThompson If it wasnt for the amazing alerts businesses to unexpected behaviour or malicious activity.
quality of @HiveHomeUK camera & detection we never would have known someone was in our house without permission!
When travelling home from the airport... so thank you Hive 19 Oct 2018 58 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Satisfy our customers with excellent service We are investing in digital capabilities that enhance our service and enable customers to get in touch with us when and how they want.
This includes creating the next generation British Gas mobile app and web platform as well as deploying intelligent voice recognition and artificial intelligence in call centres to help us manage enquiries more efficiently.
We have also upgraded our webchat which supported an increase in digital interactions from homes and businesses that totalled more than 2 million in the UK alone during 2018.
Meanwhile, North America Business enhanced their web enrolment experience while the Hive app was strengthened with Live Chat customer service capabilities.
Steps like these will, over time, help to improve customer satisfaction and has already contributed to our aggregated Net Promoter Score rising by 0.06 points to 10.0.
Technology helps to create a better world for people with disabilities.
Increased use of webchat has made it easier for customers who struggle using a phone to contact us.
We also supported the development of a smart meter accessible in-home display which improves access to energy insights for customers with visual impairments and is due to launch in 2019.
Included in PwCs limited assurance engagement.
com assurance for more details.
Read more in the Business Review on Our Responsible Business Foundations Pages 20 to 24 In addition to our ambition areas, we want to ensure that we care for our customers whenever they need a helping hand.
In 2018, we trained our call centre advisers in how to serve our customers better and we continued to roll-out complaints programmes such as Right First Time, to ensure we resolve issues more quickly.
Moreover, improvements such as our online automated claims system in Home Warranty of America, has helped claims progress more smoothly which has reduced complaints and cut calls per claim by 25%.
With this focus, our aggregated complaints per 100,000 customers fell by 8% to 3,453.
In 2018, we helped around 826,000 vulnerable customer households.
This included 629,500 customers via the UKs Warm Home Discount scheme and nearly 2,700 customers through North Americas Neighbor-to-Neighbor bill assistance programme.
An additional 29,000 customers and non-customers were supported with energy and debt advice through the British Gas Energy Trust.
Read more about how we are Here for you when you need us most on Pages 30 to 31 I provide assistance to our most vulnerable customers.
Im here to listen, no matter what the situation and I strive to find the individual journey of support that is needed for each customer, every time.
Rachael Steel UK Home Debt Customer Care Agent Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Strategic Report I Delivering our Responsible Business Ambitions Enabling all our customers to use energy more sustainably We are helping to shape a low carbon future by enabling our customers, the energy system and our business to use energy more sustainably Help our customers reduce emissions With over 90% of our carbon emissions arising from customer consumption, the greatest contribution we can make in tackling climate change is to provide them with more sustainable ways to manage their energy.
Since 2008, our products and services have enabled customers to save nearly 35mtCO e which is 2 equivalent to the annual emissions of around 11 million UK homes.
In 2018 for example, we: sold over 300,000 Hive smart thermostats that help customers manage their heating and hot water better, the benefit of which was recognised by the US Environmental Protection Agency which awarded the product an Energy Star rating for enabling customers to protect the environment and save money: became the first major UK energy supplier to achieve accreditation by the Carbon Trust for our renewable tariff for business customers: and acquired Vista Solar, a leading Californian solar engineering, procurement and construction company to strengthen our ability to deliver solar as part of our distributed energy offer.
Enable a decarbonised energy system We are helping create a cleaner energy system by pioneering end-to-end solutions that enhance grid flexibility, support renewables and reduce reliance on fossil fuels.
Towards this in 2018, we: continued to grow the infrastructure for a low carbon transport Powering sustainability system, having installed around 17,000 electric vehicle charge across key sectors points since 2013 and invested in start-up, Driivz, to develop end-to-end solutions for charging see page 29 : 11% invested in the development of a Linear Generator that offers more affordable, flexible and clean onsite generation via Potential annual carbon footprint saving Californian start-up, EtaGen: if just 50% of the UKs Industry, Healthcare strengthened the route-to-market for renewables by balancing and Hospitality & Leisure sectors took and trading power production via wind farm agreements across up distributed energy technologies Europe including 235MW in Sweden and 315MW in Italy: and progressed our 180 million investment in flexible generation Read our report in full at and storage facilities by completing construction at one of the centrica.
com  largest battery storage facilities in Europe as well as at two new fast response power plants.
Read more about being A trusted energy partner for business customers on Pages 32 to 33 Centrica Business Solutions has helped us reduce energy costs and become more energy efficient.
Implementing these energy saving solutions has not only allowed us to reduce our carbon emissions, it has also helped us define a long-term energy management strategy.
Paul Wilkinson Senior Projects Manager, Durham County Council 60 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Reduce our own emissions We now produce over 80% less carbon than we did a decade ago.
This is the result of our strategic decision to move away from being a traditional utility that operates generation assets, to become a customer-facing energy supply and services company.
This transformation is reflected in our 2018 total carbon emissions which decreased by 58% while the carbon intensity of our Central Power Generation also declined by 58% to 53gCO kWh.
2 Our internal carbon footprint reduced by 10% during 2018.
This brings our overall reduction to 26% which means we have met our 20% carbon reduction target for 2015-25 early.
The decline was achieved through planned low carbon fleet and property initiatives, alongside reductions arising from the restructuring of our business.
We have extended our target to reduce emissions by 35% by 2025.
Our Responsible Business Foundations In addition to cutting our carbon emissions, we also work hard to monitor, manage and reduce our wider environmental impact in areas such as water use and waste.
While we do not undertake Task Force for Climate-related water-intensive activities or operate in water-stressed zones, Financial Disclosures TCFD we constantly seek to minimise our use of this vital resource.
We are committed to transparent reporting Our total water use and waste generated decreased significantly in 2018, reflecting our strategic shift away from operating and continuously improving our external large-scale energy assets.
disclosures, including further alignment with the recommendations of the TCFD.
Our strategy Read more about our wider environmental performance at is based on a world which is moving towards a centrica.
com datacentre lower carbon future and our governance structure ensures Board oversight of climate-related matters.
We have already assessed our strategy against the risks and opportunities of decarbonisation scenarios in the UK and believe we are well placed to succeed in the energy transition.
We intend to further strengthen the positive impact we can have Our total carbon emissions on making energy more sustainable by expanding our assessment of decarbonisation scenarios, Total carbon emissions setting targets agreed by the Board and through 2018 1,737,122tCO e 2 deeper integration in our business processes.
2017 4,103,348tCO e 2 Scope 1 Explore more about our TCFD journey at centrica.
com TCFD 2018 1,698,388tCO e 2 2017 4,044,754tCO e 2 Read more about engagement with Scope 2 Investors & shareholders on Scope 2 Page 54 2018 38,734tCO e 2 2017 58,594tCO e 2 Total carbon intensity by revenue 2018 58tCO e m We are a world leader for disclosure 2 2017 146tCO e m and action on tackling climate change 2 We report on an equity basis with practices drawn from WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, IPIECAS Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Defras Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Strategic Report I Delivering our Responsible Business Ambitions Building the workforce of the future We are developing vital skills and a more inclusive workforce to ensure we deliver for our customers Build a more inclusive workplace Having a vibrant and diverse workforce that reflects the world around us is key to understanding and satisfying the changing needs of our customers.
That is why we are passionate about creating an inclusive place to work where everyone can be themselves and build a successful and fulfilling career.
This will enable us to attract, develop and retain our talented workforce.
In 2018, we: inspired the next generation of young girls to explore a career in STEM by working with the Royal Academy of Engineering to showcase strong female role models that demonstrate how exciting a career in energy can be: strengthened recruitment processes to attract more diverse candidates from challenging recruiters to draw up genderEmpower people with future skills balanced shortlists to undergoing unconscious bias training: and We are building the workforce of the future by developing essential progressed our carer-positive culture by continuing to offer a skills that enable our people to thrive and plug the growing shortage generous paid leave allowance to carry out carer responsibilities of STEM Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths skills in while also providing a vital source of support via our our sector.
In the first six months since we launched our Career 1,000-strong Carers Network in the UK and launching a new Development Hub and specialist Learning Academies in 2018, disability and caregiver employee network in North America.
we have seen over 13,000 of our people enhance their capabilities.
A diverse talent pipeline is also being built through the expansion We received recognition for our diversity and inclusion efforts in of our world-class engineering apprenticeships into new areas 2018.
This included Business in the Communitys Best Employers such as leadership, management and digital.
In addition, we for Race Award and our Group Chief Executive being ranked as grew the skills of 500 young people on our graduate and work a Top 30 Ally Executive in the Financial Times OUTstanding experience programmes.
Our diversity Our business and sector traditionally lacks diversity.
But we are confident that the action we are taking to improve inclusion will, over time, help ensure our workforce reflects our labour markets.
Our gender breakdown 1 2018 2017 Female Male Female Male Headcount Percentage Headcount Percentage Headcount Percentage Headcount Percentage Board of Directors 2 17 10 83 3 25 9 75 Senior management 277 28 703 72 278 28 719 72 All employees 8,723 29 21,359 71 9,246 29 22,349 71 1 Gender of three employees is unknown.
Our ethnic minority breakdown Our breakdown is based on employees who have voluntarily declared that they are from a Black, Asian, Mixed Multiple ethnic or other ethnic group.
1 2 2018 2017 Headcount Percentage Headcount Percentage Board of Directors 0 0 0 0 Senior management 86 9 77 9 All employees 3,683 12 3,916 12 1 Of this, 65% of employees disclosed their ethnicity.
2 Of this, 62% of employees disclosed their ethnicity.
Headcount as at 31 December 2018 differs from numbers referenced elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 due to different methodologies.
To accurately reflect the full diversity of our workforce, we use overall headcount numbers rather than a headcount based on their full-time equivalent.
Read more about improving diversity in Nominations Committee on Page 88 62 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our Responsible Business Foundations Ive got a PhD in thermostats and While we focus on building the workforce of the future, its usability and thats led me to a fantastic essential that we provide an environment where our people feel safe, engaged and rewarded.
As part of this, we aspire to create career.
Ive seen women leading teams, an environment where an incident-free workplace is possible.
women leading projects and now Im In 2018, our process safety incident frequency rate Tier 1 and 2 doing it myself and hopefully for the per 200,000 hours worked improved by 57% to 0.06%.
However, we experienced one significant process safety event Tier 1 other young girls in the team, Im a bit compared to zero in 2017.
This involved an uncontrolled release of a role model.
of gas but resulted in no injuries.
Alongside the robust initiatives we have in place to continuously improve physical health, we also Nicola Combe Global Product Lead, Centrica Hive strengthened our capabilities to support mental wellbeing in 2018.
This can be demonstrated with the creation of our 300-strong network of Mental Health First Aiders.
Having an engaged workforce is crucial.
Following feedback from our employee engagement survey in 2017, we implemented initiatives to address issues raised which has contributed to our engagement score improving by 3% to 55% favourable.
We have robust processes in place to uphold equal pay and reward our people fairly which includes paying at least the Living Wage in the UK and reducing our gender pay gap.
Rather than our gender pay gap being due to unequal pay, it is driven by more men working in higher-paid, traditionally male-dominated technical roles such as engineering.
While we are actively taking steps to close our gender pay gap through our inclusion activities see left, we recognise that progress will occur over the long term, with annual performance likely to fluctuate due to changes in the composition of our workforce and business performance.
In 2018, our mean gender pay gap increased by 3% to 15% while our median gender pay gap rose by 1% to 31%.
Read more in Performance Measures on Page 240 Read more about Workforce engagement on Page 78 Gender Pay Gap Reporting of the Year Explore our Gender Pay Statement at Our transparent disclosure and commitment centrica.
com genderpay to reduce the gender pay gap was recognised at the 2018 ICSA Awards which celebrates excellence in governance and annual reporting 57% Improvement in process safety incident frequency rate Tier 1 and 2 300 Number of employee Mental Health First Aiders Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Strategic Report I Delivering our Responsible Business Ambitions Creating stronger communities By offering our knowledge and expertise, we are empowering communities to take control of their energy and tackle pressing social issues Apply new energy technologies to drive positive change If just 50% of the Industry, Healthcare and We are building future energy systems that give communities Hospitality & Leisure sectors took up distributed the power to take control of their energy.
This increases their energy solutions, the potential economic energy resilience, reduces their environmental impact and benefits to the UK would be: unlocks financial savings that can be used to build a more productive and prosperous economy that benefits everyone.
Towards this in 2018, we: 18.5bn continued to test how flexible demand, generation and storage Gross value added to can support the grid during peak times, help stimulate the the economy growth of renewables and create opportunities to reduce energy bills as part of the UKs Cornwall Local Energy Market: joined forces with machine learning start-up, Verv, on the 1.5% next phase of a community energy trial in Hackney that aims to explore how peer-to-peer trading using blockchain Boost to economic output technology can reduce customer bills in the UK: rolled out blockchain technology at North Americas first customisable energy market for businesses in Texas, 980m allowing them to better manage their energy demand: Annual energy bill savings supported Bridgeport Microgrid in Connecticut, North America, across the three sectors to provide flexible but dependable clean power in times of natural disaster or when the main electrical grid fails: and Read our report in full at helped create public sector savings with distributed energy centrica.
com economicfuture technologies at St George's Hospital in Tooting, UK, which officially opened in 2018 following a major overhaul of its energy centre and is projected to save them 1 million each year.
By saving 1 million annually for the next 15 years, the contract will go a long way to help us maximise the resources we can put into patient care.
It also massively cuts our carbon emissions and improves our overall sustainability.
Kevin Howell Director of Estates & Facilities, St Georges University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust 64 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 In addition, we relaunched our Speak Up helpline which allows for Collaborate across sectors the confidential reporting of potential violations of laws, regulations to improve local communities and company policies, to help ensure we are a well run and We are tackling issues that our communities and business care successful business.
Through the Movement to Work scheme, We want to share our success with our communities and in 2018, we gave over 350 young, unemployed people the opportunity to we invested 149 million in mandatory, voluntary and charitable gain workplace skills in 2018.
Nearly 1,450 people have benefited contributions.
This includes our support for vulnerable customers from the scheme over the last five years and we have committed see page 59 as well as our flagship charity partnerships see left.
to provide a further 350 places in 2019.
Volunteering is also a great An additional 215 million was provided to governments in taxes way for our people to share their skills with communities as well which provide vital funds for public services.
During 2018, our people volunteered over 39,100 hours which was 32% lower than 2017, and was partly We also help our communities to flourish by supporting around due to a transition in how our people log their volunteering hours.
30,000 suppliers and by using our purchasing power as a force for good.
In 2018, we assessed a further 69 suppliers on their social, ethical and environmental standards, resulting in a sustainability score of 54 low risk.
This is better than the multi-industry average Our flagship partnerships of 42 medium risk.
If suppliers receive a medium or high-risk We are supporting our communities through rating, we consider appropriate next steps which may involve volunteering and fundraising with partners.
working together to raise standards, conducting an on-the-ground ethical site inspection to better understand their business, or terminating our relationship and reporting the abuse if they 4.2m continue to fall short of our expectations.
Lives of children and their families 2014Ongoing improved through support of local Explore more about Our Values and Our Code at centrica.
com ourcode hospitals in North America Read more about our Modern Slavery Statement at centrica.
com modernslavery 5,200 Read more about Our View on Taxation on Families in Ireland experiencing 2015Ongoing Page 40 homelessness were supported 1m 20182021 Employee fundraising target established to help make life better for carers Our Responsible Business Foundations Alongside our ambition to create stronger communities, we also aim to protect and enhance the communities where we operate as part of our commitment to being a trusted corporate citizen.
Our Code and Our Values ensure that we operate in a way that The Strategic Report, which has been is beneficial to society by setting out the high standards and prepared in accordance with the behaviours we expect from everyone who works for us or with us.
requirements of the Companies Act For example, Our Code helps to guard against bribery and 2006, has been approved by the corruption by providing clear guidance that includes condemning Board and signed on its behalf by: payments we feel to be improper and taking extra care when offering or receiving gifts and hospitality.
It also sets out our commitment to respect and uphold human rights.
This can be further demonstrated through our response to the UKs Modern Slavery Act, where we have put in place a detailed action plan to Grant Dawson monitor and reduce the risk of forced or compulsory labour in our Group General Counsel business and supply chain through initiatives such as training and & CompanySecretary on-the-ground ethical site inspections.
It is important that our 20 February 2019 people embrace the spirit of Our Code and in 2018, 96% of our people completed training and certified that they would uphold it.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65
