Strategic Report Our Stakeholder Engagement Engaging with stakeholders is fundamental to our business success.
By listening to and collaborating with stakeholders, we can grow our business and deliver for our customers and society over the long term.
Government Customers & regulators Listening to customers enables us to provide Engaging government products and services and regulators helps the that satisfy their energy system function in changing needs the interests of customers Colleagues Suppliers Feedback from our people Collaboration with Our six key helps create a culture suppliers reduces risk in where everyone is our supply chain and stakeholder groups motivated and able to raises standards across deliver for our customers our communities Investors Communities & shareholders & NGOs Views from investors and Input from communities shareholders support us and NGOs enable us to to run and grow our share expertise and create business while generating stronger communities sustainable returns 52 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Customers Our success depends on our ability to understand what our residential and business customers want and how they feel.
By seeking their views and putting ourselves in their shoes, we can focus our business decisions on satisfying the changing needs of our customers from providing new products that fill a gap in the market to delivering system improvements that enable a better service.
We seek feedback in several ways including forums, market research and product testing as well as via complaints channels and surveys.
Customer insight Employees at all levels of the business, including senior executives, have the opportunity to immerse themselves in our customers world and seek feedback to help us target improvements.
This can involve regularly meeting with customers on a one-to-one basis in their homes and businesses or in a moderated group.
We also Colleagues analyse customer experience surveys to identify challenges and We want to be an employer of choice.
Central to this is develop ways we can improve key points in the customer journey.
providing a workplace where everyone feels motivated Hive Link and able to deliver for our customers.
Listening to our Throughout every stage of Hive Links development, we people and taking action to ensure we have the right continuously work with focus groups and individual triallists culture, policies and practices in place is key.
Our people alongside Carers UK, to carefully create a service that meets can share their thoughts through surveys, performance the social needs of an ageing population by providing families reviews, consultations, Yammer and our independent and friends with peace of mind while supporting loved ones to stay living in their homes for longer.
Driven by artificial intelligence Speak Up helpline.
Frequently raised issues include and 24 7 notifications, feedback from the trial has helped us leadership, inclusion, remuneration, training and develop features that work effectively together which include improving our service offer to customers.
notifications if a change in usual patterns of behaviour is detected, an activity log to see real-time activity and the ability to set up #WeAreListening a Circle in the Hive app to share care among family and friends.
Our 2017 employee engagement survey told us that our people wanted more interaction with leaders and to better understand Read more in the Business Review on the Companys aspirations.
In response, leaders held over Pages 20 to 25 100 in-person and virtual sessions to hear what was on our peoples minds, to discuss our strategy and explore how we We are great fans of repurposing everyday can grow Centrica together.
The sessions generated over 40,000 lifestyle technology to support carers, which comments online and provided insight into how to improve is why Hive Link is so exciting.
It provides our communications, fill jobs internally and develop our people.
reassurance and peace of mind on both sides.
Employee networks Madeleine Starr We want everyone at Centrica to be themselves and flourish.
Director of Business Development and Innovation, Carers UK Our employee networks for carers, women, disability, ethnicity, veterans and LGBT, provide us with a body we can engage with to help ensure our people can thrive.
In 2018 for example, we collaborated with our LGBT network to embed more inclusive language across our policies and worked with our womens network to improve our diversity action plans.
Read more about Building the workforce of the future on Pages 62 to 63 Read more about Workforce engagement on Page 78 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Strategic Report I Stakeholder Engagement Government & regulators We actively engage governments, regulators and legislators, either directly or through trade associations.
We respond to issues of concern and provide expertise to support policy development around topics such as Brexit and market competition as well as employment and environmental practices.
These open conversations and consultations enable us to contribute to government priorities and improve understanding of our business, to ensure the energy system functions in the interests of customers over the immediate and longer term.
Retail choice Alongside trade associations and large businesses, we engaged the legislature and regulators of California, to make the energy market more competitive and improve consumer choice in North America.
Our engagement supported the passage of Senate Bill 237 into law which in phase one, raised the cap on the volume of energy that large energy users can buy directly from competitive energy providers.
We aim to build on this progress, with phase two investigating further expansion.
Industry insight Investors & shareholders We want the countries where we operate to have the right building Shareholders provide funds that help us run and grow blocks in place to respond to the rapidly changing world of energy.
In return, they want to know that we are We engaged with the UK Government on our Powering Britain a well run company, able to give them sustainable report series which illustrates the economic and environmental returns on their investment.
We regularly meet with benefits distributed energy solutions can create if adopted by key sectors.
Our findings support the Governments Clean Growth large shareholders, attend conferences and respond Strategy and we hope it will promote positive policy development.
to requests for further information in addition to our ongoing reporting cycle.
Topics discussed span Read more in Political and Regulatory Intervention on our financial, operational and responsible business Page 45 activities.
Engagement helps investors understand our performance and raise any concerns, supporting W e gained a better understanding of senior our future decision-making.
managements perspective on the challenges presented by climate change and how this, Annual General Meeting AGM together with other trends such as digitisation and At our AGM, all shareholders can hear about our performance increasing consumer power, is directly influencing and put questions to the Board of Directors.
Members of the company strategy.
We look forward to continuing Board, Investor Relations and customer service are available before and after the presentation, to speak with shareholders.
our dialogue on Centricas long-term ambition for decarbonisation of heat and power, scenario Climate Action 100 analysis and shorter-term targets.
At the AGM, representatives of the Climate Action 100, a group Bruce Duguid and Andy Jones representing investors who collectively manage over USD$30 Hermes ESOS, Lead investor for Centrica under Climate Action 100 trillion in assets, asked questions about the action we are taking to tackle climate change.
We wanted to have a deeper dialogue so we subsequently set up a roundtable meeting where Iain Conn, Group Chief Executive, and Jim Rushen, Group Head of Environment, shared our long-term vision for enabling customers and the energy system to decarbonise.
Engagement enhanced understanding of the role we can play to help shape a low carbon future and has influenced how we will disclose our future progress.
Read more about Shareholder engagement on Pages 78 to 79 Read more about Enabling all our customers to use energy more sustainably on Pages 60 to 61 54 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Suppliers Reliable and ethical supply chains are essential for serving our customers and supporting strong communities.
We take great care to treat our suppliers fairly and collaborate to drive high standards in order to maximise opportunities and minimise risks across our supply chain.
We interact with our suppliers in a variety of ways including tender and bid processes, surveys, site inspections and events.
These interactions cover a broad range of topics such as cost efficiencies and ways of working as well as environmental and modern slavery compliance.
Risk management We assess suppliers on their social, ethical and environmental standards.
If they receive a medium or high-risk rating, we always consider ways we can work together to raise standards and reduce risk.
In 2018, we conducted 14 on-the-ground ethical Communities & NGOs site inspections in a range of countries including Sri Lanka and It is important that we make a positive contribution China, to gain a stronger insight into potential issues and we to our communities and join forces to overcome major worked with 12 suppliers to build tailored action plans to deliver necessary improvements.
To strengthen our impact, we share our knowledge and invite input from a range of stakeholders Responsible Sourcing Council RSC including NGOs and charities as well as communities We work with third parties to drive responsible procurement more broadly, through methods such as industry practices forward.
We attended all RSC events in 2018 which working groups, consultations, global partnerships and has enabled us to benchmark activities and further embed best community investment.
The focus of our engagement practice.
We hosted the first RSC meeting of 2019 to share our responsible procurement achievements so that others could can vary considerably from environmental protection learn from our experience as well as collaborate with us to find to tackling enduring social issues.
solutions to some of our challenges.
Cornwall Local Energy Market In 2018, we continued to work with a community of businesses, Read more about Procurement and Supplier Management on households and renewable generators in the UK to test a Page 50 more flexible energy system that balances demand on the grid, stimulates the growth of renewables and creates opportunities The continued support of Bord Gis Energy to reduce energy bills.
By engaging the local community on the will mean Focus Ireland can prevent more ambitions of this project, we will be able to fully roll-out the trial and technologies such as solar and battery storage to around families from becoming homeless in the 150 homes and businesses in 2019. first place and help to ensure that others already impacted can exit homelessness.
Focus Ireland Pat Denningan Over the last five years, Bord Gis Energy has worked with Focus CEO, Focus Ireland Ireland to help prevent family homelessness, build awareness of the growing homeless crisis nationally and demonstrate the need for further government support.
During 2018, we ran a Prevention Campaign to identify those at risk of homelessness, funded advisers and supported homeless families in emergency accommodation.
For our efforts, we were awarded the 2018 Corporate Philanthropist of the Year Award by The Community Foundation for Ireland.
Read more about Creating stronger communities on Pages 64 to 65 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55
