44 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Sustainability Report Committed to making a Positive impact This underpins our reputation as a A commitment to corporate responsibility At Close Brothers prudent and responsible business, and is embedded in our corporate culture and supports our commitment to helping supported by a range of policies and we take a long-term clients, customers, employees and the procedures.
Our employees are involved communities we operate in thrive over in a wide range of community and approach to the long term.
environmental initiatives, and sustainability matters appear regularly on the senior managing our A Sustainable Approach management agenda.
We regularly engage with our customers, business, and clients and employees to understand and This report sets out how we address our deliver what matters most to them, and wider corporate responsibility, focused on always strive to act maintaining strong, trusted client four key areas: our employees, relationships and the engagement and customers, communities and the responsibly, ethically support of our people are key strategic environment, helping the people and objectives.
As part of this, we also strive businesses of Britain thrive.
to make a positive impact on the communities we operate in, encourage a diverse and inclusive workplace, and minimise our impact on the environment.
Four focus areas For a sustainable approach Creating and preserving value Our culture, values and Remaining an attractive Employees strong client focus employer who engages, p46 for more information support engaged and rewards and develops a diverse motivated staff and productive workforce Long-term lasting relationships and Consistently supporting our Customers continuous feedback enabling us customers interests to help p48 for more information to provide reliable quality of service, them thrive over the long term expertise and personal approach Understanding and valuing the Creating long-term value and Communities communities within which we a lasting positive impact in the p51 for more information operate, helping them thrive by communities where we operate making a lasting contribution Appreciating the importance Acting responsibly to ensure a Environment of our environment and taking sustainable approach for our p52 for more information steps to reduce our impact and environment and our business protect our surroundings Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 45 01 02 Photographed on location at Barfoots of Botley Ltd. 03 Performance measures Initiatives Annual measurement of employee engagement 89% 89% 100 Inclusion targets set for Women in employee score for treating emerging leaders Finance Charter engagement score employees fairly developed UpReach internship programme supporting social mobility 1 1 Voice of the Customer programme to listen and act on client feedback 50 61 77% Premium NPS score in Asset Management repeat business Bespoke NPS score in Property Trustee leadership programme expansion Matched giving to charities through 327,718 80 employee payroll and volunteering schemes in charitable SME apprentices Apprentice programme in its fourth year donations Green Team of employee representatives championing environmental sustainability 25% 28% Five-year environmental strategy to be reduction in GHG reduction in GHG implemented in 2019 emissions on prior year emissions per employee 1 Read more about net promoter scores on page 48.
46 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued The Asset Management division Supporting our Employees continues to run its Advice Academy to develop the skills and knowledge of advice related staff.
The Trainee Adviser Our people underpin everything we do to programme builds on this by supporting individuals with a transition into a financial deliver the highest levels of service and adviser role.
position us well for the future.
Our Emerging Leaders programme is now in its sixth cohort, focusing on individual leadership development, management We strive to create an environment where Developing our People and coaching skills to develop our pool of our employees are supported and During the year we continued to deliver future leaders.
Over 100 individuals have motivated towards realising their full and implement a number of initiatives completed the programme so far, with the potential, and continually monitor our promoting development across the group, majority progressing throughout the means to engage, reward and develop our as well as building our pipeline of organisation.
This year we also launched staff to ensure Close Brothers remains an programmes to continue to attract and our Group Leadership programme to attractive employer.
build capability across the organisation in line with our bespoke leadership Feedback From our People All our employees have access to our framework.
This programme focuses on We believe that engaged employees are learning portal, which offers a wide range developing skills in strategic leadership more likely to remain enthusiastic about of practical tools, workshops and and leading high-performance teams.
their work and their organisation, and are e-learning on a range of topics.
The committed to ensuring they feel valued average number of training hours across Remuneration and Benefits and supported to perform better and stay the group has remained broadly We believe that our staff should be with us longer.
We engage with our staff consistent with the prior year at 8.6 hours rewarded fairly and transparently, and through a regular externally run groupper employee.
we therefore ensure that remuneration wide Employee Opinion Survey.
across the group is linked to clear Our established programmes for and transparent objectives.
We are This comprehensive Employee Opinion school leavers and graduates continue confident that the enhanced benefits Survey runs on a two-year cycle, which to develop our new talent pipeline, package introduced in the prior gives our businesses the opportunity providing on-the-job learning and year remains fit for purpose and to analyse the results in detail and supporting study towards professional satisfies employee expectations.
formulate meaningful and effective qualifications.
Internal career mobility action plans to take forward.
Our aim continues to be a focus of our To encourage our staff to save for the is to maintain those areas of strength leadership teams, with regular talent future and build long-term share that our employees value the highest forums built into our performance ownership, we offer a Save As You Earn alongside enhancing those areas we management and succession planning scheme, as well as a Buy As You Earn could continue to improve.
Over the past year we have share incentive plan allowing employees also piloted new talent development to acquire shares on a monthly basis out In order to provide up to date insights on programmes throughout the group to of pre-tax earnings, both of which remain employee engagement and action plan identify and support up and coming popular offerings.
progression, in March 2018 all employees talent through a series of structured were sent a brief pulse employee learning opportunities and exposure The group continues to pay all staff at or engagement survey.
Employee to different teams and networks.
above the national living wage, which is in engagement is a measure of the extent to excess of the national minimum wage.
which staff are enthusiastic about their Our Sales Academy, launched in 2015, jobs, their level of commitment to the continues to demonstrate our Diversity and Equality company, and how motivated they are to commitment to developing entry level We are committed to creating an put effort into their work.
The results sales talent with a new cohort starting in environment that allows all our employees showed the group-wide engagement September 2018 comprising a mix of to feel proud to work for us, regardless of scores remained high, with an overall internal and external candidates.
their gender, age, race, ethnicity, score of 89% consistent with the previous disability, sexual orientation or survey.
We had a strong overall response background.
We are pleased that our rate of 82% which lends credibility to employees feel we are inclusive, with our these results.
latest Employee Opinion Survey indicating that 89% of our people believe that Close Brothers treats employees fairly.
Employee engagement Participation in long-term Talented females offered 30% ownership schemes Club mentoring 89% 48% 52 2017: 89% 2017: 48% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 47 Gender Diversity Male Female 1 Number of board directors 53 2 Number of directors of subsidiaries 62 8 3 Number of senior employees, other than board directors 40 12 Number of employees, other than board directors and 1,676 1,413 senior employees 1 Includes non-executive directors, excluded from group headcount calculations.
2 Includes subsidiary directors who are excluded from group headcount calculations.
01 3 Senior employees identified as Material Risk Takers who are not directors or subsidiary directors.
Our broad ambitions around inclusion Inclusion is a regular agenda item at commitment to creating and promoting a mean we have been focusing on executive committee meetings to ensure diverse workforce, with focus on improving diversity at all levels through a we are delivering on our commitments.
supporting all individuals irrespective of number of initiatives.
We have recently We have also developed a dashboard of their gender, race, age, disability, sexual joined Stonewall, a leading LGBTQ key diversity metrics which are provided orientation or religion.
We apply this rights charity, and the Employers Network to business leaders.
We run workshops approach across all our people related for Equality and Inclusion ENEI to help aimed at raising awareness about activities, including compensation review, shape our thinking and activities.
unconscious bias, and our recruitment talent and succession planning, system allows us to monitor the diversity leadership programmes, the development 02 This year we were proud to announce we of job applicants to ensure we are of our benefits package, recruitment, and had signed up to the Women in Finance attracting potential candidates from a training and development.
Charter pledge to improve gender variety of backgrounds.
As part of our pledge, we aim to have 30% Our Equal Opportunity and Dignity at female senior management individuals by Work policy is in place to ensure equal 2020, which aligns with our continued and respectful treatment for all our membership of the 30% Club, an employees.
This includes additional institution focused on promoting good support to disabled employees and gender balance within companies at all their needs, and reflects our strong levels.
Our workforce remains diverse, 03 with 46% female employees, and our female board representation comfortably exceeds the current average female representation on FTSE 250 boards of 24%.
We also have a broad age range of employees with 25% of our employees being under 30 years oldand 15% over 50.
We are supportive of social mobility and creating an organisation with equal opportunities for all, regardless of background.
This year we have begun working with the charity UpReach to launch an internship programme for undergraduates from lessadvantaged backgrounds.
We embrace flexible working wherever possible throughout all our businesses, and aim to promote the advantages of everyday flexibility to enable all our employees to balance their work and home lives effectively.
We offer enhanced parental leave to all new parents, and provide emergency backup care for employees with caring responsibilities.
48 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Supporting our Customers Our customers are typically small to medium-sized enterprises and individuals who value our reliable, high quality service and personal approach.
We are proud of the long term, lasting relationships we have with our customers and clients, and the consistently high levels of repeat business that they entrust us with.
Creating Customer Value We have also made good progress This year we began a Voice of the Putting customers interests at the heart in delivering consistent, simple and Customer and Partner programme to of our business is central to our success, accessible digital services to our listen, analyse and act upon feedback and is underpinned by our core values of customers across our businesses.
We also invite our service, expertise and relationships.
We online customer journeys have benefited customers to present at customer forums work with businesses of many sizes to from the development of digital design so that our leadership teams can hear help them support growth, improve their tools and guidelines, testing the usability directly from clients, and learn what they infrastructure or invest in new assets, and of our digital services at the design phase, like about conducting business with us help individuals with a variety of products and conducting accessibility training for and what we could do better.
The and services to manage their finances, all of our businesses.
We have continued information gathered from these execute trades, look after their money to invest in our people by training a further programmes forms a core part of our securely and plan for the future.
50 employees in Design Thinking, governance of customer service, and is a user-centred design framework for aligned to the key customer principles Throughout this year we undertook improving the customer journey.
that we measure ourselves against on a extensive research into our customers, monthly basis.
It also gives the Board of markets and the technology trends Customer Feedback Directors, Executive Committee and which are shaping the expectations We are committed to behaving ethically business managers clear visibility that we of customers now and into the future.
and responsibly in all our dealings with are continuing to act in our customers We have used these insights to inform customers, and continuously listen to their best interests.
and evolve our proposition, and have feedback to help improve their experience increased our focus on monitoring and satisfaction.
Customer forums and Our strong focus on maintaining and and improving the experience of our surveys take place at both a divisional improving customer experience is customers and partners across the group.
and business unit level and enable us reflected in the consistently high scores to better understand and manage their we achieve in customer and partner Our group-wide purpose statement changing needs and expectations.
Net underlines our commitment to both our Promoter Scores NPS are a measure customers and to the people who serve We continuously listen to our customers, of a customers likelihood to recommend them.
Aligned to our group purpose, and we have engaged with them by us, and reflects their overall satisfaction within our Banking division we have conducting surveys, face to face research with us as a business.
Unfavourable started to define a Bank wide customer and focus groups with current, past and ratings are deducted from favourable vision outlining how best we can deliver potential customers across all of our ratings: hence a score above 0 is on service, expertise and client major businesses in the past year.
This good, and above 50 is excellent.
The priority themes we have has deepened our understanding of what achieve strong scores across our identified from this piece of work will our customers think of us and what they customer offerings, and our high levels ensure we continue to deliver value for want from our products and services both of repeat business are evidence of our customers in the long term.
now and on an ongoing basis.
consistent customer satisfaction Bespoke Asset Management Premium Finance NPS Property repeat business NPS 61 50 77% 2017: 75% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 49 01 02 Photographed on location at Crompton Way Motors.
We are further enhancing this reporting Monitoring and enhancing our systems across the group.
Furthermore, 03 by creating a bespoke set of metrics for and controls to safeguard customers amongst our intermediaries our Motor each of our businesses that will give data and protect our business remains a Finance business was rated a preferred increased visibility of the customer high priority, and we continue to invest in finance provider in 70% of cases.
This management information expertise and technology to strengthen is analysed and assessed each month to our internal capabilities.
We also remain a Responsible Finance provide assurance that we treat member of the governments Cyber Within the Banking division, we measure customers fairly and continue to operate Security Information Sharing Partnership, ourselves against five key customer in line with our customer principles.
which provides early warning of potential principles: system failure or cyber-attack and allows We are responsible lenders and We are also committed to treating our intelligence sharing across the industry.
suppliers fairly, and this year were We seek to ensure the right outcomes pleased to achieve Corporate Certification We strive to ensure that our complaints for our customers.
for Ethical Procurement from the handling process is as fair as possible We endeavour to ensure our pricing is Chartered Institute of Procurement and and we continuously review and improve fair and appropriate.
We meet with our largest internal processes to deliver prompt and We are clear and consistent in the way suppliers on a regular basis to ensure that satisfactory outcomes for our customers.
both parties are attaining optimum value We take all complaints seriously, and We expect our standards to be upheld from the relationship.
each division monitors customer by our partners.
complaints separately to ensure they are Our privacy policy ensures the protection dealt with quickly and efficiently, and that To support these customer principles we and correct treatment of client data in actions are taken to address issues at have a wide range of policies in place accordance with the Data Protection their root cause.
across all our divisions to ensure that our Act 1998.
As part of our continuing staff and management are aware of their focus on protecting and handling We have policies and training in place to responsibilities towards our customers.
customer information, we delivered a ensure our staff can identify vulnerable We promote best practice and strict programme of cross-functional changes customers and that they are treated fairly compliance with relevant rules and in advance of the General Data Protection in our interaction with them.
This remains regulations, and maintain standards Regulation GDPR taking effect in an area of focus for our Customer Forums through a range of compulsory training May 2018.
We have strengthened our and through regular thematic reviews of for all employees.
operating model focusing on both our conduct.
cyber security and data protection, Our conduct risk framework includes and continue to invest to appropriately monthly management information that protect customer information.
provides senior management with a broad view of conduct related behaviours.
50 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued We take a long term, sustainable approach to every aspect of our business, treating our customers and partners fairly and supporting and developing our employees.
Michael N. Biggs Chairman Photographed on location at the AMRC Training Centre.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 51 Supporting our Communities Supporting and engaging with our communities goes hand-in-hand with our group-wide purpose of helping the people and businesses of Britain thrive over the 01 long term.
We aim to contribute long-term value Our Emerging Chairs programme is an We continue to run an annual group-wide and a lasting positive impact in the evolution of the Trustee Leadership charity week, consisting of a wide range communities where we operate.
We programme and is aimed at existing of locally organised events for staff as well maintain a range of programmes that Trustees who wish to become Chairs.
This year we support the causes that matter most to first Emerging Chairs programme took collectively raised over 126,000 during our employees, and promote charitable place in November 2017 and the second the 2018 charity week, a 24% increase on work and community engagement across is planned for November 2018. the amount raised last year, making it our 02 all our businesses.
Charitable Activities Supporting our Communities We continue to invest in a number of Employee volunteers are key contributors Our long-running and unique initiatives community-based initiatives and support to the planning and running of these continue to support our communities and the charitable causes that our employees events, and we actively encourage our help SMEs secure the skills they need for are passionate about.
We have a staff to fundraise and volunteer for the the future.
The Close Brothers SME dedicated committee on charitable and charities they support.
The Close Apprentice Programme is now in its fourth community activities chaired by our group Brothers Matched Giving Scheme phase and continues to contribute to the head of human resources and supported matches 50% of funds raised or donates funding of new apprentices in the by employees across the group.
This 8 per hour of voluntary time given by manufacturing and transport sectors.
committee meets regularly to discuss and employees.
We also match funds raised 03 To date we have funded 60 of these propose new initiatives with input from by other local, organised fundraising apprentices in the manufacturing sector in our control functions when required.
We activities, encouraging employees to work and around the Sheffield and Birmingham also have a number of local committees together to raise money for causes that area, demonstrating our long-term which run initiatives to raise funds for are close to their hearts.
commitment to helping SMEs secure the local charities.
skills they need for future growth.
In addition, we match contributions under We ask our employees to choose their our Payroll Giving scheme, which allows Close Brothers Asset Management preferred community and health charity employee donations to be made directly continues to run our Trustee Leadership partners directly as part of the regular from pre-tax salary.
Around 14% of programme in partnership with social employee survey.
The NSPCC has been employees across the group are signed enterprise Cause 4, and the Clothworkers selected as our community charity up to Payroll Giving, allowing us to Company.
This programme provides an partner and Cancer Research UK as our maintain our Payroll Giving Quality Mark opportunity for professionals to take on a health charity partner, the latter now for a Gold Award for the eighth consecutive board level role within a charity while also sixth year.
Funds raised from group-wide year.
Importantly, 199 different charities providing the charities themselves with a activities are split equally between these are now supported on an ongoing basis fresh and diverse pool of potential board two charities.
The programme is open to Close Brothers employees as well as external professionals.
Since inception, over 800 professionals have taken part in our Trustee programmes in London, Manchester and Bristol.
We will launch further programmes in The Midlands and Scotland this autumn.
1 SME apprentices Trustee appointments Charitable donations 80 55 327,718 2017: 257,264 1 Represents 60 funded to date and a further 20 committed for the 2019 financial year.
52 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued GHG Scope 1 and 2 Supporting our Environment Emissions by Division tCO e 2 658 We recognise the importance of the Group 811 environment in which we operate and 2,861 Banking 4,035 appreciate the importance it has to our 636 clients and external stakeholders.
This year Securities 817 we have made considerable progress in 849 Asset Management 977 reducing our electricity and fleet emissions, 2018 2017 demonstrating our ongoing efforts to lower our impact on the environment.
Our Environmental Impact locations to encourage the The largest source of GHG emissions is As a financial services company we have implementation of additional ways to our Scope 1 fuel emissions from limited direct exposure to natural reduce energy use.
This year we have company vehicles, yet this has come resources and environmental impact.
changed our head office waste contractor down considerably on the prior year.
This However, we are aware of our to a company that ensures zero waste reflects a large increase in the number of responsibility to protect natural resources goes to landfill.
Waste recycling is hybrid alternative fuel vehicles in the and act sustainably.
We continue to encouraged in all our offices, and this company fleet, and more strategic monitor ways to reduce our environmental year our head office alone saved 359 placement of our travelling staff leading to impact by lowering our energy trees by doing so.
a 27% reduction in road travel since 2017. consumption, reducing emissions and increasing recycling.
Consideration of environmental risks and Our Scope 2 electricity consumption ethical standards is explicitly required continues to reduce on previous years, In addition, we remain a significant as part of any credit underwriting and illustrates our ongoing commitment provider of finance to the green energy proposal under our bank Credit Policy.
to improve energy efficiency in our offices.
sector, supporting schemes for wind, We only lend against asset types We also benefited from improvements in solar and hydro power developments.
defined in our credit policies and the national grid, which led to a reduction do not finance arms or onshore oil of the UK-wide electricity emissions factor As in prior years, we monitor our development, or lend internationally by approximately 15% in the period.
energy consumption and greenhouse outside narrowly defined areas.
gas emissions across the business Due to its relative size the Banking via a third party provider.
We also Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions division continues to account for the participate in the CDP formerly the In accordance with the GHG Protocol majority of our GHG emissions.
Carbon Disclosure Project, which framework, we have calculated the GHG involves disclosure of our greenhouse emissions associated with our Scope 1 A full breakdown of our 2018 GHG gas emissions on a voluntary basis.
Scope 1 includes fuel emissions, together with corresponding emissions from buildings and company data for 2017, is shown in the table Most of the impact we have on our vehicles and Scope 2 includes our opposite.
environment is a result of staff travel, emissions from electricity.
our supply chain and our office network.
Calculation Our employees are encouraged to In 2018, our total GHG emissions were We continue to gather increasing levels of lower their own environmental impact 5,004 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent data alongside an independent third party on an individual basis by leasing tCO e, equating to 1.55 tCO e per environmental analytics and reporting 2 2 low emission cars and participating employee, down 25% overall and 28% company.
This verifies the accuracy of our in the cycle to work scheme.
Our continued data and enables us to monitor our efforts towards our environmental impact performance and develop strategic Each of our businesses manages its are reflected in a reduction across both insight and plans of action.
resources and recycling locally, and we Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2018. work closely with all of our business Reduction in GHG emissions Reduction in GHG emissions Reduction in Scope 2 electricity per employee 25% 28% 30% 2017: 1% 2017: 7% 2017: 2% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 53 GHG Emissions Summary tCO e 2 Scope GHG emissions source 2018 2017 Scope 1 Fuel Buildings 191 172 Fuel Owned vehicles 2,525 3,199 Scope 2 Electricity 2,288 3,269 Total GHG emissions 5,004 6,640 Average number of employees 3,234 3,114 Total per employee 1.55 2.13 01 Our total GHG emissions are reported as We are also in the process of developing tCO e and are calculated in line with the a comprehensive five-year environmental 2 GHG Protocol framework.
In addition to strategy in partnership with our third party reporting our total Scope 1 and 2 environmental consultants to be emissions, we have also disclosed the implemented early in 2019.
This is emissions per employee as an intensity planned to include reviews of our peer metric to enable a comparable analysis in comparatives and key stakeholder future disclosures.
impact, and engagement with our staff to better inform us of how our own people 02 Green Initiatives feel we are performing.
We continue to monitor and report our GHG emissions on an ongoing basis, working to improve our energy efficiency across our businesses.
We encourage our offices to report their Scope 3 emissions for water and waste each quarter, where this information is available, to facilitate continued performance monitoring.
03 We recently established a Green Team of employee representatives across our businesses to champion and raise the profile of environmental sustainability.
They undertake a suite of activities to assess our environmental impact, and promote group-wide initiatives to improve our performance in this area.
Photographed on location at Barfoots of Botley Ltd. 54 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Social Responsibility Human Rights and Modern Slavery Act Gender pay gap Compliance with regulatory requirements The board gives due regard to human We are confident that men and is essential not only from the relevant rights considerations, as defined under women are paid equally for regulators perspective but also to the European Convention on Human performing equivalent roles across maintain the trust of our customers.
Rights and the UK Human Rights our business, and are committed to Act1998.
taking all steps possible to reduce We have a wide range of policies in place our gender pay gap.
across all of our divisions to ensure that We are aware of our responsibilities and our staff and management comply with all obligations under the Modern Slavery Act The gender pay gap is defined as the regulatory requirements and adhere to the with the appropriate policies and training difference between the average highest professional and ethical in place to ensure compliance across the earnings male and female colleagues standards in dealing with our customers, organisation.
receive, as a percentage of mens suppliers and each other.
Our median group-wide staff to complete the relevant regulatory The Banking division has also committed gender pay gap was 41.7% at training on an annual basis with further to the CIPS Ethical Code of Conduct, 5 April 2017. training offered when required, and which supports our commitment to achieved 100% completion of mandatory ensure modern slavery does not exist While the existence of this pay gap is training for eligible employees in the year.
disappointing, it is also in line with Some of the group-wide policies and our financial services competitors regulations include: Further details of our compliance with and comparators.
The overwhelming the Modern Slavery Act can be found majority of our gender pay gap exists Anti-money laundering regulations on our website.
because women hold fewer senior We have implemented policies and positions within the group.
If we procedures in accordance with antiEmployee health and safety policy instead look at the differences in money laundering regulations and have Our health and safety policy ensures the average pay between males and dedicated money laundering reporting provision of a safe and healthy working females in the same salary band the officers where required.
environment for our employees and gap drops to 1.6%.
We are confident visitors in accordance with The that this remaining gap is due to Anti-bribery and corruption policy Management of Health and Safety at differences in roles and We operate a zero tolerance approach to Work Regulations 1999. responsibilities within each pay band, bribery and corruption, ensuring and that all employees are paid compliance with all applicable anti-bribery The Health and Safety Committee equally when they are performing and corruption laws and regulations, continues to meet on a quarterly basis the same role.
including the UK Bribery Act 2010. and we are proud of the continued progress in successfully raising the profile We already exceed the governments Whistle-blowing policy of health and safety across the business.
target of 33% of board members We encourage our employees to report This year we recorded 43 incidents being women, and are broadly in line any activity that may constitute a violation across all of our sites, of which the with the Hampton-Alexander gender of laws, regulations or internal policy and majority were related to medical targets for executives and their direct reporting channels are provided to staff conditions, with only three reportable reports.
Over the next year, we plan for this purpose within the framework of incidents in the year.
to take further action to tackle the a whistle-blowing policy.
gender pay gap through a number of We continue to use an online risk initiatives and commitments.
Our Our comprehensive whistle-blowing assessment tool to manage site specific Asset Finance Sales Academy has a procedures comply with the rules that risks as appropriate and our Display primary focus of improving our came into effect in September 2016.
We Screen Equipment risk assessment female representation in sales, and all have enhanced the existing policies by programme.
This year we have also entry level programmes now have an the appointment of a whistle-blowers added the assessment of new and explicit objective to seek a 50:50 champion and a confidential telephone expectant mothers to this process.
We aim, over whistle-blowing service, operated by a the medium term, to improve our third party provider.
female representation of senior managers to 30%, to fall in line with our board representation.
We will The Strategic Report was approved by particularly focus on improving the the board and signed on its behalf by: gender balance in our senior front office roles, where female Preben Prebensen representation tends to be lower.
Chief Executive We are committed to taking steps to 25 September 2018 reduce our gender pay gap, and to support our talented female staff through their careers at Close Brothers.
Further details of our gender pay gap can be found on our website.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 55 Compliance with regulatory requirements is essential not only from the relevant 01 regulators perspective but also to maintain the trust of our customers.
02 03 56 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Close Br Bro ot the hers rs G Gr roup oup plc plc | | A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 20 201 18 8 57 57 Our Culture 01 Relationships We take the time to understand and build strong long-term 02 relationships with our clients, customers and all our stakeholders.
