Strategic report Corporate, social and environmental responsibility Managing our business with sustainability inmind 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 15.9% 71% 43 2017: 9.3% REDUCTION IN CARBON EMISSIONS RECYCLING CSR EVENTS Further reduction in carbon emissions Proportion of recycling across The number of corporate, social and across our like-for-likemanaged portfolio all UK-managed assets.
environmental responsibility events which took place across the Group.
100% 100% 546,800 kWh 2017: 490,400 kWh SUSTAINABILITY AWARENESS EPC RENEWABLE AND LOWAll CLS staff completed sustainability All UK properties fully compliant CARBON GENERATION awareness training to support the with Energy Performance Total on-site renewable and business strategy .
low-carbon electricity generation 3% of electricity usage.
96% 95% 2017: 90% RENEWABLE ENERGY COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Virtually all electricity procured The percentage of our staff who gave from energy markets comes from a atleastoneworking day to support local renewable, low carbon and natural communities and charities.
CORPORATE OBJECTIVE PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS Objectives 2018 Achievement Reduce carbon emissions by 5%, year-on-year in the like-for-like managed portfolio Achieved Recycle at least 70% of all UK waste collected from the managed like-for-like portfolio Achieved Install smart metering across all major assets in Germany Ongoing Ensure all investment properties maintain an EPC rating of D orgreater Achieved Ensure the majority of employees participate in a community event in 2018 Achieved Promote health and wellbeing across our staff and tenants Achieved Generate 2.5% of the Groups managed like-for-like electricityusage from renewable Above target: 3% and low-carbon sources by 2020 30 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information EMPLOYEES CULTURE Our culture is entrepreneurial, professional, open and friendly.
We have employees from 19 countries, which helps to foster a diverse, cosmopolitan environment with integrity and responsibility at the heart of our business.
We have fewer than 100employees looking after a property portfolio of 1.9 billion, and we recognise their importance to our success.
Therefore, we ensure that we consult regularly with our employees through various channels to understand their needs and ensure our culture evolves with the business and .
RECRUITMENT Finding the right people is important to our long-term success.
We believe having a diverse workforce is a source of competitive advantage.
Therefore, we have developed policies and procedures which ensure our commitment to equal opportunity and diversity in employment.
Our recruitment OUR STRATEGY OUR APPROACH and interview policy follows this CLS Holdings operates in some of We strive to create a better environment commitment and we ensure that it is fully the most densely populated office and better opportunities for all our understood by those recruiting.
We seek urban landscapes in Western Europe.
By actively managing our to ensure that no employee or applicant Faced with the challenges of growing properties in-house we cultivate strong is treated less favourably on the grounds urban populations and climate change, relationships with our tenants enabling of gender, marital status, race, colour, the case for improving the sustainability us to influence and effect the positive nationality, ethnicity, religion, disability or and resilience of our assets is clear.
changes that are vital in delivering a sexual orientation, nor is disadvantaged by sustainable future.
conditions or requirements, including age Back in 2011, we set out six pledges limits, which cannot be justified objectively.
the Green Charter to ensure that our Our approach is underpinned by our Entry into, and progression within, the business operations were managed and four pillars concept: People, Property, Group is solely determined by the job delivered sustainably and responsibly.
Each pillar is vital to our criteria, personal aptitude and competence.
Eight years on, sustainability is now an sustainable future.
We adopt a closedintegral part of our business, and it is loop management of each pillar through Our recruitment and interview policy not purely related to the environment.
our  process follows best practice in the employment Social aspects of sustainability are that is detailed in our sustainability report of people with disabilities.
Full and fair now key to our continued prosperity.
which is available on our website.
consideration is given to every application Our strategy has evolved from our for employment from disabled people original approach and has been To ensure we are acting on our pledges, whose aptitude and skills can be used in the developed in accordance with Global we have aligned them to the key pillars business, and to their training and career Real Estate Sustainability Benchmarks within our sustainability strategy.
Thisincludes, wherever GRESB, taking account of the This allows us to link directly every possible, the retraining and retention of Sustainable Development Goals activity within the business to a single staff who become disabled during their SDGs and aligning with the Task pledge and to report to the Board on employment.
We are proud that we have Force on Climate-related Financial our progress.
been able to attract, motivate and retain Disclosures TCFD.
high calibre employees, which, in turn, has benefited the performance of the Group.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 31 Strategic report Corporate, social and environmental responsibility continued TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT the forthcoming year and this is followed All employees are actively encouraged to up by a six-monthly review.
The individual TRAINING AND undertake training to achieve professional objectives reflect the Group objectives DEVELOPMENT qualifications and to keep up to date set by the Chief Executive Officer, which with developments in their specialised in turn are based on the Groups Key areas.
We ensure that those with direct Performance Indicators and sustainability 151 reports undertake management training targets contained in this report on days of training completed on areas such diversity, appraisals and pages 16,17 and 31.
We also promote non-core Intranet which allows us to promote new training, such as foreign language skills, policies, procedures, Group activities and 95,000 which, whilst not central to a particular employee events.
spent on training role, will allow employees to broaden their skills base.
As part of our knowledge Engagement is also about understanding sharing and personal development policy, the needs of our employees.
This enables we have set up internal workshops in us to create a better working environment 1,032 which teams present on their specific which, in turn, drives performance, average spend peremployee role within the organisation, thereby loyalty and success.
In return, we reward developing employees wider business our staff in a number of ways, including knowledge and understanding of how salary, discretionary bonuses, a cash 1.5 the Groups activities inter-relate.
We also loyalty award for those who have been days spent training encourage all members of staff to with the Group for more than 2 years per employee consider areas of wider professional and a share incentive plan.
We also development that may be of interest to recognise it is important to celebrate other teams, such as changes to planning success and so ensure managers arrange laws or dataprotection legislation and we appropriate events following completion of organise seminars with the assistance of particular projects.
We seek the views of our employees ENGAGEMENT AND WELLBEING through staff satisfaction surveys, We promote all aspects of employee conducted through athird party advisor engagement and promote an open door so as to ensure anonymity.
Our last survey policy: we encourage all employees was conducted in August 2016 and all to share ideas and to get involved in employees were invited to take part.
challenging and developing our policies It covered a range of topics including: and practices.
With a predominantly flat effectiveness, engagement, remuneration, management structure we are able to development opportunities, respectand ensure that all employees are informed of recognition and confidence in leaders.
matters concerning their interests and the In response, a staff survey workshop, financial and economic factors affecting comprising representatives from the business.
In addition to the weekly across the Group and facilitated by an team meetings that are held across the independent external advisor, wasset up Group, our executive directors present to distil the outcomes of the staff survey our annual and half-yearly results to all andto recommend changes to the way employees, which is followed by a question we work.
Our objective for 2018 was to and answer session.
Thisisdesigned to conclude on the implementation of the give everyone an understandingof the surveys main recommendations, which business, and how their work contributes are now largely complete.
task focuses on our culture and we will be undertaking an exercise to review our We want to make sure everyone works culture, vision and values during 2019. towards the same goal.
Every 12 months we undertake aperformance review of We will follow up on the implementation each employee, setting their objectives for of our actions with a staff survey in late 2019.
32 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information REMUNERATION The Group upholds the highest standards Our overall remuneration and benefits ofbusiness ethics and undertook a DIRECTORS GENDER RATIO package is designed to attract, motivate review of its supply chain in 2018. at 31 December 2018 and retain employees.
Our remuneration The Board is confident that as a result of structure is simple, combining salary the Groups management and reporting and benefits with an annual discretionary structure, the Company is in compliance bonus and a long-term retention bonus with this law.
based on the Groups performance over a two year period.
In 2017 we added a PROMPT PAYMENT CODE share incentive plan, which is open to all CLS is a signatory to the Prompt Payment UK employees and matches employee Code PPC, a voluntary scheme backed contributions at a ratio of 1:1.
Take-up by the UK Government to set standards amongst UK employees is over 50%, of best practice for payment of suppliers.
which is above the average for this The PPC requires allsignatories to pay type of scheme and testament to its 95% of their undisputed invoices to Male 8 success.
We have looked into how we can suppliers within a 60 day period.
Female 2 implement a similar structure across the rest of the Group and intend to implement For the year ended 31 December 2018 similar schemes in Germany and CLS settled 97% of all undisputed Luxembourg during early 2019. invoices in the UK within 60 days, and SENIOR MANAGEMENT 80% within 30 days, thus complying with GENDER RATIO BUSINESS ETHICS the PPC.
With effect from 1 January at 31 December 2018 The Board recognises the importance of 2018, we have reported on the Groups the Groups responsibilities as an ethical UK companies payment practices employer and views matters in which twice yearly in accordance with The the Group interacts with the community Reporting on Payment Practices and both socially and economically as Performance Regulations.
the responsibility of the whole Board.
Following the enactment of the Bribery Act 2010, the Group implemented an anti-bribery policy which further demonstrated its commitment to business ethics.
To ensure continued compliance with the Bribery Act 2010, Male 12 training is given to all new employees, Female 3 and an annual online compliance check is completed by all employees.
EMPLOYEE GENDER RATIO MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 at 31 December 2018 The Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires any UK commercial organisation with a turnover of more than 36 million to prepare a statement setting out the steps taken during the financial year to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in its business or in its supply chain.
The Groups statement can befound on our website at www.
Male 51 Female 48 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 33 Strategic report Corporate, social and environmental responsibility continued HEALTH & SAFETY It is a primary focus of the Board that the Group manages its activities so that the health and safety of its employees, customers, advisors and contractors and of the general public is not compromised.
As part of this process the Group employs specialist accredited advisers to advise on all health and safety matters in each country in which we operate.
The Group also operates a Health and Safety Committee, which covers issues related to the portfolio and its employees.
Chaired by the Company Secretary, thecommittee comprises Facilities Managers, Property Managers, employees and advisors, and is responsible to the Chief Executive Officer.
TheChiefExecutive Officer also attends Health and Safety Committee meetings.
As shown below, all regions maintain and follow localhealth andsafety policies and report issues to the Chief Executive Officer.
This reporting process has worked effectively throughout the year and has ensured ongoing compliance with health and safety legislation.
UK GERMANY FRANCE INDUSTRY REGULATION INDUSTRY REGULATION INDUSTRY REGULATION The Group sets health and safety All CLS buildings must comply with All CLS buildings have to comply objectives covering our workforce building permits and are regularly withthe Code du travail Labour Code, andportfolio and is monitored by reviewed by local authorities to whichdefines our responsibilities.
ensure compliance with building law.
Facilities governed by special Each tenant is in charge of its MANAGEMENT PROCESS regulations are reviewed more ownsecurity on its own premises Each managed or occupied property frequently byan appropriate inaccordance with thesecurity within the UK portfolio undergoes certified specialist.
anannual risk assessment against whichour targets can be measured.
MANAGEMENT PROCESS MANAGEMENT PROCESS Ourtargets address three key areas: Facilities such as fire safety, electricity The building facilities such as the supply, ventilation, lifts, heating electricity supply, and building and Risk Management & Control are reviewed as required by law or mechanical safety checks are Document Compliance business standard and at least once reviewed once or twice a year by a Incidents a year by authorised personnel.
The reports of Reports and protocols are reviewed by the statutory controller are reviewed These areas are reviewed each the operationalteam.
This process quarterthrough the Health and Safety is audited externally twice a year.
Committee and reported to the Board.
We ensure that all scheduled reviews The accountability remains with are conducted in accordance with CLS France.
As at the date of this report, the local laws.
Facilities managers provide percentage of risks which were comprehensive reports on a monthly We have achieved 100% under control were: 99.6% for basis to the operational team.
Risk Management & Control, and 96.8% for Document Compliance.
As at the date of this report, 95% Every year, CLS France requires each Our Accidents Frequency Rate in 2018 of allidentified risks were under tenant to provide their reports of was 124 accidents per 100,000 people control.
All other risks are monitored statutory controls and an insurance National Accidents Frequency Rate: on an ongoing basis and a health certificate for theirpremises.
930 100,000. and safety management system is being implemented.
34 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information EMISSION PERFORMANCE COMPARISON: MANAGED PORTFOLIO ABSOLUTE Greenhouse 2017 2018 Change Gas Type Gas tonnes CO e 2,988 2,976 12 Scope 1 2 Electricity tonnes CO e 7,961 7,430 531 Scope 2 2 CLS Group Total Scope tonnes CO e 10,949 10,406 543 1 & 2 2 CLS Group Total Scope tonnes CO e sqm 0.0223 0.0212 0.0011 1&2 sqm 2 EMISSION PERFORMANCE COMPARISON: MANAGED PORTFOLIO LIKE-FOR-LIKE Greenhouse 2017 2018 Change Gas Type Gas tonnes CO e 2,387 2,159 228 Scope 1 2 Electricity tonnes CO e 6,583 5,381 1,202 Scope 2 2 CLS Group Total Scope tonnes CO e 8,970 7,540 1,430 1 & 2 2 CLS Group Total Scope tonnes CO e sqm 0.0294 0.0247 0.0047 1&2 sqm 2 GROUP WIDE LIKE-FOR-LIKE CARBON EMISSIONS 2016 TO2018 6,583 Due to decarbonisation of the national grid in the UK there has been a reduction in our 5,381 absolute Scope 1&2 emissions across the Group.
The net effect of our reduction in both energy and decarbonisation has resulted in a 15.9% reduction on our like-for-like carbon emission 2,387 2,159 2017 2018 Scope 2 Scope 1 Find out more download our full sustainability report from our website www.
com Our 2018 strategic report, from IFC to page 35, has been reviewed andapproved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2019.
David Fuller BA FCIS Company Secretary CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 35
