Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Working towards responsible and sustainable growth obham takes a strategic approach Materiality process Economic dimension to corporate responsibility and Identification and prioritisation of CR&S issues Business ethics sustainability CR&S, recognising most relevant to key stakeholders is an important Cobham operates in specialist markets, a number that long term success is not just part of the Groups business model for more of which are highly regulated.
The Group complies C about generating shareholder details see pages 12 and 13.
A mapping process with all applicable laws and regulations.
The risk value but also about creating value for all the that includes stakeholder research and feedback of non-compliance with applicable laws and Groups stakeholders.
Managing external impacts, on issues important to the Groups industry regulations is a Group principal risk see capitalising on opportunities and conducting sectors, employees, customers and investors is page 39. business in a responsible and sustainable way used to identify the Groups material CR&S issues.
helps mitigate the Group principal risks and The Sustainability Accounting Board Standards The Group is committed to sustaining an ethical strengthen business relationships.
SASB, Global Reporting Initiative GRI, Task culture.
The Cobham Ethics and Compliance Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures Programme CECP has been developed over Many of Cobhams products and services TCFD recommendations and United Nations several years to support this through provide important environmental and social Sustainable Development Goals SDGs all inform a range of policies, processes and activities.
Thismay be through enhancing aviator this process.
implementation and effectiveness of the CECP is survival, minimising environmental impact overseen by the Business Ethics and Compliance or providing reliable communications in Sustainable development goals Committee BECC, and ultimately the Board.
Cobham operates in an evolving global landscape programme is underpinned by the Code of of environmental, social and economic risk and Business Conduct COBC, which outlines the The decisions and behaviours demonstrated by opportunity, which is represented by the SDGs.
Groups core values and the behavioural standards acting ethically, managing impacts, implementing Cobham supports the SDGs and in 2018 mapped it mandates for all its officers, employees and innovative solutions and engendering positive them where possible against material CR&S representatives on a range of issues, including business relationships also promote and enhance issues across the Group.
This was to better anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
In early 2019, understand opportunities for value creation and Cobham started a journey to transform its culture to establish a link between business strategy and which includes a new purpose and accompanying the Groups achievements against the SDGs.
Identifying meaningful values that non-financial information disclosure table on resonate with employees across the Group and page 43 summarises Cobhams material CR&S embedding the new culture is a priority.
issues, associated policies and actions, key metrics and processes according to three dimensions: economic, social and environmental.
42 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Non-financial information disclosure table Linkage to Material corporate relevant UN Policies, standards and responsibility & Sustainable actions which govern our sustainability Development approach incl.
Where to find further Internal processes to dimension Goals objectives targets information Key metrics monitor performance Code of business See page 42 for % employees trained The implementation Economic conduct Economic information onCode of Business andeffectiveness of 1. Business Ethics Conduct TheCobham Ethics and 2.
Material sourcing Supplier code www.
com Compliance Programme andsupply chain ofconduct the-group corporateCECP is overseen by the management  Ethics Business Ethics and sustainability andCompliance Compliance Committee Programme BECC and, ultimately, Responsible supply theBoard.
chain management Policy Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy Emerging talent See page 44 for Social Achievement of 5% club Group Executive monitors Social graduate and information targets see page 44 SHE performance on a 3.
Talent attraction, apprenticeship monthly basis, using a development www.
com % female representation Programme balanced scorecard.
andretention the-group corporatein total workforce and 4.
Diversity and Employee  management Annual SHE selfinclusion development sustainability assessment, periodic peer Lost work case 5.
Employee health programmes to peer auditing and a See employee workforce incidentrate andsafety biennial external audit.
Safety, Health engagement case study Recordable incidentrate 6.
Product safety andEnvironment on page 47 Group Executive monitors Voluntary staff turnover 7.
Human rights SHE policy voluntary staff turnover, See gender diversity which is a Group KPI, on a Product research case study on page 45 monthly basis.
anddevelopment, innovation and design Lifecycle management policy Responsible supply chain management policy Diversity and Inclusion policy UK Gender Pay Gap Report Signatory to Women in Aviation and Aerospace charter Safety, Health and See page 47 for Facility GHG emissions Energy and GHG Environmental Environmental Policy Environmental management data is 8.
Energy Progress against information audited by Bureau Veritas management Reduction of GHGtarget on a limited assurance 9.
Waste and water operational See page 82 for Water intensity basis.
Greenhouse gas environmental additional information Waste to landfill GHG emissions impacts including on GHG emissions recycling intensity hazardous and www.
com non-hazardous waste the-group corporateand water use  efficiency sustainability Programmes 43 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued During 2019, Cobham will continue to focus on Cobham has a clearly supporting its supplier campaigns and enhancing key supplier engagement.
Cobham is legally, and stated zero tolerance sometimes contractually, required to disclose certain information regarding its global supply approach to bribery and chain.
Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, the characteristics of its markets and corruption in any form the resulting complex contracting environment have been identified as principal risks for further details see pages 39 and 37 respectively.
Social dimension Talent attraction, development and retention Cobham remains committed to attracting and retaining talented and engaged employees, and 2018 has seen continued focus on the development of its employees to achieve growth plans and deliver ongoing commitments.
Ensuring each employee has the opportunity to reach their full potential is a core aim of Cobhams Cobham has a clearly stated zero-tolerance including the use of technology to monitor talent strategy.
Throughout 2018, development approach to bribery and corruption in any form.
worldwide databases for red flags on a continuous programmes linked to career frameworks were All employees, including Board members, receive real time basis and, in 2018, appointing external deployed, and this will continue in 2019. training on the COBC and Anti-Bribery Antilegal counsel to independently renew Supporting the continuous growth and Corruption annually.
Cobham maintains an intermediaries on a risk-weighted basis to ensure development which helps ensure greater independent Ethics Helpline and website where continued compliance.
engagement and the skills to deliver current and potential compliance violations can be reported.
In 2018, various enhancements were made to the Cobham measures the effectiveness of the CECP handling of concerns raised via the Ethics Helpline, and improvements to it through a range of Cobham is investing in the development of including providing specialist investigator training metrics, one of which is the completion of leaders, recognising the significant role they play.
to the panel of nominated internal investigators.
mandatory COBC ABAC employee training.
In To create a sustainable pipeline of future leaders, Cobham has a zero tolerance approach to any kind 2018 99.3% 2017: 99.8% of Cobham employees the Cobham Certificate in Management of retaliation for reporting ethics issues and completed COBC training.
Programme, which is a training scheme accredited further details on the Groups approach to ethics through the Institute of Leadership and and compliance can be found at www.
Material sourcing and supply chain Management, continued during 2018. com the-group  and-sustainability ethics.
Cobham continued to consolidate its suppliers in The Group recognises the importance of emerging 2018 to reduce risk and cost and improve quality.
talent, and has increased the number of places In 2018, Cobham completed an Anti-Bribery AntiThe Group Supplier Code of Conduct and within its graduate and apprentice development Corruption Risk Assessment.
Findings and Responsible Supply Chain Management RSCM programmes.
Reflecting this, in 2018 the Group recommended actions were reviewed and policy can be found at www.
com theemployed 7.2% 2017: 4.5% of its UK workforce as approved by the Audit Committee and various group suppliers supplier-documents apprentices, graduates or undergraduate follow-on actions have been incorporated into the placements, meeting its 5% Club commitment one CECP plan for 2019.
Group-wide supplier compliance campaigns were year early.
For further information and background conducted with respect to bribery and corruption, see www.
In total, 11% of A related compliance risk issue is the use of thirdmodern slavery and human trafficking, and the UK workforce are alumni of the graduate or party intermediaries as a route to market.
In addition to reinforcing the apprentice schemes, illustrating the ongoing by an intermediary to comply with laws and Groups responsible business practices, this commitment to develop emerging talent into regulations, or the failure of the Group to complete supported Group regulatory disclosures and leaders of the future.
Alumni from these schemes appropriate intermediary due diligence, can customer information requests.
are progressing into senior roles and are increasingly impact the Groups reputation as well as lead to a featuring on the Groups succession plans.
range of sanctions, including significant fines or More information on the modern slavery policy debarments from government contracts and new and process can be found on the Group website Cobham has joined with the Defence Growth business.
com the-group corporatePartnership to deliver the Defence Export Corruption Policy and Intermediary Policy r esp onsibilit y-andsus t ainabilit y Executive MBA and the Defence Export requires intermediaries to undergo a  disclosures Postgraduate Certificate.
Cobham is also piloting comprehensive approval process prior to the Level 4 Associate Project Manager engagement, Cobham also performs ongoing Apprenticeship in 2019.
44 monitoring during the engagement phase itself, Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Voluntary staff turnover, which is one of the Developing an effective culture supports the Ensuring that the Group is able to attract and Groups KPIs, is used to measure the effectiveness creation of a diverse workforce which will enable retain a diverse workforce is linked to the of its talent retention and employee engagement the Group to attract and retain key talent from all Groupsprincipal risks relating to a shortage of approach.
In 2018, the Groups voluntary backgrounds.
Cobham is committed to developing appropriate skills and talent as well as failure to employee turnover was 12% 2017: 10%.
The an inclusive workplace where employee comply withlaws and regulations refer to pages Group is in a turnaround and in these circumstances differences are valued, enabling everyone to 37 and 39 respectively.
it is expected that there might be an increase contribute fully.
while the organisation structures, ways of working Health and safety and culture undergo a period of change.
Under the UK Equality Act 2010 requirements, Cobham endeavours to create a safe and healthy Management expects that this voluntary staff applying to legal entities with at least 250 culture and a framework that fosters employee turnover metric will decrease over time.
employees, Cobham is required to report engagement at all levels.
The SHE Committee has gender pay gap data, which is available at set the objective of transforming the Groups Diversity and inclusion www.
Failure to deliver Competition for talent is growing in the Groups r esp onsibilit y-andsus t ainabilit y consistently high standards of health and safety markets.
A combination of ageing populations and  disclosures.
could lead to accidents or incidents which may declining numbers of suitable university graduates result in employees being injured or otherwise is leading to greater competition for talent across In 2018, women were employed in 19% 2017: harmed, which is totally unacceptable.
In addition, industries and geographies.
This is particularly 16% of senior management roles.
In 2018, accidents or incidents may result in prosecutions, relevant for science, technology, engineering and Cobham became a signatory to the UK Women in fines, loss of assets, business interruption and mathematics disciplines upon which the Group Aviation and Aerospace Charter committing to widespread reputational damage.
Cobham must attract and retain the right support the progression of women to senior safety is referenced within the Groups principal skills to meet its plans and deliver its strategy.
The diversity, inclusion and family leave risks relating to significant business interruption policies were updated to reflect the commitment and failure to comply with laws and regulations to support its employees.
Gender Diversity at Cobham Cobham hosted a number of events in 2018 celebrating and promoting The theme for the event was strategies and policies that are better female employees.
forwomen are better for all, and guest speakers included Captain Adelle Blundell, from the Australian Army and Gosia Davis, Engineer Manager, In July, at the Farnborough International Air show, Gillian Duggan, BAE Systems who shared their thoughts and experiences on thistheme.
Executive Vice-President for HR and Communications recognised the Groups female talent at Cobhams first Women in Aerospace and The event was part of a series run by not-for-profit association, Aviation Defence Day.
The day focused on encouraging networking and sharing Aerospace Australia, which is designed to help promote gender diversity, ideas about promoting a more inclusive and diverse workplace.
provide a network for women to connect with industry peers, excel in their careers and inspire the next generation of women.
The Aviation Services Australian Business Unit also hosted a networking event for Women in Aviation Aerospace Australia at the VIP terminal atAdelaide Airport.
45 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued causes of injury or illness that resulted in lost time In 2018 the Group employed during 2018, consistent with prior years.
7.2% of its UK workforce as During 2019, plans will be implemented to recover the Groups health and safety performance apprentices, graduates or through increased accountability of leadership teams for health and safety related matters, undergraduate placements, and improved employee engagement in particularthrough encouraging more suggestions meeting its 5% Club for improvement.
commitment one year early There was one significant regulatory intervention in the year.
In March 2018, a fire code violation on the plating line at the San Diego, US facility resulted in the local fire department issuing a temporary cessation notice on the electroplating operations.
Remedial action was taken to reconfigure access and egress routes, and operations were allowed to resume.
Further details on Cobhams SHE policy, management standards and performance are at www.
com the-group  Groups long-standing workplace SHE although assessed against a higher target and-sustainability , called Zero Harm, promotes and the underachievement was primarily policies policydownloads.
Its objective is to observed in those operations impacted by minimise injuries and illnesses occurring in the ongoing business restructuring.
Human rights workplace, improve environmental sustainability Human rights remain an important issue for the and ensure employees wellbeing.
Accountability In addition, the Group Executive monitors SHE Group.
There are growing requirements to comply for implementing the Groups SHE strategy is with performance on a monthly basis, using a balanced with legislation and to respond to customer senior management and progress is monitored by scorecard of leading and lagging indicators.
information requests on human rights issues such as the Group SHE Committee, which is chaired by the Leading indicators indicators that correlate with modern slavery and conflict minerals.
Technical expertise is provided through a future performance are used to drive correct with applicable laws and regulations has been Group SHE Council comprising senior business behaviours.
They include safety training, risk identified as a principal risk refer to page 39. unit SHE professionals under the leadership of the assessments, workplace inspections, SHE Vice-President VP Group SHE, and the VP Committees and reporting of safety observations.
Cobham supports the principles contained in the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability.
Lagging indicators indicators that are based on Universal Declaration of Human Rights and seeks historic performance are used to measure the to reflect these in the context of its business The Groups three year SHE strategy is to: effectiveness of the approach, and these include activities.
Cobham also respects the rights of its Continually improve safety, health, the incidence of workplace injuries and illness, employees in the International Labour environmental and sustainability performance: environmental issues and regulatory interventions.
Organization Declaration on Fundamental Drive a proactive and learning SHE culture During 2018, the Group achieved 87% of its Principles and Rights at Work.
Cobham through engaged and empowered people leading indicator metrics.
demonstrates its support and respect for human atalllevels: and rights through the principles and policies Derive business efficiencies through With regard to lagging indicators, there were no contained in the COBC, the Corporate Framework theimplementation of an integrated, fatalities in 2018.
The occupational lost time injury and the Groups policies and processes.
standardised SHE management system and illness incident rate defined as the number of acrossthe organisation.
cases resulting in one or more days lost time or restricted duties increased to 0.821 in 2018 from Cobham implemented a new set of global SHE 0.503 incidents per 200,000 hours worked.
This is standards in 2017 and the underpinning processes an industry standard metric which Cobham has have matured during 2018.
The extent of Business adopted as one of its key reporting measures.
The Unit compliance with these standards, over and recordable incident rate the number of recordable above the legal minimum, is monitored.
Cobhams incidents per year per 100 full time equivalent business units are expected to exceed a minimum employees also increased to 1.56 in 2018 from compliance target which increased by five 0.95 in 2017.
The increases in both of these metrics percentage points in 2018.
Monitoring is through were primarily observed again in businesses that an annual self-assessment exercise, periodic peerwere undergoing business restructuring, resulting to-peer auditing and a biennial external audit.
In in a reduction in employee engagement in health 2018, 75% of assessed operations achieved or and safety matters whilst the business transitions exceeded this more stringent SHE compliance to its future state.
Manual handling, minor hand 46 target.
This was a reduction on previous years injuries, and slips and trips were the most common Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 In 2018, the Group issued its second annual AntiSlavery and Human Trafficking statement in compliance with section 54 of the UKs Modern Slavery Act, 2015.
The statement outlines the Group policy and approach to managing risk in Group operations and in its supply chains.
The statement can be downloaded at w w w. c ob h am.
Charity activity Cobham believes that community issues are best addressed locally, wherever possible.
Each site is encouraged to manage its operations and activities with due consideration for the wellbeing of neighbours and local communities.
In 2018, the Group donated 221,057 2017: 275,726 to a range of good causes, including charities relating to the armed services, rescue and health-based charities, as well as local community interests.
It is Cobhams policy not to make political donations.
Workforce engagement Employees are a key stakeholder group and Cobham recognises that encouraging effective The CEO chairs the SHE Committee which has engagement with employees improves participation and productivity.
responsibility for operational, environmental and sustainability matters.
The Committee is also Across the Group, businesses have been working on improving information flows and responsible for development and implementation engagement opportunities with its 10,000 employees.
of the Group SHE strategy.
Cobham business units and sites have regular All Hands or town hall style meetings.
These are Environmental dimension opportunities for senior business leaders to share information with employees, such as financial Cobham recognises that its operations, activities, results and business bids, opportunities and wins, as well as updates on policies and procedures products and services have an impact on when applicable.
It is also an opportunity for staff to ask questions of their leadership team.
Information is also shared through Group and local business intranet, sites, internal news A material environmental issue is the Groups bulletins, announcements and executive blogs.
energy use and response to climate change.
The following table outlines Cobhams governance, strategy, risk management and performance measurement approach with regard to this issue.
In 2018, 75% of assessed operations achieved or exceeded a more stringent SHE compliance target 47 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued Performance measurement Task force on climate related disclosures Risk management In 2018, a new five year reduction target of 15% TFCD Risks and opportunities are monitored, was set for facility GHG emissions excluding Governance prioritised and managed in a number of ways, CAES.
Performance remains on track to achieve The Corporate Responsibility and including by the Groups insurance partner, in this target through a number of planned energySustainability Committee, chaired by the CFO, local risk registers and business unit SHE selfsaving initiatives.
has overall accountability for CR&S strategy, assessments.
Failure to address environmental including climate change and carbon sustainability issues aligns with the Groups Further details on the Groups energy use and GHG management.
The Committee has principal risks of failure to comply with laws emissions can be found in the Other Statutory responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness and regulations and of significant business Information report on page 82. of controls in place for identifying and interruption refer to page 39. managing risks and opportunities, challenging The Group measures and discloses its GHG Group performance and maintaining strategic The Group addresses environmental emissions strategy, risks, opportunities and and policy oversight.
sustainability issues by: performance on www.
com theReducing environmental impacts from its group  operations wherever practicable: sustainability and through the annual Carbon Climate change affects the Groups approach Reducing legacy aircraft fuel consumption Disclosure Project CDP investor climate change to meeting its strategic objectives.
Climate via operational efficiency programmes and and customer supply chain surveys.
change regulation, taxes, international ultimately transitioning to more fuelagreements such as the Paris accord volatile efficient aircraft where possible: CDP is a not-for-profit charity that runs a global energy costs and changes in weather Reducing its GHG emissions across disclosure system for companies to report their conditions have all informed the Groups a number of operating sites through carbon and other environmental impacts primarily strategic decisions as Cobham adapts to practical energy efficiency measures, for investor understanding of risks and changing operating environments.
Investment including lighting, heating, ventilation and opportunities.
In 2018, Cobham achieved a B in new technology that reduces size, weight air conditioning: Leadership rating from CDP, which was a reduction and power consumption of products and Investing in design concepts to reduce the on the A rating achieved in 2017.
The reduction carbon emissions is an important differentiator size and weight of products as well as was mainly due to a shift in focus in the CDP in the Groups markets.
energy consumption, with a corresponding methodology towards climate change.
During reduction in environmental impacts: 2019 actions will be defined to contribute to Material issues identified include: Reinforcing business continuity measures improving the rating through increased focus in GHG emissions from aircraft fuel and effective emergency response this area.
combustion in Aviation Services which planning, in preparation for adverse represents the majority of the Groups GHG weather events and natural disasters: and Waste and Water emissions : Aligning the Groups environmental Reduction of operational environmental impacts, GHG emissions from electricity and fuel standards to the international including hazardous and non-hazardous waste used in the lighting, heating, ventilation and environmental management system and water use, are also an important issue cooling of its facilities and supply chain standard ISO14001 and encouraging forCobham.
Group-wide: business units to certify to the standard.
The impact of the size, weight and power In 2018, the Groups business units were efficiency of Cobham products upon the challenged to develop a framework for a new set fuel consumption and GHG emissions of of intensity metrics to provide data to enable a customer aerospace platforms: and reduction in waste production as well as water and Business interruption at its facilities, and energy consumption.
those of its key suppliers, due to adverse weather events e. g. flooding, wildfire.
2 Statutory definition Employees with responsibility for planning, directing or controlling corporate activities.
3 Cobham definition Vice Presidents and above.
4 Average number of employees for year.
Summary of CR&S key metrics 4 Key performance indicator Target 2018 2017 2016 % Employees trained on Code of Business Conduct 100.0% 99.3% 99.8% 99.5% Voluntary employee turnover 10.0% 12% 10% 10% % Female representation in total workforce - 27% 26% 27% 1 Lost Work Case Incident Rate 0.64 0.82 0.50 0.72 2 Recordable Incident Rate 1.26 1.56 0.95 0.93 3 5 Year facility GHG emissions -15% over 5 years -3.4% - - 1 Number of lost workday injury or occupational illness cases multiplied by 200,000 divided by the hours worked.
2 Number of recordable incidents per year per 100 full time equivalent employees.
3 In 2018, a new key metric to track GHG emissions, targeting an absolute reduction of 15% by the end of 2022.
This replaced the previous facility energy intensity metric.
4 Targets are reassessed annually to ensure that they drive continuous improvement.
The Strategic Report, covering pages 2 to 49 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 has been approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
On behalf of the Board of Directors Lyn Colloff Company Secretary 7 March 2019 49
