Corporate Governance Stakeholders Engaging our stakeholders and responding to their needs Stakeholder engagement The Board recognises the importance of engaging with its wider stakeholder base.
We have set out below the actions being taken by management around the business to engage with customers, investors and employees, plus a case study on supplier management.
Customers Investors Why is it important to engage?
In addition, as part of a UK Government and UK Why is it important to engage?
One of the Groups key priorities has been to foster trade body initiative, Cobham presented to Shareholders are important providers of capital to closer relationships with customers at all levels.
another major US prime contractor, to increase the Group and also vote on key resolutions at the This helps Cobham provide value for money and bid opportunities.
The event was successful, AGM.
Cobhams investor relations programme high performance technical solutions for giving access to key individuals and insights aims to keep shareholders regularly informed of customers most pressing needs.
This can take the into new programmes.
This resulted in the Groups prospects and performance, together form of close partnering or collaborative follow-on presentations to different customer with developments as they occur.
In addition, the engagement in technology development and business units.
programme is intended to keep Cobhams Board production.
Cobham actively engages with its informed and up to date on shareholder views.
customers to exchange technology roadmaps to In Australia, as part of its customer engagement This helps to inform strategic decisions and the closely align research and development and on a major programme, the Aviation Services setting of management objectives.
engineering resources with customers technology business holds quarterly review meetings involving and market objectives.
Understanding the How do we engage?
customers needs, the business proposed the trial The centrepiece of Cobhams shareholder How do we engage?
and implementation of a new search and rescue engagement is the interim and preliminary results.
During the year, the Group has engaged to technique utilising Electro Optical technology.
All These are used to update shareholders on a increase key customer awareness of the full range trial flights undertaken to date have been number of matters.
Following each set of results of capabilities.
This is because in some cases, successful.
This has enabled locating search the CEO and CFO meet with the Groups largest customers may only do business with certain survivors in reduced time.
In addition, the shareholders, where the above matters have been businesses or Sectors.
For example, two Sectors technique has the potential to be applied by other central topics of conversation during the year.
combined to jointly engage with a top US defence international search organisations.
contractor during the year to present Cobhams The Group also releases shorter Trading Updates.
leading-edge technology to the customers The first covers the first quarter of the year and engineering and supply-chain community in an this is released on the day ofthe AGM.
The engagement resulted in covers the ten months to the end of October, exchanges of technological and market which is released in mid-November.
information enabling Cobham to align investments more closely to this customer.
60 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Employees Cobham has continued to prioritise engagement Why is it important to engage?
In addition, all employees have access to a with its existing shareholders during the year, The Board recognises the importance of regularly dedicated intranet site, where they can find news, updating them on significant developments engaging with employees.
This supports the policies and procedures and a range of other during a period of change.
The Group also Groups cultural change and helps attract and materials of interest.
A majority of Group sites also undertook a Capital Markets Day in November retain talented employees, which is critical to use digital displays to communicate employee 2018, see the case study on page 63. future growth.
information, with many sites giving employees the opportunity to make suggestions for In addition to the CEO and CFO meetings with How do we engage?
shareholders, the Chairman, Senior Independent Engagement occurs in different ways and at Director and Remuneration Committee Chair different levels.
Business unit management teams The Groups Corporate Communications engage with investors as the need arises.
hold regular all hands meetings with local department compiles and distributes various employees to instil a sense of common purpose, materials to employees including a quarterly Shareholders also have the opportunity to ask to update on relevant news and developments employee magazine, online news items and senior questions of the Board of Directors at the AGM, and to respond to questions.
The CEO and other management blogs.
Dovetailing with this, certain which is held in April.
members of senior management also undertake business units and Group functions undertake all hands meetings when visiting business units.
more specialist engagement, relevant to specific In addition, Cobham maintains a regularly updated businesses or functions.
com which A gathering of senior managers is held annually, includes a range of information relevant to which is used to reinforce the Groups direction shareholders: for example, current and historical and priorities and to communicate key messages, financial materials, news, strategy, governance for dissemination through the business.
In information, together with Board biographies and addition, for the first time in 2018 quarterly share price data.
A specific Annual Report and meetings ofthe business unit General Managers Accounts section was added tothe website during commenced.
This recognises their pivotal role in the year, highlighting certain sections of this effecting and consolidating needed change.
The document in an easily accessible way.
meetings enable them to share common opportunities and challenges, and together decide how business units can deliver on Group priorities.
61 Corporate Governance Stakeholders continued Case study Strengthening the supplier base There has been continuing development to improve the Groups Presentations on the Sectors were given with positive feedback.
The aim is to increase the strength of the supplier The majority of suppliers had little knowledge of the breadth of base as Cobham works towards achieving a target of 80% of its Cobhams business and commented on areas where there could be spend with 20% of its suppliers.
Consolidating the supply chain further development in our partnership.
There was also positive with a focus on quality provision gives more confidence in the feedback regarding the current supply chain strategy, which ability to deliver, and can offer economies of scale.
There have addressed areas of improvement identified in a survey undertaken been internal and external efforts towards this target.
Within Cobham, there have been many actions to support The survey also showed that the majority of suppliers had acloserand improved relationship with suppliers across all the long-standing relationships with Cobham, with 95% satisfied with business units: the relationship overall.
Improving and refining supplier management information A proposal to introduce supplier awards was received positively.
systems: This aim of this is to motivate suppliers to deliver products to Introducing dedicated managers for electrical, mechanical higher quality standards, and to reward those that meet the andindirect spending to make procurement more effective highest standards.
Overall, the conferences were a success, and andefficient: thefocus on motivating our suppliers will continue.
Entering long term agreements with key suppliers: and Introducing quarterly business reviews with keysuppliers.
Supplier conferences were also held in the UK and US to share the Groups vision and strategic direction with key suppliers.
Priorities included introducing suppliers to developments in the supply chain strategy, show them potential new areas of business, and develop stronger relationships.
Key stakeholder events in 2018 1 Mar 2018 14 Nov 2018 Preliminary Trading Update Announcement 26 Apr 2018 AGM Statement 26 Apr 2018 AGM 21 Mar 2018 3 Aug 2018 28 Nov 2018 Annual Report Interim Capital Markets Announcement Day 62 Jan 18 Feb 18 Mar 18 Apr 18 May 18 Jun 18 Jul 18 Aug 18 Sep 18 Oct 18 Nov 18 Dec 18 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key dates 2019 Substantial shareholdings as at 31 December 2018 Trading update Mid-November 2019 % Interim dividend payment date Friday 8 November 2019 Silchester International Investors LLP 12.40 Record date Friday 11 October 2019 Columbia Threadneedle Investments 11.19 Ex-div date Thursday 10 October 2019 Causeway Capital Management LLC 11.11 Interim announcement Franklin Templeton Investments 4.11 and dividend announcement Thursday 1 August 2019 BlackRock, Inc. 4.11 AGM statement Thursday 25 April 2019 Artemis Fund Managers Ltd 3.59 AGM Thursday 25 April 2019 The Vanguard Group Inc 3.31 Annual Report and Accounts Friday 22 March 2019 Bestinver Gestion, S. G. I. I. C. 3.14 Preliminary announcement Thursday 7 March 2019 Aberdeen Standard Investments 3.04 Sprucegrove Investment Management 2.88 Results of 2018 AGM T. Rowe Price Group 2.88 Total Votes Total Votes For Against Resolution % % 1 Report & Accounts 99.82 0.18 2 Remuneration Report 98.23 1.77 39 Election and re-election 96.1699.75 3.84 0.25 ofBoardmembers 10 Re-appointment of Auditors 99.02 0.98 11 Remuneration of Auditors 99.91 0.09 12 Authority to purchase own shares 98.88 1.12 13 Authority to allot shares 84.39 15.61 14 General authority to disapply 87.70 12.30 pre-emption rights 15 Additional disapplication of 96.43 3.57 pre-emption rights 16 Authority to call general 96.48 3.52 meetings on 14 days notice Capital Markets Day In November 2018, senior managers from the Mission Systems Sector presented to an engaged audience in London, UK with opportunities to ask questions and see some of the Sectors products in an interactive display area.
The management team was led by Sector President, Jim Barber, who is seen presenting, left.
In the auditorium the audience comprised some 70 analysts, shareholders and potential shareholders, plus another 40 who watched the event online.
The webcast, together with the supporting presentation, is available for viewing on www.
The management team set out how the Sector has a long heritage of innovation and deep technical expertise in its specialist markets.
Further it described the Sectors strong market positions and attractive growth opportunities, with a focus on execution being key to growth plans and profitability.
Compelling presentations followed on some of the Sectors specific growth opportunities covering its aerial refuelling, military oxygen systems and fuel tank inerting markets.
The event ended with an informal opportunity to mingle with management and discuss the days themes further.
