Governance and Directors Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT Building on our commitments DEAR SHAREHOLDER THE YEAR IN REVIEW On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate From a governance perspective our focus this year centred Responsibility CR Committees Report for the financial year ended aroundthe development and implications of the new UK 30 September 2018.
CorporateGovernance Code 2018 the New Code.
The New Codewas published in its final form on 16 July 2018, and applies The CR Committee is responsible for assisting the Board and tothe Companys financial year commencing on 1 October 2019. theCompany in fulfilling its corporate responsibility in line with The New Code, amongst other matters, provides guidance to theCompanys strategy, policies and standards.
We oversee the boardson engagement with wider stakeholder groups, including Companys progress against our CR commitments and the targets ourpeople.
We have always recognised that our people are at the we set.
heartof our success and we will continue to evolve our governance During the year, we continued to develop our CR agenda and activity arrangements so that we are able to comply with the New Code programmes with a particular focus on our sustainability strategy, and prevailing best practice.
supply chain integrity and our health and safety performance.
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY We take a holistic approach to corporate responsibility, carefully Throughout the year, we continued to deliver against our existing considering the impact the Companys activities have on the sustainability commitments.
I am delighted to report that, as a communities and environments in which we operate and from Group, we have gained new momentum thanks to the launch of whichwe draw our largest resource, our people, and source our oursocial purpose to be a responsible corporate citizen, with an ingredients and products.
We have continued to make good progress allencompassing safety culture with people at its heart, supported in the year against our objectives.
Our achievements have been made by arenewed sustainability strategy.
Our global sustainability possible by the commitment of our people, underpinned by a well strategysets out our global priorities for responding to social and established governance framework.
environmental change, to create a positive impact, drive growth and future proof our business.
Our strategy is defined by three priorities: health & wellbeing, environmental game changers and better for the world.
We will continue to target specific areas where we are able to make a positive impact on the food system and the environment, for example in reducing food waste and the use of single-use plastics and developing plant-forward meals, initiatives which we believe will support the global reduction of C0 emissions.
2 64 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE The Committee supports the Groups social purpose and  strategy which will lead us to a new phase UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE inour CR journey and stand the Group in good stead to tackle the DEVELOPMENT GOALS evolving challenges facing businesses today.
Last year we reported on the alignment of our sustainable business activities with the UN Sustainable Development Further information on our Corporate Responsibility and Goals UN SDGs.
You can find out about our global sustainability strategy together with a review of progress can commitments towards the 2030 goals on page 43.
Below are befound in the 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report and on some examples of our initiatives in support of the UN SDGs: pages38 to 43.
SAFETY CULTURE END HUNGER, ACHIEVE FOOD SECURITY The health and safety of our people and consumers continue to AND IMPROVED NUTRITION AND command our focus and underpin our sustainability priorities, and PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE I am pleased to report that this year, we improved our Global Lost In April 2017, our colleagues in the USA successfully Time Incident Frequency and Global Food Safety Incident Rates.
launched the Stop Food Waste Day initiative.
A year later, the The Committee will continue to closely monitor safety performance event went global and, in April 2018, client and unit-based across the Group and provide support for ongoing initiatives that will activities took place in 34 Compass countries, engaging an improve existing practices, further embed strong and visible safety estimated 10 million consumers through our Stop Food Waste leadership throughout our management structures, ensure our Day activities.
Encouraged by the success of this years event, people continue to be appropriately trained and protected, and Stop Food Waste Day 2019 is scheduled to take place on safeguard the wellbeing of our consumers.
Further details of some 24 April 2019 when we hope to build on the momentum we ofour ongoing safety initiatives can be found on page 40. have achieved to date.
The initiative complements the Groups aim to reduce food waste by 50% by 2030, bringing additional SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY focus to an important global issue, raising awareness, educating Compass Supply Chain Integrity Policy Statement was revised and ultimately influencing behavioural change at all levels.
in2018 and is supported by the Groups global Supply Chain Integrity Standards.
Sourcing responsibly is important to us and ACHIEVE GENDER EQUALITY AND wecontinue to demand robust standards from our suppliers and EMPOWER ALL WOMEN AND GIRLS our own businesses.
The Committee is pleased with the progress that has been made In 2018, our Japanese business developed a fast track tosupport compliance with our global standards and will continue programme for future leaders which was aimed at tackling tochampion responsible behaviour over the coming years.
With the representation of ofthe Supply Chain Integrity Policy Statement can be found at womenleadership at a very low level, ensuring that there www.
wasa high participation of potential female leaders was akeypriority.
In the first year of the programme 37% ofthecandidates were women and, having completed the programme, all went on to take on their first leadership role within 12 months.
Developing talent from within is a central part of the Compass approach and ensuring equal access to all to development programmes is key.
CONSERVE AND SUSTAINABLY USE THE OCEANS, SEAS AND MARINE RESOURCES FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT We support sourcing sustainable seafood and improving the health of our oceans.
Recent media attention has focused on the harmful effects of plastic pollution on marine ecosystems.
This year, we have partnered with several of our international clients in relation to the use of single-use plastics, working together to define a joint strategy in respect of the usage of those types of products.
Together, we have identified specific products that can be eliminated from our sites, explored substitute materials that are more sustainable and also conducted research into how best to positively influence consumer behaviour to promote more responsible disposal or re-use of single-use plastics.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 65 Governance and Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Committee Report continued SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING THE YEAR AHEAD In October 2018, Compass published its third annual Modern The Committee will continue to support the ongoing development Slavery Act statement.
Compass position has always been clear in ofour sustainability strategy and best practice in sustainable respect of any type of human rights abuse: our people are the key to business practices as well as oversee and promote the our continued success and we will not tolerate unethical behaviour Companysperformance in this area.
In respect of corporate in our own operations or within our supply chains.
The Committee governance developments, particularly the New Code, the is dedicated to ensuring that the controls in place to mitigate the risk Committee will continue to assess the need for change and to make of this type of activity are regularly reviewed, we keep abreast recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
We look forward to of developing initiatives, and the Company is appropriately prepared progressing the Companys CR agenda in conjunction with our many to identify and tackle any potential occurrence of this type of activity.
stakeholders and will continue to listen to their views and incorporate their insights to ensure we are well placed to meet the challenges of Our Human Rights Policy, Code of Business Conduct and Code of the year ahead.
Ethics set the standards we expect regarding the treatment of all colleagues and contractors within Compass and its supply chains.
We require our suppliers to meet our standards and, to this end, our supply contracts specify a commitment to comply with our policies and procedures.
Nelson Silva Increasing supply chain transparency is a key element of our Global Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Supply Chain Integrity Standards.
To identify potential vulnerabilities, we conduct comprehensive risk assessments of our supply chains, 20 November 2018 supported by expert risk analysis.
Compass Group is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, SEDEX, a not for profit organisation enabling sharing of ethical supply chain data providing supplier information in four key areas: labour standards health and safety the environment business ethics Within our UK business, we have rolled out SEDEX to 50% 2017: 30% of suppliers within those categories we consider higher risk.
We are engaging with our global procurement teams to introduce SEDEX across more countries.
We have an established e-learning programme for the Groups procurement teams, designed to raise awareness of the issue of slavery and human trafficking and to help identify and mitigate potential risks from our global supply chain.
Colleagues from our Foodbuy procurement teams in the UK and North America, which account for around 70% of our global procurement spend, have been appropriately trained.
By 2020, we are committed to extending the e-learning programme to our top 20 countries, which account for over 80% of our global procurement spend.
66 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE THE CR COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OBJECTIVES The CR Committee comprises Nelson Silva, Chairman, Paul Walsh, The objective of the CR Committee is to assist the Board and the Dominic Blakemore, Johnny Thomson, Robin Mills Group HR Company in fulfilling its corporate responsibility in line with the Director, Alison Yapp Group General Counsel and Company Companys strategy, policies, processes and standards.
Secretary who succeeded Mark White on 1 October 2018, and all RESPONSIBILITIES of the non-executive directors in office at the date of this Report.
The The Committees primary responsibilities include health, safety CR Committee meets at least twice a year.
The Committee met twice andenvironmental practices, ethical business conduct, the during the year and members attendance at meetings held during promotion of employee engagement and diversity as well as the year is set out in the table below.
MEETING ATTENDANCE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF % OF The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from MEMBER NUMBER OF MEETINGS MEETINGS 1 theGlobal HSE Director and other senior managers to ensure MEMBER SINCE MEETINGS ATTENDED ATTENDED thatprogress is being made towards meeting the Groups Nelson Silva July 2015 2 2 100% specificcorporate responsibility KPIs and our ongoing corporate Carol Arrowsmith June 2014 2 2 100% responsibility commitments.
John Bason June 2011 2 2 100% 2 Dominic Blakemore Jan 2018 1 1 100% The Committee monitors developments in corporate governance and Stefan Bomhard May 2016 2 2 100% makes recommendations to the Board to adopt best practice 3 John Bryant Sep 2018 n a changes as appropriate and in this regard is supported by the Group 4 General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Richard Cousins Nov 2006 1 1 100% Robin Mills Nov 2015 2 2 100% Throughout the Annual Report we have sought to include examples 5 Anne-Francoise Nesmes July 2018 n a of how we are endeavouring to achieve our strategic goals whilst 6 Don Robert May 2009 2 2 100% underpinning our core values.
The maximum number of meetings that a member was eligible to attend.
Appointed Group CEO on 1 January 2018.
Appointed to the Board and its committees on 1 September 2018.
Ceased to be a director on 31 December 2017.
Appointed to the Board and its committees on 1 July 2018.
Stepped down from the Board and its committees on 31 May 2018.
Stepped down as a member on 30 September 2018.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 67
