PEOPLE REPORT A renewed commitment groups.
Our colleagues told us that they value the camaraderie that comes from being part of a high performing team, and that more focus on recognition, training and promotion were key to increasing their levels of engagement.
THE BEST UNIT MANAGERS As a result we are investing further in unit manager training and development, and launching a Group wide leadership programme aimed solely at unit managers to help them engage, lead and motivate their teams even more effectively.
A WELCOME FOR ALL We continue to make progress on our diversity and inclusion agenda and in the last year have improved all our ratios across populations in the key focus area of gender diversity.
EXECUTIVE BOARD % FEMALE 11% 25% Robin Mills Group HR Director LEADERSHIP GROUP % FEMALE 28% BEING A TRUE PEOPLE BUSINESS 30% The focus on our people has never been greater at Compass, andwe regard our people, and the way we organise, engage and motivate them, as our critical competitive advantage.
This year saw MANAGEMENT % FEMALE the important transition of our Group CEO from Richard Cousins to Dominic Blakemore, the result of careful succession planning.
40% Continuity and careful talent management take place across the Group and are a foundation of our success.
42% A FOCUS ON LEADERSHIP 2017 2018 In all, 27 senior operational executives were appointed to roles in the At the same time, we continue to focus on developing an inclusive leadership group of around 350, two thirds of whom were internal and welcoming environment for all people with diverse backgrounds, appointments.
This is the ratio we believe provides the rightlevel of perspectives, talents, skills and abilities through our people strategy continuity and business knowledge, balanced with freshideas, including our approach to succession planning, development experience and skills from other industries and sectors.
Internal opportunities and the way we recruit and attract.
We have received promotion helps us share learnings more quickly, and builds and recognition in a number of our geographies for the actions we have strengthens the Compass culture which is so important toour success taken so far with particularly noteworthy examples in the US, a performance focus whilst using humility and individual personality Australia and Japan.
to build strong relationships inside and outside the organisation.
There is more work to do here and we are optimistic our We aim to continue our succession planning processes with this implementation of Diversity and Inclusion Action Councils across the ratio in mind.
Group, the continued use of clear measures and objectives, and our approach to fairness will continue to move us in the rightdirection.
EVEN HIGHER LEVELS OF ENGAGEMENT Our success comes from the dedication and expertise of our unit QUALITY PEOPLE, IN A FRAMEWORK OF CLEAR teams.
This year we announced a significant investment in ACCOUNTABILITY engagement and have undertaken face to face conversations with Our success comes from developing and recruiting the best people, colleagues in markets that account for 90% of our revenue to gain and giving them clear accountability within a simple framework of an even deeper understanding of their views, what we mean to clear values and priorities.
them, and how we build fair and engaging workplaces.
Rather than Our organisational model remains unchanged, but our energy and embarking on the traditional attitude survey and questionnaire focus on our people continues to grow.
based activity, we sought authentic insight through nearly 1,000 hours of face to face conversations, and over 200 hours of focus 26 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 People We are committed to attracting new talent and developing our existing people through apprenticeship programmes, graduate schemes and on the job training In the UK business, we have more than 700 apprentices working across our sectors, developing the skills, knowledge and behaviours to become 700 high performers.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 27
