Purpose Our social purpose is one of our three strategic priorities.
Every business has a social impact and leading with purpose is the way to fulfil the potential of our organisation and our people We defined our social purpose around safety as care foreach other and a renewed, global commitment to sustainability, because the impact of our 600,000 5.5Bn colleagues and 5.5 billion meals served every year is a meals unique opportunity to build a better world.
38 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 C O R P STRATEGIC REPORT O R A T E G O V E R N A N E C E S O P R U P CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our approach to corporate responsibility and sustainability The Groups corporate responsibility and sustainability strategies are well aligned as we improve our business model to reflect more sustainable practices.
Acting responsibly is fundamental to Compass business ethos.
We OUR CR STRATEGY strive to be a responsible corporate citizen, creating value for our We regularly review our approach to CR to keep pace with diverse community of stakeholders whilst operating sustainably to changeand maintain our position as a responsible business reduce the impact we have on the environment.
We consider the issues that matter most to our business Our Corporate Responsibility CR strategy provides a framework and stakeholders to help us inform our business strategy.
We within which we operate, ensuring that we have a robust approach continually listen to our people, clients, consumers, suppliers, to governance, while providing us with a level of flexibility that does partners, shareholders as well as a broader number of not for not inhibit the entrepreneurial spirit that has contributed to profitorganisations with expertise in different segments of the food Compass success.
Sustainability has now been captured in our new supply chain.
strategic framework highlighting our priorities as a leader within our An overview of our performance during 2017-2018 against a industry.
The safety of our consumers and our colleagues remains at number of performance measures can be found on page 42. the heart of what we do.
It supports our growth strategy through We continue to proactively support the UN Sustainable Development increasing the overall wellbeing and engagement of our people: Goals SDGs, and you can find information about our activities in taking targeted action where we can make a greater environmental 2017-2018 on page 43. difference: driving positive outcomes beyond our business to make the world a better place.
Our Corporate Governance report can be found on pages 44 to100.
Our CR strategy Visit our website at www.
com for more information about our approach to CR and sustainability Our Corporate Responsibility report will be available online in early 2019 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 39 L A I C O S O U R S T A K E H O L D E R S Corporate Responsibility continued Our social purpose: a commitment to safety and sustainability At Compass, we believe that every business has a social impact and that leading with purpose is the way to fulfil the potential of our organisation and its people.
Our social purpose is to be a responsible corporate citizen with an all-encompassing safety culture with our people at its heart.
This is supported by a sustainability strategy comprising three strategic priorities which in turn are supported by three action platforms as set outbelow.
Our new approach provides our business and partners with best practice guidance but also allows for initiatives to be adapted to ensure local relevance and impact.
Over the course of the coming year, we will identify more good practices across each platform and embed them to full effect to create efficiencies and benefits.
In due course, we will select relevant KPIs to track and report on our progress annually.
SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES Health & Environmental Better for wellbeing game changers the world Nutrition, health and happiness Targeted action where we can make Driving positive impact far at the heart of our value proposition a disproportionate impact beyond our business Better nutrition choices Food waste Sourcing responsibly Mental health Single-use plastics Enriching local communities Healthy lifestyle Plant-forward meals Collaborating for big change Safety culture caring for people Turning safety from compliance to a value Safety leadership Sharing learning Simplification SAFETY CULTURE We are proud of the overall improvement we have made in our be accompanied by a simplification of our standards, processes and operational safety performance in the last few years, and since reporting systems to make the next step on our journey to zero 2014, we have delivered a 39% improvement in our Global Lost harm an easier one for our businesses to take.
We look forward to Time Incident Frequency Rate, and a 33% improvement in our sharing our progress with you.
Global Food Safety Incident Rate.
This progress has given us the We reported last year on our initiatives to tackle road safety.
In 2018, confidence to move to the next stage in the development of our we reinforced our Global Safe Driving policy, performance standards corporate safety culture.
We believe that we are now well positioned and metrics across our business.
By introducing specific reporting for a step change which will strengthen our existing safety culture metrics against which all countries must report on a monthly basis, through empowerment of our most important resource our people.
we have achieved a higher level of visibility in relation to the actual As a business, our focus on people has never been greater.
They are and potential risk for both vehicle and driver safety.
Working with our competitive advantage and their safety is important to us.
We country teams, we have developed initiatives focused on reducing want to turn safety from compliance into a value and that is why we the different risks.
For example, in Kazakhstan our employees have are evolving our strategy with the aim of creating a zero harm driven 90 million kilometres and worked 50 million hours without culture where caring for each other becomes second nature.
In the UAE, we introduced safe driving training and police committed to providing our people with the necessary support and briefings, followed by a safe driving recognition scheme that rewards tools to achieve this.
our drivers of passenger vehicles between client sites for safe driving behaviour.
Although we are making good progress overall in vehicle As a path to success, we propose to further embed visible safety and driver safety, we are not complacent and remain focused on leadership at all of our management levels and to encourage a more raising road safety awareness.
agile and effective sharing of learning and good practices.
This will 40 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Throughout the year, we continued to deliver against our existing SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES sustainability commitments and, in line with our commitment to As a leader in the global food service industry, sourcing food for responsible sourcing, Compass Supply Chain Integrity Policy 5.5 billion meals every year, we recognise the impact that food Statement was revised in July 2018.
This policy is supported by production has on the planet.
As the demand for food rises to feed ourglobal Supply Chain Integrity Standards which clearly set out the growing global population, this impact is likely to increase.
ourrequirements in relation to sustainable purchasing and We all have the ability to make a difference for a better world.
As a supply, andencompass our expectations in respect of responsible global business with a wide sphere of influence, Compass is using sourcing.
Sourcing responsibly is important to us and we continue its leverage and working alongside industry peers to help manage todemandrobust operating standards from our suppliers and supply chain pressures, reduce the impact the industry has on the ourbusinesses.
planets resources, and to continue to make a positive contribution During the year, we continued to use our influence to advance farm to public health.
animal welfare within our global supply chain and our efforts have Thanks to the launch of our renewed Group Sustainability strategy, been recognised in the 2017 Business Benchmark on Farm Animal we have gained new momentum in our CR journey and, going Welfare BBFAW, where we moved up from Tier 4 to Tier 3.
We forward, we will prioritise the three broad areas: health & wellbeing: believe that this score is fair and reflects our year on year environmental game changers and better for the world.
improvement but acknowledges that there is still work to be done.
The BBFAW provides us with a practical and credible framework for HEALTH & WELLBEING the future, against which we can assess our progress and identify Food not only fuels your body, but can also influence the way you areas for improvement, driving positive outcomes that directly feel and have an impact on your physical and mental wellbeing.
At benefit the lives of farm animals.
Compass, we put wellbeing at the core of our value proposition to our clients and consumers.
Every day, we seek to improve nutritional Compass is a founding member of the Global Coalition for Animal choices and actively encourage healthy eating with the objective of Welfare GCAW, an industry-led initiative that was launched in improving the overall health, happiness and productivity of our October 2018.
This exciting new platform unites major food clients and consumers.
Our focus on health and wellbeing businesses for the first time in driving improvements in farm animal determines not only how we construct our offer, but also the nature welfare globally.
of client relationships, pricing models and partnerships across our GCAW members have together identified five priority work streams: supply chain.
We believe this approach will contribute to our cage-free policies, improved broiler chicken welfare, farmed fish progress towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal welfare, antimicrobial resistance, and global standards for SDG good health and wellbeing.
Details of our SDGs can be found transportation and slaughter.
Working with a group of multion page 43. disciplinary experts from academia, industry and civil society, ENVIRONMENTAL GAME CHANGERS GCAWaims to publish an agenda for change in 2019.
We are expanding our food waste reduction programme and looking In July 2018, we partnered with Compassion in World Farming at ways of reducing the use of single-use plastics, and developing CiWF to launch the first two modules of a training programme in plant-forward meals as a method of reducing reliance on animal farm animal welfare to our UK sourcing team.
We believe that over time, these initiatives will make a progressively roll out this training across the rest of our global positive contribution to the global reduction of CO emissions related 2 sourcing teams by the end of 2019. to food production and contribute to the realisation of our SDGs.
With the continued support of CiWF, Humane Society International BETTER FOR THE WORLD and The Humane League, we are focusing on delivering further As an industry leader, we understand the influence we can have improvements in our performance in next years BBFAW on how food is produced and sourced.
We aim to make a positive benchmark.
We remain committed to ensuring that livestock within contribution to the food system, the people who work in it and our supply chain are raised humanely, sustainably and responsibly.
We will seek to achieve this through responsible sourcing, the development of programmes aimed at enriching local communities through food, and the design of new partnerships with other global players, including not for profitorganisations.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 41 1,473 1,684 1,788 1,749 1,877 30% 28% 26% 2,973 18,240 3,528 17,980 4,167 17,576 4,100 16,900 4,507 16,715 72.3 6.3 72.3 6.0 61.1 6.7 53.7 6.7 48.7 7.3 Corporate Responsibility continued Making a positive impact GLOBAL LOST TIME GLOBAL LOST GLOBAL FOOD SAFETY GLOBAL FOOD INCIDENT FREQUENCY TIME INCIDENTS INCIDENT RATE SAFETY INCIDENTS RATE -39% -34% -33% -22% since 2014 since 2014 since 2014 since 2014 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 CARBON DISCLOSURE NUMBER OF WOMEN IN GLOBAL PROJECT SITESOFFERING LEADERSHIP TEAM LEADERSHIP AHEALTHY EATING PROGRAMMES 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Compass Groups disclosure in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors GREENHOUSE GAS Reports Regulations 2013 is stated in the table below and is incorporated in the Directors Report INTENSITY RATIO by reference on page 98: 2017-2018 2016-2017 GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS FOR THE PERIOD CURRENT COMPARISON 1 OCTOBER 2017 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 UNIT REPORTING YEAR YEAR -14% Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities since 2014 Scope 1 Tonnes t CO e 129,516 128,154 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased forown use Scope 2 location based tCO e 8,095 8,376 2 Total Scope 1 2 tCO e 137,611 136,530 2 Emissions intensity per M revenue tCO e M 6.3 6.0 2 We have calculated our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions since 2008 and aim to improve the scopeand accuracy of our reporting each year.
Wehave established an organisational boundary, reporting on emissions originating from our top 20 countries, accounting for 94% of Group activity by revenue.
Our GHG emissions calculations are based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and exclude laundries, CPUs and warehouses.
Applying an operational control approach, we have identified relevant activity data for Scope 1 and 2 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 emissions and have used the location based Scope 2 calculation method.
42 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OUR COMMITMENTS EXAMPLE Every year, we spend around 6 billion In a number of markets, we have arranged for END HUNGER, ACHIEVE FOOD on food.
Where we have surplus food, surplus food to be shared via food banks or SECURITY AND IMPROVED wecan play a role in helping the wider community-based projects that provide meals to NUTRITION AND PROMOTE community to tackle food insecurity.
Our UK business donated 10 SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE tonnes of food to the charity FareShare this year.
Each year, we serve over five and a half In addition to our aim of serving a healthy option ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND billion meals.
By pursuing our passion for at every meal in all our sites, weexplore ways PROMOTE WELLBEING FOR wellbeing and nutrition, we are committed toencourage consumers to eat a balanced diet ALL AT ALL AGES to helping our consumers and colleagues through new product development and engaging adopt a more balanced lifestyle.
In Turkey, wecreated a series of fun characters based ondifferent fruit and vegetables to encourage children to eat morehealthily.
Women make up 57% of our global Developing talent from within is a key part of the ACHIEVE GENDER EQUALITY workforce and 30% of our global Compass approach and ensuring equal access AND EMPOWER ALL WOMEN leadership team.
We are resolved to to all to development programmes is key.
Our AND GIRLS empower all our female colleagues business in Japan developed a fast track asweknow this leads to increases in programme for future leaders and 37% of the productivity, organisational effectiveness candidates in the first year were women: within and consumer satisfaction.
12 months, they had all taken on their first leadership role.
Our people are fundamental to our great As well as providing stable, fairly-paid PROMOTE SUSTAINED, service and reputation.
Around the world employment, we offer on-the-job training and INCLUSIVE AND we are working with local communities avariety of development opportunities in every SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC tooffer fair employment and great market where we operate.
Our business in GROWTH, FULL AND careeropportunities.
Indiarecently launched a graduate trainee programme which aims to bring new talent PRODUCTIVE EMPLOYMENT intothe business and prepare them to take on AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL leadership positions.
Three words encapsulate our approach to For over 16 years our business in the USA has CONSERVE AND sustainable seafood: i Avoid: by not been dedicated to sourcing sustainable seafood SUSTAINABLY USE THE serving seafood on the Marine and improving the health of the oceans.
OCEANS, SEAS AND MARINE Stewardship Councils MSC fish to Itpurchased 10,000 tonnes of responsibly RESOURCES FOR avoid list: ii Improve: by buying more sourced seafood in the last financial year.
certified sustainable seafood each year: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT iii Promote: the availability of responsibly sourced fish to our consumers.
We are working across our global supply We are aware of the negative impact that the PROTECT, RESTORE AND chain to ensure we source our food and production of palm oil and soy can have on the PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE USE non-food products in a sustainable environment and local communities and actively OF TERRESTRIAL manner with the least possible impact on support the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil ECOSYSTEMS, SUSTAINABLY the environment.
RSPO and the Round Table on Responsible Soy RTRS.
MANAGE FORESTS, COMBAT DESERTIFICATION, AND HALT AND REVERSE LAND DEGRADATION AND HALT BIODIVERSITY LOSS As a global business, we recognise the We are co-founders of the Global Coalition for STRENGTHEN AND critical importance of working in Animal Welfare, an initiative that unites major REVITALISE THE GLOBAL partnership with our clients, suppliers companies and animal welfare experts with the PARTNERSHIP FOR and other stakeholders to improve the aim of improving animal welfare standards at SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT positive contribution that we can make to scale and meeting consumer demand for food help address some of the biggest issues products from animals reared in systems that that we all face in the 21st century.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 43
