Sustainability Barry Hoffman Group Human Resources Director Being socially responsible benefits the Computacenter and into the industry more encourages change in diversity and environment, the community, our generally.
In the UK, these include our inclusion: and shareholders, customers and employees industrial placement programme, our measures progress and communicates.
We are therefore committed to graduate and sales associate programmes carrying out business responsibly and and our apprenticeships.
We also attend The People Panel has helped us to embed remain a member of the United Nations numerous careers fairs at schools and diversity and inclusion in everything we do, Global Compact UNGC.
This means we universities and offer a range of support and through one of our core Winning Together incorporate the UNGC and its principles advice for young people, such as work values, understanding people matter.
To into our strategy, culture and day-to-day experience.
The Group has won a number of focus our efforts, we have divided diversity operations, focusing on three main areas awards for its approach to employing young and inclusion into six subject pillars: our people, the environment and the wider people, including being recognised as a top accessibility and wellbeing: community.
We also have a strong focus on company for graduates to work for in the life balance: ethical business and preventing bribery and 2018 19 JobCrowd awards.
future talent: To attract young women into Science, focus on women: and Non-financial information statement Technology, Engineering and Maths STEM culture.
The content of this section forms our careers, we run an outreach programme in non-financial information statement for the schools, colleges and universities and help Throughout the year, we have undertaken purposes of the Companies, Partnerships young women to identify their skills and a wide range of activities in each of these and Groups Accounts and Non-Financial career options through our Women in Science areas.
For example, as part of our Reporting Regulations 2016, with the and Engineering Ambassadors.
We also accessibility and wellbeing agenda, our UK exception of the business model which can support a range of activities through our business has signed up to be Level 1 be found on pages 18 to 19, principal risks STEMNET Ambassadors and link to schools Disability Confident.
The Disability Confident and uncertainties pages 40 to 45 and key across the country through our Inspire the scheme aims to help employers make the performance indicators pages 22 to 25.
most of the opportunities provided by employing disabled people.
We have also Our people In Germany, we train young people in digital established a disability function in Alongside the services we deliver to our media and offer insight into working in the Germany, so we manage disability in the customers and the innovations we create, IT industry.
We also bring young women appropriate way.
our people are a major source of competitive together to learn about technical and advantage for us.
We therefore continually science careers and send apprentices to talk Life balance is a major topic for the People develop our approach to attracting and to school students about training, work and Panel and we want to make a good life retaining talented individuals, to support career opportunities.
balance central to our culture.
We are looking our business growth.
at ways to offer more flexibility for our people Diversity and inclusion and, for example, published guidelines on Managing talent One of our highest priorities is to make sure remote working during the year.
Ensuring we have the people we need that we support and protect our people and requires us to carefully manage the talent suitably recognise their contribution.
We Ensuring our LGBT colleagues feel welcomed we already have and to bring new talent into therefore want to foster a culture that allows and comfortable at work is particularly Computacenter.
Every year, the Group Human everyone to contribute fully and be important to us.
We supported the annual Resources Director conducts a detailed themselves at work.
The more we do that, Pride Day and distributed specially made succession planning exercise with the Board, the more we can leverage their potential, Pride badges with the Computacenter logo.
which covers the three most senior levels which helps us to deliver better service to We also have an online forum for employees of management.
This is supported by our customers.
to network and build a community, and have succession planning exercises at every level organised a series of themed events to bring throughout the Group.
In 2018, we also ran Our People Panel is chaired by Mike Norris, people together.
a talent discovery programme, which helps our CEO, and brings together more than 30 us to match our current and future strategic people from across the Group, with a mission To help our future talent feel supported and resourcing needs with the talent in the to create a culture which is fair, where we included, we have established FreshMinds in business, so we can identify gaps we will value and respect differences and the UK and Future Talent Connect in Germany.
To do this, These communities host events to connect the People Panel: new joiners and encourage partnerships We have continued with our wide range of promotes a fair and inclusive culture: between our country units.
programmes to attract young talent into researches best practice and shares it across our business: 36 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Our focus on women has included Winning Together our values networking events and the Growing Together Winning Our Winning Together values are initiative, which encompasses group Together fundamental to Computacenters culture Our Values coaching and learning, mentoring, and talent and the way we work every day.
recognition, as well as addressing cultural bias.
We were pleased that two of our people, Clare Parry-Jones and Angela Counsell, won Manager of the Year and Graduate of the Year respectively at the CRN Women in Channel We win by: We do this together by: Awards 2018.
Women@Work is wellPutting customers first Understanding people matter established in Germany and offers a wide We work hard to get to know our customers We build strong, rewarding, supportive range of networking, coaching, mentoring and really understand their needs.
And we treat people as we and learning opportunities.
Computacenter use our experience to help them in the right expect them to treat us.
has ranked as one of the top companies for way at the right time.
women to work for in Germany, according to Brigitte magazine.
Being straightforward Considering the long term Were practical and pragmatic.
We believe Were building a business for the long term.
Being a successful global company requires in solutions over talk.
We express ourselves This leads our decisions and actions and us to understand and respect cultural and in the clearest possible way.
And were open helps people really trust us.
We have run and honest in all of our dealings.
unconscious bias training at a number of locations and plan to roll this out across the Keeping promises Inspiring success Group.
We also have a range of other We do our very best to keep our promises.
Were proud of the people we work with.
initiatives, such as posting tips and And when thats difficult, we help our We do the best to support each other through information to ensure we help colleagues customers find other ways of solving the downs and we always celebrate the ups.
during Ramadan and introducing diversity their problems.
holidays in the USA, which recognises that some national holidays may not be a good fit for all employees and allows them to take As we grow, maintaining the values and culture that we hold dear and that have made us the a culturally appropriate holiday of their Company that we are today becomes even more important.
Reflecting this, our performance choice instead.
management process links directly to our values and assesses how each of our people behaves, as well as what they achieve.
We also use our values in recruitment, so we bring in Gender diversity people who are already aligned to them.
The table below shows our gender diversity at the year end: 2018 2017 Women Men Women Men Board 2 7 2 8 Senior 21 87 15 66 managers Other 3,874 12,065 3,449 11,092 employees Total 3,897 12,159 3,466 11,166 The proportion of women employed in Computacenter is in line with industry norms and we are committed to increasing it through the programmes described above.
37 Sustainability continued Engagement trends requiring Management action.
No Health and safety performance Towards the end of the year we ran an material policy breaches were identified Average results for 2018: employee engagement survey, with around during the year, either through the AIR AFR 10,000 of our people taking part.
This showed whistleblowing hotline or our other reporting an improvement in employee engagement and monitoring mechanisms.
UK 2.47 0.46 and enablement, compared with our Germany 2.99 0.62 previous survey in 2016.
One of the largest Improving the way we work France 1.51 0.31 improvements was the proportion of In 2019, we will continue to enhance our employees who would recommend people-related processes and systems.
Since moving our online training provider in Computacenter as a great place to work.
Our In particular, we will be modernising April 2017, we have had a continual uptake on people were also more likely to report that performance management to make it an the courses being rolled out with over 6,044 their jobs were challenging and interesting.
ongoing process rather than an annual courses completed so far Display Screen However, the survey also identified areas event.
We will also be creating a more Equipment 2,284, Manual Handling 1,851, where more work is required, notably in engaging employee experience.
This will Environmental Awareness 1,618, Fire internal communication and opportunities make it easier for our managers and people Warden 82, Asbestos Training 196, Ladder for career development within the Group.
to access our processes, for example Safety 5, Control of Substances Hazardous through increased self-service, and ensure to Health 4 and Risk Assessment 4.
Our Senior Independent Director, Ros Rivaz, a consistent approach to managing people has engaged with employee representatives across the Group.
Wellbeing such as our European Works Council during In 2018, we further increased our focus on the year.
This gives us a firm foundation for Health, safety and wellbeing our peoples wellbeing, with initiatives across complying with the 2018 UK Corporate Health and safety policy the Group focusing on both physical and Governance Code, which requires the Board Protecting those who work for and with us, mental wellbeing.
For example, in the United to engage with the wider workforce.
as well as customers and members of the States we continue to work with Cigna, our public, is extremely important.
The Groups healthcare provider, to promote health and Our people policies health and safety policy is to create and wellbeing and making sure our people are Computacenter has a range of peoplemaintain, as far as reasonably practicable, aware of the free health and wellness related polices, covering topics such as a working environment which does not pose resources available.
dignity at work, health and wellbeing, an undue risk to health and safety.
Our recognition and reward, and whistleblowing.
approach is based on identifying and In Germany, we have introduced training for Together, they are designed to ensure that controlling hazards.
Preventing all incidents, leaders, to deepen their knowledge of our people are supported, protected and particularly those involving personal injury occupational safety and health protection suitably recognised for the contribution they and damage to equipment or property, is a and to improve the sense of leadership make, and that we are an inclusive and priority.
Line managers are required to responsibility.
We also strengthened our ethical employer, with a diverse, talented and ensure that the policy is implemented in their workplace-specific instructions on motivated workforce.
It is a condition of protecting occupational safety and health.
employment that our people observe the Our people can report any HR policy policy and failure to do so can result in Our Spanish business has a dedicated Health compliance issues to their line manager or disciplinary action.
& Safety specialist and committee, who HR, or they can call our Safecall make sure we have the healthiest whistleblowing hotline, which allows them to During 2018, we have seen a solid health and environment possible for our employees.
All calls to the hotline safety performance driven by an established We also have incentive programmes such as are handled by an independent third party Health & Safety Management System.
We discounts at a local climbing centre, spa and the issues are monitored, resolved and have continued to improve the Accident and massages.
reported to the Audit Committee.
All other Incident Rate AIR, which is the number of issues are dealt with operationally, through accidents per 1,000 employees to 2.47 in the In the UK, we have introduced health and the HR function.
UK, and the Accident Frequency Rate AFR, wellbeing champions across the business, which is the number of accidents per 100,000 who are trained in mental health first aid.
We We also monitor other indicators of policy working hours, to 0.46 in the UK.
have also launched a UK wellbeing policy and compliance, such as the number of promoted wellbeing initiatives at internal grievance or disciplinary proceedings, which conferences.
Other initiatives include training we aggregate at a country level.
Our HR employees in CPR and working towards the managers review this data to see if there are Safe, Effective, Quality Occupational Health 38 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Service external accreditation standards for Our newly elected UK charity partners, which The Group publicises its whistleblowing our occupational health service.
were selected by employees, are Make A Wish hotline to suppliers, to enable reporting of Foundation, Dementia UK and the British any suspected human rights issues.
There The environment Heart Foundation.
Fundraising for these were no significant issues identified during During 2019, we will install a photovoltaic charities is steered by a charity committee, the year.
system on the roof of our Operations Center comprising a cross section of employees, in Hatfield.
The system will have a surface from branch administrators to senior Preventing bribery and corruption 2 area of 10,324m and will enable us to management.
Each of these charities will Computacenter has a Group Business Ethics generate 1.9 million kWh of electricity each receive considerable support from us.
We Policy, covering matters ranging from how year, equivalent to 22 per cent of the also offer a Give as You Earn scheme, through we choose the companies we work with to Operations Centers annual usage.
This will which employees can make monthly avoiding conflicts of interest.
We also have reduce our CO emissions by more than contributions to any UK charity of their an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, 2 1.1 million kg a year, while also cutting costs choice through automatic deduction from supported by a Code of Conduct and a for us.
number of guidance notes, covering subjects such as due diligence on third parties, Wider community How we do business communications and risk assessments.
We support our wider communities by Protecting human rights Internal audit tests compliance with our working with selected charities.
While this is As signatories to the UNGC, we are committed policies and our control regime is supported important to us, we do not have a formal to upholding internationally proclaimed human by our Safecall whistleblowing hotline.
No policy setting out our approach in this area, rights.
For Computacenter, human rights fall material breaches of our policies were as we do not believe it has a material impact into two areas: protecting the rights of our identified during the year.
employees and ensuring we are not complicit in human rights abuses in our supply chain.
We continued our zero-tolerance approach Our three main aims are to: The human rights of our employees are to anti-bribery and corruption in 2018. demonstrate our commitment to the covered by the people policies and health Anti-bribery and corruption training is an wider community: and safety policies described earlier.
integral part of our induction process across motivate staff across the Group, by the Group.
We have also continued to develop encouraging teambuilding activities Human rights in the supply chain primarily the awareness of our external whistleblowing in a worthwhile cause: and relate to the risk of modern slavery.
We have hotline across the Group, ensuring that communicate Computacenters core published our second Modern Slavery employees, contractors, partners and values to customers, staff and other Transparency in Supply Chain Act, Section suppliers know how they can report any stakeholders.
We continue to work with a issues concerning them in confidence.
diverse set of suppliers and when selecting Around the world, we continue to support who we want to work with, we ensure that initiatives to raise money for local charities, our terms of engagement are clear and that as well as supporting events and initiatives they support both our Group values and our proposed and run by our employees.
wider corporate social responsibility objectives.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets In France, we support the Children of the out the 10 principles in the UNGC, which Desert, who work with the Moroccan includes human rights.
We expect all populations isolated in the desert and suppliers to abide by these principles.
provide access to education for all children.
We have also continued our partnership with We have increased our focus on the risk of Aide et Action, to provide support for modern slavery over the last year and have schooling of children who are forced into worked across our business operations to child labour due to their circumstances.
We identify our risk areas.
We will continue with have run further blood donation campaigns our commitment to ethical and responsible in Germany, in conjunction with the Red business practices, ensuring that if modern Cross.
In Spain, we continued to work with slavery is identified anywhere within our our charity partner Acnur Comite Catala per supply chain, we will not tolerate it.
als refugiats, a local branch of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees UNCHR.
