Corporate Responsibility CR Committee report Through our CR programme we aim to gain a better understanding of the requirements and needs of all our stakeholders, so that we build long-lasting and sustainable relationships.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Key areas of responsibility Committee membership, meetings and attendance Define ConvaTecs obligations under the headings of economic The table below shows the number of scheduled meetings responsibility, community responsibility and environmental attended out of the number of meetings members were eligible responsibility, and to oversee the Groups conduct in the context to attend.
Director Member since Attended Monitor the Groups engagement with external stakeholders and other interested parties.
Sir Christopher Gent October 2016 2 2 Monitor relevant external trends and assess how these may Rick Anderson October 2016 2 2 affect ConvaTecs reputation or its ability to operate, and review Paul Moraviec member until how best to address these trends.
14 October 2018 October 2016 2 2 Review the appropriateness of the Groups CR strategy and Regina Benjamin August 2017 2 2 approve modifications as these arise.
Margaret Ewing August 2017 2 2 Activity highlights Reviewed our inaugural climate change strategy.
Other members of the Board may be invited to attend all or part Completed review of CR positioning against best practice and of any Committee meeting if it is deemed appropriate.
President, Group Corporate Affairs and the Director, Corporate Independent external assurance of Corporate Responsibility Responsibility, regularly attend the Committees meetings.
In addition to the two Committee meetings during the year, a detailed written update was provided to the Committee.
2019 priorities Ensuring that the insights from the stakeholder survey to be undertaken in 2019 are used to drive performance and to protect and enhance our reputation.
For more details about this survey see our Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on our website at www.
Reviewing our CR strategy, objectives and targets following review of the materiality assessment to ensure their continued effectiveness.
For more details about how we assess materiality see our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Ensuring that we operate effective stakeholder engagement channels that provide the Board with all relevant information about stakeholders perspectives and interests.
100 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Dear Shareholder Improving the lives of the Our Corporate Responsibility Report people we touch Operating and behaving responsibly, and making a positive More information about our culture, people, health contribution to society, is key to ConvaTecs long-term success.
and safety initiatives, stakeholders, GHG emissions and what we do to conserve the planet is included During the year we made good progress in a number of areas.
in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which is We have developed our inaugural climate change strategy which available on our website, www.
com includes an ambitious greenhouse gas reduction target.
ConvaTec Group Plc Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 also completed a further life cycle assessment of a key product to gain insight on where improvements can be made.
We launched LIFE by ConvaTec, our global community investment programme, which we linked to an employee wellbeing programme to help promote engagement in our philanthropic activities.
We have enhanced our disclosure levels, including the introduction of independent external assurance of our CR Report, which one of the Committee members participated in.
Further information about these initiatives and other key CR developments can be found on pages 25 and 27 and in our Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on our website, www.
Committee activities during the period Key area Matter Strategy Reviewed and re-confirmed our high-level CR strategy which is being implemented on a phased basis over the next two years.
Reviewed our inaugural climate change strategy.
Assessed our positioning relative to CR best practice and competitor activity.
Discussed progress and received written and face-to-face updates on the implementation of our CR strategy in March, May and September.
In February 2019 received written update summarising key CR developments and progress during 2018, immediately prior to the approval of our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Stakeholder Shortly after the year end, reviewed and approved engagement our second, standalone, Corporate Responsibility Report for the year ended 31 December 2018, which is available on our website, www.
This included a review of reported progress against our published CR-related targets, and approval of four new public targets.
On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Sir Christopher Gent Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 14 February 2019 101 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
