Our market environment We have leading positions in attractive structurally-growing markets driven by global megatrends and evolving dynamics which are shaping the way we do business.
Our chronic care marketplace Our chronic care marketplace is valued at c. $10 billion and is projected to grow, on average, at 4%5% per annum over the next five years.
1 We hold leading positions in each of our markets.
2 3 Advanced Wound Care Ostomy Care Market size Market position market share Market size Market position market share Global advanced wound Global ostomy #3 20% $5.3bn $2.6bn dressings #2 17% US #2 Global silver dressings #1 32% UK and France #3 Market growth Market growth Global hydrocolloid dressings #1 45% For further information see 45% c. 4% Global alginate and gelling fibre page 50 dressings #1 44% Key competitors Key competitors Acelity Coloplast For further information see Mlnlycke Hollister Dansac page 48 Smith & Nephew Others Others 2018 revenue 2018 revenue $533.3m $587.5m 4 5 Continence & Critical Care Infusion Devices Market size Market position market share Market size Market position market share Retailer in intermittent Global disposable infusion sets $1.9bn $0.5bn catheters in the US #1 31% for insulin pumps #1 85% US fecal management systems Market growth Market growth #1 67% For further information see page 54 35% 45% For further information see page 52 Key competitors Key competitors Coloplast Smiths Bard Ypsomed Wellspect 2018 revenue 2018 revenue $268.3m $443.0m 1.
Information is based on publicly available sources and internal analysis.
The AWC market includes advanced dressings global alginate and gelling fibre dressing sectors combined, contact layers, hydrogels, hydrocolloids and super absorbents other advanced dressings, silver antimicrobials and foam, biologics and negative pressure wound therapy.
Expected CAGR is for the period from 2017 to 2022.
Th e Ostomy Care market includes pouching systems and ostomy care accessories including deodorants, skin barriers and clothing but excludes irrigation products.
Expected CAGR is for the period from 2016 to 2021.
The CCC market comprises the US and Europe intermittent catheter and fecal management market.
Expected CAGR is for the period from 2015 to 2022 in the United States and 2015 to 2019 in Europe.
Source: iData Research and GHX.
The Infusion Devices market size refers to disposables for insulin infusion pumps.
Expected CAGR is for the period from 2016 to 2020 and refers to the insulin pump market.
12 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 The global trends driving growth in our markets Three global trends are driving structural growth in our markets and increasing demand for our products and technologies.
Trends Impact on our business Populations are getting older There is a strong correlation between age and the incidence of chronic By 2050 the worlds population aged over 60 is projected to more conditions that require wound, ostomy and incontinence treatment and than double.
Source: Gist, Tio-Matos, Falzgraf, Cameron, Beebe 2009.
Global population aged 60 2017 2050 0.9 billion 2.1 billion Source: United Nations, World Population Prospects, 2017 revision.
Chronic conditions are on the increase The increasing prevalence of chronic conditions, which are often Since 1975 the proportion of the worlds population that is obese has experienced over a long period of time and generally progress slowly, almost tripled source: World Health Organisation WHO.
The is driving demand for our products.
The conditions that each of our prevalence of obesity is forecast to increase.
For example in the US franchises focus on are detailed below.
In 2018 we generated it is forecast to increase by 26% from a 2013 base by 2030.
Source: approximately 77% of our revenues from products used by people Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Obesity with chronic care conditions.
Advanced Ostomy Continence & Infusion By 2030 the incidence of diabetes across the global adult population is Wound Care Care Critical Care Devices forecast to increase to approximately 10%.
Diabetes Colorectal Multiple Diabetes and vascular cancer Sclerosis disease Bladder cancer Benign Prostatic Chronic ulcers Crohns disease Hyperplasia Ulcerative colitis BPH Spinal Cord Injury People are living longer Many of our customers stay with us throughout their lives, and as they Due to earlier detection and more effective treatment, people with live longer, the period during which they are reliant on our products is chronic conditions are living longer.
Commercially this gives us long-term visibility of the underlying demand for our products.
Average life expectancy 53 69 of people with type 1 diabetes 19501964 19561980 Source: The Pittsburgh Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications Study, Cohort 2012.
Globally there are 50 million reported cases of patients By 2020 chronic conditions are expected to account for 60% suffering from hard-to-heal wounds, including foot ulcers of the global burden of disease 43% in 2002. and venous leg ulcers.
Source: WHO Source: Frost & Sullivan.
13 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our markets continued A number of evolving market dynamics are shaping how we do business Dynamic How it is shaping our business Innovation with proven outcomes Innovation is one of our strategic drivers.
Increasingly we are The increasing prevalence of chronic conditions is driving demand for concentrating our offering on advanced solutions that deliver the best products which better enhance quality of life and reduce the risk of clinical performance and ease of use.
Further information about our R&D more serious health problems.
Treatment protocols are moving from capabilities and our plans to enhance our product pipeline and traditional products to more advanced offerings, which provide development processes is set out on pages 22 and 23.
Read about some optimal outcomes.
of our technologies on pages 23, 31 and 49.
Pressure on healthcare costs In response to the demand for products that deliver better outcomes, we Due to the growing demand for care and treatment, combined with focus on developing advanced solutions that provide optimal outcomes.
worldwide government austerity programmes, healthcare systems We also strive to ensure that we develop and manufacture our products around the world are accelerating efforts to reduce overall spending.
in the most efficient way to ensure that our offering is competitive.
In Increasingly healthcare providers are putting more emphasis on addition we offer healthcare providers solutions that help them deliver value-based healthcare solutions that deliver better outcomes at lower their services effectively and in the most cost effective way.
They are also applying increasing price pressure across the entire of how we do this is set out on the next page.
care continuum and focusing more on out-patient care.
During 2018, in response to ongoing pricing pressure, we implemented price reductions in relation to a number of our products which adversely impacted our revenue and margin performance.
Greater access to healthcare In key emerging markets we are strengthening our position including The use of healthcare products and services is increasing as a large appointing senior, locally based management who have significant proportion of the growing middle class in emerging markets are gaining knowledge and experience of local markets and developing trends.
access to private medical insurance.
Consumer influence We continue to build and strengthen our direct-to-consumer channels.
Consumers are becoming more engaged in their healthcare and are Through engagement with the people who use our products we obtain actively seeking out products and technologies that not only address valuable feedback, which helps us better understand and meet their their needs, but do so in a convenient way that fits with their lifestyle.
Read about our enhanced GentleCath Glide product range on page 53.
We also offer consumers a broad range of products that they can purchase very easily.
Increasing regulation and compliance We operate a rigorous regulatory and compliance risk management Our industry is subject to rigorous and diverse regulation by Governmental framework.
This helps us manage and mitigate the regulatory and authorities including the Food and Drug Administration in the US, notified compliance risks that could impact delivery of our strategy.
bodies in the European Union and other national and global competent authorities in the countries where we manufacture and sell our products.
In relation to MDR we are working with our Notified Body and external These regulations, which cover all aspects of our business, are subject to consultants to adapt our quality system processes and technical change and generally are becoming more onerous.
In 2017 MDR was documentation to implement the required changes and ensure introduced in the EU with transition required by May 2020.
As a result of MDR we will incur additional compliance costs rigorous requirements in relation to a number of areas, including clinical over the next two years.
data and post-market surveillance of our products.
Furthermore, across our industry enforcement is increasing.
We must comply with a wide Further information about how we manage risks to protect the value we range of anti-competition, anti-fraud and anti-bribery laws including the create is set out on pages 34 to 43.
US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws in other countries that relate to anti-corruption compliance.
14 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Helping to provide more cost effective patient care In the UK, local hospital and community NHS services are overseen by a number of Clinical Commissioning Groups CCGs, who are each responsible for a geographic area.
Given the pressure on healthcare costs, CCGs are constantly looking for ways to provide more cost effective patient care.
Recent research has shown that when patients obtain their medical products using a prescription from a medical practitioner, stockpiling of product can occur and wastage levels can be significant.
Through our total purchase initiative, we supply our products directly to the CCGs usually the community nurse rather than the patient.
The community nurse will take and use only what is required for their patient visits, which significantly reduces the potential for waste.
And as we supply products within 48 hours across the UK, stockpiling of products is avoided.
Giving customers more choice As highlighted on page 13, obesity is becoming increasingly prevalent.
As a result, the demand for convex ostomy products that fit the contours of the abdomen and adhere more securely to soft skin surfaces is continuing to grow.
In response to this growing demand and to ensure that customers have the widest choice, we are continuing to develop our extensive convex product range.
This range includes our Esteem Flex Convex product, which is flexible and discreet combining the skin barrier and pouch in a single unit, making it simple to use and secure and comfortable to wear.
We have further enhanced our convex product offering with the launch of Esteem Soft Convex, the latest addition to our range of one piece convexity solutions.
The flexibility of Esteem Soft Convex, combined with a shallow convexity, is designed to be gentle on the skin and deliver comfort to customers.
15 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
