Our people OUR PEOPLE MAKE THE DIFFERENCE EVERY DAY Our people strategy is very simple: to enable the Groups growth through recruiting, developing and retaining talent.
Without that talent we would not be able to Our approach to future talent build sustainable communities where people want continues to be a priority to live.
This year we have grown both organically Our two-year graduate programme was placed and through the acquisition of Westleigh and our 43rd in the Top 100 graduate employers by current headcount standsatover 1,800. graduate recruitment website The Job Crowd.
The programme is proving very successful and People remain a key differentiator we continue to attract large numbers of high-calibre Countryside continues to attract and retain the graduate candidates.
We have nearly 30 graduates best people in the housebuilding sector to deliver on our programme, with a large new intake our strategy.
We believe that our people truly in2018.
differentiate us from our competition.
In the In total we have over 100 early careers programme last four years, we have more than trebled our members graduates, apprentices and interns employee numbers and now have over 1,800 with us, both on site and in our offices.
Our aim is to grow our own as much as we can, together with a Our people are our shareholders healthy balance of new recruits.
A quarter of In December 2017, we launched our third our new recruits join us through our employee referral scheme.
all-employee Save as You Earn SAYE plan.
Thisplan, together with the two we have launched since IPO, means that around 70 per cent of We again saw record investment our eligible employees have signed up to buy in developing our people shares in Countryside.
We have maintained and developed our December 2017 also saw the third grant of Group-wide approach to succession and talent management as part of our grow our own our Long-Term Incentive Plan to our Director group as a retention tool for this key population.
This year we have launched fourlevels of leadership development programmes.
We believe we continue to offer a highly market-competitive reward package.
These programmes are embedding leadership best practices and new thinking at all levels.
At our most senior levels we have a well-established coaching Inclusion and diversity programme for a targeted cross-section of our At Countryside, we are committed to senior population, using a combination of internal increasing diversity by providing an inclusive and external coaches, tailored to the individuals working environment where everyone feels needs.
The first cohort of new directors began valued andrespected.
a10-month senior leadership development During the year we established a steering programme, and our second cohort is about committee to focus on inclusion and diversity tostart their programme.
At other levels we Ratio of female:male employees initiatives which will provide additional introduce and build on the leadership skills of At 19 November 2018 momentum on these issues in 2019. ournewer leaders and managers.
All programmes are designed to complement each other and In 2018 our gender statistics were balanced Female Male provide consistent messaging and focus.
prior to the acquisition of Westleigh with a female:male ratio of 34:66.
As the Westleigh Our focus on quality of training delivery Total employees business employs direct labour, roles traditionally remains, particularly around induction, sales filled by men, our ratio of female:male stood at 29% 71% development and externally accredited leadership 28:72 at 30 September 2018. programmes.
We continue to develop our people Senior management at all levels of the organisation through leadership, Earlier this year we reported our mean gender professional and vocational qualifications and 17% 83% pay gap of 33 per cent.
Our gender pay gap is e-learning.
Developing our people to facilitate driven by there being more males at the higher growth and building a pipeline of talent is Board end of the pay scale.
We reported our figures criticaltoour success.
in advance of the acquisition of Westleigh: we 42% 58% anticipate inclusion of the Westleigh statistics next year will reduce the gap.
32 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Strategic report Countryside operates a comprehensive health We want our people to choose andsafety management system fully registered the right benefits for them and toOHSAS 18001 and we are committed to their families continual improvement through a comprehensive Our approach to reward is centred on choice.
training programme and byactively encouraging Our benefits range from buying and or selling feedback from all levels of our workforce.
daysof annual leave, through to reduced fees Regular on-site inspections are carried out onlife, dental and travel insurance, to discounted internally by the Groups qualified health medical and cancer screening.
The day-to-day flexible benefits annual enrolment window, management of these activities isoverseen 7 10 80percent of employees logged into the bythe Groups Head of Health andSafety.
benefits site and 50 per cent of employees of eligible employees participated selected a new benefit oramended an existing For more details of the Groups AIIR inour SAYE plan seepage19.
For those employees who qualify for a carorcash allowance, we offer a sector-leading The Company Secretary is the Executive fleet proposition.
This focuses onoffering our Committee member responsible for health employees choice based on their lifestyle, andsafety throughout the Group.
whileremaining environmentally conscious bystarting tooffer hybrids.
Our offices are great places We offer sector-leading maternity, paternity towork and adoption benefits.
As part of our growth journey, we have begunan extensive overhaul and upgrade of Health and safety our office space: we opened brand new offices Countryside conducts its business with due in London and Cheshunt, took on additional regard for the health, safety and welfare of space in Sevenoaks for the expanded team itsemployees, contractors, clients, visitors and there and revamped our offices in Brentwood.
We develop a positive Next year we have plans for new offices culture towards health and safety throughout acrossour Partnerships North regions.
our operations and as a minimum we observe all the requirements of the Health and Safety atWork etc.
ASPIRE Growing our talent pipeline Our values reflect what is important to us as well asthe behaviours that drive the business and underpinour brand.
Aspirational We build homes people aspire to live in and a companypeople aspire to be part of Sustainable We ensure the long term through our thinking and approach future of our developments, our people andour company GRACE ALDERSON GRADUATE Partnering Grace joined Countryside in October 2018, as part of We collaborate with our partners to achieve shared the latest intake of 14 graduates onto the Countryside goals, mutual success and places of exceptional quality Graduate Scheme.
The Scheme first began in 1980 and so far has seen over 130 graduates pass throughit.
Integrity Grace holds a degree in Architecture and whilst We deliver our promises and hold ourselves to a working as an Architectural Assistant for one year highstandard of personal conduct became interested in development.
Grace comments Countryside has a really good reputation in the Respectful industry as a great company to work for so I was We respect everyone we work with, the communities really keen to apply for the scheme.
I also have a in which we develop and the future we contribute friend who is already on the graduate scheme and tobuilding they have had a really positive experience here reinforcing my decision to apply!.
With the first rotation Excellence inDevelopment for Partnerships South, Graceis eager to learn about the diferent departments, furthering We strive for excellence and continuous improvement her experience and gainingagood understanding of the in every endeavour company asawhole.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 33
