Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Relations with Employees: Case study: Examples of Case study: Employee engagement stakeholders howthe Board considered the As well as the Boards site visit in Some of the Directors are involved in Spouses and partners are invited to During the year the Board undertook a key interest of its key stakeholders The Board has direct engagement during September, all of the Directors undertook theGroups Leadership Development attend, reinforcing the family values stakeholder review.
Although the Company when making decisions site visits, Board presentations, Board one or more additional site visits.
This involves attending ofthe Company.
has multiple stakeholders, the Board dinners and informal lunches see the case these site visits the Directors met with various sessions, and includes considered that its key stakeholders were study on page 57 for more details.
The abroad spectrum of employees from discussions on business strategy and The Company has numerous employee our employees, shareholders, customers, Board inputted into the design of the differing departments including sales leadership chaired by a Director, as well engagement mechanisms, with examples local communities and suppliers.
The recent employee culture survey and has &marketing, R&D, SHEQ, HR, supply as interacting with employees on the including local consultation committees, The Board reviewed the Companys Board reviewed how the Directors and had good visibility of the results and chain, finance, operations, production programme in team building sessions works councils, union meetings, Listening contributions to the UK defined theCompany engaged with these key actions.
Engagement with employees and customer services and discussed orat dinners.
Groups and Town Hall meetings that benefit pension scheme.
Balancing stakeholders and refined its engagement alsotakes place through works councils, awide range of topics.
Common the funding risks that are inherent in strategy in certain areas to ensure that it consultation committees, Listening process safety, innovation, business The Board hosted informal lunches with topics discussed at these meetings maintaining an open defined benefit continued to have a good understanding Groupsand Town Halls.
ethics, the recent employee culture members of the global HR team and of arework practices, safety, benefits, scheme with the material benefits for oftheir views and interests.
In undertaking survey findings, site expansion plans the Performance Technologies leadership business performance, site facilities UK employees, the Board reached this review, the Board agreed which andchallenges and opportunities in team.
Board dinners are frequently andkey-people changes.
Any issues of the decision that it was in the Shareholders: stakeholders it needs to engage with eachmarket.
Whilst on site each Director attended by members of the Executive amaterial nature get reported to the Companys best interests to directly and where it could rely on had lots of informal interaction with Committee, which provides the Board Board via regular management reports, increaseits contribution rates.
The employees whether over lunches, theopportunity to spend more time including reports from the HR Director.
Board engagement with shareholders majority of our engagement with key dinners or site walk arounds, discussing aspects of the business in isprimarily through the Group Chief stakeholders is carried out by our includingwhen site senior more detail.
The Board hosts a more Executive and Group Finance Director.
commercial and functional business managerswere not present.
informal dinner each year with members teams.
The Board engages directly of the UK based senior leadership team.
During the Boards consideration of withemployees, shareholders and Customers: apotential acquisition of a company customers, but not directly with in an adjacent market, management suppliersor local communities.
presented its due diligence findings, The Board engages with customers which highlighted certain risks that To read more about how we engage through the Group Chief Executive could have an adverse reputational withour wider stakeholders see andreceives regular information about Site visits during 2018 by the Directors impact.
The Board considered the pages 14 and 15. customers in the Group Chief Executives importance of Crodas reputation with Board Report and in other business Manufacturing site visits its customers and employees and, Boardreports.
Sales office visits notwithstanding the financial benefits of undertaking the acquisition, it Local communities: concluded that it was best for the success of the Company not to proceed with the acquisition.
Engagement takes place locally through our local offices and sites, including via thescience, technology, engineering andmathematics STEM and 1% Club programmes and community The Board approved a capital .
expenditure request to open a new warehouse in the North of England.
The Board took account of a number Suppliers: of stakeholder factors in reaching thisdecision, including that existing We engage with our suppliers via our site warehouse employees would not and purchasing teams as well as through bemade redundant and would be other functions such as Safety, Health, relocated to the new facility: the Environment and Quality SHEQ and legal.
positive impact on customer service: The Board receives information through and the benefits of the investment to Board reports.
The Board also took account of the financial returns in the project and considered it was inthe best interests of the Company to approve the expenditure.
11 25 2 38 14 26 times NEDs sites visited sites visited total number countries different visited sites by Executive by full Board of visits four Croda sites Directors Cowick and regions Sederma Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued During the year, numerous meetings Communication with Substantial shareholders Our investor calendar wereheld with investors in the UK, Common investor questions shareholders As at the date of this Annual Report NorthAmerica, Europe and Asia, including Set out below is a calendar of our investor events attended by senior management in 2018. andAccounts the Company had The Chair, Executive Directors and other face-to-face meetings, telephone and How does the Company senior managers maintain regular contact receivednotification of the following 1 video conferences and hosted site visits manage its allocation material shareholdings pursuant to the with existing and potential shareholders to January February March innumerous regions.
ensure that our strategy and trading trends Disclosure and Transparency Rules of theUK Listing Authority: are clearly understood.
The Company has good Investor field trips Full year results Roadshows The Board invites the Companys brokers inSingapore and announced.
inLondon capital discipline that is aligned and financial public relations advisers to Recognising the importance of Number % of issued with its clearly defined Capital theUK.
Conferences attend at least one meeting each year, of shares capital communicating with our shareholders, Allocation Policy p35.
Organic inLondon and atwhich the economic and investment ourVice President, Investor Relations capital investment and a BlackRock, Inc. 7,463,118 5.68% NewYork.
environment, Crodas performance manages the day-to-day contact with the regular dividend are prioritised.
generally and in comparison with its investment community, including investors sectorpeers and investor reactions and analysts, as well as co-ordinating site April May June Case study: Governance lunch How does the Board assess arediscussed.
visits and presentations at investor 2 whether to return capital conferences and roadshows.
Q1 Trading Roadshows in Roadshows in In June, the Companys largest toshareholders?
The Companys results presentations Updatepublished NewYork, Chicago, Stockholm and Paris shareholders were invited to attend arewebcast live, so all shareholders have The Board engages in active dialogue In line with the defined Toronto, Frankfurt, Annual General Conferences in alunch with the Chair, Anita Frew, access to them, and are also available CapitalAllocation Policy, Edinburgh, withshareholders through the Group Meeting in Harrogate London, Nice Alan Ferguson the Chair of the todownload.
We answer all investor wetarget leverage of 1.0 to ChiefExecutive, Group Finance Director Copenhagen andParis AuditCommittee and Senior Capital Markets Day questions sent to our website.
1.5x excluding deficits on andOslo and the Chair, who regularly meet with Independent Director and held at Incotec in Investor field trips retirement benefit schemes, shareholders.
These meetings provide Conferences HelenaGanczakowski Chair theNetherlands toBrussels and Set out on page 59 are answers to although we are prepared anappropriate means of capturing inLondon and of the Remuneration Committee.
intheUK themost commonly asked shareholder Roadshows in tomove above this range if shareholders opinions and the Chair NewYork.
questions and a calendar of our investor theNetherlands Investor lunch circumstances warrant.
The ensures that the Board is regularly The lunch was attended by events attended by senior management andBoston.
inLondon with Board considers returning appraised of shareholders views and key representatives from six shareholders throughout the year.
excess capital to shareholders issues.
All Non-Executive Directors are who between them held 6.61% of if it feels that leverage is likely available to attend meetings if requested thetotal issued shares in Croda.
to be below the target range.
by shareholders and the Senior July August September Independent Director is available to Discussions focused on a range discuss matters concerning the Chair oftopics, including governance, What are the sales and Half-year results Conferences in if the need arises: no such meetings were 3 remuneration, sustainability and profit growth opportunities announced in London Boston and London requested by shareholders during the year.
Roadshow in Madrid Personal Care offers low to Investor field trip The Chair reported back to the next mid single digit percentage inUK.
Board meeting, where it was agreed growth at strong margins.
by the Board to host a similar event Growth in Life Sciences can in2019.
behigher, supported by more October November December acquisition opportunities.
Roadshows in US Q3 Trading Conferences Performance Technologies Mid-West, Dublin Updatepublished inLondon.
offers low single digit andHelsinki Conferences in percentage sales growth Investor concentration Investor field trips NewYork, London atimproving margins.
Roadshows in What are the Companys Private Other Asia London, Montreal 4 holders holders priorities in respect of andToronto merger and acquisition Percentage of Geographical Investor field activity?
The Companys M&A priority by type of of shareholder targets are: 16.72% holder base Nascent technologies Continental Annual General Meeting AGM Deadlines for exercising 33.10% Small to medium sized Europe votingrights The AGM provides an opportunity for North businesses in adjacent private shareholders to raise questions Votes are exercisable at a General America markets with strong IP.
The Directors are also Meetingof the Company in respect of available to answer questions afterwards, in which the business being voted upon is What is the target for New an informal setting.
The Annual Report and being heard.
Votes may be exercised in 5 and Protected Products Accounts, including the notice of AGM, are person, by proxy or, in relation to corporate NPP sales growth?
sent to shareholders at least 20 working members, by corporate representatives.
There is a separate 46.01% The Companys Articles of Association The aim is to grow NPP Institutional UK investor relations section on www.
com provide a deadline for submission of proxy attwice the non-NPP holders that includes, amongst other items, forms of not less than 48 hours before the salesgrowth rate p24.
The time appointed for the holding of a meeting AGMwill be held at the Pavilions of or adjourned meeting.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Directors report Corporate Governance continued Corporate Governance continued ofcompliance with these controls, Presentations of key risks and controls Accountability whichis assured during planned internal by the Executive owner and other The Audit Committee audit visits assurance providers Audit Committee The Audit Committees report, which Comprehensive monitoring and Half-yearly report on control describes the membership of the Audit quantification of business risks, under weaknessesfrom the Vice President Committee, its responsibilities, main the direction of the Risk Management ofRisk and Assurance.
activities in 2018 and priorities for 2019, Committee.
The Groups approach to This system is designed to mitigate, isset out on pages 61 to 65. risk management and the principal ratherthan eliminate, the risk of failure to risksfacing the Group are discussed discuss the detail of the year end Report of the Dear fellow shareholder achieve business objectives and provides Risk management and inmore detail in the Strategic Report andhalfyear results before the relevant Audit Committee reasonable, but not absolute, assurance In my capacity as Chair of the Audit onpages 38 to 43 Committee meetings.
This helps me to internalcontrol for the year ended against material misstatement or loss.
As Committee, I am pleased to present Capital investment with detailed better understand the key issues and The Board acknowledges its responsibility 31December 2018 appropriate, the Board also ensures that theAudit Committee report for the year appraisal, risk analysis, authorisation tomake sure enough time is devoted for ensuring the maintenance of a sound necessary actions have been, or are being, ended31 December 2018, which provides andpost-investment review procedures.
system of internal controls and risk taken to remedy failings or weaknesses detail of the activities carried out by the management.
In accordance with the This process has been in place for the full identified from the review of internal Committee during the year.
Responsibilities guidance set out in the Financial Reporting financial year and up to the date on which controls effectiveness and judges Councils FRCs Guidance on Risk The Committee assists the Board the financial statements were approved by theirlevel of significance.
Committee membership Management, Internal Control and Related inensuring that the Groups financial the Directors.
The Committee consists of five NonFinancial Business Reporting 2014, and in systems provide accurate and up-to-date Fair, balanced and Executive Directors.
The experience the Corporate Governance Code itself, an information on its financial position.
The Board discharged its responsibility for understandable ofeach member of the Committee is ongoing process has been established for monitoring the operational effectiveness of The process of compiling the Annual summarised on pages 44 and 45.
I have identifying, evaluating and managing the Key responsibilities: the internal control and risk management Report and Accounts starts early enough held a number of senior finance director principal risks faced by the Group p38.
systems throughout the financial year and To monitor the integrity of the financial to give the Board time to assess whether roles and am Chair of the Audit Committees The Directors have established an The Committee up to the date of approval of the Annual statements and results announcements itis fair, balanced and understandable, of a FTSE 100 company and an AIM listed organisational structure with clear Report and Accounts.
It used a process of the Group and to review significant hasoverseen the asrequired by the Code, and a paper is company.
The Board considers each operating procedures, lines of which involved: financial reporting issues and judgements presented to the Board to help in this successful transition of member of the Committee is independent responsibilityand delegated authority.
Written confirmations from relevant assessment.
The Board considered within the definition of the Code and has To recommend external auditor the new firms providing senior executives and divisional whether the Annual Report and Accounts relevant financial experience, as well as a appointment and removal, assess In particular, there are clear procedures directorsconcerning the operation external and internal contained the necessary information for broad and diverse spread of commercial auditquality, negotiate and approve the and defined authorities for: ofthose elements of the system shareholders to assess the Companys audit services.
experience, including competence in audit fee, assess independence, monitor Financial reporting, with clear policies forwhich they are responsible position and performance, business model operating within the chemical industry.
non-audit services and be responsible and procedures governing the financial Internal audit work, which reports and strategy.
The tone was reviewed to Alan Ferguson Such consideration provides the Board for audit tendering reporting process and preparation of through the Vice President of Risk ensure a balanced approach and the Board with assurance that the Committee has Chair of the Audit Committee thefinancial statements.
There is a clear To review the adequacy and andAssurance to the Audit Committee made sure the narrative at the front end of theappropriate skills, breadth and depth anddocumented framework of required Reports from the external auditors to effectiveness of the Groups internal Members and attendance the Annual Report was consistent with the toensure that it can be fully effective, and controls.
Each reporting location controls and risk management systems, theAudit Committee eligibility at meetings held during financial statements.
See page 93 for the that it meets the Code requirements that prepares an annual self-assessment and the adequacy, effectiveness and the year ended 31 December 2018 statement of Directors responsibilities.
atleast one member has significant, recent output of the internal audit function and relevant financial experience and that Alan Ferguson the Committee as a whole is competent in To review the adequacy of the Chair 5 5 Non-financial information statement Groupswhistleblowing arrangements the sector in which the Company operates.
Roberto Cirillo The table below sets out where more information can be found in our Annual Report that relates to non-financial matters, and procedures for detecting fraud.
Independent Non-Executive 2 2 as required under the Non-Financial Reporting Directive.
We also publish a Sustainability Report, which includes further The Chair of the Board, Professor Layden informationand non-financial KPIs relating to these areas.
Jacqui Ferguson a Non-Executive Director, the Group In addition to its business as usual Independent Non-Executive 1 1 activities, the Committee selects certain ChiefExecutive, the Group Finance Where to read more in Key risks relating to these matters Helena Ganczakowski Director, the Group Financial Controller, focus areas each year for detailed review.
Reporting requirement theAnnual Report Page Some of our relevant policies pages 38 to 42 1 Independent Non-Executive 5 5 theVice President of Risk and Assurance, Environmental matters Making a difference to 2-9 Group SHE Policy Major safety or environmental incident 1 Chief Executives Review 19 Group CSR Policy Nigel Turner who leads the internal audit function, and Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Sustainability 30-33 Committees terms of reference, which Independent Non-Executive 2 3 representatives from the external and Board activity in 2018 51 internal auditors attend the meetings canbe found at www.
Steve Williams 1 Social and employee matters, Chairs statement 11 Group SHE Policy Talent development and retention byinvitation.
Independent Non-Executive 5 5 1 including diversity and inclusion Our Stakeholders 14-15 Group Performance Management Policy Major safety or environmental incident 1 Sustainability 30-33 Equal Opportunities Policy 1 Board activity in 2018 51 Data Privacy Policy The Committee periodically, and I more In addition to the meetings during 2 Group Code of Conduct regularly, meet or speak separately with 2 2018, there were two meetings held Group Policy on Training and Development theVice President of Risk and Assurance 2 Group Policy for Managing Diversity subsequent to the year end, with and the external auditors without the 2 Respect for human rights Sustainability 30-33 Group Code of Ethics Ethics and compliance fullattendance at both.
Nigel Turner 2 Executives being present.
While these Board activity in 2018 51 Croda Modern Slavery Statement missed one meeting during 2018 2 discussions are invaluable, I also meet Group Policy on Discrimination dueto personal commitments.
2 withthe external auditors, the Group Anti-bribery and corruption Board activity in 2018 51 Group Code of Ethics Ethics and compliance 1 Key focus areas 63 Competition Law Policy Finance Director and the Group Financial 1 Croda Fraud Policy Controller at least twice each year to 1 Whistleblowing Group Policy Procedures Business model Business Model 12-13 All key risks link to our business model Our Strategy 20-21 1.
Available to employees via the Company intranet, not published externally 2.
Available to employees via the Company intranet and published on www.
com Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Key focus areas for 2018 20% Main business as usual activities of the Committee since the publication of The Audit Committee has delivered on our business as usual work, as set out in our terms of reference, and from this perspective there is the2017 Annual Report and Accounts nothing to highlight for your attention.
Last year, we noted four focus areas for 2018, which absorbed the balance of the Committees time of around 20%.
The Committee met three times in 2018 after publication of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts and twice between the year end and the publication of this Annual Report.
The key issues covered at the Committee meetings were reported at the subsequent Key focus area Actions during the year Progress Boardmeeting.
Monitor and assist in the transition Under the guidance of the Committee a rigorous induction programme was Completed The Committees main business as usual activities, excluding the focus areas, and an estimate of the proportion of time spent to the new firms providing internal undertaken with both internal and external audit which included site tours and onthem, are detailed below: and external audit services with presentations from both the sectors and the regions.
A full day induction was afocus on driving audit quality heldat Cowick Hall for the internal audit team, with a visit to Rawcliffe Bridge, with the partner and directors visiting sites during planned audit visits.
The KPMG partner and Directors visited each region and the local partners held face-to-face Committee activity in 2018 meetings with key regional senior management.
Where external and internal audit attended the same sites to perform business process walkthrough work, the visits were co-ordinated to minimise the impact of transitional year work on sites.
Both Met with internal audit and external audit Financial reporting 20% Internal audit and risk internal and external audit have held regular meetings with the Group FD and without management being present management 20% have presented to the Audit Committee to discuss the transition.
Lessons The Committee: havebeen learnt around the efficiency of downloading data to support the The Committee: Monitored the Groups financial Received presentations from the analytical work.
statements and results announcements, Head of Financial Planning and Received a report from the Vice and reviewed significant financial the Head of Global Data Analytics President Risk and Assurance at each Continue to review the The Ethics Committee continued to monitor the global programme through Completed reporting and accounting issues meeting and monitored compliance implementation of our enhanced quarterly meetings, and the Board and Audit Committee received progress Undertook an effectiveness review, including the going concern withthe Group Risk Management ethical compliance programme updates during the year.
Ethics controls included in the self-assessment which included reviewing the results assessmentand exceptional items Programme.
The Committee reviewed as it becomes embedded across framework were updated and all were included in the scope of internal audit visits from a questionnaire, and concluded that the reliance placed by management the world in 2018, with findings reported.
The Asia region is leading the move to embedding Undertook regular reviews of the the Committee was operating effectively.
onthe risk mitigating controls of the the procedures into business as usual.
A post implementation risk assurance Groups material litigation and Areas for focus for the Committee Groups highest risks and analysed the audit is planned to be performed by internal audit in 2019 to provide assurance wassatisfied with the approach included undertaking training in types of assurance, both internal and over the embedding of the programme into business as usual globally.
toprovisioning cybersecurity external, that applied to these controls Review the implementation of In support of the GDPR programme, additional resource was appointed in Ongoing In conjunction with the Board, reviewed Reviewed its terms of reference and Assessed the 2018 risk assurance effective policies and procedures theform of a GDPR programme team.
The team developed and rolled out the financial modelling and stress testing made only minor clarification changes.
activity carried out by internal audit with tocomply with GDPR coming detailed impact assessments and process flow templates, providing support based on plausible scenarios arising The Committee will undertake a further reference to the Groups principal risks, intoforce in May 2018 toalldata owners and stewards required to complete them.
A GDPR steering from selected key risks, noting the review in 2019 to ensure the role and which included a review of: the Groups group was formed to monitor and review progress against a detailed programme effectthey would have during the responsibilities of the Committee are NPP metric: GDPR implementation: plan.
Aspecialist training package KnowB4 was purchased and rolled out to viability period aligned with the new UK Corporate cyber security assessment: and appropriate employees in Western Europe and EEMEA.
Internal audit carried Governance Code Reviewed the Financial Reporting securityof raw material supply outarisk assurance audit of the GDPR programme roll out in August 2018 and Councils FRC review of the Companys Completed its annual review of the the Audit Committee discussed the findings of the report and agreed a detailed Undertook a detailed review of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Groups tax strategy which can be actionplan with management.
The Audit Committee considered phase 2 of the evolving approach our Internal Audit Where questions were raised on found on our website and risks.
programme to roll out the data privacy framework globally.
Data privacy controls team is taking to controls assurance alternative performance measures, included in the self-assessment framework were updated and all controls will across all business processes, using Earnings Per Share and the cash flow External audit 25% beincluded in the scope of 2019 internal audit site visits.
increased data analytics across 100% statement, we discussed and approved The Committee: ofbusiness transactions to focus site Maintain our ongoing focus on Our internal audit team undertook a cyber maturity review, using the National Completed the response to the FRC where we Discussed and approved the external based manual testing on exceptions.
cyber security risk Institute of Standards and Technology framework, to update the holistic view committed to make some reporting audit plan, including: the assessment of This included the use of process mining ofCrodas information security maturity benchmarked against indicative industry enhancements.
The FRC has closed significant audit risks: the engagement to reconstruct how end-to-end Croda data.
TheAudit Committee discussed this report and agreed a detailed action itsenquiry risk profile: the use of data analytics: the business processes operate, enabling plan withmanagement.
Cyber security testing continues to form a core part of The Committee reviewed the UK scope of the audit: the materiality level comparison between sites to highlight ITassurance work undertaken by internal audit which is reported and discussed and the fide minimus reporting threshold: payment practices report, discussed potential opportunities to share best bythe Committee, together with the results of regular penetration testing and thedata submitted and challenged the approach to working with internal practice and leverage our SAP investment breach detection tool output.
audit: and the key members of the management on some aspects of Considered the results of the 2018 We also undertook a review of our cyber risks with Marsh, to assess whether thereport.
The resulting controls assurance internal audits and cyber insurance could provide us with cover in the event of a cyber-attack.
auditfee was approved the IT audits, the self-assessment In October 2018 the Executive attended a face-to-face training session based Governance 15% Reviewed compliance with the FRCs process, the adequacy of managements onthe Game of Threats which was followed by a crisis management test based The Committee: Ethical Standard for auditors and the response to matters raised and the time on a cyber security threat scenario.
Reviewed the effectiveness of restrictions on auditors to provide taken to resolve such matters theGroups anti-bribery and fraud non-audit services Reviewed and approved the 2019 procedures, including those for whistleDiscussed the FRCs 2017 2018 Audit internal audit plan and supported the blowing.
The Committee received a Quality Inspection of KPMG in support plans to extend the use of data analytics report on the independent investigations ofthe Committees annual assessment to provide further insights to identify that had been conducted in response to of the quality of the external audit inefficient or inconsistent processes concerns raised under the whistleblowing policy and were satisfied with the Considered and confirmed Conducted its annual review of the outcome, including follow up actions theindependence of KPMG, Groups internal auditor, see page 64. asfurtherdescribed on page 65.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63
