Strategic Report Making a difference to The future As the digital age continues to revolutionise our lives, more opportunities are available to businesses than ever before, providing they innovate to meet the expectations of customers.
As markets expand and diversify, Our Open Innovation and Smart high-throughput analytical testing and along with university partnerships, Technology advances continue Across the Croda world businesses have a real opportunity to Partnering Programmes also play a advanced data analysis.
The result is our allowing ustocommercialise and bring to reshape the world we live in Digital and data respond to demands for niche products crucial role.
By working in entrepreneurial ability to better exploit the functionality excitinginnovations to market.
Businesses must understand how Our future innovation will be supported and to the increase in small independent cells and partnering with world-leading ofexisting and new ingredients in a wider digitalisation is transforming the and strengthened by our digital strategy, customers and virtual communities that academics, universities and start-ups, we range of formulation systems, giving Operational innovation behaviours of their customers and which has been developed by our new demand a different level of service.
To identify unique opportunities and develop ourcustomers greater choice of We will continue to ensure that our address the impact of how technology Digital Centre of Excellence, who work survive and thrive, we must be agile to new solutions that will add value to our .
manufacturing assets and supply ismaking it easier for the voices of collaboratively right across our business keep pace with, and foresee changes in customers products and fulfil consumer chainsare flexible to enable production different stakeholders to be heard.
to ensure that we take advantage of technology and consumer expectations.
This is integral to our strategy Product innovation and delivery of small batch sizes to every opportunity.
of offering ever-higher levels of We are harnessing data science and meetchanging customer demands.
Meanwhile, there are increasing performance at ever-lower levels Our opportunities to robotics to shorten product development Thisis only part of the work that our opportunities in the significant We are also continuing to invest in artificial ofnegative environmental impact.
makeadifference life cycles, automate manufacturing and Process Innovation Team focuses on, advancesdigital development is intelligence in R&D.
Our investment in We maintain a relentless focus on invest in new product areas.
In particular, asthey find ways to optimise the offeringbusinesses, in terms of the theCentre of Innovation for Formulation Innovation is not just applied to inventing we will leverage the cutting-edge performance of our plants, whilst abilityto ethically gather and analyse innovation to create new and improved Science at the University of Liverpools the new, but also to adapting existing ingredients in collaboration with our technology we have invested in through minimising their environmental impacts.
data and turn it into knowledge.
This is Materials Innovation Factory MIF in the ingredients and ways of working.
By our shareholding in Cutitronics, who are knowledge that must be acted upon fast customers.
Achieving this depends UK is building a data-centric approach to taking our science and applying it in new uponthe deep knowledge of global developing a patented handheld device to drive the innovation needed to enter innovation.
The capabilities available at and novel ways to different applications that assesses skin health and prepares new markets and respond to new trends.
markets, and customer objectives, the MIF allow us to gain amore detailed and in niche market areas, we are products andapplications, that we itfor the optimum delivery of the skin understanding of ingredient interactions, creating significant sustainability care formulation it dispatches.
As we gainfrom ourdirect-selling model actives delivery and optimised formulation andperformance benefits for our andfocus oncustomer intimacy.
proactively expand our collaboration development for any given application.
strategy, we will continue to invest in This is through design of experiment, these start-ups inniche applications, faster robotic formulating platforms, Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 Strategic Report Chairs Statement broader implications of decisions are Governance in action Dividend considered and where we do the right As a Board, we set out to deliver We have a clear capital allocation policy, with thing for all our stakeholders.
In addition, thehighest standards of corporate profits reinvested to drive growth, a regular Delivering returns in 2019 we will be rolling out our new governance, transparency and integrity.
ordinary dividend for shareholders, selective purpose Smart Science to Improve Alongside supporting and empowering technology acquisitions and fund the periodic Lives, harnessing science, our people ourpeople, we have continued to ensure return of excess capital to shareholders.
andentrepreneurial spirit to provide that we understand and consider the Given our performance in 2018, the Board innovative solutions that benefit our viewsof all our key stakeholders, including has recommended an increase in the full year to shareholders customers and meaningfully impact the shareholders, customers, suppliers and the ordinary dividend of 7.4% to 87 pence per wider world through those United Nations communities in which we operate.
In addition, with leverage Sustainable Development Goals SDGs continued to prioritise a safe operating at the lower end of the Boards target range towhich Crodacan bestcontribute.
andworking environment, engaging with supported by improving cash generation, the management through our safety leadership Board is recommending a special dividend of Since publishing its first Sustainability programme.
We have developed our 115 pence per share, reflecting the excess Report for 2007, Croda has sought to Diversity and Inclusion Programme, capital generated since the last special bealeader in sustainability.
This has achieving our objective of 33% female dividend in 2016. reflected our heritage of producing representation at Board level, whilst We achieved consistent sales sustainable ingredients from natural agreeing actions to improve diversity Outlook resources.
The world has now begun to across the organisation.
In 2018, Croda continued to deliver growth in our Core Business, embrace sustainability on a broader basis, sustained sales and profit growth.
recognising the finite resources of, and The Board has continued to evolve to Lookingahead, whilst global market at industry-leading margins, ongoing environmental damage to, our meetchanging demands harnessing a conditions remain challenging, we planet.
In 2018, we have been working to wider range of skills, including international continueto invest for the future and are assure Crodas commitment to delivering generating capital returns and digital technology experience.
We confident that our strategy of Growing the positive climate and societal impact welcomed Roberto Cirillo and Jacqui Core and Stretching the Growth will deliver alongside enduring commercial success.
At the forthcoming further progress in 2019.
Using the SDGs as a framework, we AGM, we will say goodbye to Steve Williams, havemapped the strategic actions which who has served Croda for nine years and Anita Frew create the Croda Difference to sustainable who leaves with our sincerest thanks forhis Chair outcomes and performance measures.
outstanding contribution and wise counsel.
Wewill develop this further in 2019 to ensure that Croda continues to deliver Our people are crucial to this success.
My financial success and makes a positive Overview Delivering our strategy Anita Frew Board colleagues and I had the opportunity contribution to our world.
theCroda Difference I am pleased to report another year of Chair to meet many of them in 2018 through our strong progress for Croda.
We achieved As a Board, we reviewed our three year programme of site visits, presentations and consistent sales growth in our Core plan, which forms the basis for our short informal lunches.
I would like to express Business, at industry-leading margins, tomedium term decisions.
We have a clear the Boards thanks for their hard work, generating capital returns to shareholders.
Firstly, we are Growing the Core Case study: commitment, innovation and agility.
delivering top line growth with strong Diversity and inclusion We delivered growth in sales and adjusted profitability and good free cash generation Sustained sales and profit growth profit in constant currency terms in all three from our Core Business.
Alongside this, In 2018 we achieved our objective of In 2018, constant currency sales for the of our Core Business sectors.
We improved weare Stretching the Growth investing women making up at least a third of the free cash generation as we came to the Core Business rose by 3.8%.
With stronger in product innovation, creating new Board.
However, we need to replicate margins, Crodas adjusted profit before tax end of a significant programme of capital technologies and making selective thisacross the Business.
We achieved greater innovation reached a new record of 331.5m 2017: acquisitions to drive superior shareholder ourDiversity and Inclusion Programme, 320.3m, up 6.2% in constant currency.
and increased the number of customers returns for the future.
In 2018 we invested we are focusing on ensuring that all weserve.
Adjusted basic earnings per share were 37m in R&D, supplemented by 450 employees have, and are able to take, 8.8% higher in constant currency.
On university and enterprise partnerships opportunities to progress and develop Over the last three years, Croda has astatutory basis, Group sales rose to through our Open Innovation programme, their careers, in particular women, 1,386.9m 2017: 1,373.1m and profit achieved a top quartile total shareholder over 100m in new capacity across our whocontinue to be under-represented return TSR versus comparator UK before tax to 317.8m 2017: 314.1m.
30manufacturing sites and over 80m insenior positions across the FTSE350 stocks.
We also ranked first in inacquiring technology-led companies.
our industry comparator group of 19 global Personal Care is our largest sector: Crodas heritage business, where we are chemical peers for both of the last two year During 2018, the Board undertook We recognise that improving this period and 2018.
Management Today, in the recognised global leader in ingredient atenyear forward assessment of its situationin our business is a primary As a company, we understand our the world building an impressive number innovation.
In 2018 it delivered a robust the longest running annual survey of markets, technologies and opportunities.
objective of our Diversity and Inclusion role in inspiring and empowering a new of hours participating at schools in and corporate reputation in the UK, placed performance, continuing the growth seen in This included two areas fundamental to Steering Committee.
There are a number generation of young women to proactively around our operations.
2017 and retaining industry-leading levels Croda third overall in Britains Most oursuccess purpose and culture, and of ongoing and newly created activities seek out careers in science, technology, Admired Companies.
Life Sciences successfully creating a sustainable business model.
that have been developed to facilitate engineering and mathematics STEM In 2018 STEM activities made up43.2% replaced sales lost in the planned exit Whilst the Board sets the tone from the opportunities for women and underindustries.
Part of ensuring that our of our recorded employee volunteering froma major contract, growing across top, our culture is vital in aligning our represented groups, such as balanced business can grow sustainably and time, demonstrating how our employees itsongoing businesses and creating people behind a common purpose and short-lists for recruitment.
We are also inclusively means engaging with local are committed to inspiring and encouraging exciting opportunities for future growth.
In Croda, many decisions encouraging flexible working and more communities and schools.
Our STEM school children in chemistry and science.
Performance Technologies continued its are delegated across all levels in the opportunity for time to care forfamilies.
programme has been active for 10 years transition to a higher value,  and so it is important to with many STEM ambassadors around focused business.
createand protect a culture where the Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
