Strategic Report About Us Personal Care p26 Personal Care focuses on ingredients for skin, hair, At a glance sun protection and colour cosmetic products 160.3m Adjusted operating profit Every day our globalteam of 4,580 Life employees, across Sciences p27 North America 38countries, work Operations Western Europe Life Sciences Operations comprises three 10 together to inspire complementary Employees 24 businesses, Health Care, Employees andinfluence Asia Pacific 628 Crop Protection and Operations 2,454 Making a SeedEnhancement each other and 22 Employees ourcustomers.
EEMEA 1,077 95.8m Operations Adjusted operating profit 7 Latin America difference Employees Operations 107 9 Performance Employees Technologies p28 314 Performance Technologies targets faster growth technologies in Smart Materials and Energy Technologies and continues to develop its presence in Home Sales by region Sales by sector Care& Water To Sustainable supply chains The changing population 85.2m Adjusted operating profit The changing environment The future Industrial Chemicals p29 Industrial Chemicals is a small, diverse sector developing Europe, Middle East & Africa 572.4m Personal Care 487.8m novelniche applications, North America 372.7m Life Sciences 324.5m sellingco-streams and Asia 300.8m Performance Technologies 456.4m undertakingtoll processing Latin America 141.0m Industrial Chemicals 118.2m 1.2m Adjusted operating profit 1,386.9m 1,386.9m Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 1 Strategic Report Making a difference to Sustainable supply chains Working together to address the worlds needs must be done ethically and responsibly, by businesses that understand they are accountable for the impact of how they operate and what they produce.
toassess and improve physical supply out extensive research and testing ECOrange of 100% bio-based, 100% Transparency and Our opportunities to make Croda Personal Care chains, such as palm oil derivatives, intoconsumer sun care needs in renewable non-ionic surfactants, the trustarecritical in our adifference High performance, bio-based giving us an opportunity to lead our Sub-Saharan Africa in order to develop widest range commercially available consumer-driven world With ever greater emphasis on Our heritage is built on bio-based raw industry on transparency of provenance.
the right ingredients for the market.
andcertified to meet the criteria of sustainability, performance and value, at Todays digitally empowered and materials, with 61% of the materials we theUSDA BioPreferred programme.
environmentally aware consumers Croda we are well positioned to continue use today originating from such sources.
Striving to be a sustainable business Minimising negative to build on our already extensive product expectmore from products and Sustainability touches every area of our alsomeans active management of the environmental impact Sustainable sourcing servicesthan ever before.
More choice claims substantiation capabilities to help business, particularly the Personal Care key risks that could affect the reliability of andtraceability customers make the right choices for IRB by Sederma is one of the leaders and control, more visibility, more and sector where it is central to how we our service.
This gives us an opportunity inthe development of cosmetic actives Extending our sustainability focus out to quicker access to information and their consumers.
This goes hand-in-hand design our ingredients, source our raw to continually raise our performance, with our reputation as a supplier of high created from plant cell cultures.
This the supply chain, Crodarom is engaging in morerobust sustainability credentials.
materials and the way we work with our andthat of our suppliers, in the areas offersthe industry high performance and the development of win-win partnerships, quality, high performance bio-based customers.
Increasingly, this encompasses ofethics, human rights, process safety, ingredients, aiming to exceed our naturally derived active ingredients that supporting the diversification of farming Increasingly, these expectations apply to the benefits in use of our ingredients product safety, quality assurance and avoid the over exploitation of land and businesses that can offer ethically businesses as well as the products they customers requirements.
thatadd value to our customers products, business continuity.
In parallel, we are natural resources and the destruction sourced ingredients with assured deliver.
We must operate transparently, targeting premium, performance-led ensuring that manufacturing sites are ofecosystems.
Our acquisition of blue provenance and purity.
Additionally, ethically and with social accountability, Increasingly, the sustainability of our solutions for accelerating future growth.
certified against appropriate safety, solutions is not just measured on our biotechnology specialists Nautilus will formany years now we have received taking greater responsibility for our environment, quality and Good also allow us to explore the marine peer recognition for our progressive work supply chains and the traceability and operational performance, but on that of As part of our focus on diversity and Manufacturing Practice GMP our whole supply chain.
We therefore, for environment as a sustainable alternative to deliver products containing certified impact of our products and operations.
inclusion, we also recognise that not standards, as well as meeting to the conventional manufacturing of sustainable palm oil derivatives.
We All of this must be done with a focus example, continue to identify, prioritise allperformance benefits are relevant in consumerdemands for certifications and address supply chain risks, which personal care ingredients.
haveworked closely with the Roundtable onimproving product performance allareas of the market.
We are now such as halal andkosher.
for Sustainable Palm Oil to achieve andvalue.
isoverseen by our Ethics Committee.
working to understand the different Weare also working with specialists In addition, our significant investment certification across our manufacturing needs of consumers in different cultures inour Atlas Point manufacturing site sites to support the production of and parts of the world.
For instance, our inNorth America will produce an deforestation-free sustainable palm oil.
African Centre of Excellence is carrying Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3
