26 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Delivering to our stakeholders Delivering sustainable value for our customers, colleagues and communities is an integral part of our overall business model and key to our future success.
Continuing to address our broader responsibility to society and managing the environmental impact from our day-to-day operations remains fundamental to our strategy and long-term ambitions.
Stakeholder Interest and concerns How CYBG responds Engagement method Frequency groups Understanding our customers and anticipating their needs has been B is geared towards liberating people We introduced the concept of B-Toxing your finances to our customers and to UK Customers are at the heart of our business Customers our main focus in marketing and innovation this year.
To stand out in from money management worries.
consumers at large, inspiring 5,000 people to enter the B-Tox Challenge across January and and providing a best-in-class service is our a competitive landscape, where banks have to work increasingly hard Our B-Tox themed quarterly February 2018.
We showcased the benefits of the B app for better money management via top priority.
We actively invite customer to earn consumer trust, we shifted our focus in FY2018 to start a campaigns are driving awareness of Coach B, who starred in a series of videos explaining tagging, projections and savings pots.
comments on a daily basis and through movement around getting the UK financially fit and launched a how the B apps features can help Our consumer events on how to get financially fit at Studio B involved celebrities, journalists several channels, including online surveys, year-long campaign called B-Tox.
and B customers via live talk shows and achieved widespread media coverage.
touchpoint feedback and in person.
We support and value information which allows customers to compare We delivered active campaigns to We ran digital marketing campaigns across owned, earned and paid-for channels using Our insights team engaged with customers services by different account providers and strive to deliver the best enable customers to live where they the B-Tox theme, delivering messages across all channels and allowing all UK consumers daily via PACE, supported by quarterly possible customer service experience, so we were disappointed with love through a series of cash-back exposure to the campaign at multiple touchpoints.
in-depth surveys with our B panel.
our rankings in the CMAs first Service Quality Indicators Survey and schemes across our network.
We now We saw a 123% increase in the number of savings pots for B customers, a 97% increase in We launched a new creative campaign the fall in our NPS.
Other surveys, including BDRCs Moments of also provide same day mortgage the number of B customers logging in to the app and the value of B savings pots doubling each quarter of the financial year for B, Truth study, show a more positive picture.
Around 40% of B customers now associate the brand with financial fitness, our creative campaign delivered a message To turn this around we continue to invest in our digital offering and A brand-wide upgrade of our mobile supported by a 91% rise in use of the tagging feature in the B app.
around financial fitness via B-Tox.
are increasing staff training across our branches and in our contact banking apps introduced new We achieved 97,000 responses through PACE including 20,000 WOW alerts, which is centres.
In addition, we recognise that tapping into customer technology, including digital cheque feedback that has achieved the highest scores of 10 out of 10. sentiment needs to occur with increased frequency to build a imaging.
The customer-focused designs holistic view.
To assist with this, we introduced a new way of delivered a more efficient money CYBG personal customers relationship NPS declined by 3 points to 10, having been obtaining daily customer feedback via PACE The Programme for management platform, improving particularly impacted by branch closures and customer frustration over our internet the Acceleration of Customer Experience.
Our culture is brought to life by our Our new approach to performance Our colleagues are integral to our ongoing success, and the overall We delivered engaging, multi-channel communications connecting colleagues to business Colleagues refreshed values and behaviours, management has enabled quarterly business performance is dependent on their engagement and performance and strategy.
Our engagement score increased to 76%.
Highlights include: which describe what is important at well-being conversations and annual advocacy.
Over the past year we have made great strides in an above industry average open rate on CEO messages: CYBG.
aspirational discussions for every colleague.
accelerating the cultural transformation of CYBG on multiple fronts.
significant outperformance of the industry norm on measures of confidence in Our goal is to foster a culture which attracts, retains, motivates and Our new performance management leadership and direction, respect and integrity and leading change: Our annual colleague MyVoice survey rewards people who consistently deliver ambitious, customerframework reflects a forward-looking, 83% strongly believe in the Groups goals and objectives: and provides us with valuable insight on the focused-outcomes, regardless of their role.
team-based approach, allowing 88% of colleagues fully support our values.
culture of our business including in relation Valuing diversity among our colleagues has been fundamental to our colleagues to be ambitious.
to our values and behaviours, as well as We have enhanced our colleague engagement strategy by introducing new tools such as positive cultural shift.
We are striving to embed an inclusive culture, alignment with our strategy.
Our colleague well-being strategy, as quarterly Pulse and feedback surveys to more regularly monitor colleague sentiment.
We where every colleague can reach their full potential.
We will continue well as the new employee benefits continue to facilitate open, conversational dialogue via social interactions on our digital Our communication channels enable to develop an open and transparent workplace, where respect, dignity, platform, have become integral parts channels and face-to-face events with our Leadership Team.
We have seen a significant regular dialogue on all aspects of our fair treatment, equality, tolerance and understanding are at the core of our cultural transformation journey increase in comments, likes and ratings across our digital content throughout the year and strategy with news articles on leadership, of how people behave and interact.
94% of colleagues said they would recommend attending a Lets Talk event with the business, culture and community activity Leadership Team.
shared daily via our intranet.
Boasting a proud heritage spanning more than 300 years combined, Financial education 650 hours We continue to build closer relationships with our community partners, strengthening Year-round support for financial education Communities we have very strong roots in both Scotland and Yorkshire and are invested by our employees and count relationships we are very proud of and passionate about.
Our current community and supporting employees to get involved.
committed to supporting the communities we serve.
me in 123 available to download free.
engagement involves: Quarterly campaigns with Hospice UK and We work in partnership with community organisations to tackle Fundraising for Hospice UK raising regular stakeholder meetings to support the delivery of our community partnerships: annual Group-wide fundraising challenge.
issues that are important to our customers and their local areas.
We over 6.5m during the 10 years of our colleagues volunteering for our community projects contributing 2,000 hours of Monthly meetings with community support critical front-line services for the most remote areas with partnership.
their time over this financial year: partners.
Scotlands Charity Air Ambulance, as well as having brought giving our expertise and providing pro bono support for our community partners: Spirit of the Community Awards environmental education to schoolchildren with the Wild about giving space in our branches to our community partners: Daily engagement with a wide variety of 160,000 of grants awarded.
In Yorkshire, we help people who dont have employee fundraising for charitable causes, which is match-funded by our Charitable community groups through our branch access to a bike to borrow one for free through the Yorkshire Bank Yorkshire Bank Bike Libraries Foundation: and network.
The financial education programmes we offer help delivering more than 60,000 providing grants each year through our Charitable Foundation to local charities that support and augment our position as a responsible bank.
opportunities to borrow a bike free of support employment, financial education and the local environment, as well as grants charge through 59 bike libraries.
of up to 500 for employees involved with charities outside of work.
To support Social Bites campaign to end homelessness in Scotland, 300 staff took part in Sleep in the Park 2017.
Wild about Scotland reached 100,000 schoolchildren over our We are also proud to support the Yorkshire and Clydesdale Bank four-year partnership.
Charitable Foundation, which supports employee charitable giving, as well as providing grants to local charities, through the annual Social Bite 500,000 raised through Spirit of the Community Awards.
participation in Sleep in the Park.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 Stakeholder Interest and concerns How CYBG responds Engagement method Frequency groups Understanding our customers and anticipating their needs has been B is geared towards liberating people We introduced the concept of B-Toxing your finances to our customers and to UK Customers are at the heart of our business Customers our main focus in marketing and innovation this year.
28 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Delivering to our stakeholders Our culture Our colleagues are integral to our ongoing success and our overall business performance is dependent on their engagement and advocacy, underpinned by a strong risk culture.
Over the past year, significant progress has been made accelerating the cultural transformation of CYBG.
Our values and behaviours continue to be Employee well-being has also become a gender, age, disability, ethnicity and sexual embedded.
Our values Be ambitious, Be vital part of our cultural journey.
The orientation, all sponsored by members of courageous, Be all over it, Be curious and introduction of our first Well-being in the our Executive Leadership Team.
Be connected are brought to life Workplace survey has shown our Some specific highlights of the year include: through their associated behaviours.
Every commitment to creating an inclusive, safe team continues to personalise the and healthy environment where people can events and activities held to celebrate behaviours to their business area, and every excel.
The relaunch of our mental health and improve our awareness of colleague sets personal goals in relation to awareness training module and People International Womens Day, National our values to support their own Leader toolkit has helped ensure colleagues Inclusion Week, LGBT History Month development.
By turning words into feel supported and have the right tools and religious celebrations including actions, we are building a Group where available to them.
Raksha Bandhan and Eid-ul-adha: colleagues are focused on meeting the continuing to work closely with LGBT needs of both their own development and Engagement and communication Youth Scotland to broaden our reach our current and future customers.
We have continued to evolve and enhance and connection in the community, with the way we communicate with colleagues.
Great leadership framework has been in our LGBT network representing CYBG We have launched new digital channels place for a year and all leaders play a critical at Glasgow Pride for the second year: such as our weekly CEO email and role in creating culture and driving delivered diverse strategic content via our introducing our guidance to support performance.
Our leaders are being intranet relating to customers, our culture, colleagues transitioning in the supported, through targeted leadership business performance and community workplace and developing this work to development, to help them Lead with engagement.
We continue to have a highly ensure a smoother transitioning journey Purpose, Drive Inclusion, be Always Agile, visible CEO and Leadership Team and have for both colleagues and customers: and Grow Trust, Be Connected and Stretch expanded our interactive Lets Talk events.
working with colleagues to strengthen We have increased colleague engagement and modernise our existing practises in Recruitment and performance with social features, such as likes and relation to flexible working, attendance management have been overhauled this comments, and generated greater and family friendly policies.
year to reflect our cultural aims.
Our interaction with polls and surveys.
This year approach has been transformed to a our internal communications team lifted team-focused, forward-looking approach the Brilliance in Internal Communications helping every colleague to achieve their Campaign accolade at the IC Brilliance personal best.
Our new framework has Awards.
captured 100,000 pieces of feedback, created 28,000 well-being conversations Inclusion and ensured every colleague within the Inclusion is at the heart of our culture.
Its Group has had a development discussion.
We are committed Internal and external selection is based on to fostering and sustaining a truly inclusive our values, ensuring we recruit and culture where every colleague and promote colleagues aligned with our customer feels they belong.
colleagues to recognise this and work together to ensure inclusion achieves its Employee benefits have been transformed promise.
We ensure equality, diversity and this year through the launch of our Flex inclusion by concentrating on making sure Benefits portal, representing another key every colleague feels comfortable to be milestone in our cultural journey.
This new themselves, to ask questions, to be curious reward framework forms an integral part of and operate at their personal best.
our people strategy, recognising the diversity of colleagues and empowering We continue to make great strides in them to make the benefit choices developing a diverse and inclusive culture, appropriate for individual circumstances.
with five colleague network groups for Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 Gender pay gap Proportion of males and This year marks the second publication of our Gender Pay Gap report in females in each pay quartile accordance with the UK Government regulations for gender pay gap each containing just over 1,563 reporting.
While we are confident we do not have an equal pay issue, we are colleagues, shown lowest to highest committed to addressing the root causes of the gender pay gap.
As a signatory to the Women in Finance Charter, we have committed to a target of 40% females in senior management roles by 2020.
Over the course of the year we have There are a number of steps we are taking to Lower quartile developed a much greater understanding of improve our gender balance that we expect Female 74% the drivers of our gender pay gap and of the to positively impact our gender pay, including: Male 26% long-term actions required to address it.
Culture Our overall mean and median gender pay Introducing our Return to Work and bonus gap, based on a snapshot date of programme, to support women returners.
5 April 2018 pay and bonus paid in the 12 months to 5 April 2018, are: Working with colleagues to identify opportunities to enhance our flexible Mean Median working proposition, particularly in more 2018 2018 senior roles.
Hourly pay gap 36% 38% Bonus pay gap 56% 41% Reward Lower middle quartile In 2018, we focused on making positive Mean Median changes to our pay scale to target junior Female 78% 2017 2017 colleagues.
Male 22% Hourly pay gap 37% 36% We continue to formally link executive Bonus pay gap 58% 39% reward to our inclusion targets.
Percentage of colleagues who received a We conduct our equal pay audit in bonus: partnership with our trade union, Unite.
2018 2017 Development Male 93% 85% We continue to drive a gender-balanced Female 94% 90% intake of graduates.
The key driver behind the pay gap is that we This year we introduced our Career Upper middle quartile still have more men than women in senior Sponsorship programme to develop a Female 60% roles and more women than men in our diverse pipeline of future leaders.
customer facing roles, which are often more Male 40% We channel development opportunities junior.
In addition, our bonus pay gap is partly through our Inclusion networks.
driven by the fact that bonus calculations are not adjusted to reflect colleagues who We are encouraged that the changes we work part-time and, while we encourage all are making are having an impact.
In our last colleagues to work flexibly, the majority of colleague survey, 86% of colleagues believe those who currently do are women.
the Group supports workplace diversity and 82% feel the Group promotes an In leadership terms, we are committed to inclusive culture where they feel they can 40% women in senior roles by 2020.
As at come to work and be themselves.
Our strategy is to create a culture of Upper quartile As at 30 September 2018, our strong, diverse inclusion for everyone that works in the Female 35% and engaged network of colleagues included: long term interests of customers, Male 65% 5,762 permanent full-time equivalent colleagues and shareholders, as well as FTE, 59% of which are female, 41% society as whole.
male: We recognise that there is still a lot more three women and eight men on the to be done and building on the progress of Board: and this year, we will continue to shape a more diverse and inclusive culture at the Bank.
three women and seven men in our Executive Leadership Team.
30 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Delivering to our stakeholders Intensity ratio GHG emissions CO e tonnes 2 Environment The Group has chosen to use an intensity Scope 2018 2017 During the year, the Group made a ratio of GHG per average FTE for scope 1 Scope 1 emissions contribution towards the drive for a low and 2 emissions.
Using FTE offers a simple Generated from carbon and more resource efficient way to measure and monitor Group the gas and oil used economy through: performance on emissions and is also a in all buildings useful way to benchmark and compare reprocuring 100% renewable green where the Group with others.
energy for all electricity supplies within operates: emissions the Groups direct control for the next Scope 1 and 2 generated from two years: Group-owned and 2018 2017 leased vehicles changing waste management supplier to GHG emissions per used for business drive improved levels of recycling across average FTE 2.25 2.61 travel: and fugitive the business: emissions arising The only estimated emissions in the GHG continuing with the roll-out of advanced from the use of air emission data relate to energy consumed in building efficiency management systems conditioning and properties where the landlord controls the as part of the branch refurbishment chiller refrigerant supply and recharges the Group via a programme.
Such systems help plant to service the service charge arrangement or where automate controls to ensure we only Groups property actual meter readings were not available operate air conditioning units and portfolio.
In these instances an boilers within set operational hours and average rate per kWh has been used.
Scope 2 emissions can respond quickly to changes in Generated from the temperatures: and Independent limited assurance use of electricity in The Group engaged KPMG LLP to all buildings from retention of our Carbon Trust undertake an independent limited which the Group accreditation to December 2019. assurance engagement over the selected operates.
11,398r 14,247 information highlighted in this report with Reporting on greenhouse gases GHG Scope 3 emissions a r. emissions Relate to business The reporting period for GHG emissions in travel undertaken KPMG has issued an unqualified opinion the Group ran from 1 July 2017 to by all colleagues over the selected information.
The full 30 June 2018. using rail, private statement is available on the CYBG website.
vehicles, hired Total emissions for the Group have vehicles, contracted Progress against targets reduced by 16% in the last year.
Nearly half taxi services, air We have four environmental targets to of the reduction is driven by changes in the travel, waste, water measure the Groups performance over a emission factors as defined by the and paper.
5,938 6,803 three year period in comparison to a Department for Business, Energy & Total 20,436 24,347 baseline in June 2016.
We have made Industrial Strategy BEIS guidelines.
The strong progress against three.
While Group used the 2017 Department for BEIS The Group reports GHG emissions in improving by 2%, there is still work to do in emission factors due to the timing of the accordance with the GHG Protocol, which the next 12 months to increase the volume release of the 2018 emission factors.
The sets a global standard for how to measure, of recycling across the Groups operational largest change in emission factors is the manage and report GHG emissions.
The business through promoting staff awareness decarbonisation of electricity generated by above figures use location-based emissions.
and improving in-house recycling processes.
Using the same emission Using market-based emissions for energy Actions are well advanced and we should factor for both the 2017 and 2018 would reduce total scope 2 emissions for meet our 2019 target.
reporting years and accounting for the the Group from 11,398 to 506r as this impact of FTE and portfolio changes, the enables the Group to apply certificates that reduction in emissions would be 3%.
demonstrate electricity has been produced from renewable sources.
2016 restated 2018 2016-18 2019 2018 Area baseline actual % change % target performance GHG measured by CO e 22,602 20,436 10% 9% On target 2 Energy gas and electric measured by gigajoules GJ 165,541 150,779 9% 9% On target 3 Water consumption measured by m volume 77,286 71,749 7% 5% On target Recycling first line waste measured by % volume 74% 76% 2% 6% Behind target 2016 Baseline has been restated to reflect changes in emission factors, property portfolio and FTE numbers during the course of 2016 17.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 Modern Slavery Act statement CYBG has a zero tolerance to slavery, We are committed to working with our The statements detailing the actions we servitude, forced labour and human partners and suppliers to raise awareness have taken to achieve this can be found on trafficking Modern Slavery and is and understanding of modern slavery our website at: www.
com about-us committed to conducting business and eliminating the practice from the modern-slavery with honesty and integrity and treating supply chain.
everyone with dignity and respect.
Non-financial information statement We aim to comply with the new non-financial reporting requirements contained in Sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The table below, and the information it refers to, is intended to help stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial matters.
Policies and standards which Reporting requirement govern our approach Risk management and additional information Environmental matters Environmental Reporting Policy Environment, page 30 Employees Employee Conduct Policy: Colleagues, pages 26-27 Audit Committee report, Fit and Proper Policy: page 72 Our culture, page 28 Health and Safety Policy: Whistleblower Policy: Gender Pay Gap, page 29 Physical and Personal Security Policy: Corporate governance report, Inclusion Policy pages 62-67 Human rights Modern Slavery Statement: Modern Slavery Act, page 31 Risk report, page 121 Privacy and Data Protection Policy: Corporate governance report, Financial Crime risk, Information Security Policy: pages 62-67 page 168 Data Management Policy Risk Committee report, pages 79-83 Social matters Corporate Responsibility Policy: Community, pages 26-27 Political Contact, Communications and Corporate Governance report, Donations Policy: pages 62-67 Responsible Lending Policy: Sanctions and Embargo Policy Directors report, page 116 Anti-corruption and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy: Corporate governance report, anti-bribery Anti-Money Laundering and Counter pages 62-67 Terrorist Financing Policy: Financial crime risk, page 168 Preventing Fraud and Cyber-Enabled Crime Policy Policy embedding, due diligence and outcomes Risk overview, pages 16-17 Risk report pages 121-170 Description of principal risks and impact of business activity Risk overview, pages 16-17 Principal risks, page 17 How we create value, pages 12-13 Description of the business model Group at a glance, page 2 How we create value, pages 12-13 Non-financial key performance indicators Strategy and performance, Delivering to our pages 14-15 stakeholders, pages 26-29 Operational review, Environment, page 30 pages 20-24 32 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Case study Funding to improve the way we live CYBG is well regarded for its expertise in the healthcare sector specifically in care homes where we are viewed as experts in the changing needs of this multi-billion pound industry.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Funding to improve the way we live Oakdale Care Group This is yet another example of our Groups In 2016, Oakdale Care Group, a new commitment to supporting the ambitions elderly care home operator, secured a of SMEs in the Health and Social Care 13m funding package from Clydesdale sector.
Through the great work of our Bank.
The  Health and Social Care team, we have business has an aim to become a leading earned a strong and positive reputation provider of elderly care facilities with for providing expertise to these businesses plans to deliver three new 66-bed across the UK, helping to get major projects residential homes in the Northern Home off the ground that provide crucial support Counties region.
The Group plans to to vulnerable members of society.
create a chain of care homes offering over 600 beds, over the next few years.
Project Battersea A well-established developer of luxury The Group supported the development care homes for the elderly is in the of two of the homes now fully process of developing a new flagship completed as well as a third home set facility based in Battersea in London, to open in January 2019.
The Group with 19,956,000 support from recently acquired an outstanding CQC Clydesdale Bank.
The award-winning rating for the first home they built a Cinnamon Care Collection will redevelop huge achievement practically unheard the formerly closed Four Seasons York of in the industry and a testament to House Care Home, in order to increase the strong management team Clydesdale bed capacity from 58 to 78 beds, Bank has backed.
alongside the construction of 28 extra care units across two new floors on The care homes provide a mixture of top of the existing building.
The new residential and dementia care, and are care home will be the fifth project to be high-end facilities, providing cinema and funded by the Bank for Cinnamon Care, garden rooms, landscaped gardens, tea and its most ambitious to date in terms and coffee shops and much more, as well of the size of the development.
as being eco-friendly with solar panels.
The new facility will be located just a stones throw from one of Londons Oakdale chose Clydesdale Bank because most popular green spaces, Battersea of the Banks specialist knowledge in Park, in the Borough of Wandsworth, development funding and the healthcare and will provide high quality elderly sector, born from a wealth of previous care to residents.
experience in supporting the build of new care homes.
