170 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk report People risk Supporting our colleagues to build a successful, customer-centric business People risk is the risk associated with not Managing the people management Continued embedding of the having the right number of people in the framework: Controls are deployed people framework ensures right roles: appropriately trained and effectively by people leaders and senior overall people risk is competent: engaged: motivated: clear on management in the day-to-day maintained within risk appetite their responsibilities and accountabilities: management of people risk.
People risk who behave in an ethical way: and are indicators are constantly reviewed to during this period of treated fairly, with dignity and respect.
determine if any systemic issues exist significant change.
People risk is inherent and controlled and to agree appropriate remediation.
through a set of values, behaviours and The role of the HR function: HR policies.
partners support the CYBG Leadership Team and provides broader support to Risk appetite all colleagues regarding all matters The Group is evolving its structure to impacting the colleague life cycle which enable it to deliver on the core objectives runs from recruitment to leaving the of becoming a commercially focused, Group.
The Group has a three-tier high performing business.
While the model incorporating: ourPeople organisational structural changes being web-based : HR Services, supported by implemented to support the commercial specialist teams like Reward: objectives will drive an inherent increase in Organisational Development, Payroll: people risk, the Group is also focused on and Case Management: and finally full cultural transformation, which aims to business partnering to the CYBG create a high performing, customer-centric Leadership Team.
organisation and drive accountability and The Groups operational controls are responsibility, alongside appropriate reward designed to mitigate the risks associated structures.
throughout each element of the colleague The Group will not accept a material life cycle.
Bank-wide systems provide tools increase in risk as a result of colleagues not and online guidance to all colleagues to conducting themselves in the manner support them in discharging their expected, nor will the Group act in a accountabilities.
manner that may affect the health and well-being of colleagues.
The Group will Stress testing not take intentional action that may impact The people risks associated within a on its ambition to build an inclusive culture stressed scenario are automatically and will continue to embed activities that captured and analysed through the Groups support the required cultural change.
suite of operational risk scenarios.
These scenarios consider both the colleagues Approach to monitoring and mitigating needed to maintain business-as-usual exposures services to customers as well as the key People risk is managed in three core ways: subject matter experts needed to keep critical functions operating while under Managing people risk across the Group: duress.
The changing internal and external environment raises challenges relative to the Groups ability to manage people risk, as part of the overall business strategy.
The transformation of the banking industry is changing the demand for skills, particularly in relation to technology, information security, serving customers digitally and responding to market developments.
The Groups operating controls, are effective in managing these risks and there is a focus on the Groups ability to plan and predict resource needs during this period of cost challenges, and increased use of technology.
