Corporate Social Responsibility Tony Griffin Managing Director, Dechra Veterinary Products EU Katy Clough Group HR Director The Board takes ultimate responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility and is committed to developing and implementing appropriate policies that create and maintain long term value for all stakeholders.
Sound business ethics help to minimise risk, ensure legal compliance and enhance Company efficiency.
Code of Conduct Dechra established a Code of Conduct in August 2009, which sets out the standards of conduct to be adopted by all employees.
During the year, reflecting organic and acquisition growth, the Board approved a revised Code of Conduct, which encompasses the Groups Values and the standards of conduct to be adopted by all Dechra businesses worldwide.
The Code of Conduct incorporates a number of our policies and standards to enable us to act with integrity and honesty, and includes Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption ABC, Sanctions, Data Protection, Modern Slavery, Health and Safety and Donations.
In a number of areas the standards are supported by more detailed Group or local policies and procedures.
During the year we have also relaunched and renamed our Whistleblowing Policy now referred to as How to Raise a Concern.
The procedure encourages all employees to report anything which they believe is a breach of Dechras standards of conduct via one of four reporting channels.
Any concern will be taken seriously and the individual will be treated fairly, confidentially and with discretion.
During the forthcoming financial year, both the refreshed Code of Conduct and the How to Raise a Concern procedure will be translated into local languages.
Our Code of Conduct sets the standard of how we interact with our stakeholders and wider community, and is based around four pillars: Our People, Our Community, Our Environment and Our Business.
Pillar Policy Objectives Our People A great and safe place to work.
Leverage the Dechra Values and culture.
We value difference and believe diversity Maintain high levels of employee engagement.
of people, skills and abilities is a strength Reinforce a culture of safe working practices.
that helps us to achieve our best.
Our Community To contribute to the social and economic Contribute towards charitable causes through the donation of time, welfare of the local communities in which products and skills.
Our Environment We are committed to minimising Minimise our environmental footprint.
the impact of our operations on the Optimise the energy we use.
environment by adopting responsible environmental practices and complying To utilise the most eco-friendly and financially cost effective distribution with applicable environmental legislation.
Wherever practicable, to use sustainable raw materials in our pet diets.
Our Business We are committed to acting responsibly Maintain and improve the knowledge and skills of veterinarians who and with integrity.
We comply with the laws prescribe and use our products.
and regulations and respect the traditions To act honestly and with integrity.
and cultures of the countries within which we operate.
To develop products to improve animal welfare.
The progress in relation to the above objectives is described further in this report.
42 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Our People At Dechra, our people are our greatest asset and underpin everything we do in the business.
We recognise that the diversity of our team and an inclusive culture is beneficial for our business, its processes, and its performance.
Our objective is to continue to be a high performing business driven by highly skilled and committed teams.
Accordingly, we are committed to: strengthening and communicating the Dechra culture and ensuring our values encompass our business ethics and standards: attracting, retaining and developing talent to build and maintain a top quality team: and developing effective succession plans to ensure business continuity.
In delivering these aims, it is the Groups policy to recruit and promote people on the basis of their personal ability, contribution and potential, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, race, colour, ethnicity, disability, religion, political affiliation or union membership.
We are committed to ensuring that everywhere across our Group we promote, support and maintain a culture of fairness, respect and equal opportunity for all.
The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled people, where they adequately fulfil the requirements of the role.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy, whenever practicable, to provide continuing employment under the Groups terms and conditions and to provide training and career development whenever appropriate.
The Group does not tolerate bullying and harassment.
We are committed to fair employment practices and comply with national legal requirements regarding wages and working hours.
During the year the Board formalised its diversity policy further details of which can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 80 to 82.
Our original people plan was developed four years ago to support the delivery of the Groups Accelerate five year plan.
Following significant progress, we Performance adapted the people plan in the 2017 financial year to support the delivery of the evolving business goals.
Accelerate Performance: Creation Align employee efforts and drive productivity Grow Our of Shared through effective goal setting, feedback and Own Talent focus on development.
Services Grow Our Own Talent: Attract retain and develop the right talent in the right place at the right time.
Strong Culture and Values: How we do things round here.
Engaged and Committed Workforce: A great place to work.
Strong Healthy Workplace: Healthy Culture and Improving the working lives of our people.
Workplace Values Creation of Shared Services: Efficient infrastructure supporting commercial operations.
Engaged and Committed Workforce Stock Code: DPH 43 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Attract, Retain and Develop Talent Hayley Barritt, currently a materials planner, has recently completed Dechra is committed to enhancing the skills of our workforce, planning her three years Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply studies for a successful future and creating a sustainable talent pipeline.
and has achieved full membership status.
Hayley has worked full time throughout the period.
She said: Studying while working full time is really Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing DPM difficult, but this achievement has made it all worthwhile.
The diploma has A total of ten trainees have been working at the Zagreb site gaining really strengthened my subject knowledge and confidence.
valuable experience to set each of these talented graduates up for successful careers.
Dechra Veterinary Products EU DVP EU We have centrally implemented a Dechra Sales Academy, the aim of which is to help improve commercial and coaching skills across the business in a wider culture of continuous improvement.
As well as developing a common language on leadership and sales, improving and Marina Zubcic securing a standard level of sales, and delivering a consistent and high When I applied for level of sales support throughout the organisation.
this position in Dechra The Dechra Sales Academy contains Leadership, Management and Sales Quality Control for programmes for all countries within the European business.
This year vaccines I honestly we successfully conducted the Success Through Leadership and the did not know what Success through Management programmes.
These programmes focused to expect since I on the concept of High Performing Teams, which will facilitate an increase graduated from my in the sales level within these teams.
Across a two year period we will degree course in conduct the Success through Sales programme in all DVP EU countries.
But We will continue to develop our employees by holding refreshment days, from the information I programmes for new employees, mentor programmes and team building got from the Companys website I knew this was the position for sessions around the High Performing Team methodology.
me and I have been proved right.
At the Sansaw offices, UK, Maisie Grew is undertaking a Customer Services I have learned so much in a relatively short time and am aware Practitioner apprenticeship.
Maisie joined Dechra after studying Business and that I still have a lot to learn.
The people in my lab are like a little Events Management at Reaseheath College for two years.
Whenever there is build of work in analysis, other people in her apprenticeship, taking everything in her stride including adapting to new jump in to help, everyone participates in the planning of the work, systems and varied pressures on a daily basis and has already demonstrated every persons word is heard and acknowledged.
I am really herself to be a vital member of the UK and Ireland Customer Services team.
happy that I have had the opportunity to work here because the experience that I am getting is invaluable.
Andrea Krianac Product Development Your first job teaches you how to apply those techniques Katherine Palmatier, you have learned at college in the real world, I can say I am Product Development Coordinator really grateful that my first job was at Dechra.
I have learnt My career development was just beginning when I came to new skills, gained valuable on the job training, and have Dechra almost four years ago as an administrative assistant.
These nine months have been exciting Joining the global product development team put me in a prime and inspirational.
I met such great people and real experts position at the ground level of the organisation to learn more in different areas.
I have always dreamed of being a part of about the overall veterinary pharmaceutical industry, collaborate company because of its culture and people and I can tell I found with many Dechra team members around the world, and this in Dechra.
It all takes time and the right attitude to learn.
familiarise myself with various departments and operations within Accomplishment in such small tasks only gives you the courage the Company.
to take up bigger projects.
So, I hope I will continue to be part of this story and contribute with my work to the Companys Although this role was a great learning opportunity, as time passed development and success.
I began to feel ready to take on something new at Dechra.
I was fortunate to receive guidance and career counselling from my direct manager, human resources and an external career counsellor to At Skipton, UK, we have had several employees undertake NVQ enhance this discovery process.
programmes in a variety of departments.
The site is working with Cogent as its Apprenticeship partner to plan ongoing development in developing It was important for me to determine where could I add value at its managers and skills in quality and production.
The engineering Dechra along with satisfying my professional and personal goals.
apprenticeship programme continues to go from strength to strength.
A The guidance I received helped me identify my strengths and focus key highlight, showing the incredible calibre of employees is demonstrated and concentrate my thoughts on the direct path ahead.
As a result, by our second year apprentice, Stephanie Thorne.
Her previous roles were I was promoted into the role of Product Development Coordinator all administration, but her true passion lies in engineering.
This has been and now manage my successor in the administrative assistant role.
evident throughout her life as she volunteers with a local steam train group I have realised from this overall process that development is not and is a fully qualified fire fighter.
Her interest in fixing things and striving to easy there will always be new behaviours to learn in order to learn has resulted in her winning the college Apprentice of the Year.
Her rise to the challenges ahead.
While this can seem intimidating at tutor, Dave Crook, said the reason why she was nominated was that she first, reflecting on the support I have received from Dechra and excelled in all her work from the year before, bringing all her course work in what I have learned during this process will assuredly help me to ahead of schedule, and then helping others with their work.
be able to advance my career more confidently in the future.
44 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Dechra Veterinary Products North America DVP NA Consistent with our values, we encourage employees to have honest conversations about their needs, aspirations and ambitions.
This year, within the DVP NA team, we have transitioned a territory manager into an inside sales representatives position that was better suited to her supporting her work life balance and personal needs.
Leverage the Dechra Values and Culture Our culture and Values are important to us and have helped to drive the Groups success.
We believe that our Values encapsulate our business ethics and set the standards that we wish to achieve and ultimately exceed.
They outline the type of people we are, the services we provide and the way we aim to do business.
Dedication Enjoyment Courage We are dedicated to We will provide We want a business delivering products challenge for our where we dare to and services that people within their challenge each meet the highest roles to help them other, creating better level of service stay motivated cross-organisational and quality to our and engaged.
We take will endeavour to an environment pride in and are committed to our jobs create an environment where our people where innovation and creativity can within Dechra.
Through the ownership of want to come to work and feel a part flourish.
We encourage each person to be our responsibilities we will contribute to of Dechra.
We will develop ourselves pro-active and to take initiatives.
We will the competitiveness of our business in personally and professionally.
We want encourage everyone to have confidence the marketplace.
We constantly look for an environment that encourages learning in themselves and have the strength and better ways to do things, resulting in a and development and will achieve evercharacter to question the status quo.
We culture of continuous improvement.
We will will nurture individuality and free thinking, encourage people to make decisions and generate enthusiasm and energy through thereby creating a strong and competitive accept there may be mistakes that will positive thinking and actions.
form part of our learning experience.
Honesty Relationships Ambition We will act with We see our We are goal oriented integrity and fairness customers and and shall deliver and treat everyone suppliers as solid results through with respect.
We are business partners our energetic and honest and open and thereby work resilient approach in all interactions.
together to ensure throughout the Openness is common success.
Our supported at all levels of the organisation.
We know that success is not built on the ambitions shall ensure that we at all In our business every job is important.
We performance of an individual, therefore times deliver the highest possible levels value each persons contributions to the we encourage co-operation and crossof quality and services to our customers business as much as we value our own.
organisational team working to produce and to each other.
We are determined better results together.
to do our best and to celebrate as many successes as possible.
Stock Code: DPH 45 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Maintain High Levels of Employee Engagement Overall, we are extremely pleased with our first ever engagement survey Informing and engaging our employees through internal channels of results and our HR team is now working with our business areas to communication is of utmost importance to the Group.
We have multiple provide them with their results, and are working with them to identify one channels of communication to provide both formal and informal updates or two key areas of focus and agree a corresponding action plan for the including a Group newsletter that is issued twice a year following the forthcoming 12 months.
half-yearly and year end results, intranets, management and team Global SAYE meetings at the respective business units.
These keep our employees The existing Dechra UK SAYE scheme which has been in place since informed of the financial performance of the Group, as well as the 2001 has proved a popular benefit to our UK employees with the sharing of updates which are relevant to all Group employees such November 2017 grant having a 51% uptake.
As Dechra continues to as the introduction of new technology, any management changes or expand internationally we receive regular feedback and requests from restructuring, updates on corporate social responsibility activities, and employees and managers who want to be able to enjoy the benefits of progress in relation to our strategic objectives.
participation in a share save scheme.
At Dechra, people are our greatest asset.
We have attracted and Therefore we would like to offer the majority of our existing employee retained qualified and skilled employees, and to retain our current base the opportunity to benefit from share ownership which will provide employees and attract new employees we wanted to: a more equitable approach to our global reward schemes.
The current gain an understanding of how our employees, collectively, see SAYE scheme rules are due for renewal in October 2020, and it is Dechra as a place to work today: and proposed to ask for shareholder approval of new UK rules along with an International Plan at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in shape Dechras HR strategy and priorities through a better October 2018 and to authorise the Directors to adopt an employee understanding of our collective strengths and opportunities.
stock purchase plan ESPP as a sub-plan of the International SAYE.
To achieve these objectives we The launch will, subject to shareholder approval, be in September 2019 decided to launch our very first initially to a limited number of countries: Australia, Croatia, Denmark, engagement survey and after France, Germany, the Netherlands and the USA.
Along with the UK, this considering a number of external will represent 87% of our global employee base.
partners, Great Place to Work Culture of Safe Working Practices GPTW was selected as our Tony Griffin is the nominated Director responsible for health, safety and engagement partner.
The Group attaches great importance to the Institute runs the worlds largest health and safety of its employees and the public.
The safety of our employee survey and recognition employees is paramount and that means continuing to reinforce good programme, and works with safety management practices as well as raising awareness of improved around 9,800 organisations ways of working.
Management are responsible for, and committed to, globally including a significant the maintenance, monitoring and promotion of a policy of health and number of other pharmaceutical safety at work to nurture the care and well-being of our employees and clients.
A number of communications were Any material health and safety issues or incidents that occur are shared with our employees globally discussed in detail at both business unit senior management meetings to inform them that the engagement survey would be launched in March and PLC Board meetings.
Discussions include details of incidents and 2018.
The communications asked our employees to provide open and any remedial action taken to mitigate or prevent recurrence.
Managers also held briefing sessions with their teams a comprehensive health and safety report is presented to the PLC Board to share the GPTW presentation to build an understanding of why meeting for discussion and review by the Directors.
Dechra was launching the survey.
We also used posters across our sites as a reminder to our teams of the importance of their input.
To continue to improve the safety performance across both existing and newly acquired facilities and to reflect the priority that is given across the Following the completion of the engagement survey, videos were posted business to safety, a proactive hazard awareness reporting initiative was to thank our teams for their input.
introduced and rolled out across Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Dechra received an 87% response which is fantastic for a first global DPM in the 2017 financial year.
engagement survey, and as shared by GPTW, very rarely seen for a first 2018 2017 survey launch.
Investigated Accidents all 43 69 The global high level results of survey are: Hazard Reports 1474 1706 Engagement level of 75% 18 percentage points higher than the For a number of years the Group has reported Lost Time Accident benchmark : Frequency Rate LTAFR as a non-financial key performance indicator Trust index level of 67%: and see page 29.
A LTA is any absence or the inability of workers to 74% of our employees stating that Dechra is a great place to work conduct their full range of their normal working activities for a period of 18 percentage points higher than the benchmark.
more than three working days after the day when the incident occurred.
Any acquisitions during the year are included from the first full month Some of our top strengths as an organisation are shown to be: that they become part of the Dechra Group.
Over the course of the last 12 months the number of incidents has decreased from six to nil.
Diversity 84%, 16 percentage points higher than the benchmark : Empowerment and Accountability 75%, 9 percentage points higher 2018 UK National Average, medium sized businesses.
than the benchmark : Our Culture 75%, 14 percentage points higher than the benchmark.
As our Group is very diverse we have had a range of scores with a distinction between the engagement levels of our employees based in manufacturing sites and our other key employee groups.
46 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Lost Time Accidents and Proactive EHS The Group has now achieved a year without a lost time accident, Dechra standards, as well as the ability to use these findings to and this is particularly important within our manufacturing sites where produce an action plan that will enable all areas to achieve standards historically the majority of the lost time accidents have occurred.
These results have arisen from placing a huge emphasis on creating an The current round of safety open safety culture of motivating people to report and discuss hazards audits provides all sites the and observations.
Having this open safety culture provides us with the opportunity to target key areas opportunities to fix problems before an accident can occur.
and enables us to invest in areas that will produce the best results This has resulted in a total of over 1,400 hazard reports across all to further enhance our safety sites, with the Zagreb facility alone reporting almost 900 hazards performance.
We are all extremely proud of the The year has seen a heavy investment in safety training.
The Melbourne progress our sites have made site has delivered safety training on a monthly basis and the Skipton in health and safety thus far, site has delivered approximately 2,000 hours of safety training.
This but we are determined to push investment has resulted in a much more engaged and proactive standards even further during the workforce that are not only reporting problems but providing answers course of next year.
All sites have increased the focus on safety and building blocks have been put into place in order further to improve our safety performance.
An audit programme has been launched which gives the business the ability to measure all areas against the agreed Our Community The Board encourages the business units to contribute to the social and economic welfare of the local communities in which they operate.
It recognises that by taking voluntary action in this area it is helping to protect and develop its own business.
Donations in Kind Type of Charity Charity Jurisdiction Description Animal Danish Cat Shelter Denmark Specific Cat Diets Animal AVA Association France 100 Arthroquin units 11,873 Animal KDPG France 20 Bags of dog nutrition 709 DPM Volunteering During the January 2018 team meeting in Melbourne, the DPM team will provide a no-kill animal sanctuary for all types of domesticated as well as members of the DVP NA sales team participated in a CSR animals, and offering the community the opportunity to experience event at the Friends for Animals Sanctuary.
The sanctuary was in the the benefits of adopting and caring for these animals.
construction phase, so team members helped by moving debris, clearing walkways and fence lines.
When completed the sanctuary Stock Code: DPH 47 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Record-setting storms, earthquakes, wildfires, extreme flooding, and landslides devastated communities across North America in 2017.
DVP NA team members responded with supplies and helpful hands.
Hurricane Harvey Hurricane Irma On August 29, 2017, Hurricane Harvey hit the Texas Gulf Coast.
Hurricane Irma hit North Florida in September 2017, some areas Greater Houston was hit particularly hard with over 40 inches were without power for up to three weeks, multiple clinics were of rain and devastating floods resulting in over 20 Veterinary flooded, and homes completely destroyed.
Blair Davies, the sales Hospitals temporarily closing in the area.
DVP NA management representative for the area, delivered Dechra donated products coordinated the shipment of shampoos and sprays for the and offered assistance to clinics and hospitals in her area, helping Disaster Relief Team at Texas A & M College of Veterinary to restore their facilities and get their businesses back up and Medicine & Biomedical Sciences who helped rescue and care for running.
Sandy Forehand, Territory Sales Manager Eastern pets impacted by the disaster.
Florida, delivered Dechra donated products and offered her time to local rescue groups who were housing and caring for Alexis Hein, Territory Sales Manager Houston, and her husband, abandoned animals.
collected donations of supplies, including Dechra products, for the Houston Pets Alive group where they volunteered their time supporting the organisations efforts to rescue, treat, and reunite dogs with their owners.
Alexis also delivered donations to a local veterinarian for people and pets sheltered at Houstons NRG stadium.
Bay Area California Wildfires caused damaged in the Bay Area California as well as Santa Barbara and Ventura Counties, which also endured torrential rain falls causing mudslides.
Jen Ball in the Bay Area and Brian Albertson in Santa Barbara and Ventura Counties, have devoted their efforts to supporting the veterinary communities in their territories with donations of fluids, medicine, and their time.
Other Non Financial Donations In December 2017, Jennifer McGowan, Office Manager in Portland, led a drive to collect much needed supplies for the Animal Refuge League of Greater Portlands new 25,000 square foot facility.
On 6 June 2018, Dechra Canada donated water solutions, wipes, and shampoo to the Lions Foundation of Canada Dog Guides whose mission is to assist Canadians with a medical or physical disability by providing them Dog Guides at no cost.
Alexis Hein and husband Kurt deliver donated Dechra products to Guide dogs of the Lions Foundation of Canada Dog Houston Pets Alive after Hurricane Harvey affected the Greater Houston Guides pose with Dechra donated products.
48 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Financial Donations This is the seventh year in which the Group has operated a Donations Policy.
All employees within the Group are entitled to nominate a charity or a non-commercial organisation, and each year the number of nominations received increases.
This year we decided to increase the overall donation spend from 30,000 to 40,000, which was split equally between the following 20 charities: Type of Charity Charity Country Description Animal Cindys Promise Australia Working to rescue and rehabilitate neglected and abandoned horses.
Rescue and Rehab Inc. Tacke Pomagacke Slovenia Provides animal assisted therapy, activity and education.
Asociacin BaasGalgo Spain Provides care to abandoned greyhounds across Spain.
Smokey Paws UK Supplying specially designed animal oxygen masks to help save the lives of thousands of pets and wildlife caught up in fires or trapped in stressful situations.
Animal Refuge League of USA Provides care and shelter for stray or abandoned animals.
Greater Portland K9s on the Frontline USA Supplying fully trained service dogs at no cost to combat veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.
S. N. I. P. Spay Neuter USA Providing spay, neuter and vaccine clinics on the Pine Ridge Native American Impact Project Reservation.
Environment SeaWatchers VLIZ Belgium Assessing the impact of pollution, climate change and the exploitation of ocean resources.
Promoter of the Mexico Promoting the conservation of natural ecosystems.
Conservation of Culture and the Environment AC People Association Vestigium Croatia Helping the residents of Vrbani, one of Zagrebs newest neighbourhoods, with various community support projects.
FB Humanitarians Zagreb Croatia Helping people in need meet their basic life needs with practical things such as food, hygiene supplies and medicines.
New Future Croatia Ensuring children without adequate parental care can meet basic needs such as housing, nutrition, clothing, health care, education and leisure activities.
Udruga OSIT Croatia Supporting mentally challenged people by organising workshops, projects, trips and excursions.
Fuballverein Neufra Germany A registered football and sports club in Neufra on the Danube Biberach district.
e. V. Helferkreis Waldburg Germany Assisting refugees.
Aqu Nadie se Rinde Mexico Supporting children who are fighting against cancer.
A. P. Abirmeco Mexico Developing a digital educational programme for parents or guardians with the aim of improving the upbringing of children and eliminating school, intra-family and social violence.
More Africa Africa Aiming to provide every child on the island of Zanzibar with an education, especially children with any kind of disability.
Active Hope UK Supporting disadvantaged children in the Warrington area.
Cass County 4-H Dog USA Providing weekly training sessions to teach children about dogs.
Group In addition to the annual Group donation, each business unit has discretion to allocate funds to local community groups, employee nominated charities and or animal welfare charities.
Below is a selection of what has taken place during the 2018 financial year.
Business Unit Jurisdiction Amount Description Apex Australia 206 Donation to Cancer Research.
DPM Skipton UK 575 Donations to Yorkshire Cat Rescue, Pendle Dogs in Need, Moorland Rescue and Cancer Charity.
DVP Denmark International 1,376 Sponsoring the education of three children in India, Kenya and Philippines and Danish Cancer Society.
DVP EU International 46,713 Circle of Good: Donations to North Sea Foundation, Marine Conversation Society, Tour fide Fundacja, The Ocean Clean Up and a study on the containment levels in fish.
DVP Germany Germany 682 Donations to Aulendorf Carnival, Veterinarians Without Borders, and Society for Cynological Research.
Genera Croatia 595 Donation to support young chemists meeting.
Genera Slovenia 320 Donation to the Slovenian beekeeping organisation.
PDRA USA 371 Donation to a project to develop an alternative to the veterinary fastidious medium.
Portland Stock Code: DPH 49 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our Environment Minimise our Environmental Footprint The Group recognises the importance of good environmental controls.
It is the Groups policy to comply with environmental legislation currently in place, to adopt responsible environmental practices and to give consideration to minimising the impact of its operations on the environment.
The increase was a result of the hurricane damage to stock, which could not be recycled.
Our central logistics hub for Europe the Dechra Service Center DSC has continued with its annual contribution of DKK15,000 to Energreen ApS for the construction of new green energy production facilities within Denmark.
Optimise the Energy Used Greenhouse Gas Emissions In order to determine our carbon emissions, we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and have reported on emissions arising from those sources over which we have operational control the exception being the inclusion of a third party manufacturer who leases part of our facility in Uldum, Denmark.
Any acquisitions during the year are included from the first full month that they become part of the Dechra Group.
The disclosures below encompass: Scope 1: includes emission from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities excluding combustion of fuel from Company cars : Scope 2: includes emissions from purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling: and Vehicle emissions.
Dechra has selected Tonnes of CO e per total million sales revenue as the intensity ratio as this is a relevant indicator of the Groups growth.
2 1 July 2017 to 1 July 2016 to 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 Scope 1 3,819 4,018 3,434 Scope 2 3,463 3,890 3,130 Vehicle emissions 1,703 1,618 1,511 Total Carbon Footprint tonnes of CO e 8,985 9,526 8,075 2 Intensity ratio tonnes of CO e per m 22.1 26.5 32.6 2 As reported in last years report, the main contributor to Scope 1 is the production of the nutrition supplement that is manufactured at Genera.
This was explained in a case study in the 2016 Annual Report.
This site has plans to reduce its carbon footprint by installing solar panels as detailed in the case study on the following page.
The intensity ratio has decreased by 4.4 tonnes of CO e per total million sales revenue.
The decrease is partially due to the continued monitoring 2 and optimising of the energy resources used at our manufacturing facilities and at the DSC.
However the majority of the decrease was due to the reduction in the production of the nutrition supplement manufactured at Genera.
During the year, the Senior Executive Team SET agreed that it would adopt a policy of replacing all non-LED lighting to LED lighting over the next five years within its control.
All of the lighting at the manufacturing facility in Florida and DSC are LED, and 70% of the Skipton site is covered by LED with the remainder due for completion in the 2019 financial year.
A replacement programme is being undertaken at Bladel and Zagreb.
During the year more than 100 bulbs were replaced with LED lighting in Zagreb, and phase one has been completed in Bladel, which covers the warehouse and the visual inspection room.
50 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Case Study: Solar Renewable Energy Project supported by EU Funds Our manufacturing facility in Zagreb has the opportunity to build a The annualised level of electric power generation is expected to solar power plant on its site.
The installation, costing 1.3 million, be approximately 1,545,000 kWh, which would provide nearly will be partially subsidised 60% by EU funds.
The Croatian 30% of the sites electric power requirements and represents a Ministry of Environment and Energy has announced that this will yearly saving of 150,000. be the largest solar renewable energy project in Croatia, with Installation will start in October 2018 and is due to complete in 5,540 photovoltaic PV panels being fitted onto the existing roof June 2019. structures across the site.
Currently 100% of energy is sourced via the main grid.
Energy costs in the EU are increasing and are predicted to continue to rise, coupled with the fact that it is planned that the Zagreb facility will increase its volume number of packs over the next five years, it is especially important from both a business and environmental perspective to utilise a renewable and sustainable energy source.
The implementation of this project is projected to reduce the sites CO footprint by approximately 556 tonnes, which equates 2 to 6.2% of the Companys total CO emissions in 2018.
It will 2 also lower variable costs, mitigate the risks of electricity price fluctuations, and will have a direct impact on reducing the cost of goods sold.
Finally, the project will fide-risk the sites energy supply by securing its own source of electricity via renewable sources.
Eco-friendly and Financially Cost-Effective Distribution Systems 2018 2017 The transportation of goods is the largest activity for DSC.
On a yearly Shipments 30,409 23,625 basis they handle approximately 45,000 deliveries to customers Total Weight GRT 16,665,247 25,060,715 worldwide as well as receiving and storing approximately 1,300 full CO Outlet kg 1,393,046 1,703,377 truck deliveries.
Although the cost of transport is the predominant 2 CO per kg 12.2 14.8 factor for choice of transportation, DSC has reviewed the method of 2 transportation to find a form of transportation with the lowest carbon Sustainable Raw Materials in Our Nutrition Range footprint.
Since 2015, we have been reviewing the ingredients of our dry food to The majority of the pharmaceutical products received by DSC are establish whether they can be obtained from a sustainable source.
The supplied from our manufacturing sites in Bladel, the Netherlands and raw materials are reviewed on a yearly basis for scarcity, and, if scarce, Skipton, the UK.
The products from Bladel are transported by road, we endeavour to find an alternative raw material.
Our focused action on whereas the products from UK are shipped by sea and road.
the fish raw materials has resulted in the use of 100% certified fish in the dry cat diets from January 2018.
Further information on how changes in Products are shipped to our customers by road, air and sea.
As the our packaging have reduced our plastic usage and freight is provided in majority of the customers are based in Europe, road transportation is the the Strategy in Action case study on pages 32 and 33. main method.
The following table shows the CO emission for this form 2 of transportation: Stock Code: DPH 51 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Collaboration with Industry Our Business Dechras Product Development team strategically looks for opportunities Improve the Knowledge and Skills of Veterinarians to involve its team members with key professional and industry Our relationship with veterinarians is key to our business and therefore, organisations.
This has the benefits of directly increasing employees we provide added value services in the form of educational programmes scientific and regulatory knowledge, as well as the opportunity to focused on our key therapeutic sectors.
We deliver this education develop leadership skills.
through many channels including conferences and our digital e-learning environment, the Dechra Academy.
The University of Kansas has collaborated with industry and the FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine CVM to offer an ongoing seminar series Dechra Academy covering topics that are key to veterinary drug development.
Members Dechras dedication and commitment to enhancing the health of animals of the Dechra Clinical Operations team have been speakers at two of goes beyond the supply of high quality pharmaceuticals and includes these seminars.
Karen Bond, Senior Clinical Trial Manager, presented vital education for animal health professionals.
The Dechra Academy on Data Quality from a study monitors standpoint and Lisa Andreas, provides information that will help them better diagnose, monitor Senior Clinical Data Manager, presented on the importance of Data and treat conditions and aid the easy and convenient use of Dechra Management Plans in the conduct of clinical studies.
were extremely well received and sparked discussions within the Previously the Dechra Academy offer was mostly UK centred, it is now industry on best practices.
firmly internationally oriented and provides Continuous Professional Three of the members of the Clinical Operations team are actively Development CPD recognition by individual countries authorities.
involved in a cross functional working group that consists of a There are 94 courses available in our Dechra Academy a significant collaboration of three industry associations along with FDA CVM and increase from a year ago driven by making training available in multiple is tasked with identifying best practices and optimal requirements for languages.
The Dechra Academy offers 122 hours of accredited content creation and submission of electronic data in both clinical and laboratory across nine markets in eight languages.
A number of new courses studies.
This working group is about to release a white paper which will have also been created this year in the strategic therapy areas of provide suggestions to FDA CVM regarding their policy on the issue.
Ben Moses, Clinical Operations Manager, regularly participates in the On top of that, over 130 internal modules are available on Delta our Society of Quality Assurance, the American Academy of Veterinary internal training resource to enable Dechra employees to continue to be Pharmacology and Therapeutics, and the Generic Animal Drug Alliance the best partners to the veterinary profession.
Ben is also the Chair of the Bioequivalence Subgroup at Earlier this year Dechra launched an email campaign across Europe, GADA, which provides excellent leadership opportunities and allows designed to drive professionals to the Dechra Academy.
The successful Dechra to help shape the evolving regulatory expectations related to the campaign was a major contributor to almost 10,000 new user accounts development of generic drugs.
this year alone that saw our user numbers grow 28% and triple in four years.
The Dechra Academy was used in over 37,000 sessions with more than 6,000 users visiting the site more than once this year.
The updated Dechra Academy and internal Delta system are now working on the same platform.
We will continue to update both, presenting relevant training and education in new ways to cater better for the changing requirements in an increasingly information-rich business environment.
As Dechra grows globally, more CPD content is becoming available to more countries all the time, with recognition approval currently in progress for the USA and Canada.
52 52 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com To Act with Honesty and Integrity We are committed to acting responsibly and with integrity, respecting the laws, regulations, traditions and cultures of the countries within Case Study: which we operate.
This is reflected through our Values.
We expect our Academia and Industry Working together third parties to trade with honesty and integrity, and therefore we have introduced a Third Party Code of Conduct, which communicates what The combination of the skills and expertise of our best academic we expect from our trading partners in relation to health, safety and organisations and industry leads to positive and practical environmental standards, internationally accepted standards of workers outcomes.
A good example of this type of collaboration was rights, use of child and forced labour, ethical standards, anti-bribery and when Dechra, and the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences anti-corruption, and compliance with relevant laws and regulations.
Research Council BBSRC funded a four year iCASE PhD programme at the Royal Veterinary College, University of London ABC Training for Employees supervised by Prof. Ross Bond and Dr Anette Loeffler.
Sin-Marie During this financial year the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption course Frosini ne Clark undertook the studies to support the use of on our e-learning platform Delta was completed by a further 381 topical therapy medication that is applied directly on to the skin employees as well as those employees from Dechra-Brovel, AST Farma like a cream or gel rather than given as a tablet or injection in and Let Vet.
The course has been translated into nine languages, the treatment of bacterial skin infections in dogs.
In this era of and it is an automatic mandatory course, within one month of growing awareness of antibiotic resistance, topical treatments commencement, for all new employees.
are being seen as a better means for treating certain infections.
Human Rights This project generated three publications, five meeting abstracts Dechra is committed to upholding and respecting human rights both at international conferences and resulted in the award of three within our business and from our suppliers.
However, Dechra does not prizes, with a number of manuscripts still in the pipeline for currently have a separate human rights policy.
Alongside traditional research, Sin-Marie undertook a six month placement at the DVP EU UK office where she Animal Welfare worked alongside the dermatology product group, most notably It is our mission to develop products to improve animal welfare.
We are creating a new Dechra Academy CPD module.
committed to the responsible use and humane treatment of animals.
We carefully consider the use of animals in research.
However, occasionally Overall, this collaboration has provided compelling evidence it is necessary to conduct toxicology testing to achieve product in support of topical therapy, and specifically fusidic acid, as registrations.
The majority of the toxicology information can be derived an alternative to systemic antimicrobials, such as an injection from existing bibliographic data, when additional data is required by or tablet, for the treatment of bacterial skin infections in dogs.
the regulators a third party Contract Research Organisation CRO will Fusidic acid is one of the active ingredients contained in three of undertake the study on a minimum number of animals.
Dechras leading products: Isaderm, Isathal, and Canaural.
The following principles are applied in any trials which involve animals: Current guidelines encourage treatment using topical therapy in an effort to limit the spread of antimicrobial resistant bacteria and animals should be treated humanely with greatest consideration promote good antimicrobial stewardship.
However, behaviour given to their health and welfare and consistent with meeting the changes in veterinary practice are slow, and this project provides necessary scientific objectives.
timely confirmation that concentrations of topically applied fusidic all animal studies should only be performed after considering whether acid on the skin far exceed clinical resistance breakpoints, in the numbers of animals can be reduced, replaced or the procedures other words the point at which the antibiotic defeats the bacteria.
This excellent evidence helps to encourage veterinarians to change their prescribing habits and follow current recognised treatment guidelines for canine superficial pyoderma bacterial skin infection.
Most strikingly, the novel methods developed during this project could help the microbiologists to determine resistance breakpoints specifically for topical therapies such as the fusidic acid contained in Isaderm gel.
Currently, these breakpoints are based on systemic therapies, and are often misinterpreted for topical-only antimicrobials.
Development of this novel method into a system to determine clinical breakpoints based on topical application of a drug would be a significant leap forward in the appropriate use of antimicrobials.
This project is an excellent example of science and academia working with industry to develop veterinary medicine for the benefit of pet health.
Sin-Marie is also continuing to build on her collaborative start with Dechra and we are all grateful for the unique opportunity this project has given.
