40 40 D DI IAG AGE EO O A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 Sustainability & Responsibility review Our role in society Sustainability & Responsibility review Our business and brands connect us to millions of people, and to the natural resources we share with them and which we all depend upon.
This is an enormous opportunity, and one we will use to safeguard the future of our business while helping to address some of the biggest challenges facing society and the environment: from harmful drinking to climate change, and from womens empowerment to water scarcity.
As a global leader in premium alcohol, we Impact within and beyond Our sustainability and have a clear opportunity and responsibility our operations responsibility strategy uses the to be leaders in ensuring alcohol has a We want to build on our brands connections capabilities of our entire business positive role in society.
We want the millions with consumers to achieve greater positive of people who choose to enjoy our brands to social impacts, such as promoting moderate to make a positive contribution drink better, not more, and were committed drinking and encouraging inclusivity.
We also to society and promote inclusive to tackling alcohol misuse across the world.
want to enhance the direct economic value growth by: Our community initiatives emphasise our products already create this year alone, empowering women: promoting for example, we employed c. 30,000 people, entrepreneurship, employability and skills: and paid 7.4 billion in taxes and other duties Creating a positive role for alcohol building sustainable supply chains: and to governments.
And we want to ensure in society improving access to clean water and we can achieve all this while reducing the Read detail on page 42 sanitation.
There is of course a crossover with environmental impacts involved in making our aim to deliver the highest standards of the brands were so proud of.
Building thriving communities environmental performance: improving water But we also look beyond our brands and Read detail on page 45 stewardship and reducing carbon emissions, operations.
Throughout our value chain we thus helping to address climate change.
have strong relationships: with the farming Reducing our environmental impact In fact, all the areas we prioritise are communities where our ingredients are grown, Read detail on page 50 interconnected because people are with our many suppliers and contractors, and interconnected.
A supplier may also be a with the distributors and retailers who bring member of the local community and a our products to consumers.
consumer: so too may an employee.
Our holistic approach is underpinned by a commitment to acting as a good corporate citizen, with exemplary governance and respect for human rights.
Strategic report Sustainability & Responsibility review DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41 Progress, challenges and setting After many years of cumulative progress We remain committed to achieving our newgoals in areas such as carbon emissions reduction 2020 targets, and report against each in In 2015, we set ourselves targets to reach by and water efficiency improvements, progress the following pages, with supporting detail 2020, with metrics to measure our impact against some of our environmental targets in our submissions to CDP, and in our and help us co-ordinate our efforts.
In part this is because, as Sustainability & Responsibility Performance Our targets are ambitious: designed to we get closer to 2020, delivering further Addendum, which reports against GRI and drive performance that achieves real impact improvements becomes more complex, the UN Global Compact UNGC, and includes while making our business more resilient, and in some markets it has taken longer our response to the Sustainability Accounting including to the effects of climate change.
to implement projects than we expected.
Many of our environmental targets, for Nonetheless, we are committed to the We are also looking beyond 2020, with example, commit us to achieving absolute targets, which are driving the right approach, longer-term objectives to enhance the value reductions in our impact, rather than and we have identified future environmental we create and our contribution to the SDGs relative reductions.
investments that will help us progress for 2030.
These build on our increasing Our alcohol in society targets have helped toward 2020. understanding of our risks and opportunities, to drive performance across our programmes.
Highlights of our community targets including those highlighted by our work This year we updated our targets for 2025 and include meeting our safety target two years on implementing the recommendations of are outlining a new strategy to maximise our early this year we achieved our goal of less the Task Force on Climate-related Financial impact as leaders in creating a positive role than one lost-time accident per 1,000 Disclosure TCFD, discussed further on for alcohol in society.
employees, and no work-related fatalities.
We also made good progress with our human rights impact assessments, bringing our total to 12 countries assessed since 2015.
42 42 D DI IAG AGE EO O A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 Creating a positive role for alcohol in society Were proud of producing some of the worlds best alcoholic drinks and we want them to be enjoyed responsibly, aspart of our purpose of celebrating life, every day, everywhere.
Our goal is for people to drink better, not more which is why we are committed to promoting moderation and tackling misuse, while respecting the fact that many people choose not to drink alcohol at all.
Millions of people enjoy our brands, and the our support behind the most effective We will continue to work with our peers in this vast majority do so sensibly and in moderation.
programmes around the world, reducing area.
In 2017 our CEO became Chairman of the They know that balance is important, and that harm and changing behaviour.
As a global CEO Group at the International Alliance for drinking too much of any kind of alcohol can business, weve focused our efforts on three Responsible Drinking.
The CEO Group met lead to serious problems.
At the same time, we core pillars: campaigning to reduce harmful in September 2017 and announced a know that harmful drinking causes significant drinking, promoting moderation, and commitment to enhance standards for digital problems for individuals and for society.
improving laws and industry standards.
marketing by applying new tools, technology Tackling alcohol misuse and encouraging and data to digital marketing to ensure it is moderation are critically important to everyone Industry collaboration responsibly targeting adult consumers.
at Diageo, because we all want to ensure our Collaboration with our peers in the alcohol brands have a positive impact on the people industry is a vital part of achieving greater Responsible marketing around us.
impact, whether through campaigns or by The Diageo Marketing Code and Digital Code Far from being in conflict with our setting industry standards.
From global are our mandatory minimum standards for commercial interests, these goals align with businesses like ours, to local producers in responsible marketing, and we review them at Diageos values and business aims.
Harmful individual markets, we believe everyone least every two years to ensure they represent drinking can damage our reputation and needs to play their part and where possible, best practice.
make it harder for us to create value.
On we aim to be a catalyst for change.
Across many of our markets, advertising the other hand, our focus on the taste, From 2013, for example, we worked with monitoring and industry bodies publicly authenticity and heritage of our brands our peers to implement the Global Beer, report breaches of self-regulatory alcohol means we benefit when consumers choose Wine and Spirits Producers Commitments marketing codes.
to trade up to higher-quality, better-tasting to Reduce Harmful Drinking.
We are proud This year, the UKs Advertising Standards drinks.
Thats what we mean by drink better, of our achievements over the five years of Agency ASA upheld a complaint relating to a not more.
those Commitments and, although these Snapchat lens advertising our Captain Morgan ended in December 2017, the signatory brand, on the grounds that the lens was of New strategic approach to maximise companies remain committed to the spirit of particular appeal to people under 18 and our impact the five Commitments and the ten action was directed at people under 18.
A final progress report will be issued in We support the World Health Organizations demographic data supplied to Diageo by goal of reducing harmful drinking by 10% September 2018 and can be found at Snapchat showed that over 75% of users were across the world by 2025 through a wide www.
continued on page 44 range of approaches and programmes, i Complaints about advertising upheld by industry bodies that report publicly often working alongside industry peers and Industry Complaints external partners.
This year, we are outlining a complaints upheld about new strategy to make sure were maximising Country Body upheld Diageo brands our impact as leaders in creating a positive Australia Alcohol Beverage Code 14 0 role for alcohol in society.
Ireland Advertising Standards Authority for Ireland ASAI 1 0 We already take a clear stand on key issues United Kingdom The Portman Group 5 0 such as being the first to put nutritional Advertising Standards Authority ASA 4 1 information and alcohol content onto our United States Distilled Spirits Council of the United States DISCUS 9 4 labels and aim to be the first choice industry partner for governments.
We also want to put i From 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018.
Strategic report Sustainability & Responsibility review D DI IAG AGE EO O A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 43 43 Pillar 1 Campaigning to reduce harmful drinking Our long experience of running campaigns to reduce harm, Addressing underage drinking through the global raise awareness and shift attitudes has taught us that the best expansion of our hard-hitting, theatre-based programme.
results are achieved through proven, high-impact programmes, Smashed has reached almost half a million school children delivered at scale.
since its launch in the UK in 2005.
The programme has a As a result, were directing all our resources at global programmes proven track record: on average, attendees report a 44% focused on our priorities for reducing harmful drinking: increase in awareness of the risks associated with underage drinking and a 32% increase in awareness of where to get Tackling heavy episodic or binge drinking through brand help over alcohol issues.
As part of our ambition to harness campaigns and pilot projects to develop a blueprint for a innovation and technology to reach and inform more young flourishing, safe night-time economy in cities, working with people than ever before, we released an online version of partners to reduce alcohol-related problems in entertainment Smashed in the United Kingdom.
This year we launched pilots in Durban and Toronto.
Preventing drink driving through our global #JoinThePact Partnerships are essential to delivering impact for many of our programme, we have already met our target to encourage five programmes.
Our two-year partnership with the UN Institute for million people to sign a pact never to drink and drive, and the Training and Research UNITAR, for example, aims to reduce death programme continues.
We are also developing partnerships and injuries from traffic accidents in more than 60 countries, with with police, local authorities and other agencies that support a focus on those with the highest road traffic death rates.
As part enforcement, to provide education for drivers and law of the partnership, we are running multi-stakeholder conferences enforcers, and to provide safe rides and public transportation.
and training in 15 countries across Asia, Africa and Latin and Central America.
Pillar 2 Promoting moderation For most people who drink, drinking responsibly is common sense.
Our employees are passionate about alcohols positive role in society They know that balance is important, and that drinking too much too, and are at the heart of promoting moderation.
Our Drink Positive initiative, launched in November 2017 and described in our case can lead to serious problems.
We want to reinforce that common sense understanding of moderation in everything we do, using study on page 18, celebrated some of the most inspiring activities and the full reach of our brands and global business.
commitments led by employees, and showcased innovative initiatives That means using our brands to carry a strong moderation for reaching people with positive messages about moderation.
Results message and combat heavy episodic drinking for example, from this years Values Survey demonstrate the impact of this initiative, our Haig Club, Crown Royal and Captain Morgan brands have with 93% of employees agreeing that Diageo is effective in promoting all launched campaigns this year with engaging messages to a balanced role for alcohol in society.
It also means exploring other channels Labels and packaging also help us provide information to for providing consumers with information, tools and resources to consumers to reinforce the importance of moderation.
Our Diageo make informed choices.
For example, our dedicated responsible Consumer Information Standards define mandatory minimum drinking website, DRINKiQ.
com, is available in 18 languages and information for labels on and packaging of all our brands, wherever offers consumers access to a wide range of training and resources such information is legally permitted.
Our labels and packaging must on the effects of drinking.
It includes an online tool with include alcohol content and nutrition information per serve, alcohol interactive learning and tests to help people gain insights on content by volume ABV, at least one responsible drinking symbol, how drinking affects the body.
Launched in March 2017, this tool a reference to DRINKiQ.
com, a list of allergens, and recycling and is now available in 25 countries.
com also hosts powerful sustainability information.
resources such as our virtual reality films that simulate the potentially life-changing consequences of harmful drinking.
Pillar 3 Improving laws and industry standards Working with regulators and policy-makers is an important part We also campaign for effective policies to reduce the misuse of all of our strategy and is critical to the impact of our programmes.
forms of alcohol whether beer, wine or spirits and have worked We comply with all laws and regulations, wherever we operate, with industry partners and others to establish minimum standards but we also advocate sensible new regulation, including for responsible marketing.
For example, this year we supported a campaigning for legal purchasing age laws and blood-alcohol stakeholder conference on self-regulation of marketing in Ghana in an effort to improve standards for responsible marketing to adults.
volume driving limits in countries where these do not exist.
We also work with governments and others to combat illicit alcohol.
44 44 D DI IAG AGE EO O A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 Sustainability & Responsibility review Beyond our 2020 targets In 2015, we set ourselves targets for reducing alcohol-related harm in key areas, which have driven performance across our programmes.
This year, we updated our targets for 2025, which will help us go even further to deliver impact where it is needed.
We will begin reporting against our 2025 targets next year.
Focus area 2020 target KPI Progress Implement global alcohol industry Concluded The current set of Global Producers Industry commitments to expand and increase Commitments concluded in December collaboration efforts on: 2017.
Reports on progress against the commitments can be found at reducing underage drinking www.
strengthening and expanding In September 2017, the CEOs of the leading marketcodes of practice beer, wine and spirits producers, including providing consumer information Diageo, announced a commitment to and responsible product innovation develop, in collaboration with others, new reducing drink driving robust responsible marketing standards for enlisting the support of retailers digital channels that represent best practice.
i Going beyond industry commitments, Number of countries that This year, 16 of our top 18 countries Impactful we will work in partnership to support assessed the effectiveness of their evaluate responsible programmes programmes to address harmful programmes, measuring increases drinking programmes drinking in our top 18 countries.
in awareness or shifts in attitudes We will evaluate these initiatives or behaviour.
for efficacy and impact and report on the results.
i This number changed from 19 to 18 as a result of the sale of our Red Stripe business in Jamaica.
Reach one million adults with training Number of adults, above By September 2017, we had trained one Training materials that will enable them to legal purchasing age, who million adults around the world with become responsible drinking RD have completed interactive the knowledge they need to champion ambassadors.
training face-to-face or online responsible drinking.
This year alone we on responsible drinking, trained 800,239 adults as RD ambassadors which can also include in 23 countries through training training on responsible serving, programmes including DRINKiQ, Learning selling and marketing.
for Life, Diageo Bar Academy and Plan W. By 2025 Educate Collect Reach 5m 50m 200m young people, parents and pledges never to drink and people with moderation teachers about the dangers drive through #JoinThePact.
Responsible marketing continued aged 18 years or over, and an age filter was advertising on Snapchat globally since and to the brand websites age affirmation applied to target the lens only at users with a January 2018 while we assess the incremental method at the time.
We responded in each registered age of 18 years and over.
However, age verification safeguards that Snapchat case, with Casamigos deleting the Instagram the ASA ruled that Diageo had not taken is implementing.
We also changed sufficient care, in relation to the selection of In the US, the Distilled Spirits Council of the age gate to one that uses month, day and year.
Finally, we promptly conducted a media, to ensure the Captain Morgan lens was the United States DISCUS upheld complaints not directed at under 18s.
We acknowledge against four advertisements for Casamigos training session with the Casamigos brand the ASAs ruling and have taken steps to apply Tequila, which we acquired in 2017.
The team to review and ensure full compliance additional interest-based targeting to our complaints concerned two Instagram with the Diageo Marketing Code and Digital Code.
We have stopped all advertisements and a tweet for Casamigos, Strategic report Sustainability & Responsibility review D DI IAG AGE EO O A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 45 45 Building thriving communities Supporting our employees and the communities where we live and work is one of our biggest opportunities to create value.
Making Diageo a great, safe and inclusive place to work: building sustainable and inclusive value chains: delivering empowerment programmes that enhance skills and opportunities and break down gender barriers all these interconnected themes share the same aim: promoting inclusive growth for both society and our company.
And they are all based on the respect for human rights that is fundamental to who we are and how we do business.
A sustainable value chain, built on respect for human rights Whether in our agricultural supply chains business: labour rights, including the risk of Our principles or our workplaces, our distribution networks child labour, especially in agricultural supply We do not tolerate discrimination, networks: labour standards for contract or the communities in which were based, harassment, bullying or abuse: we comply our business has been built on long-term workers: and sexual harassment in the with wage and working time laws: we relationships based on trust and shared value.
respect our employees decisions to join The success of those relationships, now and These issues are external risk factors in the or not join a trade union: and we do not in the future, is underpinned by respect for places where we operate, and we recognise tolerate forced labour.
Our Modern Slavery human rights.
the challenges they pose in our value chain.
Statement describes the activities we are We are particularly aware of these risks when undertaking to prevent slavery and human Embedding human rights carrying out HRIAs see our progress against trafficking in our business operations and throughout our value chain our target, below, and in our supply chain.
supply chain, in line with the UK Modern We have a well-developed policy framework Having identified these risks, we have Slavery Act 2015 and the California that addresses human rights and sets out focused resources on awareness programmes Transparency in Supply Chains Act 2010. our commitment to acting with integrity.
around child protection, and measures to That statement and further details of our Respecting human rights informs the core protect workers, including seasonal contract policies are available on www.
principles of our Partnering with Suppliers workers and sales teams working in bars.
And our human rights commitments apply Target Act in accordance with the UN Guiding Focus on supply chain opportunities Principles on Business and Human Rights.
throughout our value chain we will not Robust, resilient, thriving supply chains are work with anyone, including any supplier, fundamental to our business.
They also enable KPI number of markets in which we have who does not align with these principles.
us to contribute to the UN Sustainable carried out human rights assessments.
Development Goals SDGs by reducing Identifying issues and risks poverty and inequality, particularly in farming Progress toward 2020 We aim to conduct Weve been signatories to the UN Guiding communities, and by addressing HRIAs in all markets by 2020.
This year, we carried Principles on Business and Human Rights environmental challenges, including climate out HRIAs in Tanzania, Guatemala, the UK, India UNGP since 2014.
We continue to embed change.
Were focused on supporting and and Colombia, bringing our total since 2015 human rights throughout our value chain to 12.
As a result of the findings, we have building capability among our suppliers, and in line with the UNGP, using our robust developed a child protection programme for strengthening both respect for human rights our work with smallholder farmers, and initiatives and comprehensive human rights impact and environmental practices to ensure that aimed at preventing sexual harassment in the assessment HRIA in our markets prioritised growth is inclusive and sustainable.
Each market has developed an by risk on a global basis.
The HRIA considers We see all our suppliers as partners in action plan to address its specific risks.
We have our entire value chain from sourcing to selling providing responsibly sourced materials and also developed contractor standards guided within a market, looking at local risks.
Our Partnering with Suppliers by the International Labour Organizations leads to mitigation plans to address specific Standard sets out the minimum social, ethical Declaration on Fundamental Principles and human rights issues or strengthen our and environmental standards we require Rights to Work, focused on promoting processes to prevent them arising.
suppliers to follow as part of their contract conditions in which people can work in In line with the UNGP, we have identified with us, as well as aspirations for long-term freedom and safety.
three risks as particularly salient to our partners to work towards.
46 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability & Responsibility review helps farmers become more sustainable.
We i Global raw materials by volume Target Deliver our responsible sourcing did this in 2018 with Scottish Quality Crops Total 1.6 million tonnes commitments with suppliers to improve labour SQC, an independent, third-party farm and standards and human rights in our supply chains.
quality assurance standard with which close KPI % of potential high-risk supplier sites audited.
to 90% of Scottish growers comply and which is now benchmarked to FSA Bronze.
This Progress toward 2020 This year, 1,248 of allows all our Scottish-sourced grains to meet our supplier sites assessed as a potential risk our minimum sustainability requirement.
Of these, We continue to work with SQC to promote 486 were assessed as a potential high risk, with enhanced agricultural practices.
76% independently audited over the past three years, up from 65% in 2017.
Of these audits, we Wherever we work, we want to find ways commissioned 231 and 139 came through the to promote sustainable agricultural practices ii SEDEX or AIM-PROGRESS mutual recognition Barley 36% Sugar 6% that meet our standards, while avoiding programmes.
170 audits were conducted Wheat 11% Agave 4% duplication for our suppliers.
Maize 11% Rice 3% Molasses 10% Dairy 1% Grapes 8% Raisins 1% Target Source 80% of our agricultural raw Driving progress through Sorghum 7% Rye 1% materials locally in Africa by 2020. sustainable agriculture Other 1% including aniseed, Embedding human rights, empowering KPI % of agricultural raw materials sourced cassava and hops women, building skills and increasing i Figures represent raw materials we buy directly, and locally in Africa.
i Figures represent raw materials we buy directly, and exclude raw materials used to make the neutral water resilience are essential themes of exclude raw materials used to make the neutral spirit we purchase.
Progress toward 2020 We sourced 78% of our sustainable development strategy.
agricultural materials locally within Africa for use We work within farming communities to ii Includes malted barley.
by our African markets, compared to 76% last simultaneously advance these themes and year.
We support this target through a range fulfil the business imperative of making our of farmer capacity building programmes.
supply of ingredients more secure.
i Global packaging materials by volume The cornerstone of our approach is Total 1.4 million tonnes Target Establish partnerships with farmers Building Sustainable Supply Chains, our to develop sustainable agricultural supplies strategy for sustainable agriculture.
This of key raw materials.
com, is built on three core principles: KPI Number of smallholder farmers supported.
Securing a supply for our business, while Progress toward 2020 We support more than contributing to economic and wider growth 80,000 farmers in Africa.
Our work with farmers Respecting human rights, building capacity is described in Partnering with farmers, above.
and creating shared value with farming communities Setting new standards, and helping farmers meet them Using resources efficiently, minimising Glass 82% Cans 2% Corrugate 8% PET 1% We use the Sustainable Agriculture Initiatives environmental impact, and safeguarding Cartons 3% Beverage cartons 1% future crops and ecosystems.
Farm Sustainability Assessment FSA tool to Closures and crowns 2% Labels and sleeves 1% assess sustainability within our agricultural In June 2018, we published our new i Excludes promotional materials.
These In 2018, we set FSA Bronze as the minimum build on our strategy by outlining how we compliance level to meet our sustainable We continue to work through SEDEX, a expect our suppliers to work continuously agriculture requirements.
This must be verified not-for-profit organisation that enables toward more sustainable agricultural practices.
through third-party assurance, either directly, suppliers to share assessments and audits That includes treating farmers and workers or using a benchmarked standard such as SQC of ethical and responsible practices with fairly, reducing negative environmental outlined above.
multiple customers, and through AIMimpacts while protecting natural capital, More than 80 global, regional, company PROGRESS, a forum of 40 leading consumer and supporting wider economic benefits or crop-specific standards have now been goods companies which promotes for farming communities.
benchmarked against the FSA, meaning responsible sourcing and sustainable supply suppliers that already comply with an Partnering with farmers chains.
Our Know Your Business Partner KYBP equivalent scheme can demonstrate that In sourcing the raw materials for our brands, programme also assesses third parties against they meet our requirements.
Where we work we work with farmers and their communities the risk of bribery and corruption.
directly with suppliers at farm level or where around the world.
In Africa, we focus on In 2018, we worked with industry peers we have operational control of farms we supporting smallholder farmers to build under the umbrella of AIM-PROGRESS to help them meet our requirements.
And in stronger farm enterprises, through training, develop a Supplier Business Toolkit, which markets where our supply chains include many better access to seeds and fertilisers to is available on www.
It aims smallholder farmers who may not yet achieve improve yields, access to capital through to share best practice with suppliers and FSA Bronze, we help farmers improve their micro-loans, and engagement with NGOs and provide practical guidance on how to yield and livelihood, supporting sustainable other stakeholders to build farmer resilience.
improve productivity, quality and farming practices and working with suppliers Where developed quality assurance workforce management, by ensuring good to identify and address their most material standards exist, we work with industry partners working conditions and ethical standards.
issues and promote inclusive growth.
to create a more harmonised approach that Strategic report Sustainability & Responsibility review DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47 Empowering and enabling communities through our programmes In all our markets, we know that everything To magnify our impact, we are working in Community investment by region we do is connected to communities.
As an a global partnership with the NGO CARE alcohol business, we sell iconic brands International to address the root causes of responsibly to consumers: as a local employer, gender inequality throughout our value we provide jobs and pay taxes: and as a chain through a combination of research, manufacturer, we use shared natural resources community programmes and advocacy.
and purchase from local suppliers.
In 2017, we worked with CARE on a gender Our direct investment in programmes that analysis of our barley supply chain in Ethiopia, support the communities where we source, where we have developed local farming make and sell our products must also reflect, programmes.
It showed that, despite and be connected to, our core business.
Thats expanding the number of supplier farmers North America 32% why our programmes are designed to support from 1,047 to over 6,000 in four years, the Europe and global functions 24% the four main strands of our community proportion of female farmers increased by Asia Pacic 20% strategy, which align with the SDGs: just 1% largely a result of barriers to womens Latin America and Caribbean 18% Africa 6% participation in the farmers groups we work Promoting entrepreneurship, with and the land rights afforded to women.
employability and skills SDG4, SDG8 Were addressing this within our local sourcing Building sustainable and inclusive programmes, enabling equal access to skills Community investment by focus area supply chains SDG1, SDG4 and resources for women farmers and Improving health and wellbeing, supporting them within farmer unions and access to clean water, sanitation and co-operatives.
and hygiene SDG3, SDG6 Building a more interconnected Empowering women and enabling approach inclusive societies SDG5 and SDG10.
Were working to increase our impact by further integrating our programmes, core Target Our community programmes enable business activities, and partnerships using our those who live and work in our communities, Social Impact Framework SIF to identify and particularly women, to have the skills and Community aspects of responsible 43% measure potential benefits.
That means, for resources to build a better future for themselves.
i drinking projects example, developing combined water and We will evaluate and report on the tangible Learning for Life 25% impacts of our programmes.
womens empowerment initiatives as part ii Brand-led and local community spend 17% of our work with farmers in India and Africa.
Water of Life 9% KPI Each programme has its own KPI.
Plan W 6% Partnerships are key to this approach, and this year we worked with the UN i This is a sub-section of the total responsible Progress toward 2020 drinking budget.
Development Programme, the German Water of Life has reached more than ii Category includes cause-related brand campaigns, governments development agency GIZ, 10 million people in India and in 21 countries local market giving and disaster relief.
in Africa since 2006, including 234,000 this CARE International and the NGO WaterAid, year.
It is focused on access to water, among others, to improve livelihoods in our sanitation and hygiene in line with SDG 6. value chain.
A value chain approach to womens Typically, we are implementing projects in empowerment rural areas that supply our raw materials, to We will only succeed in promoting inclusive ensure the programme is aligned with our Highlight core business.
growth if we enable women throughout our Womens empowerment: by applying a value chain to play an equal role in the Clean water for everyone, gender-inclusive approach across all of our economy and society from the smallholder community programmes, this year we everywhere farmers who grow our raw materials, to the reached more than 164,000 women in employees in our workplaces and distribution support of SDGs 5 and 10.
We believe everyone should have access to Learning for Life supports vocational and networks, to the people who serve our safe water and sanitation and were proud life-skills training, and strengthens our value brands to consumers all over the world.
of our 15-year partnership with WaterAid, chain through its emphasis on hospitality, To date, our programmes such as Plan W an NGO whose purpose is to make water, retail and entrepreneurship, while delivering toilets and hygiene normal for everyone, have empowered more than 390,000 women long-term opportunities for the people everywhere.
During the course of our with access to training and skills.
More than 130,000 people have partnership, weve brought clean water and taken part since we launched the programme that there is an opportunity and a need sanitation to more than 300,000 people in in 2008, with typically more than 70% gaining to do more.
No country has achieved gender Africa, including this years project which is permanent jobs.
This year we trained 7,000 equality, and we know that every value people globally.
In May 2018, we published bringing safe water to 3,500 people in Kebbi, chain contains barriers to womens equal an independent evaluation of the Nigeria.
Together we are creating shared participation.
Thats why we are now applying programmes impact in the UK.
The study, value by empowering and investing in a gender-inclusive approach to all our by researchers from the Business School communities and advocating for universal of the University of Edinburgh, found that community initiatives: this year we reached access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene the programme had a positive impact on more than 164,000 women through our at local, national and global levels.
the graduates perceptions of self-efficacy, programmes.
self-esteem and self-confidence, and that 77% of participants felt that they had become more responsible drinkers.
48 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability & Responsibility review Our people We aim to create a trusting, respectful, honest While we are proud of this progress, and Diversity and inclusion and inclusive culture, where people are proud in particular of the speed with which safety Celebrating our inclusive and diverse culture of their work, empowered to succeed, and performance has improved in businesses is core to Diageos purpose.
We want to create know that their safety and other human rights we have recently acquired, we know there is a business which, from recruitment onwards, are respected.
We continue to focus allows everyone to be at their best, irrespective Our leaders at every level play a critical on fully embedding a best practice safety of their gender, race, religion, disability, age part in creating and maintaining that culture, culture into all levels of our business, ensuring or sexual orientation.
We see diversity and and inspiring our performance.
In 2018, we consistency in performance everywhere inclusion as a critical business priority.
We know that for our business to thrive, we launched a new Diageo leadership standard we operate.
to guide leaders on how they can shape We are also continuing to grow our depend on having diverse talent with a range the future of our business, invest in talent, capability around predictive safety, building of backgrounds, skills and capabilities in each inspire others with our purpose, and drive safety resilience into everything we do, to of the 180 countries in which we operate.
We are proud that 40% of our Executive performance.
Programmes such as our Future anticipate and mitigate the risks that lead Leaders initiative, which supports employees to incidents.
Given our significant progress and 50% of our Board are women.
Our progress in the early to middle stages of their in reducing LTAs to date, we are expanding is illustrated by the fact that in 2003, those development over a three-year period, is our focus to look at total recordable accidents figures were 0% and 10% respectively.
Our efforts have been recognised externally, with one example of how we unlock the potential in 2019.
This change is intended to bring the of our people and invest in their growth.
full weight of our accident prevention Diageo named first in the FTSE 100 for female programmes to bear on lower-level incidents, executive directors in the Female FTSE Board Health and safety to help predict and prevent more serious Report 2018 by Cranfield University School of Management.
In January 2018 we were Our global Zero Harm programme is incidents.
designed to ensure that all our people go recognised by the Bloomberg Gender-Equality home safe, every day and our health and Index for performance and disclosure around Target Keep our people safe by achieving less than one lost-time accident LTA per 1,000 safety strategy aims to make ours a business gender equality, and we also ranked fifth in employees and no fatalities.
the Thomson Reuters Global Diversity and in which no one is hurt, anywhere.
Our Zero Harm programme has driven Inclusion Index.
KPI Number of LTAs: number of fatalities.
industry-leading progress in the safety of our Across the business, women currently hold people.
We are delighted to say that this year more than 34% of leadership positions, and we Progress toward 2020 There was just one LTA are nearing our target of 35% of leadership we achieved our 2020 target of one lost-time per 1,000 employees this year, a decrease of 12% accident LTA per 1,000 employees and no positions held by women by 2020.
We want from 2017, and no work-related fatalities, which work-related fatalities two years early, which means we achieved our 2020 target two years to be the employer of choice for women, early.
The health, safety and wellbeing of our constitutes world-class performance.
In 13 and were committed to developing a strong employees remains our highest priority, with pipeline of female talent for all roles.
Were also markets, including North America, Mexico, the overall aim of zero accidents.
Ethiopia and Australia, we operated without focused on the areas of our business where any LTAs for the year.
we know female representation is low, such as our supply operations.
This year we were proud to announce the recruitment of our first female coppersmith apprentice at Diageo Abercrombie, the famous stills which are at the heart of Scotch whisky distillation.
But we know we still have further to go.
Throughout the company, we set ourselves ambitious plans for achieving these targets.
The managing director of each market has a i Lost-time accident frequency rate per 1,000 full-time employees strategy in place to foster greater inclusion and Region 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 diversity.
We also seek to promote diversity and North America 0.84 1.83 0.37 0.7 0.0 inclusion with consumers and communities Europe and Turkey 2.08 2.51 1.28 1.46 1.58 through our brands and programmes.
Africa 0.56 1.2 0.77 1.26 1.35 Latin America and Caribbean 4.7 0.66 2.27 1.79 0.36 i Target Build diversity, with 35% of leadership Asia Pacific 1.62 1.21 2.01 0.81 0.66 positions held by women and measures Diageo total 1.66 1.66 1.44 1.14 1.00 implemented to help female employees attain and develop in leadership roles.
i N umber of accidents per 1,000 employees and directly supervised contractors resulting in time lost from work of one calendar day or more.
KPI % of leadership positions held by women.
Within PwCs independent limited assurance scope.
Please see page 162 for further details.
Number of days lost to accidents per1,000 full-time employees Progress toward 2020 This year, 34% of leadership roles were held by women.
At the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 most senior level, 50% of our Board members Diageo total 49.7 89.4 57 36 45 and 40% of our Executive Committee members are women.
We have also added a target Fatalities 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 of 40% of women in leadership roles by 2025.
Diageo total 1 1 1 1 0 i W e increased the target from 30% to 35% in 2017.
Strategic report Sustainability & Responsibility review DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 i Average number of employees byregion by gender Engaged and empowered employees Region Men % Women % Total Empowering employees to be the best North America 1,596 59.8 1,073 40.2 2,669 they can be is at the heart of our business Europe and Turkey 6,347 60.3 4,185 39.7 10,532 strategy.
We want our people to be engaged Africa 3,703 75.3 1,213 24.7 4,916 passionate about our strategy, connected to our values and purpose, and motivated Latin America and Caribbean 1,802 65.6 946 34.4 2,748 to perform at their best as advocates of Asia Pacific 6,954 76.8 2,098 23.2 9,052 our brands.
Diageo total 20,402 68.2 9,515 31.8 29,917 That means helping employees understand Average number of employees byrole by gender our strategy and their role within it through our Role Men % Women % Total communications and leadership interventions.
ii Senior manager 392 66.4 199 33.6 591 It also means bringing our purpose to life iii Line manager 3,017 69.2 1,341 30.8 4,358 within our organisation and communities, iv Supervised employee 16,930 67.8 8,038 32.2 24,968 while developing knowledge and passion for Diageo total 20,339 68.0 9,578 32.0 29,917 our brands and products.
We also engage i New hires by region by gender employees on the role of alcohol in society Region Men Women Total % of headcount through initiatives such as our Drink Positive North America 249 125 374 14.0 campaign, described on page 18.
Europe and Turkey 720 644 1,364 12.9 To support our employees performance, Africa 279 166 445 9.1 we have a framework of clear policies, Latin America and Caribbean 234 180 414 15.1 competitive reward programmes, coaching and development opportunities, and health Asia Pacific 837 514 1,351 14.9 and wellbeing initiatives.
Diageo total 2,319 1,629 3,948 13.2 This year is the 20th anniversary of Diageos Percentage of total new hires 58.7% 41.3% formation, and we marked the occasion with i Leavers by region by gender global interactive sessions celebrating our Region Men Women Total % of headcount heritage and achievements, described on North America 204 118 322 12.1 www.
These included celebrating Europe and Turkey 990 750 1,740 16.5 International Womens Day on 8 March 2018, Africa 481 206 687 14.0 when we underlined our commitment to Latin America and Caribbean 319 188 507 18.4 gender equality.
Asia Pacific 761 416 1,177 13.0 We report employee engagement on Diageo total 2,755 1,678 4,433 14.8 page 9 as one of the overarching KPIs that Percentage of total leavers 62.1% 37.9% measure the progress of our business.
i Employees have been allocated to the region in which they reside.
Target Increase employee engagement to 80%, ii Top leadership positions in Diageo, excluding Executive Committee.
iii All Diageo employees non-senior managers with one or more direct reports.
becoming a top-quartile performer on measures iv All Diageo employees non-senior managers who have no direct reports.
such as employee satisfaction, pride and loyalty.
KPI Employee satisfaction, loyalty, advocacy and Highlight pride, measured through our Values Survey.
Diageo Abercrombie recruits Scotlands Progress toward 2020 In our annual Values first female coppersmith Survey, 76% of participants in the survey identified as being engaged, an increase of 1% For centuries, coppersmiths have used the on last year.
94% of our people participated same tried and tested methods to make overall 22,826 of the 24,214 invited to take part, the famous stills which are at the heart of a best-in-class response rate.
This year, Diageo Abercrombie based in Alloa, Scotland, which makes the stills for all our distilleries, scored a first for gender equality by hiring Scotlands first female coppersmith, Rebecca Weir, 18, as part of our apprentice intake.
Rebecca, who comes from Alloa, said: I wasnt put off by gender stereotypes I dont think that should stop anyone from doing what they want to do.
Its really exciting to be part of something which is so important to the whisky industry.
I cant wait to learn more about the essential skills needed to build and preserve the stills which produce some of the worlds most-loved Scotch whisky.
50 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability & Responsibility review Reducing our environmental impact Behind every Diageo product is a story of shared natural resources.
The ingredients and water we use, the air and land around our operations and supply chain, the energy we consume all these are shared with the people and communities around us.
Climate change, water scarcity, soil degradation Our Water Blueprint, updated this year, is Our approach to reducing carbon emissions and the loss of biodiversity are shared risks, another crucial component in our climate contributes to global delivery of the Paris change mitigation plans.
It is supported which have the potential to affect our supply Agreement while also mitigating any risks chain and operations.
By impacting the by our targets for responsible water use that may arise for Diageo in a low-carbon development of the communities we live and in our own and third-party operations policy environment.
work in, they also undermine the inclusive and agriculture, and for replenishing water in water-stressed areas: by supporting economic growth on which our own growth Managing water responsibly depends.
So, as well as being the right thing to community water programmes: and by Weve described how climate change is a do, it makes clear business sense to use natural our advocacy of greater collaboration critical consideration for water management.
resources efficiently across our whole value and commitment to responsible water Water is a strategic priority for other reasons, stewardship.
chain and, where possible, to restore the too because it is such a vital resource for environment we operate in.
us, and for the people and habitats around us.
Aligning with TCFD Our strategic aim is to reduce our overall Climate and risk We have also conducted a gap analysis to impact, especially in our operations in assess the extent to which our existing public Were already seeing some of the impacts of water-stressed regions in Africa, India and climate change and water stress in our supply disclosures on climate risk align with the Brazil, as shown in the map on page 15.
Drought has affected recommendations of the Taskforce on sites located in these water-stressed regions our supply of raw materials in Nigeria, South Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD.
account for approximately a third of our total Were already integrating climate-related Africa, India and Brazil.
In Africa and India, production by volume.
water security is a central factor in our issues into our mainstream business Working with other stakeholders is crucial.
operations: this year, we continued to analyse In 2018, for example, our Meta brewery in Impacts like these affect people and our approach and our resilience.
We are clear Ethiopia formed a new partnership with the on where issues such as water stress are businesses throughout local value chains.
And local authority and German development they increase our conviction that supporting greatest, and continue to build activity into agency GIZ to provide safe water and support global action on climate change and taking our core business plans to mitigate this.
responsible management of the water leadership in responsible water stewardship Based on analysis of our existing public catchment.
We continue to look for climate change disclosures in our Annual opportunities like this to work on catchmentare both ethically and commercially critical.
As long-term members of the UN Global Report and CDP submission, we have based approaches, which include Compact, and the We Mean Business Coalition, developed a plan to progressively meet community-focused programmes that align we are already making progress on a range of TCFD requirements.
We do not consider with SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation, our short-term three-year impacts to be including through our Water of Life global initiatives, such as on science-based carbon emissions reduction targets, and on material in the context of TCFD.
However, we programme, described on page 47. eliminating commodity-driven deforestation.
are reviewing our medium-term three to ten We are also committed to procuring 100% of years and longer-term more than ten years Absolute targets.
impacts and will report on those in the future.
Our commitment to minimising our our electricity from renewable sources by 2030, and reducing emissions from short-lived By mitigating risks of water stress in both environmental impacts is long-standing.
climate pollutants such as HFCs.
our operations and supply chain through Building on the success of previous implementation of our Water Blueprint, environmental sustainability programmes, we are enabling a more resilient business in 2015 we set ourselves ambitious targets for the future that will support our growth.
for reducing our impacts and building Strategic report Sustainability & Responsibility review DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51 our resilience in critical areas by 2020, Nonetheless, we do face challenges, and used should be widely recyclable by 2025 adding new targets at intervals to further our progress slowed in 2018 as in some and plastic bottles should be made of 100% push performance.
markets it has taken longer than expected recycled content by 2030.
Our new targets to implement environmental projects.
for 2025 commit us to: These targets are business-orientated, and deliberately stretching.
Many commit Delivering carbon reductions and water Ensure 100% of our plastic use is us to achieving absolute reductions, rather efficiency improvements in particular will designed to be widely recyclable or than relative reductions, because we require additional investment in renewable reusable compostable, using plastics energy and water conservation technologies believe that in areas such as greenhouse that allow for increased consumer gas emissions or waste to landfill, the at specific sites, as well as implementing recycling rates most responsible policy is to decouple continuous improvement opportunities Achieve 40% average recycled our impacts from business growth.
content in our plastic bottles and This does not alter our commitment to 100% by 2030 Making progress and addressing our 2020 targets.
We have identified a range Continue to invest in circular economy challenges of environmental investments that will help opportunities and other sustainable Our long-standing systematic approach us continue our progress to 2020. packaging breakthroughs has driven substantial progress.
Despite increasing production, weve reduced Setting out our plastics ambition Accelerate our support for recycling by absolute greenhouse gas emissions from our In June 2018, we announced new targets increasing collaboration, particularly direct operations by 40.8% against our 2007 specifically designed to address plastics in where we have influence, and engaging our packaging.
They build on our existing baseline, and from our entire supply chain by with governments, peers and consumers 23.1%.
In the same period, waste to landfill sustainable packaging ambitions and aim to to facilitate improved recycling.
was down by 84.3%, and the total weight address the full value chain impact of our use We will report against these targets from 2019. of our packaging has reduced by 9.4%.
These include that 100% of plastic Summary performance against targets Cumulative 2018 performance i 2020 target KPI performance vs baseline Reduce water use through a 50% % improvement in litres of water used per litre improvement in water use efficiency of packaged product 0.8% 40.3% Return 100% of wastewater from our % reduction in wastewater polluting power operations to the environment safely measured in BOD 000 tonnes 31.5 % 27.5% 3 Replenish the amount of water used in % of water replenished in water-stressed areas m our final product in water-stressed areas 8.6% 47.9% Equip our suppliers with tools to % of key suppliers engaged in protect water resources in our most water management practices 90.0% n a water-stressed locations Reduce absolute greenhouse gas % reduction in absolute GHG kt CO e 2 emissions from direct operations by 50% 1.0% 40.8% Achieve a 30% reduction in absolute % reduction in absolute GHG kt CO e 2 greenhouse gas emissions along the 2.2% 23.1% total supply chain Ensure all our new refrigeration % of new equipment sourced HFC-free equipment in trade is HFC-free, with from 1 July 2015 100% 100% a reduction in associated greenhouse gas emissions from 2015 Reduce total packaging by 15%, while % of total packaging by weight increasing recycled content to 45% and 0.7% 9.4% making 100% of packaging recyclable % of recycled content by weight 0.5 % 40.5% % of recyclable packaging by weight 0.0% 98.7% Sustainably source all of our paper % of sustainably sourced paper and board packaging and board packaging to ensure zero 81.0% n a net deforestation Achieve zero waste to landfill % reduction in total waste to landfill tonnes 145.4 % 84.3% i B aseline year is 2007 except for packaging which is 2009 and water replenishment which is 2015.
52 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability & Responsibility review Performance against 2020 targets Water stewardship Cumulative 2018 performance i 2020 target KPI performance vs baseline Progress Reduce water use % improvement Overall water use efficiency has improved by 0.8% this year.
In India, water through a 50% in litres of water 0.8% 40.3% use efficiency improved by 18%, reflecting the benefits from investments improvement used per litre in water recovery and reuse technologies.
492,686 cubic metres of water in water use of packaged were used for agricultural purposes on land under Diageos operational efficiency product control.
This is reported separately from water used in our direct operations.
Planned investments in environmental projects, including water efficiency technology in Africa, and continuous improvements in our brewing and distilling operations worldwide, should significantly improve performance in the next two years.
Return 100% of % reduction Wastewater BOD increased by 31.5%, principally due to increased wastewater from in wastewater 31.5 % 27.5% distillation volume.
This masked the strong performance at our sites in our operations to polluting India and Africa, where the benefits from our investments reduced the the environment power polluting power of wastewater by more than 96%.
While we meet all safely measured in regulatory requirements on wastewater discharge from our sites, we BOD 000 tonnes know we must do more to meet our ambitious target, and we are actively pursuing design work on additional wastewater handling capacity as well as exploring alternative and new technologies.
Replenish the % of water Cumulatively, 47.9% of total water used in final product in water-stressed amount of water replenished 8.6% 47.9% areas was replenished.
This is an improvement of 8.6% on last year, driven used in our final in water-stressed in particular by our efforts in Uganda, where we implemented projects to 3 product in areas m increase provision of access to clean water and sanitation in Gulu District water-stressed and to reforest an area near Mount Kenya.
It was also helped by water areas replenishment initiatives in Tanzania and Ghana.
The volume of water 3 recycled or reused in our own production was 1,070,994 m, representing 5.1% of total water withdrawals.
Equip our suppliers % of key We continue to engage our tier one suppliers through our CDP Supply with tools to suppliers 90% n a Chain Water Programme.
This year, we contacted 103 of our largest protect water engaged suppliers to disclose their water management practices through this resources in our in water programme.
Ninety per cent responded, with 61% reporting active targets.
most water-stressed management At the same time, our growing understanding and mapping of water locations practices risk in our supply chain, driven by our global water risk assessment of third-party operators TPOs, is providing greater insight into which of our suppliers operate in water-stressed areas.
In 2018 we completed water risk assessments of more than 100 TPOs, identifying more than 20 sites as being in water-stressed areas in 16 countries.
This helps us to engage more TPOs with tools for water management, such as the water toolkit we began piloting in India this year.
This will help their water management to improve alongside ours.
Carbon Cumulative performance i 2020 target KPI 2018 performance vs baseline Progress Reduce absolute % reduction in We use the World Resources Institute World Business Council for Sustainable greenhouse absolute GHG 1.0% 40.8% Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol as a basis for reporting our emissions, gas emissions kt CO e and we include all facilities where we have operational control for the full 2 from direct financial year.
operations Diageos total direct and indirect carbon emissions location gross this year by 50% were 800,434 tonnes 2017 808,107 tonnes, comprising direct emissions Scope 1 of 621,127 tonnes 2017 617,015 tonnes, and indirect Scope 2 emissions of 179,307 tonnes 2017 191,092 tonnes.
The intensity ratio for this year was 190 grams per litre packaged 2017 191 grams per litre packaged.
This year we reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 1.0%.
We have defined and scoped new projects, especially in Africa and Scotland, to re-establish our carbon reduction trajectory, and we are confident that we will resume the progress weve made in reducing absolute emissions.
This year, approximately 49.8% of electricity at our production sites came from low-carbon sources such as wind, hydro and nuclear 2017 53.7%, and 18.5% of our electricity was from renewable sources only.
In the United Kingdom, 100% of our electricity came from low-carbon sources.
Strategic report Sustainability & Responsibility review DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53 Carbon continued Cumulative performance i 2020 target KPI 2018 performance vs baseline Progress Achieve a 30% % reduction in In 2018, our total supply chain carbon footprint was reduced by 2.2% reduction absolute GHG 2.2% 23.1% and cumulatively by 23.1% versus the baseline.
We continue to engage in absolute kt CO e suppliers on measuring and managing their carbon emissions through 2 greenhouse CDP: this year we received responses from 95% of the 166 tier one gas emissions suppliers we engaged, an increase in both supplier numbers and response along the total rate.
52% of these suppliers report that they have emissions reduction supply chain targets.
We also continue to work with our suppliers on emissions reduction through our carbon performance review programme which, alongside our own background data assurance, enables us to analyse and assess our Scope 3 emissions.
Ensure all our % of new Eliminating HFCs plays a role in reducing our overall carbon footprint.
new refrigeration equipment 100% 100% 100% of the 38,000 new fridges we have purchased since July 2015 equipment in sourced HFC-free were HFC-free.
trade is HFC-free, from 1 July 2015 with a reduction in associated greenhouse gas emissions from 2015 Packaging Cumulative performance i 2020 target KPI 2018 performance vs baseline Progress Reduce total % of total This year, we achieved a 0.7% reduction in packaging weight but packaging by 15%, packaging by 0.7% 9.4% recycled content decreased by 0.5%.
On average, recycled content was while increasing weight 40.5%, an improvement of 19% against our 2009 baseline.
This progress recycled content was driven by lightweighting and new bottle configurations.
We know % of recycled to 45% and making we have to accelerate progress in this area if we are to meet our 2020 content by weight 0.5 % 40.5% 100% of packaging targets, and have plans in place to do so.
Overall this year, 98.7% of our recyclable packaging was recyclable.
% of recyclable We continue to work with our suppliers and other partners to improve packaging by 0.0% 98.7% recycled glass content.
Our Sustainable Packaging Commitments are weight used by brand and technical teams as well as suppliers, and support our ongoing programme to produce packaging with lower environmental impact.
This year we announced additional targets specifically designed to address the use of plastics in our packaging, described on page 51.
We will report against these targets from 2019.
Sustainably source % of sustainably We define sustainably sourced as Forest Stewardship Council FSC or all of our paper and sourced paper 81.0% n a Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC certified, board packaging to and board or recycled fibre.
To date we have engaged over 250 suppliers and 82% ensure zero net packaging responded.
Collectively these suppliers have self-reported that 81% of the deforestation paper and board packaging they supply meets our sustainable sourcing criteria, and we continue to work with our suppliers to deliver our goal of 100% by 2020.
Waste Cumulative performance i 2020 target KPI 2018 performance vs baseline Progress Achieve zero % reduction in This year our overall strong performance on waste was offset by one-off waste to landfill total waste to 145.4 % 84.3% damage caused by Hurricane Maria in September 2017, which meant landfill tonnes that by-products from our distillery in St Croix in the US Virgin Islands, which are usually recycled as animal feed, were diverted to landfill.
This meant waste to landfill increased by 145.4% this year.
We have taken remedial action, including upgrading equipment, to minimise the risk of this reoccurring.
i B aseline year is 2007 except for packaging which is 2009 and water replenishment which is 2015.
54 54 D DI IAG AGE EO O A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 Sustainability & Responsibility review Environmental data by region i, ii Water efficiency by region, by year l l Region 2007 2016 2017 2018 North America 6.88 5.20 5.73 5.55 Europe and Turkey 7.94 5.87 5.78 6.02 Africa 8.48 4.55 4.32 4.28 Latin America and Caribbean 34.84 4.49 3.88 4.66 Asia Pacific 7.06 5.05 4.31 3.64 Diageo total 8.27 5.16 4.98 4.94 i Wastewater polluting power by region, by year BOD t Region 2007 2016 2017 2018 North America 214 101 240 176 Europe and Turkey 22,610 19,508 17,617 23,502 Africa 9,970 436 183 150 Latin America and Caribbean 10 34 34 14 Asia Pacific 92 296 64 3 Corporate Diageo total 32,896 20,375 18,138 23,845 Total under direct control 32,070 20,097 17,936 23,584 i 2007 baseline data and data for each of the intervening years in the period ended 30 June 2017 have been restated in accordance with Diageos environmental reporting methodologies.
ii In accordance with Diageos environmental reporting methodologies, total water used excludes irrigation water for agricultural purposes on land under the operational control of the company.
i Total waste to landfill by region tonnes Region 2007 2016 2017 2018 North America 39,857 148 146 12,177 Europe and Turkey 19,898 2,953 1,252 169 Africa 37,062 6,080 3,937 3,108 Latin America and Caribbean 243 143 379 106 Asia Pacific 8,583 922 380 504 Corporate 604 682 719 657 Diageo total 106,247 10,928 6,813 16,721 i 2007 baseline data and data for each of the intervening years in the period ended 30 June 2017 have been restated in accordance with Diageos environmental reporting methodologies.
Direct and indirect carbon emissions i, ii Carbon emissions by weight by region 1,000 tonnes CO e i, ii 2 by weight 1,000 tonnes CO e 2 Region 2007 2016 2017 2018 marketnet-based North America 211 45 50 44 874 Europe and Turkey 399 284 264 281 Africa 271 244 234 225 593 Latin America and Caribbean 8 15 15 18 554 553 Asia Pacific 151 72 58 48 Corporate 20 12 12 11 Diageo total 1,060 672 633 627 186 79 79 74 i CO e figures market net are calculated using the WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol guidance available at the beginning 2 of our financial year, the kWh CO e conversion factor provided by energy suppliers, the relevant factors to the 2 2007 2016 2017 2018 country of operation, or the International Energy Agency, as applicable.
ii 2007 baseline data, and data for each of the intervening years in the period ended 30 June 2017, have been restated Direct in accordance with the WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol and Diageos environmental reporting methodologies.
Indirect Within PwCs independent limited assurance scope.
i CO e gures are calculated using the WRI WBCSD 2 GHG Protocol guidance available at the beginning of our financial year, the kWh CO e conversion factor Highlight 2 provided by energy suppliers, the relevant factors to the country of operation, or the International Energy Sustainability & Responsibility Agency, as applicable.
ii 2007 baseline data, and data for each of the Performance Addendum intervening years in the period ended 30 June 2017, have been restated in accordance with the WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol and Diageos environmental See the Sustainability & Responsibility Performance Addendum 2018 for our detailed reporting methodologies.
disclosures against the GRI Standards, the United Nations Global Compact and the Within PwCs independent limited assurance scope.
Strategic report Sustainability & Responsibility review D DI IAG AGE EO O A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 55 55 Governance and ethics Doing business with integrity and winning trust are key to Diageos Performance Ambition.
Our global risk and compliance framework is designed to support our business through rigorous oversight of our risk management, controls and compliance environment.
But, while compliance is non-negotiable, we want our culture to go beyond compliance in encouraging the right behaviours and attitudes and we want to ensure were supporting people to make the right choices, every day.
After all, each employee holds the hard-earned reputation of Diageo and our brands in their hands.
Raising standards and embracing focus.
This year, we started to use data breaches, 296 were reported through productivity analytics to help us spot potential areas SpeakUp, compared with 284 in 2017.
All Wherever it will help raise standards, we aim of risk and support our internal monitoring allegations are taken seriously and, where to make our compliance processes simpler and reporting.
required, investigated and acted on.
This also and more efficient.
applies to human rights issues, and seven were Our global Code of Business Conduct Managing third parties reported through this process this year.
These Code sets out what we stand for as a We also continue to evolve our third-party reports are also fed into our wider human company, enabling our employees to due diligence programme, Know Your rights programme.
We monitor breaches to demonstrate the highest standards of Business Partner KYBP, to make sure it has identify trends or common areas where further integrity and ethical behaviour.
Our Code the greatest effectiveness at identifying risk, action may be required.
This year, 91 people training our way of assuring that all while being efficient to use for us and our exited the business as a result of breaches employees fully understand what is expected partners.
While we continue to screen all new of our Code or policies.
of them is delivered predominantly by business partners, our risk assessment elearning, with an integrated Annual processes focus our due diligence on those Reported and substantiated breaches Certification of Compliance ACC requirement third parties that pose a higher risk.
Further 752 712 for managers and above.
In 2018, the ACC automating KYBP, using the same technology 629 was completed by 100% of eligible globally, and standardising processes to employees, a total of 9,009 people.
ensure robustness, have also improved the The elearning covers all areas of our efficiency of our due diligence while enabling 340 332 Code, and employees have the choice of stronger central oversight.
311 296 284 244 20 languages in which to complete it on their desktop, laptop, tablet or smartphone, with Reporting and investigating 106 94 91 a face-to-face classroom training option We want employees to feel comfortable i provided for sites where employees do not raising concerns about potential breaches of 2016 2017 2018 use computers.
This year, employees who our Code or policies.
We expect anyone who Reported had previously completed the training were comes across a breach to report it immediately, Reported through SpeakUp Substantiated breaches offered a fast track option to demonstrate either through our confidential whistleblowing Code-related leavers their competency.
New joiners are required helpline SpeakUp, to their manager, or to a to complete the training within 30 days.
member of the compliance, human resources i 2017 data restated in accordance with Diageos reporting methodologies for reported and We also used global elearning solutions this or legal teams.
com substantiated breaches of the Code of Business Conduct.
year to roll out business-wide refresher training website, available in all our 20 Code languages, on our Competition and Anti-Trust, Data was refreshed last year to make it simpler to Privacy, and Information Security policies.
report and follow up on potential breaches: KPI Number of eligible employees completing it is also available to our business partners.
We the Annual Certification of Compliance ACC.
Monitoring have seen an increase in breaches reported Progress 100% of manager level and above As we evolve our risk and compliance through the site, particularly via mobile employees completed the ACC as part of our programme, making it more efficient and devices, since these changes were made.
combined Master the Code elearning and ACC.
effective, we are starting to adopt increasingly There were 629 suspected breaches In 2018, the ACC was completed by all eligible data-driven and analytical approaches to reported this year, of which 244 were employees, a total of 9,009 people.
identify areas of our business that need more subsequently substantiated.
