34 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEES opportunities.
The Group provides good quality working Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation environments and facilities for employees and training and and teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as being development appropriate to each of their roles.
essential to achieving the Groups business objectives.
The loss of key personnel is also identified by the Board as a principal The Group provides sponsorship for high potential employees risk as set out on page 32.
The stability and commitment of the for higher education courses where appropriate.
Vocational employees is demonstrated by the average length of service, training is also provided and some staff are enrolled on National which is consistently high at ca.
In addition, the Vocational Qualification NVQ or similar level courses.
number of working days lost to sickness is ca.
These Employees are actively encouraged to undertake Continuing measures remain consistent across each of the Groups Sectors.
Professional Development CPD to maintain any relevant professional accreditations.
Key employee statistics 2018 2017 2016 In accordance with the Market Abuse Regulation of the Financial Conduct Authority, employees are required to seek approval of Average number of employees the Group Company Secretary before dealing in its shares.
in year 1,765 1,658 1,602 Females as percentage of total 35% 35% 36% HEALTH & SAFETY Length of service years 6.8 6.7 6.8 The Group is fully committed to ensuring clean, safe and healthy Average staff turnover 19.7% 20.6% 24.9% working conditions.
The Group actively promotes a strong safety Sick days lost per person 3.6 3.3 3.1 culture and ensures a collective responsibility for ensuring Health & Safety standards are continually improved.
The Group encourages healthy lifestyles and the level of sick The Chief Executive Officer assisted by a member of the days lost per person is heavily influenced by a small number of Executive Management Committee has overall responsibility employees who are on long term sick leave.
for Health & Safety policies and procedures across the Group.
However, in line with the Groups decentralised management Set out below is an analysis of the number of employees by approach, accountability for Health & Safety is with local gender at the year end: 2018 2017 management to ensure compliance with local regulatory Male Female Total Male Female Total requirements, culture and specific business needs.
The Group requires that each operating business conducts Health & Safety Directors 4 1 5 5 1 6 reviews against its specific operational risk profile and local Senior managers 78 18 96 73 19 92 regulatory requirements.
Employees 1,092 614 1,706 1,048 586 1,634 Health & Safety forms part of the induction process for new Total 1,174 633 1,807 1,126 606 1,732 employees and where relevant, more specialist training is provided for specific functions.
The Group has good coverage The Board recognises the importance of gender diversity in the of employees who have formal Health & Safety training and or Group and 35% of the Groups employees are female.
Some of qualifications and this has continued to increase during 2018. the Groups operating companies have structured apprenticeship schemes and of the ten UK based apprenticeships, three of these Following the implementation of near miss reporting in 2016, the were for females.
Group has now used its second full year of the system to assist in ensuring that Health & Safety hazards are proactively identified, The Group values the commitment of its employees and and appropriate mitigation put in place to ensure that they do not recognises the importance of communication to foster good result in Health & Safety incidents.
The Group keeps employees informed on 2018 2017 matters relating to their employment, on business developments and on the financial and economic factors affecting the Group.
Near misses 73 70 This is achieved through management briefings, internal Minor injuries 71 56 announcements, the Groups website and by the distribution of 1 Reportable lost time incidents 1 5 Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases.
Minor injuries per 1,000 employees 40.2 33.8 1 Reportable lost time incidents per 1,000 Copies of the Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts are also made available in the operating businesses.
This employees 0.6 3.0 communication programme enables employees to gain a better 1 Three or more days absence from workplace.
understanding of the Groups business objectives and their roles in achieving them.
Both employment policy and practice in the The absolute level of minor injuries has increased this year Group are based on non-discrimination and equal opportunities.
primarily due to a low level reported in the prior year.
The near Ability and aptitude are the determining factors in the selection, miss reporting system has placed emphasis on the need to training, career development and promotion of all employees.
identify and implement corrective actions prior to incidents occurring and this methodology indirectly assists with The Group remains supportive of the employment and reducing health and safety risk.
The vast majority of the minor advancement of disabled persons.
Applications for employment injuries resulted in no lost time and were considered low by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind level.
The number of reportable lost time incidents has also the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants concerned.
If an employee is, or becomes disabled during their period of employment, the Group will, if necessary and to the extent All incidents are fully investigated and corrective actions and possible, adapt the work environment to enable the employee to preventative measures are put in place to ensure that the incident continue in their current position or retrain the employee for duties does not reoccur, and future risks are mitigated.
suited to their abilities following disablement.
At 30 September 2018, the Group employed ten disabled employees 2017: seven.
HUMAN RIGHTS The Groups activities are substantially carried out in developed Employment policies throughout the Group have been countries that have strong legislation governing human rights.
established to comply with relevant local legislation and codes The Group complies fully with appropriate legislation in the of practice relating to employment, Health & Safety and equal countries in which it operates to ensure the rights of every STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 employee are respected and to treat all stakeholders with dignity An intensity ratio of CO e per 1m revenue has been selected, 2 and respect.
The Group promotes employment practices to which will allow a comparison of performance over time and with ensure fair regard to diversity and equal opportunities.
Staff are other similar types of business.
provided with a safe, secure and healthy environment in which to Tonnes of CO e 2 work.
Employees have access to an independent hotline to report Source of emissions 2018 2017 any issues relating to Human Rights violations.
Direct emissions Scope 1 MODERN SLAVERY Natural gas 726 657 The Group adopts a zero tolerance approach to slavery in all its Owned transport 65 68 forms, including human trafficking, forced labour and child labour.
Indirect emissions Scope 2 Annually, each business assesses the risk of slavery taking place Electricity 2,682 2,955 either within the business itself or among its principal suppliers.
Gross emissions 3,473 3,680 Group businesses continuously monitor and carry out due diligence of suppliers through questionnaires, audits and visits.
Tonnes CO e per 1m revenue 7.2 8.1 2 Based on these assessments and the initiatives implemented by the businesses to counter slavery, the Board was assured that TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL slavery is not taking place within the Group and has published a DISCLOSURES TCFD Modern Slavery statement on the steps taken to prevent slavery, In June 2017 the TCFD published a voluntary framework to which is available on the Companys website.
encourage businesses to disclose climate-related risks.
ENVIRONMENTAL As part of the Groups annual risk management process the Groups The Group comprises sales and marketing focused businesses businesses consider climate-related risk and where significant, which essentially receive products from suppliers and despatch reports these to the Board for review and monitoring.
The broad them to customers.
The Groups businesses do not operate geographic and industrial sector spread of the Groups businesses delivery fleets: they use third-party carriers to deliver their provide a high degree of resilience to climate-related risks.
products to customers and to provide much of their packaging requirements.
The Groups ability to control the environmental The Board has identified that in the shorter term the principal impact of its logistics partners is therefore limited.
The primary riskfrom climate change on the Groups businesses arises from impact on the environment, which is entirely in the Groups extreme weather events that may significantly impact our control, is consumption of the normal business energy sources facilities.
In particular the North American Seals Aftermarket such as heating and power, which the Group aims to minimise business is almost wholly reliant on its central warehouse located through compliance with relevant environmental legislation.
This geography is exposed to hurricanes, generally during the period from August to November each year.
The Group is committed to identifying and assessing environmental risks, such as packaging waste, arising from In addition, a significant increase in energy costs caused by its operations.
Waste management initiatives are encouraged carbon taxation, regulation or limited resource would lead to and supported by the Group and materials are recycled where higher costs from external freight and handling costs of delivering practical.
The Groups usage of water is minimal and relates to product to, or from our facilities.
cleaning, bathrooms and staff refreshments.
BUSINESS ETHICS Local management are committed to good environmental The Group recognises its obligations towards the parties with management practices throughout our operations.
The Managing whom the Group has business dealings including customers, Directors have responsibility for environmental performance shareholders, employers, suppliers and advisors.
of their operating businesses and each subsidiary is required to implement initiatives to meet their responsibilities.
In general, the interactions with these parties are managed at a local level by senior management and the Group expects a high Each facility participates in recycling paper, plastic, cardboard and standard of expertise and business principles to be maintained in wood from pallets and continues to focus on minimising energy such dealings.
consumption through the efficient use of heating and lighting.
In addition, a number of the businesses now use fully recycled and The Groups policy towards suppliers is that each operating biodegradable filler materials for packaging.
business is responsible for negotiating the terms and conditions under which they trade with their suppliers.
The Group does not GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS operate a formal code that it follows with regard to payments to UK listed companies are required to report their global levels suppliers.
Group companies agree payment terms with their of Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions in their Annual Report & suppliers when they enter into binding purchasing contracts for Accounts.
This requirement is for disclosure of Scope 1 and 2 only the supply of goods or services.
Suppliers are, in that way, made direct emissions e. g. heating, cooling, transport fuel: and indirect aware of these terms.
Group companies seek to abide by these emissions, e. g. from purchased electricity and only to the extent payment terms when they are satisfied that the supplier has that such emissions are the responsibility of the Company.
provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group has considered the six main GHGs and report emissions in tonnes of CO equivalent CO e for Scope 1 direct 2 2 COMMUNITY and Scope 2 indirect emissions.
These emissions are calculated The Group believes that good community relations are important following the GHG Protocol and UK Government Environmental to the long term development and sustainability of the operating Reporting Guidelines.
The Group has used Defra UK GHG businesses.
Conversion Factors, US Environmental Protection Agency Emission Factors and International Energy Agency Factors.
The Groups businesses participate within their local communities on a number of charitable and fundraising activities primarily in As a distributor with no owned logistics or freight, the Groups support of health and childrens charities.
primary direct energy usage and related CO emissions arise from 2 the Groups facilities.
Where possible the Group has reported The Group also contributes to local worthwhile causes and charities billed data which represents ca.
80% of the Groups global and in 2018 the Group made donations to charitable organisations of emissions.
For the remaining entities the Group has used an 47,221 2017: 54,418.
No political donations were made.
estimation using sales data and local conversion factors.
