Dominos Pizza Group plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Sustainability report OUR APPROACH We want to be the worlds number Since forming our first Corporate Social one pizza company and recognise that Responsibility CSR strategy in 2013, our approach to sustainability has means taking responsibility for the continued to grow and evolve.
Through our franchise model, our business touches impact we have on the world around a lot of people, places and resources, and us.
From colleagues to customers, were we strive to understand and make our impact as positive as possible.
committed to putting sustainability at In order to reflect better our growing the heart of our strategy and practices activity in this area, this year we have also evolved how we report on CSR, by broadening it out to a focus on GROUP PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS sustainability.
As part of this process Launch of our new Supply Chain Centre in Warrington, and in response to the Non-Financial which features the latest innovative technologies to Reporting Directive NFRD, we have control energy management and resource consumption.
strengthened our overall sustainability reporting by mapping our impacts across Electric vehicle rollout across Norway and Sweden, our value-chain.
Outlined further in our reducing emissions from our delivery fleet.
sustainability framework below, we have Completion of second Make a Difference colleague broken down our reporting into three engagement survey.
areas, covering activities surrounding Project with external consultants to identify where the our centralised brand, our suppliers and social, ethical and environmental SEE risks lie within partners, and our customers.
our food and non-food supply chain.
Over the next year we will look to DPG Health Steering group conducted consumerprogress our approach further, in line based research to help inform our strategy and product with other developments, including launches on healthier eating for 2019 and beyond.
a review of the Groups sustainability strategy and material focus areas.
CUSTOMER ENERGY DONATIONS INTENSITY over 725,000 20% reduction against 2017 levels, 49% against baseline raised in 2018 via Pennies Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 41 OUR SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Our suppliers and partners are Our customers are a key consideration responsible for adhering to our key in our approach to sustainability.
Our As a business that operates a franchise policies and principles, and aligning brand drives campaigns to promote model, we map our sustainability impacts to our key targets.
This includes healthy eating and reducing waste.
This means that: everything from sourcing ingredients Our brand owns and drives our safely and responsibly through to approach to sustainability.
It meeting requirements around hygiene sets key policies, processes and and storage.
The issues that sit at each level are as follows: OUR SUPPLIERS AND FRANCHISEES OUR BRAND OUR CUSTOMERS DIRECT RESPONSIBLE ANIMAL SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTHY NUTRITION SOURCING WELFARE GOVERNANCE IMPACT EATING MANAGEMENT TALENT CUSTOMER PRODUCT SAFE COLLEAGUE CUSTOMER ATTRACTION AND CHARITABLE QUALITY INGREDIENTS ENGAGEMENT SATISFACTION DEVELOPMENT DONATIONS CONSUMER SUPPLIER SUPPLY CHAIN GENDER HEALTH AND INDIRECT WASTE FACING VIABILITY MANAGEMENT DIVERSITY SAFETY REDUCTION CAMPAIGNS INDIRECT CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL GIVING AND IMPACT VOLUNTEERING MANAGEMENT Dominos Pizza Group plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Sustainability report continued HOW WE MANAGE SUSTAINABILITY Strong corporate governance is essential for embedding sustainable business practices across our operations.
Our Board of Directors oversees our approach to sustainability and ensures compliance with our Code of Conduct.
The Board sets our strategic and financial objectives, implements robust risk management frameworks and establishes the ethical standards we abide by.
NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT In line with our commitment to upholding high standards of conduct and compliance, we align our reporting to the NonFinancial Reporting requirements of sections 414CA and 414CB set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Required information Policies and due-diligence Coverage Environmental matters Environmental Policy Setting policies and processes p43 Reducing our environmental impact p43 GHG emissions disclosure p43 and p91 Colleagues Code of Conduct Setting policies and processes p43 Health and Safety Policy Diversity and inclusion p44 Diversity Policy Engaging and developing our colleagues p44 Gender Pay Gap Report Learning and Development Policy Social matters Charity guidelines Setting policies and processes p43 Matched giving guidelines Corporate giving and volunteering p45 In-store giving and donations p47 Respect for Human Data Protection Policy Setting policies and processes p43 Rights Modern Slavery Statement Our approach to responsible sourcing p45 Human Rights Policy Supplier Technical Manual Anti-corruption Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Setting policies and processes p43 and bribery matters Risk Management Policy Our approach to responsible sourcing p45 Tax Policy Whistleblowing Policy Description of the See Our Business Model on p16 business model Principal risks and impact Risk Management pages 34 to 38 of business activity Setting Policies and processes p43 Sustainability Report p40 Non-financial key Sustainability Report p40 performance indicators Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 43 Suppliers also have access to our Supplier In our efforts to reduce waste, we Our Brand Technical Manual, which covers what we continue to redistribute surplus food Our brand owns and drives our expect of our supply chain partners in the from our Supply Chain Centres through sustainability efforts.
As well as managing supply of goods to DPG.
Policies cover our partnership with FareShare the and maintaining sustainability within key issues such as animal welfare, GM UKs largest charity fighting hunger DPG-owned corporate stores and our food and palm oil sustainability, as well and food waste supply chain centres, we also set policies as requirements to ensure safe and legal and processes and cascade them to our In terms of fleet management, we products are produced.
franchisees and supply chain partners.
continued to deliver emissions reduction Beyond this, our Environmental Policy initiatives across our global portfolio, Key strategic decisions regarding how we outlines our commitment to compliance including the investment and rollout manage environmental impact, colleague and to improving performance across key of electric vehicles across Norway and engagement and development, and areas such as energy and carbon, waste Sweden, which left emissions totals flat diversity and inclusion are made centrally and packaging and water usage.
despite the growth in UK production.
in line with our Group vision and purpose, REDUCING OUR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS and we ensure our partners follow our ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT lead via audits and assessments.
Our reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September and 2017 18 SETTING POLICIES AND PROCESSES With increased customer demand leading marks our sixth year of GHG emissions to a 27% rise in production volumes The Group is responsible for compiling reporting.
Our material GHG emissions globally, improvements in environmental and rolling out key regional and from business activities in this management became an increasing focus international policies that are applicable period amount to 13,665 tCO2e in 2018.
Despite this significant increase for our colleagues and suppliers, and 2017: 11,710 tCO2e.
in production, our total emissions grew include key risk coverage.
Our major by just 2%, thanks, in part, to our new policies include: Supply Chain Centre in Warrington, See our full Greenhouse Gas emissions Code of Conduct which features a number of innovative data on page 91 technologies to control energy and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy resource consumption, including: Health and Safety Policy Whistleblowing Policy Automated energy management system TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 EMISSIONS for electricity, natural gas and water: GRAPH TCO E Data Protection Policy 2 Complete air management system Though franchisees employ all their own Scope 2 Scope 1 using duty standby air compressors: teams directly and are independently Internal and external LED lighting responsible for engaging with them on systems and occupancy control sensors: 15,000 day-to-day policy matters, we provide All machinery meets high EU energy guidance and support on key processes efficiency standards: and and policies.
All stores have access to a 10,000 copy of our Food Safety Management Increased water filtering and recycling System that outlines policies and for tray washing systems.
processes to ensure the safe and legal 5,000 At our West Ashland Supply Chain Centre, production of our products.
we have continued to invest in upgrading We have a separate Due Diligence Policy the site to LED lighting, and the tray wash within our Anti-Bribery and Corruption system has been modified to recycle water.
0 Policy that helps us assess the potential 2012 2013 2016 2017 2017 18 Last year, we provided all our colleagues risk of bribery in a new supplier, and the with reusable water bottles alongside level of due diligence we will require as a Tonnes 27,502 42,140 53,700 the re-launch of our Make a Difference of dough result of this.
We also provide a copy of produced engagement survey, preventing around the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy 17,000 plastic bottles from going to to new suppliers and those undergoing a landfill each year.
We have mandatory training on compliance with our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
13,814 13,405 13,665 Dominos Pizza Group plc 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Sustainability report continued ENGAGING AND DEVELOPING We launched new development GENDER DIVERSITY OUR COLLEAGUES programmes in the UK and Ireland, supporting over 50 colleagues to We continue to focus on building complete a Stepping Into Leadership channels that ensure we are effectively programme and more than 40 senior listening and responding to our leaders also completed a Living colleagues.
In doing so, we are able to Leadership programme.
Both courses identify opportunities to better meet are designed to help grow our internal their needs, help them with their career leadership capabilities so we are progression and build the skills required best placed to set the right tone and to continue to help our business thrive.
ALL COLLEAGUES working environment for all our Following the launch of our colleague Dominos colleagues.
4,067 2017: 3,490 engagement survey, Make a Difference, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION in 2018, we continued to gather feedback FEMALE MALE to identify ways to make Dominos a great We strive to create a diverse and inclusive place to work for all our people.
working environment where every 1,163 29% 2,904 71% colleague feels welcome and are able Our second engagement survey revealed 2017: 1,031 - 30% 2017: 2,459 - 70% to do their best work.
We believe in the that 74% of our colleagues are proud to benefits of diversity and the importance of work for Dominos, feel able to deliver their bringing a wide range of skills, experience best work and would recommend us as a and perspectives into our business.
Beyond this, 89% of staff said they were happy to go the extra mile for the We are proud of the gender diversity in business and the level of team satisfaction our corporate store manager population was as high as 82% in our head office team.
and in our senior leadership teams whilst acknowledging that we have work to A key consideration to ensuring our do on diversity at Group director level.
colleagues are healthy and happy focuses Within our UK Corporate Stores we on encouraging them to look after their SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM have 53% of females in Store Manager physical and mental wellbeing.
As part of positions, and 28% females Heads-of- 63 2017: 57 this commitment, all our UK colleagues function within our UK Supply Chain and are eligible to join our Vitality Health Head Office.
We want to develop more care scheme after six months service.
FEMALE MALE leadership talent internally, and during To date, 78% are signed up to Vitality, and 2018 we had 50 50 gender diversity split 17 27% 46 73% 63% of those signed up actively use the of candidates in our internal leadership 2017: 15 - 26% 2017: 42 - 74% members zone to seek advice on health programmes and we will continue this and wellbeing, as well as gaining access approach into 2019. to associated benefits by increasing their daily steps.
We also hold an annual We want to develop more leadership talent Benefits Day, where colleagues can learn internally, and during 2018 we had 50 50 more about accessing all the benefits gender diversity split of candidates in our available to them, as well as have a internal DPG leadership programmes.
medical health-check with the Overall, our gender split is 29% female Vitality team.
and 71% male, which impacts our DPG An important reason why colleagues Gender Pay calculation.
Womens mean stay with us is knowing that they can hourly rate is 14.7% higher than men, GROUP DIRECTORS learn and develop in their role.
This year while 78.7% of females received a 8 2017: 8 we focused on internal performance bonus compared to 77.8% of men.
management and development to ensure The Board Diversity Policy requires FEMALE MALE all colleagues have clear objectives and gender and diversity to be taken into an understanding of their contribution to consideration when evaluating the skills, 1 12.5% 7 87.5% our overall business goals.
knowledge and experience desirable to 2017: 2 - 25% 2017: 6 - 75% fill each Board vacancy.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 45 CORPORATE GIVING AND WHATS NEXT?
Our Suppliers VOLUNTEERING As part of our ambition to develop As a business dependent on suppliers and further our approach to sustainability This year we celebrated raising 2m franchisee partners to deliver for all of our over the next year, we will revisit the during the first three years of our stakeholders, we strive to manage these Groups overall sustainability strategy partnership with Teenage Cancer Trust, relationships as closely as possible to ensure and material focus areas.
Other planned our charity partner of choice in England, they meet our sustainability ambitions.
actions or activity includes: Scotland and Wales, and pledged to raise We rely on our supply chain and store a further 1m by 2020 raising our total We expect production volumes at partners for everything from sourcing to 3m.
Warrington to increase in 2019 as we ingredients responsibly and delivering a progress towards 100% operating As part of the celebrations, activities safe and legal product, to reducing our capacity at the site, thereby improving included Teenage Cancer Trust environmental impact through efficiencies overall energy efficiency across representatives taking over three of and maintaining customer relationships.
our sites for a day in July, a specialist Though our suppliers and franchisee We will complete a review of the Teenage Cancer Trust nurse attending partners are ultimately responsible for transport fleet which is entering Augusts All Colleague Meeting ACM adhering to the principles governing the a renewal phase, and all new to explain how Dominos fundraising policies we set, and for contributing to units will conform to the latest helps the charity, Teenage Cancer Trust our key Group targets, we remain diligent emissions standards.
joining the annual Family Fun Day in through rigorous procurement processes Milton Keynes, and the launch of the We will be expanding our engagement for new suppliers and partners, and #MyDoughnation selfie campaign, which survey across the Group, measuring ongoing risk assessments and audits for raised 15,000.
We also celebrated the team satisfaction for an even wider existing suppliers and stores.
opening of a new store in Birmingham range of colleagues and developing with a Meals on Skate Wheels OUR APPROACH TO robust action plans around what campaign, which raised 600.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING matters to them.
Before we work with any supplier, they A number of Dominos teams and We launched our first colleague are vetted by our procurement and individuals also undertook fundraising recognition awards night, The DOMIS, technical teams to ensure that they efforts, which, when combined with our in January 2019. meet the requirements for safe and legal match-funding, raised over 100,000 Starting in 2019, we will be developing production.
We require all suppliers to for the charity.
In April, IT Infrastructure leadership programmes appropriate have a third-party accreditation from a Manager Craig Scott ran the hottest ever to each market in which we operate globally recognised food safety standard London Marathon in 4 hours 46 minutes, so we promote further internal and to be members of SEDEX the ethical and September saw 20 members of promotions and succession.
Dominos property team climb Snowdon.
We will continue to invest in energy Once approved, all suppliers are risk We also donated our annual pledge of efficient products and services where assessed and audited with appropriate 15,000 to our Republic of Ireland charity financially viable, whilst utilising regularity.
The audit covers the basics of partner Barretstown, and arranged a energy monitoring software and audits food hygiene and legislation, as well as Christmas pizza drop at the Barretstown to identify further energy savings adherence to the specific DPG policies camp in December 2018. opportunities.
we expect of our suppliers, including our The Chairman will ensure that Human Rights Policy.
boardroom diversity is considered as part of the annual evaluation of the During 2018, we worked with Boards effectiveness.
consultants at Carnstone Partners Ltd to identify where the social, ethical and environmental SEE risks lie within our food and non-food supply chain.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Sustainability report continued The risk analysis was developed using due diligence product testing between We will review our Supplier Technical a number of international benchmarks ourselves and our suppliers to ensure that Manual and Stores Food Safety covering, amongst many other areas, the products supplied meet our stringent Management System, and update human rights, trafficking, child labour and criteria, and all suppliers are regularly policies and procedures: environmental performance.
The results, assessed on food safety risk, with suppliers Further engagement with Compassion which will inform a new DPG Responsible deemed high risk audited on an annual in World Farming to improve reporting Sourcing Framework, identified basis and medium to low risk suppliers on key animal welfare outcome combinations of risks in our supply chain, audited every 18 months to two years.
measures: and most of which were low risks.
All stores have access to our Food Safety An ingredients quality surveillance Management System, which details the Beyond supplier auditing and risk programme focused on in-store guidelines for the safe production management, animal welfare is a key microbiological and chemical testing of our products.
It is based on the principles focus for DPG and we work closely with protocols will take place.
of hazard analysis and critical control Compassion in World Farming to support points HACCP and outlines areas such in preparing and publishing our animal Our Customers as temperature control, allergen control welfare commitments for our suppliers.
Our customers are a key consideration in procedures, correct storage, dating and our approach to sustainability.
We seek There are also key criteria that suppliers rotation of ingredients, as well as best to inspire our customers through our must meet when sourcing certain other practice on managing the health and hygiene actions and our brand drives campaigns ingredients.
For instance, all sourced of a stores environment and colleagues.
All to promote healthy eating and ingredients canned tuna must be caught using store colleagues are trained on allergens and waste reduction.
responsible fishing methods, palm oil must and allergen management in store and are be sourced from a fully sustainable source, required to take an annual refresher course.
As part of our commitment to health, and all egg or egg ingredients must be from we have a DPG Health Steering group, To ensure all policies are being upheld, cage-free production systems by 2020. focused on ensuring we are making stores are audited on an unannounced progressive changes to our food ahead SAFE INGREDIENTS basis four times per year.
We are committed to ensuring the highest WHATS NEXT?
We also listen to and engage with our standards of food safety and quality customers, carrying out consumer Building on work to develop our across our operations, and require both research to learn more about what they sustainability frameworks, policies and our suppliers and franchisees to operate to want, as well as playing an active role in processes, the following activities are set the same high standards.
contributing to and shaping legislation to take place in 2019: Our suppliers have access to our Supplier around public health.
We will launch a new Responsible Technical Manual, which covers all the Sourcing Framework and Supplier policies and processes we expect of our Code of Conduct in response to our supply chain.
We have a programme of risk assessment work: PROPERTY TEAM TAKES ON SNOWDON In September 2018, 20 colleagues A massive well done to the official from our Property team set out to Dominos mountain climbers for take on Snowdon to raise funds for completing the challenge, and beating a good cause.
the record for the most amount of money fundraised by an internal team After battling with 40mph winds, for Teenage Cancer Trust in 2018. sideways hailstorms and extremely damp conditions, the team achieved their goal in an impressive 2 hours, 20 minutes.
See more online at https: corporate.
co. uk  Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 47 PROMOTING HEALTHY EATING We remain proud that our products no In 2018, from an average donation of longer contain trans fats, artificial colours just 21p, our UK customers raised over As part of our ongoing commitment or flavour enhancers.
725,000 using the service, taking to customer health and wellbeing, we total Pennies donations from Dominos conducted consumer focus groups on MEASURING AND IMPROVING customers to over 4m since 2010.
The health this year to support the work CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT money raised this year was split between of the DPG Health Steering group and The satisfaction of our customers is a key Dominos official UK charity, Teenage inform our strategy.
The overriding consideration for us, and one that we take Cancer Trust, and Pennies, which is also message from these sessions was very seriously.
We measure customer a UK registered charity.
that our customers want more satisfaction through our Feed Us Back choice rather than a change in our Separately, Pennies donations also raised programme, where each customer who core products.
108,000 for charity partner Northern provides us with an active email address Ireland Childrens Hospice, and the pound We believe it is possible to include pizza is sent an invite to a survey asking them sterling equivalent of more than 20,000 in a balanced diet and remain committed to score and comment on all areas of their for our Republic of Ireland charity to providing transparent nutritional experience.
We track a metric called the partner Barretstown.
information to enable our customers to Overall Satisfaction OSAT score, which make an informed choice.
Our website measures the percentage of customers WHATS NEXT?
now has nutritional profiles for more than scoring 5 5 for their overall experience.
We will continue to engage our customers 1,000 pizza combinations.
In 2018, our OSAT score increased by in order to best meet their needs, whilst 8% from the year prior across areas We continue to work closely with Public remaining progressive in our approach to such as food taste, time to receive food, Health England and have participated in our own products and heavily involved in appearance and accuracy of order.
recent consultations on their proposed setting the healthy food agenda.
We Through initiatives implemented activity for the next year includes: continue to support their work on the throughout the year including GPS 2019 will see us launch a range of Childhood Obesity Strategy, and are implementation for deliveries, the use pizzas under the Delight range where actively working on sugar reduction of dynamic delivery times and product a small pizza will have a calorie count in line with its recommendations, specification training, we hope to make of under 650 kcals: including delisting two of our dessert additional improvements in our OSAT options which were unable to meet the score in 2019 and beyond.
Additional activities to boost customer guidelines.
We are also working with satisfaction and wellbeing: and IN-STORE GIVING AND DONATIONS our suppliers to reduce the amount of Rolling out campaigns with a focus on We were the first retailer to sign up to salt in our products and have a number promoting healthy eating.
Pennies, the micro-donation digital charity of new products in the final stages box service, in 2010 and it continues to of consumer approval.
generate significant donations by enabling our customers to round up their orders to the nearest pound.
SOLENT PIZZA RAISES FUNDS FOR TEENAGE CANCER TRUST In line with our long-term partnership for Their hard work, alongside the input of Teenage Cancer Trust, our Solent stores our customers generosity by rounding across Southampton and Portsmouth up their orders through the digital rallied together in September to raise charity box Pennies, saw us raise over 2,800 for the charity in just a single 725,000 in 2018 alone for Teenage week.
Beyond this work, additional Cancer Trust and Pennies.
initiatives included partnering with Portsmouth Football club to raffle off a signed football and running a See more online at 1 personal pizza sale.
