Strategic Report Sustainability HOW WE OPERATE Our business principles provide a guide to how the Group, Our business principles the Board and all of our colleagues should behave towards our customers, other colleagues, our suppliers and our local, Do things Be Keep it national and international community.
They are set out in Sell more our own committed simple our little book of house rules which all of our colleagues way receive on induction, and all colleagues are appraised against them.
We also use our business principles in our colleague communications.
WASTE CUSTOMER As well as forming part of our business principles, the MERCHANDISE FOCUS BE THE ENVIRONMENT individual topics which we report against below form part of SUPPLIER UNDERDOG MOTIVATE the role accountabilities of our Executive Board members and RELATIONSHIPS KEEP OUR OUR TEAMS LONG TERM COST are regular agenda items for the Board and Executive Board.
KEEP LISTENING DECISIONS STRUCTURE DEVELOP AND LOOKING LEAN The chart below details how our sustainability activities are OUR PEOPLE embedded in our business.
Board Executive Board z Overall responsibility for our sustainability z Role models for the business principles z Oversight of the business principles z Members have line responsibility for managing specific topics z Approves policies z Approves policies prior to submission to Board z Executive members have line responsibility for managing specific topics z Regular Executive Board meeting agenda items z Monitors progress through KPIs and Board reports z Monitors progress through KPIs, Board reports and customer and colleague feedback z Annual presentations on people, Health and Safety and ethical sourcing Colleagues How we engage z Appraised by reference to our business principles Customers: through customer care, online surveys and social media z Provide feedback of customer and colleague suggestions via our engagement survey, Yammer Colleagues: weekly email from the CEO, in-house and colleague council magazine, Colleagues Council, Yammer in-house communication tool, instant communication from stores, and always on engagement survey Suppliers: annual conference and meetings throughout the year Others: social media, corporate website DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 35 Customers UNDERSTANDING HOMEMAKERS EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITY: Chief Customer and Digital Officer LINK TO BUSINESS GOALS: 1 2 3 LINK TO BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: Our purpose is to help everyone create a home they love.
We welcome all customers, whatever their age, taste or budget, Sell Be more committed and offer them the widest range of products for their homes, whenever and however they want to shop.
LINK TO PRINCIPAL RISKS: Competition, markets and customers 2017 18 achievements Our Policies We will always look out for ways to make z We opened ten new stores one of z Our online offer of Made to Measure homes and shopping for them better for which was a relocation and completed curtains and blinds was expanded and our customers.
We offer: six refits in our latest format lead times reduced z Well designed, brilliant quality, z We offered our biggest ever Christmas z We opened a new mock shop and own label products at the best range of homewares and gifting photo studio to improve the quality possible prices and we improved product availability of our photography and instore for customers merchandising z The widest possible range of products, offering choice, newness, seasonality z We equipped our store colleagues with and desirable brands chip and pin enabled tablets, making our entire online portfolio accessible z Easy access to our products, however for ordering in-store for home delivery customers choose to shop in-store, home delivery, delivery to store z Stores which are worth visiting inspiring, conveniently located, safe and accessible Awards Whats next for 2018 19 z Websites that are inspiring and easy to z We will continue to develop our store z House Beautiful Gold Awards - navigate, with convenient delivery and Favourite Home Retailer of the Year and formats to make them more attractive collection options and inspiring for our customers Favourite Online Retailer of the Year z Friendly and knowledgeable z We will consolidate all of our activities z Your Home Awards Best Home colleagues, in-store, in our contact under the Dunelm brand, reach more Retailer, Best Soft Furnishing Retailer centre and delivering our products people with our brand, and focus on z Products which meet our customers delivering our brand purpose expectations for safety and ethical and z We will continue to improve our sustainable sourcing product range, design and value z Marketing which is always fair and z We will provide more convenient truthful, and responsible use of our delivery options for customers who customers personal data order from us online z Delivery of our new web platform will Measuring our impact enable us to continually develop and z Customer satisfaction: 0.7% improve customer experience improvement over the previous 12 months corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 36 Strategic Report People THE DUNELM FAMILY EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITY: People Director LINK TO BUSINESS GOALS: We believe that a great place to work is a great place to shop.
2 4 5 We can only deliver great products and services to our customers through the hard work and commitment of our colleagues.
LINK TO BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: Sell Be Do things Keep it We employ over 9,000 colleagues across our business: in stores, our more committed our own simple way distribution and manufacturing operations, our contact centre in Radcliffe, and our support centres in Leicester and London.
LINK TO PRINCIPAL RISKS: People and culture 2017 18 achievements Our Policies Deliver the basics provide fair z Continued to work at aligning our used for communication as well as employment to all colleagues, regardless employment proposition consistently benefits.
We have a 90% take up rate of disability, race, religion or belief, sex, across all of our sites and businesses across the business sexual orientation, gender reassignment, z Held a Company-wide engagement z Reviewed all of our policies and marital status or age.
survey in addition to the always on processes to improve how we survey, using this to better inform the safeguard the personal data of At the end of June 2018, the breakdown of way we communicate and engage our colleagues male and female colleagues was as follows: colleagues throughout their career.
z Appointed Marion Sears as our % We saw engagement increase by Designated Non-Executive Director Male Female Female over 30% between July 2017 and for employee engagement Marion May 2018 Group Board 6 3 33% will attend two National Colleague z Launched a voluntary benefits portal Council meetings each year and feed Executive Board 5 4 44% called Home Comforts that all back to the Group Board colleagues can access.
This portal is Dunelm Leadership Team including Executive Board Some of the ways we bring our business members 24 12 33% Measuring our impact principles to life include: z Colleague NPS: 30% All other z Housewarming induction for new colleagues 3,015 6,319 68% starters, to introduce them to us, our Whats next for 2018 19 products and our way of doing things Laura Carr joins as Chief Financial Officer z Galvanise the business behind our during FY19, and from that date the z Communication through regular purpose to help everyone create a percentage of female members of our huddles informal team briefings : home they love, and our supporting Group Board and Executive Board will a weekly topical email: our quarterly business goals change to 37% and 50% respectively.
Gazette, In touch, and Yammer intranet z Launch a new Careers website to create communications and an annual strategy Invest in our home-grown talent great candidate experience communication event develop our people is one of our z Launch a project called everyones business principles providing training z Regular colleague council meetings welcome to promote diversity, and development opportunities helps us attended by senior management, regardless of disability, race, religion or retain talent in the business.
enabling colleagues to raise and belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender discuss issues: the outcome is fed back We held career days for the first time this reassignment, marital status or age, to the Executive Board year across the entire business, showing background or circumstances colleagues the various career paths open z Our always on colleague feedback z Create Super Fans in our colleague to them within Dunelm.
mechanism allows us to act on issues population who can act as business quickly.
A number of key concerns Living our business principles all new ambassadors, including online and on affecting colleagues have been colleagues receive our Little Book of social media identified and addressed this year House Rules explaining our principles, z Invite members of our National which are used in recruitment and Copies of our policies are available at Colleague Council to a discussion with appraisals, and embedded into our corporate.
the Group Board colleague communications.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 37 Health and Safety KEEPING OUR HOUSE IN ORDER EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITY: Company Secretary LINK TO BUSINESS GOALS: 1 4 5 We want to ensure the safety and well-being of our customers, LINK TO BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: our colleagues and all our visitors.
We have a Group Health and Safety Manager who ensures that the appropriate policies and Sell Be Keep it more committed simple procedures are in place, and regularly reports to the Group Board and the Executive Board.
LINK TO PRINCIPAL RISKS: Regulatory, environment and compliance, people and culture 2017 18 achievements Our Policies The Board is responsible for the creation z Review of store fixtures and fittings in z Launched a half day Health and Safety and implementation of our Health and both established and new formats to training course for new managers and Safety policy and procedures, which ensure that they are safe store premises key holders include an effective system of upward and z Launched Clean As You Go policy z Continued to provide Health and downward communication, appropriate in all stores to help mitigate the risk of Safety training and development to standards for monitoring performance trips, slips and falls senior management throughout the and ensuring that sufficient resources are business z Supported and strengthened health available to support this activity.
A copy of and safety procedures within the z A new trailer fleet for Stoke DC was our full policy is at corporate.
Dunelm Home Delivery Network, operational in January 2018, which Health and Safety is a standard agenda including fleet safety and four allowed forklift trucks to be removed item at every Board and Executive Board distribution centres from 42 stores meeting and each of these receive a monthly report and a formal annual presentation from the Groups Health and Safety Manager with accident risk We have a proactive approach to safety, Whats next for 2018 19 analysis, review of previous objectives and colleagues are encouraged to report and agreement of new objectives for the z Complete programme to remove all potential hazards and risks.
forklift trucks from 67 more stores an ongoing programme of education and z Continued focus on safety at our DCs, In our stores, each store manager training, including DVDs and interactive home delivery fleet safety and through computer based learning, and we ensure is responsible for ensuring the the construction and commissioning of implementation of Health and Safety colleague involvement through the our new manufacturing centre Colleague Council.
policy and procedures in his or her store, supported by the area manager and the z Continue to build competency through Measuring our impact Group Health and Safety Manager.
At education and training our Stoke distribution centres we have a z Number of reportable accidents under z Update Colleague Drivers policies and dedicated Health and Safety Manager.
Risk the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and implement a new third party licence assessments are in place at all Company Dangerous Occurrences Regulations checking service to monitor check sites and updated as required.
2013 RIDDORs flat year on year, driver and car details despite ten new store openings We have an in-house Health and Safety z Implement Drug and Alcohol testing z Accident footfall rate reduced to 2.8% audit, which monitors compliance to post-accident across our fleet and from 3.2% in FY17 policy and procedures and is reviewed distribution centres annually to ensure that it meets best z Total accidents reduced by 5% z Strengthen governance through practice industry standards and to compared to FY17 creation of functional steering groups address any specific risks identified.
Our to drive health and safety actions stores and distribution centres complete an online self-audit monthly and area managers audit each of their stores at least once a year.
This is backed up by our in-house operational audit team and followed up by the Health and Safety Manager.
Regular review meetings are held between the Groups Health and Safety Manager and senior management from operational functions.
com Stock code: DNLM 38 Strategic Report Suppliers and Human Rights UNDER ONE ROOF EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITY: Product Director LINK TO BUSINESS GOALS: We do not manufacture the vast majority of the products that 1 2 3 4 we sell, so we need to maintain relationships with suppliers and manufacturers worldwide who can meet our high standards.
Link to business principles: They must demonstrate that they operate in accordance with Sell Be Do things Keep it more committed our own simple recognised standards that uphold human rights and safety, way prohibit modern slavery and promote sustainable sourcing.
LINK TO PRINCIPAL RISKS: Brand damage: regulatory, environmental and compliance 2017 18 achievements Our Policies Fair and consistent One of our business z Dunelm quality, ethical sourcing and z Started work to consolidate our supply principles is to deal with suppliers in an audit standards were extended to all base towards fewer, larger factories open and honest way.
We require all Worldstores, Kiddicare and Achica with better compliance of our suppliers to sign our standard own branded products z Training provided to all UK terms and conditions in advance of z Dunelm audits independently verified manufacturers of own brand products, commencing trade, and we have signed by third party Bureau Veritas to raise awareness of modern slavery up to the Prompt Payment Code.
The and how to improve procedures to number of days purchases outstanding reduce the risk within the suppliers for payment at 30 June 2018 was 31 days supply chain 2017: 38 days.
Human rights Effective management of human rights throughout our supply conformances such as use of child labour, chain is built into our product procurement Measuring our impact procedures.
Suppliers of our own working against choice slavery or absence z Percentage of factory base for own of valid Building or Fire Certificates are branded products are asked to sign our brand products with audit no more Code of Conduct, based on the Ethical escalated immediately, and supplies than two years old: 82% cease until the issue has been resolved.
Trading Initiative ETI base code, with a strengthened section on slavery.
This Ultimately, if progress is inadequate, we z Percentage of green or amber will cease to trade with the supplier.
requires that suppliers provide a clean audits: 80% and safe work environment, workers Modern slavery In 2016 we assessed Whats next for 2018 19 must be treated with respect and earn a our own facilities and supply base reasonable wage, and relevant local laws z All UK manufacturers of own branded products and services for modern slavery and regulations must be met.
Our policy is products to complete a comprehensive risk and have required the major providers available at corporate.
modern slavery risk assessment, with a to sign our Code of Conduct.
Our audits of FastForward audit for higher risk sites All suppliers of Dunelm branded suppliers of our Dunelm branded products also covers modern slavery.
Our statement z Risk assessment of Pausa direct products must have a satisfactory audit in place which is no more than two years made pursuant to the Modern Slavery Act suppliers to be made, and programme 2015, which contains further information, is of audits to be devised if required old, and a valid building and fire safety certificate.
During 2017 18 we rolled available at corporate.
z Implement Preferred employment this requirement out to the suppliers of agency list for all UK sites, and ensure Provenance We are raising the our Worldstores, Kiddicare and Achica appropriate contracts are in place to provenance requirements for our branded products.
Supplier branded ensure that all regulatory matters are products, with particular emphasis on products are not subject to audits but covered, including modern slavery risk timber sourcing, cotton, animal welfare suppliers sign our Code of Conduct or and feathers and down.
This is to ensure z All Dorma branded textiles to be made equivalent and an assessment is made of that we meet relevant regulatory, from sustainable cotton Jan 2019 their standards and capability.
social, environmental and best practice z Supply chain for all Dunelm branded requirements.
Our policies in this area are Our in-house technology team has timber products to be verified extensive experience of working with available at corporate.
We are independently, to ensure compliance also reviewing our use of single use plastics factories to improve quality and ethical with regulatory requirements as to legal standards.
Our Far East sourcing partners in product packaging and in our Pausa and sustainable sourcing coffee shops, and are looking for suitable monitor standards and work to improve them on our behalf.
Where nonalternatives which will allow us to remove them completely or move to a more compliance is discovered we work with a supplier to help them achieve compliance, environmentally friendly material.
Critical nonDUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 39 Community CHARITY EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITY: Chief Customer and Digital Officer LINK TO BUSINESS GOALS: 1 2 4 LINK TO BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: We aspire to be responsible members of our community, as this Sell Be Do things more committed our own reflects our aim to always do the right thing: it also matters to way our shareholders, customers and colleagues.
LINK TO PRINCIPAL RISKS: Competition, markets and customers: people and culture 2017 18 achievements Our Policies We are proud to support Home-Start UK z We have relaunched our charitable z Colleagues have proactively organised as our charity of the year.
Collections are initiatives with our colleagues, with a larger events to support Home-Start made in-store, specific fundraising events Charity Booklet containing details of including a golf day and charity ball, are organised both by individuals and activities which they can participate in as well as smaller events in individual business areas and the Group makes its and fundraising ideas stores and offices own donations.
Each store has a Charity z This is the second year of our z We continue to support local causes Champion and amounts raised by store are reported monthly, with the top partnership with Home-Start UK and communities where possible to and support and donations ensure we help the local areas we three recognised in the Dunelm Gazette each quarter.
continue to grow serve around our entire store estate z We continue to support our colleagues We also support colleagues who are in their charitable fundraising efforts raising money for charities of their choice, by offering an annual days paid leave by matching the sums raised by a donation to support charitable activities it to Home-Start UK.
All colleagues are entitled to, and are encouraged to take, an extra days paid leave to undertake charitable activities, either individually or as a team.
Whats next for 2018 19 z Our Charity Committee will focus We donate funds raised from English and on driving colleague and customer Scottish carrier bag sales to Home-Start engagement with our charitable UK, and from Welsh carrier bag sales to activities to ensure we are giving GroundWork, a charitable organisation back as much as possible.
We will be which brings people and the environment appointing a new Charity partner or together with practical local action to build partners as part of our usual two stronger communities.
They aim to create year rotation more green spaces, and get people back into work through creating green jobs.
z We will increase our company matched funding Measuring our impact z We will make it easier for colleagues z The total value of charitable donations to donate to charity through made by the Group in the period Payroll Giving ended 30 June 2018 was 102,009 z We continue to support local causes 2017: 35,998 and communities where possible to z Total funds raised for charity by the ensure we help the local areas we Group and colleagues were 490,717 serve around our entire estate 2017: 365,774.
Of this, 455,630 was raised for Home-Start UK 2017: 340,776 corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 40 Strategic Report Environment GOOD NEIGHBOURS EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITY: Chief Financial Officer At Dunelm we always try to do the right thing, and we LINK TO BUSINESS GOALS: are committed to minimising the impact of our business on the environment.
1 2 3 4 Our Sustainability Committee is responsible for the LINK TO BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: development and implementation of environmental strategies Sell Be Do things Keep it more committed our own simple to continually improve our recycling and waste management way and reduce our energy consumption and carbon CO 2 emissions.
We have an Environment & Sustainability Manager LINK TO PRINCIPAL RISKS: who leads and co-ordinates these efforts across our business.
Brand Damage, Regulatory environment and compliance 2017 18 achievements Recycling & Waste z Introduction of Food Waste z fide-compostable take-away food Management collections to over 140 stores across and drink containers, and cutlery the country allowing reduction have been introduced in our Support Our Policies of waste to landfill volumes and Centres to reduce the impact on We aim for high levels of recycling across generating energy from waste the environment our business, and our Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle policy supports our approach.
z All sites have been environmentally z Held a World Environment Day event All stores have cardboard balers and audited by our in-house audit team at our Leicester Support Centre to colour-coded bins to segregate waste raise awareness amongst colleagues z Internal marketing campaigns for recycling.
Training programmes and of how we can minimise our impact completed to raise awareness communication to increase colleague z Award finalist for recycling initiatives z Landfill diversion rate has increased to awareness and compliance are and progress at both the National 95% from 92% last year undertaken frequently.
Recycling Awards and the Recycling z 12 show and tell waste audits Excellence Awards in 2018 Our Distribution Centres in Stoke recover including waste bin emptying have and process our product packaging from been completed throughout the our DC and store operations cardboard store network, providing valuable and polypropylene ready for recycling.
education and awareness to colleagues and store managers We have dry mixed recycling collections from our stores for paper, plastic bottles and cans which is then sorted and recycled offsite.
We also recycle wooden pallets and metal fixtures.
All electrical waste Measuring our Impact Key policy objectives is recycled through a WEEE compliant Last year Dunelm recycled 75% 2017: z Our approach to recycling and scheme.
Any remaining waste that is not 79% of waste.
We increased our food waste more generally is to adopt the sorted for recycling within the business waste collections, which is turned into following prioritisation: Reduce, Reuse, is sent offsite for further sortation and energy, to over 100 tonnes in stores.
Total Rework, Recycle wherever possible we aim to generate company landfill diversion increased z To minimise general non-recyclable energy from waste.
again to 95% 2017: 92% and we have waste across the business and reduce achieved 100% landfill diversion from our In the first instance we will aim to sell less use of landfill and other adverse Distribution Centres in Stoke.
than perfect stock to our customers who environmental impacts are looking for a bargain.
We also work z To be fully compliant with all relevant Waste recycled % with over 100 charity partners nationwide waste legislation to donate homewares items that cannot be 83 82 79 78 78 sold to customers.
This helps us support Whats next for 2018 19 75 our communities and minimise our z Continue to improve recycling environmental impact.
performance aiming towards 100% landfill diversion over the medium term z Introduce reusable cups and bottles for colleagues in our Support Centres, and promote them in-store for customers z Improve compliance in stores and in our Stoke distribution centres to improve our recycling rate FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 41 Environment CONTINUED 2017 18 achievements Energy use z We continued the LED programme and we have incurred additional energy Our Policies re-fitted 25 stores with LED lighting, as usage this year to heat cool our stores Our policy objective is to reduce energy well as new store site installs taking appropriately for our colleagues and usage year on year.
the total number of our locations with customers LED lighting to 164 out of 184 sites z We continue to monitor the Dunelm manages energy usage and z Our focus on energy consumption in performance of our stores and assess energy reduction initiatives on a sitestores continued and we appointed future investments.
Smart meters are fitted to an energy manager to continually solar power to one new site in FY18 electricity and gas supplies and energy monitor performance and ensure that and we completed maintenance work consumption is measured frequently with our building management systems are on our existing solar panels sites to analytics tools available to help identify optimised.
Due to the protracted cold ensure their performance is optimised issues and opportunities to reduce usage.
winter, and the May June heatwaves, Building Management Systems BMS, designed to optimise energy use, are fitted as standard across our estate.
Energy consumption is monitored by Year on year reduction in Whats next for 2018 19 our Energy Manager in conjunction with a specialist energy partner.
We z Introduce systemised cut-offs for energy usage % overrides of Building Management target underperforming sites alongside 5 the implementation of various energy Systems to reduce accidental usage 1.2 1.1 reduction initiatives to maximise energy FY15 FY16 FY17 z Reduce like-for-like energy efficiency, while maintaining a comfortable FY13 FY14 FY18 consumption by at least 5% trading environment for our customers z Increase weekly focus on energy and colleagues.
consumption and challenge stores to We have prioritised a programme to invest reduce through cost targets 5.8 in full LED lighting at all sites.
All new z Assess investment potential for more stores are 100% LED and in total we have solar powered sites, and voltage 10.0 retro-fitted 94 stores to this more efficient optimisation initiatives equipment.
164 sites 89% of the estate z Raise awareness of energy now have LED lighting fitted.
consumption across the business 14.2 through internal communications Our company car fleet is graded on Greenhouse Gas 2017 18 achievements emissions and we encourage the use Emissions CO e of fuel efficient vehicles in all schemes.
2 Average emissions in 2018 were Our Policies 110 CO g km 2017: 108 CO g km.
z We have reduced CO emissions by 2 2 2 15.7% year on year compared to Our policy objective is to reduce CO 2 Whats next for 2018 19 revenue growth emissions relative to turnover year on year.
z Continue to reduce CO emissions 2 z We have trialled various electric and We invest in photovoltaic systems solar relative to turnover year on year low emission vehicles to see if they are power wherever viable across our estate.
suitable for operational purposes, and z Introduce charging points for electric We now have these in five of our stores are introducing them into our company vehicles in our car parks at Support Leeds, Dunstable, Bristol, Cambridge car fleet Centres and assess certain stores for and Darlington.
These systems replace suitability z Our work to roll out more LED stores energy sourced through the national has helped reduce energy usage and z Review and assess our company car grid with local renewable energy.
We lower emissions fleet to introduce more zero and low continue to monitor performance of these emissions options to colleagues installations to inform future investment decisions as we assess additional sites for Measuring our impact solar power generation.
Intensity Measure tCO e per 2 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CO e 2 We continue to source electricity 1m Group Revenue emissions data is reported using the GHG from Green Energy supplies such as 39.9 Protocol Corporate Standard Scope 1 & combined heat and power sources where Scope 2 and applies to our organisational 34.9 CO emissions are 30% lower than the 2 29.0 boundary as defined by the operational 25.6 national average.
Dunelm also works with specialist The methodology used to calculate partners to consult on our energy buying our emissions is based on the UK strategy, investments in energy saving Governments GHG Conversion Factors for technology and to further focus on Company Reporting 2013.
Dunelm uses Tonnes of CO e per 1m 2 of turnover as its intensity measure, reflecting the link between growth, activity and performance.
com Stock code: DNLM 42 Strategic Report Bribery, fraud and tax evasion 2017 18 achievements UPHOLDING OUR VALUES The procedures in place to ensure compliance with the Our Policies Bribery Act 2011 and other relevant legislation are set Dunelm takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery, out below: corruption, fraud and tax evasion.
z Anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy implemented The Group pays corporation tax on its operations in the which also covers fraud and tax evasion United Kingdom and Jersey and does not operate in any tax z Formal procedure implemented for signing off and havens, or use any tax avoidance schemes.
logging gifts and hospitality accepted by colleagues Our Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy and our Tax z Executive Board members, Senior colleagues, all members Strategy are available on our website https: corporate.
of the commercial team and any individuals with authority dunelm.
to place significant contract orders have received antibribery training and complete an annual refresher The main areas of potential risk in Dunelms organisation are: z All Senior colleagues sign a declaration of compliance and z A colleague accepting a bribe or some other personal conflicts of interest statement annually advantage in return for awarding a contract z Standard terms and conditions for suppliers include a z A supplier acting on Dunelms behalf offering or accepting Bribery Act tax evasion clause a bribe or other personal advantage z Specific training has been carried out for suppliers and z A Dunelm colleague facilitating tax evasion by a third party, agents in high risk territories for example by making an off book payment to enable a third party to avoid tax z All payments to third parties must be supported by a valid invoice and segregated duties are in place in the finance team: commercial checks made on all new suppliers: policy on engagement of contractors under review z Our Whistleblowing Policy refers specifically to the Bribery Act, fraud and tax evasion and an externally hosted independent helpline is in place z Standing agenda item for the Audit and Risk Committee Measuring our impact z % of internal training completed 100% This report was reviewed and signed by order of the Board on 12th September 2018.
Nick Wilkinson Chief Executive Officer DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 43 Governance Customer First Online, whether for inspiration, browsing or purchasing is now a part of almost every customers shopping experience.
Our stores play a pivotal role in a Multichannel world.
Take-home-today convenience, friendly colleague advice, or that touch and feel experience, means we provide unique experience which sets us apart.
com S Stock code: tock code: DNLM DNLM 44 Contents Directors and Officers 46 Chairmans Letter 49 Corporate Governance Report 50 Letter from the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 62 Audit and Risk Committee Report 63 Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 68 Remuneration Report 70 Letter from the Chair of the Nominations Committee 96 Nominations Committee Report 97 Directors Report 100 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 103 DUNELM GROUP PL DUNELM GROUP PLC C ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T AND AND A AC CC COUNTS FOR OUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 JUNE 2018 45
