Our strategy To realise the potential of our people Engaging and energising our people is a key building block in our vision.
Our values are at our core, serving as the common foundation for over 28,500 people across geographies and businesses, including newly acquired companies.
Ensuring the safety of all We do this by First and foremost, we live that commitment by promoting Ensuring the safety of all asafety culture throughout the Group: putting safety first on Creating an environment that fosters pride in our people every meeting agenda and including it as an essential part of the and where they can give their best induction of all new employees, contractors and agency workers Building individual and organisational capabilities and when anyone visits one of our sites.
Our performance Our standards and expectations for safety go beyond the In 2017 18 we delivered: legal requirements of the countries in which we operate and are modelled to drive world-class safety performance and to 239 sites without a lost time accident achieve our goal of zero accidents.
As a result 239 of our locations Accident frequency rate of 2.8 achieved zero lost time accidents LTAs in 2017 18.
Overall we Management Standards launched to 3,500 managers are pleased with the reduction in our LTA rates and our accident Integration of c. 1,900 new employees from frequency rates, however, by our exacting standards, we were threeacquisitions disappointed by an increase in both the number, and severity, Launched personal development planning support for ofaccidents that happened in the mid-part of the 2017 18 year, all employees which impacted our overall performance for this data collection period.
Previously reported 2016 17 data has been updated to In 2018 19 we will: reflect all acquisitions during the financial year, therefore Continue and renew our strong focus on health and safety providing a direct comparison data set for 2017 18.
Continue to develop strong leadership and Health and safety key 2016 17 2016 17 managementcapability performance indicators 2017 18 comparative reported Variance Embed Management Standards into recruitment, 1 Total LTAs 126 132 113 4.5 % promotion, assessment and development conversations 2 AFR 2.8 3.0 2.6 6.7 % for managers Invite all employees to share their opinions in an 1.
Lost Time Accident LTA : number of accidents resulting in lost time of one shift or more EmployeeSurvey 2.
Accident Frequency Rate AFR : number of LTAs per million hours worked Increase the efficiency of people processes by enhancing Determined to return to a positive trend of accident reduction, and extending the use of our information systems inboth number and severity, we have proactively taken steps Our KPIs toreduce risks and reinforce our policies, processes and safe systems of work as well as developing our safety culture.
In 2017 Accident Frequency Rate AFR we further upgraded our global health, safety and environmental Definition management system, CERTUS, providing us with greater control The number of lost time accidents LTAs per million and richer insight into our performance in these areas whilst also hoursworked.
reducing the number of information systems in use across the Target Group.
We continue to invest in all physical safety improvements such as machine guarding, safety equipment or segregation of vehicles and pedestrians.
In addition, we are reinforcing how vital 0 accidents it is to keep actively focused on safety at all times by increasing the safety leadership skills of managers through training and Why this is a KPI involving all employees in identifying ways we could make our At DS Smith we have a strong focus on individual ownership workplaces safer.
and we believe that by engaging our people to contribute To increase safety leadership skills and to expedite the compliance to a safe working environment and culture, everyone can with DS Smiths safety standards we have designed a bespoke influence a reduction in our accident frequency rate.
development course for key managers.
Starting with our recently 2018 performance acquired businesses in Iberia, south east Europe and the US, all We are pleased to see a reduction in LTAs and AFR, a result transferring plant-responsible managers have attended the Safety ofthe proactive measures put in place at mid-year.
This programme equips them to act as role models, challenge eectively and demonstrate the importance of 2016 3.2 safety over production deadlines to our employees.
A similar series of workshops were also held for all safety professionals across 1 3.0 2017 the Group to promote leadership skills, continuous development, 2018 2.8 networking, the sharing of good practices and to clarify expectations of our health and safety professionals.
On a comparative basis 22 Strategic report Safety responsibility extends beyond managers and we expect Creating a place where people are proud all employees to look out for their own safety and for that of their to work and give their best colleagues, and to continuously look for ways to improve the Our people are talented, hard-working and keen to make active safety of their workplace.
contributions to the success of the Company.
We want to empower our employees to realise their potential and are working to ensure In the following months, we will be implementing a new health we have the talent to meet and exceed our organisational and safety strategy and widening our aim towards a vision ambitions for future growth and industry innovation.
The journey towards zero harm will encompass organisational, physical and cultural elements, designed to OWN IT!
engage our people and move towards sustainable world-class Our employees are unied by their connection to the same health and safety performance in the years to come.
corporate culture and business strategy and we have retained that connection under the banner of OWN IT!
Health and Safety Manager, Karlovac, Croatia In the past year, sites and offices across the globe have utilised their Employee Survey results and the OWN IT!
toolkit to create and implement engagement improvement plans that are connected to a common framework but localised to their individual priorities.
In November 2017, 14,000 colleagues took the opportunity to share their views on the progress we are making in a pulse survey which reflected an 8 per cent increase in employee engagement.
In parallel to our direct engagement with all employees, we work closely with employee representative groups.
Our ability to adapt, change and grow as an organisation benets from a good working relationship with these forums and our European Works Council EWC.
We have collaboratively delivered several successful projects including a Code of Conduct and most recently the Employee Charter, which lists the mutual commitments of management and employee representatives to improve the business culture and operations to ensure colleagues are treated fairly, listened to, supported and given the opportunity to succeed.
In 2017, DS Smith Karlovac in Croatia achieved ten years Growing Together without a lost-time accident and were recognised with a Open and regular performance health and safety award issued by the Croatian Ministry of dialogue is central to our people Labour.
This achievement was based on a significant work plan.
All employees who want to programme over many years including investment in machine develop with DS Smith should have guarding, vehicles and personal protective equipment as aplan in place with their manager well as training, ergonomic furniture and personal alarms.
and the opportunity to acquire new skills or challenge themselves However, it was only with the engagement and participation in their role, through project work or formal learning.
In order to of all employees on site that the safety culture and sustained promote that dialogue and enhance the development culture in safety performance were able to develop.
DS Smith we launched Growing Together.
The Growing Together To me, the most important thing is to speak directly to the site provides guidance on planning a career with DS Smith, not employees, listen to their ideas and proposals and as part justfullling a job, and equips employees and managers alike with of the conversation point them to the importance of safety the structure to have positive development conversations and at work.
I believe that without their co-operation and team identify the appropriate development actions.
work, it could have been difficult to reach the desired results.
Inclusion and diversity The realisation that their opinions were heard and taken into Our commitment to realising the potential of our people consideration made it much easier to achieve these results.
For us, it is all about merit.
Anyone All my colleagues were very supportive and cooperative.
can and should be able to realise their full potential in DS Smith Imalso very grateful to work for a company like DS Smith without experiencing inequality and unfairness on any grounds, that invests in its employees and cares about their safety including disability.
Our stated ambition is to promote an inclusive and well-being.
culture within which all employees are valued and respected and Sinisa Kotur, Health and Safety Manager, Karlovac have the opportunity to flourish.
com 23 Our strategy: To realise the potential of our people continued As standard, we include employee opinion metrics on fairness networking opportunities to enhance the gender diversity of our and equal treatment in every employee survey and we are workforce and to promote inclusive work practices.
working together with our EWC on the topic of inclusion and Management standards diversity in the broadest sense as part of the implementation Over the past few years we have been developing all of our Employee Charter.
In recent years a primary focus has people managers to understand the importance of been cultural diversity and inclusion through a period of rapid their role in driving the performance of their teams international growth in order to maximise the value creation and ultimately the business.
Our Engaging Managers from our acquisitions.
Most recently we have agreed diversity and Programme has given over 3,000 managers the skills inclusion priorities which will form part of a focused work plan for to act as positive role models and engage their teams.
Other ongoing initiatives include the creation of working this, we have Core Values and Leadership Competencies which groups to boost the representation of minority groups within the set the behavioural code for how DS Smith managers are employee base, education, training on inclusive work practices expected to carry out their work.
Based on feedback in the and ensuring there are clear channels for employees to speak up 2016 Employee Survey, we identied a need for greater clarity of to their representatives or to use our Speak Up!
channel should expectations and consistency of management practices across they encounter any bias or unfair actions.
DS Smith leadership has the Group.
As a result, we have introduced nine Management been proactive in agreeing a stated ambition to create an inclusive Standards which encompass the key expectations of all DS Smith culture and have agreed a clear set of priorities which will form managers, all related policies and processes and links to learning our workplan for 2018 19.
Our commitment to diversity and materials or activities.
inclusion has been communicated through various channels Meeting specific business challenges to our employees and is captured in our Code of Conduct, our To meet some of the more specic business challenges and to Employee Charter and our Management Standards.
deliver our strategy, we are also developing key leaders from our Gender diversity Group talent-pool.
A prestigious Global Leadership Programme Board hasbeen designed in partnership with Oxford Universitys Sad Business School for future executives who can be called upon to step up and take on strategic leadership roles.
The first groups will Male: 6 Female: 2 be embarking on this programme during 2018.
Senior management Male: 118 Female: 16 Group Julie Westcott, Group Health and Safety Director Male: 22,020 Female: 6,284 This year, we have published gender pay gap information for our UK businesses for the first time.
The evidence in the report reflects the hard work we put in to implement fair and equitable policy and process when it comes to reward.
What our report, and those of others in the industry, has highlighted is the need to encourage more women into jobs in the manufacturing industry.
DS Smith is keen to take a leading role in promoting training, recruitment and With safety as a continued strategic priority, a key appointment made this year was our new Group Health and Safety Director, Julie Westcott, who was promoted from Our priorities our Packaging division.
Julie joined DS Smith nine years ago Actively encouraging women to choose careers and has supported the development of our health and safety 1 in manufacturing.
programme from roles in the Packaging, Paper and Recycling divisions as well as leading the co-ordination of best practice Identifying female talent and supporting them to grow sharing and internal audit across the entire Group.
She 2 and develop within our organisation.
has been instrumental in raising standards, educating on Ensuring everyone has the opportunity to reach their the drivers of a safety culture, influencing managers and 3 full potential by removing any potential barriers so leaders in their responsibilities and improving the way we that women can succeed in our business.
communicate the good practices in place with colleagues.
24 Strategic report Building individual and organisational capabilities Integrating new business DS Smiths continued growth, maturation as an organisation Stronger Together Interstate Resources Acquisition and innovation into new products and services requires fresh talent and dierent experience to supplement our strong internal Our approach to integration is based on the overriding belief labour market.
that when we integrate businesses we are truly stronger Bringing in expertise together.
This belief extends beyond the assets, products Vacancies and newly created roles in the organisation have and technologies people are at the heart.
We gain skills, given us the opportunity to bring in new colleagues from leading knowledge, experience and ideas every time we acquire companies and for them to introduce dierent perspectives and anew business and this was particularly the case with extensive experience to some key functions in DS Smith.
Interstate Resources in north America.
Packaging specialists of the future In order to maximise the strength of Interstate Resources Working in partnership with our EWC, we have also been and DS Smith, we invested significant time and eort to proactively seeking ways to retain the expert knowledge of our engage and align the Interstate Resources leadership team workforce, as many technical experts and long service employees atthe outset.
A combined leadership event was followed by approach retirement.
As a result, we have reinvigorated acascade to all new colleagues of DS Smith sharing our story, apprenticeship and graduate programmes and are tightening our values and setting out the roadmap for integration.
international good practice sharing or coordination surrounding Individual workstreams then held their own subject matter these programmes.
Overall, these eorts will ensure consistently workshops, unifying colleagues working in similar roles, i. e. optimised resourcing levels and provide opportunities to pair health and safety, paper and packaging, and promoting best experienced colleagues with new joiners to pass on their skills.
Our apprenticeship scheme introduces young talent into the Regular and engaging two-way communications kept organisation and gives them the opportunity to become the colleagues informed throughout the process and early access packaging specialists of tomorrow.
to the full DS Smith suite of communication and collaboration tools helped our new colleagues in north America feel part Apprentices in Germany and Switzerland of the wider team with more than 25,000 individuals around the world.
The successful integration of Interstate Resources can be summarised in the feedback received during the stronger together conference: A new spirit of success has developed We gained a shared sense of moving the business forward a shared destiny I see more opportunities for my growth and development, In Germany and Switzerland DS Smith currently employs business-wise and personally 110apprentices and students who are joining a three-year Acquisitions not only provide access to new knowledge and programme.
They can select courses in production, logistics, expertise about our customers but also provide opportunities maintenance or administration in specic areas like packaging for individuals and teams.
We have already seen the benefit in technologists, media technologists, industrial clerks, sharing practices across Europe and north America and have designers, paper engineers etc.
identied a number of key talents to full short or mediumEvery year a central onboarding welcome event takes term placements overseas, providing invaluable experience place for all new apprentices to enable the development of for the individual and supporting the wider integration process.
In September 2017, we welcomed 47 new apprentices and students.
We have also expanded our capacity in Europe through acquisition During the programme the apprentices gain professional this year and most recently added the Romanian based EcoPack experience within dierent site departments, as well as and EcoPaper businesses to our operations in south east Europe.
theoretical knowledge within vocational schools.
The Our experience in identifying the right organisations to join apprentices graduate with a state-approved degree.
DS Smith and in successfully integrating them into the Group is a After completion of the training we take on 90 per cent of the key capability: ensuring we have the right talent with knowledge apprentices in a permanent employment relationship.
In this of the local market and customers in these high growth areas.
way, we support the growth of the business and counter the lack of specialists.
