Our strategy To lead the way in sustainability We aim to lead the way in sustainability by balancing the needs of our business, our environment and our people.
Packaging plays a key role in delivering sustainable products We do this by The core role of packaging is to protect products and to keep food Building sustainability into our decisions and drink fresher for longer.
As shops and shopping habits evolve, Growing our recycling platform consumer expectations change and supply chains become more complex, packaging has to work harder than ever.
Increasingly, Our performance packaging is expected to build brands, enhance customer In 2017 18 we delivered: experience and make supply chains more efficient.
Packaging EcoVadis Gold secured, placing us in the top 5 per cent of all has to do all this whilst retaining its core purpose: protecting evaluated organisations products.
The right packaging does all of this sustainably.
95 per cent FSC certied across all in scope packaging and According to the Food and Drink Federation and INCPEN, paper sites packaging can account for just 10 per cent of the total resources 5.9 per cent reduction in waste to landll per tonne of and energy invested in a products carbon footprint.
A products production, in the Packaging division packaging is there to protect it, ensuring it will not be damaged as In 2018 19 we will: it traverses the supply chain from point of production to point of use.
In protecting the product eectively, packaging plays a vital Roll out and implement new sustainability targets to role in ensuring valuable energy and resources are not wasted.
underpin our strategy Further embed sustainability reporting into existing Packaging also makes supply chains more efficient.
The right performance measurement mechanisms packaging, working in harmony with the product, can increase Integrate the North America Paper and Packaging division transport utilisation, simplify logistics, streamline last-mile into our sustainability reporting deliveries, reduce damage rates and cut down on product returns.
At each link in the supply chain, packaging plays an important role Our KPIs in protecting resources and minimising environmental impact.
CO equivalent emissions 2 In doing so, innovative packaging can play a key role in addressing Definition many of the challenges linked to global megatrends increased Total CO equivalent CO e emissions per tonne of production 2 2 efficiency in a resource constrained world, last mile delivery in Target increasingly urbanised societies and reducing food waste in developed and developing countries.
Reduction over the 10years to 2030 Whilst the core role of packaging will always be to protect 30% products and to keep food and drink fresher for longer, new and innovative packaging does much more, sustainably.
Why this is a KPI Energy consumption and associated carbon emissions are Sustainability is embedded within our circular offer significant environmental aspects that contribute to global Our business model is circular with a unique capability of challenges such as climate change and we are committed complementary recycling, paper and packaging operations.
to reducing our emissions relative to production.
It is through this closed-loop system that we are able to embed sustainability into our products and services and deliver 2018 performance packaging solutions and recycling services that meet the evolving CO e emissions per tonne of production have increased by 2 requirements of supply chains, customers and consumers.
This is due to a combination of increased use of natural gas at our paper mills as a result of decreased Our sustainable packaging solutions begin with product design burning of alternative fuels like reject plastics and a focus and innovation.
Our global network of packaging strategists, on performance papers and packaging which, whilst using supported by our innovative Impact and PackRight Centres, work less bre and providing better performing packaging, are with customers to design packaging that protects products and more carbon intensive per tonne of production.
We remain in the resources invested in them whilst making their supply chains a positive position against our long-term target, showing a 1.5 more efficient.
per cent reduction in carbon intensity against a 2015 baseline.
Sustainable sourcing is central to our oer.
Our primary raw material bre is a renewable biomaterial.
Our focus is on using quality, sustainably sourced raw materials, whether 2016 209 bre or plastics.
In Europe, our paper division manufactures only recycled papers, whilst in north America our Reading mill also 2017 196 manufactures recycled papers and our Riceboro kraftliner mill 206 2018 sources all of its bre inputs from sustainable sources.
26 Strategic report Our manufacturing operations are focused on fully recyclable End of life recycling is a core element of our circular business corrugated solutions and within our plastics business we provide model.
Paper and board has the highest recycling rate of any packaging solutions that are multi-use or made from recycled and material in Europe with bres capable of being recycled up to recyclable materials.
Across our operations we are reducing our seven times.
Our recycling division, one of the largest in Europe, environmental impact through investment in innovative energy plays a key role in this, managing over five million tonnes of waste reduction technologies, switching to cleaner fuel, turning waste materials per annum, some of which are a key feedstock for our streams into resources and managing our water impact.
The net eect is that we are involved in the recycling of a considerably higher tonnage of material than Truly sustainable packaging solutions can set o a domino eect we manufacture.
of efficiencies in our customers supply cycles, making logistics To further explore how we manage sustainability issues in more more efficient, reducing supply chain environmental impacts, detail please see our Sustainability Review 2018 which is available protecting products and keeping food and drink fresher for longer.
com company sustainability sustainabilityreport Our sustainability approach, strategy, focus and targets At DS Smith, our approach to sustainability is focused on three core pillars.
Through ongoing engagement with a wide variety of stakeholders we have identied a number of priority areas where we believe we can have the greatest impact.
To drive and focus our activities in these areas we have, this year, set ourselves a number of new challenging and ambitious long-term targets, complementing those already in place.
Our full list of targets is as follows: Our Business Our Environment Our People Creating shared value through Minimising our impact, from design to Ensuring the safety, wellbeing and responsible recycling, paper production and supply to recycling.
development of colleagues and and packaging.
Packaging Impact 1 Manufacture 100 per cent reusable or recyclable packaging by 2025 and grow our net positive recycling position Carbon and Energy Fibre Sourcing Reduce our CO e emissions by 30 per 2 Use 100 per cent recycled or chain of cent per tonne of production by 2030, custody certied papers by 2020 against a 2015 baseline Our Business Supplier Standards Water Stewardship Assess sustainability 2 Achieve zero water impact 3 performance of 80 per cent of by 2030 non-paper suppliers by 2020 Our Environment Responsible Employer Waste and Recycling Build a diverse, engaged and Send zero waste to landll Our People respected workforce by2030 Health and Safety Responsible Neighbour Zero accidents Engage in community programmes at 100 per cent of our sites by 2020 Vision zero harm 1 Involved in all or in part of collecting, sorting, reprocessing, managing and or transporting a greater tonnage of material through our Recycling division than we place on the market through our Packaging and Plastics divisions 2 To include water quality, water stress improvements and water reduction where feasible 3 By spend Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 27 Our strategy: To lead the way in sustainability continued As reported last year, we are continuing to roll out ISO50001 Performance certication at all relevant sites and will use this management In the past year we have been working to complete a range framework as a mechanism for driving continued performance of commitments made relating to each of our focus areas.
improvements against our long-term carbon reduction target.
Asummary of performance against these commitments can be found below.
We recognise the importance of climate change as both a challenge and opportunity for all businesses and are aware of the Packaging impact recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Perhaps more than ever before the role of packaging in society Disclosures TCFD.
At present we believe that we report against isbeing scrutinised.
There is more that the industry can do to many of the recommended criteria through our annual submission provide sustainable packaging solutions and real change will come to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Over the coming year we will from collaboration between all involved: regulators, trade bodies, review our reporting against the criteria and will look to disclose councils, brand-owners, retailers, re-processors and consumers.
DS Smith continues to innovate to drive resource efficiency in packaging, with highlights from the past year including Bedkind Recycling and waste an animal bedding product made from waste from our packaging We have had some considerable success in reducing our waste R operations, Beaulex an urban drainage solution made from to landll, most notably at our paper mill in Belie, Croatia where post-consumer plastic waste and various e-commerce initiatives waste to landll fell by 26.9 per cent, and in our packaging division TM e. g. DISCS and Made2t.
where absolute waste to landll fell by 8.7 per cent, or by 5.9 per cent relative to production.
However the impact of Operation Fibre sourcing National Sword in China restricting the export market for Each production site that converts or trades in wood bre recycled materials has seen our total waste to landll tonnages or other wood derivative products is mandated to pursue a increase by 21 per cent on an absolute basis and 22 per cent recognised certication programme leading to a chain of custody relative to production as UK infrastructure has been unable to for responsible bre sourcing.
95 per cent of our production sites recycle some of the material that would otherwise have been are currently certied by a recognised certication scheme.
Supplier standards The restrictions on exporting recycled materials have had a Our commitment to ensure our top 200 strategic suppliers significant impact on waste management operations at Kemsley, sign our new Global Supplier Standard has progressed well, our UK paper mill.
Supporting our customers in new territories with 213 having committed to adhere to our minimum social and means that we have to operate in countries where the waste environmental expectations.
However, we have not progressed management infrastructure is less mature than in many European as we had planned with regards developing and implementing countries, but we aim to use the expertise within our group to asupplier assessment programme.
Work is ongoing and our manage the waste from our mills sustainably.
This is reflected ambition and focus in this area is now reflected in our new target inour new zero waste to landll ambition.
for 80 per cent of our non-paper suppliers by spend to have their sustainability performance assessed by 2020.
Whilst our aim to Water stewardship source 100 per cent of our papers sustainably addresses the risk Over the past year our effluent per tonne of production has associated with our primary raw material, the purpose of this increased slightly.
This is the result of the ongoing focus on target is to ensure we drive similar ethical standards into our innovative performance papers and packaging.
As reported last year, having a focus on water reduction is a Carbon and energy challenge as reducing water use has a negative impact on the Our net carbon gures for 2017 rose by 4.4 per cent on 2016 amount of energy consumed in our paper mills, negating any values, driven by an increase in the consumption of natural gas at potential positive environmental impact.
As such, our new focus some of our paper mills and corrugators which can be seen in the ison water quality and through eective treatment we are able 5.3 per cent increase in Scope 1 emissions.
This was partially oset toensure that our effluent does not adversely aect the water by a 4.5 per cent increase in energy exports representing 317 kt of resources that we share with our local communities.
This focus CO e. The slight fall in production by weight reported here reflects 2 onwater quality is something that we have looked to reflect in the fact that, whilst production by volume continues to increase, ournew water stewardship target.
During the year we received the relative weight of this production has decreased due to the notication of breaches or minor environmental incidents at six success of our focus on lighter, higher performance papers sites.
There were zero major incidents dened as incidents of and packaging.
significant impact reportable to local or national authorities, or incidents potentially resulting in legal prosecution reported for We remain in a positive position against our long-term target the period of this report.
to reduce our CO e emissions per tonne of production by 30 per 2 cent, with our carbon intensity 1.5 per cent lower against a 2015 Health and safety, responsible employer baseline.
This is the result of an ongoing focus on both energy and responsible neighbour efficiency investments and switching to cleaner, less carbon For information on the past years health and safety performance intensive fuels.
and our ongoing work to be an ever more responsible employer please see page s 22 and 23.
28 Strategic report Sustainability Steering Group is chaired by the Group General Sustainability governance Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Board considers risks arising from sustainability issues as being among the key risks to the Groups operations and by way DS Smith is committed to conducting business in a socially and of mitigation adequate and eective policies and procedures environmentally responsible manner.
DS Smith subscribes to a for managing emerging sustainability issues are in place.
These number of international standards and guidelines relevant to policies are periodically reviewed and updated, with action plans corporate responsibility and business conduct, including: communicated to the heads of each business unit.
The Board United Nations Global Compact: receives regular reports on performance.
United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the The Group Chief Executive is responsible for addressing Convention on the Rights of the Child:  issues through the Group Health, Safety, International Labour Organisation Eight Fundamental Environment and Sustainability Committee and a divisionally Conventions: and focused Sustainability Steering Group oversees the process Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and sets and monitors internal targets and strategies to ensure Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
 risks and opportunities are appropriately For more information on our policies, procedures and managed.
Any residual issues are brought to the Board.
The performance in any of these areas please see our Sustainability Review 2018.
Figures from all years are based on data from sites we owned for the entirety of that year.
2017 data based on sites we have owned since 1 January 2017.
2016 gure 2016 representative restated from last year to include data from sites added to the 2017 scope to give a representative like-for-like comparison.
We have shown the 2015 published gure as it is the baseline year for our target, and the published gure for 2016 to show the performance of the business as previously reported.
The same calculations have been applied for all years.
The CO and CO e emissions were calculated using the UK DECC 2016 factors for all fuels and the UK national grid.
Emissions from other national grids use the 2 2 DECC factors IEA from 2015.
Total production is the sum of printed reels and paper reels from our paper mills: plastics production all types from our plastics sites: recovered bre and other materials collected and processed through our recycling depot network: and boxes and sheets sold to third parties from our packaging sites and other types of packaging production from these sites.
DS Smith collects and reports environmental data in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHGP, to the extent that this is practicable.
Full details on the methodology and additional facts and gures on our sustainability data can be found in our Sustainability Review 2018 and databook.
Verification Statement from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd Bureau Veritas UK Limited Bureau Veritas has been commissioned by DS Smith Plc.
DS Smith to provide an independent opinion on the following environmental performance indicators: energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, raw material usage, water consumption, waste, discharge to air and water and production for calendar year 2017.
The reporting boundaries cover DS Smiths global operations.
Based on our verication activities and scope of work, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the reported data do not provide a fair representation of environmental performance across the DS Smith group for the dened period.
DS Smith should be commended on its approach to environmental data collection, including the use of a central reporting system, clear responsibilities at Head Office and site levels, frequent data gathering, and the existence of an audit trail from source evidence to reported data at the sites visited.
A full verification statement including methodology, limitations and exclusions can be found on the DS Smith website at https: www.
com company sustainability our-environment performance Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
