GOVERNANCE Governance report Jane Bednall was appointed in July 2018.
The Board believes that Board balance and independence Training and development Election of directors Peter Baguley, Adam Fowle, Marisa Cassoni and Jane Bednall The Board has a strong independent element and at the date of The Companys directors have a wide range of expertise as well The directors comply with the requirements of the Code and submit continue to display all of the qualities of independence as set out in this report currently comprises, in addition to the Chairman, two as significant experience in strategic, financial and operational themselves for re-election every year, if they wish to continue the Code.
executive directors and four non-executive directors.
New directors receive a personalised induction programme serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible.
Accordingly, comprises individuals with wide business skills and experience designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the the whole Board will be proposed for re-election or, in the case of Effectiveness which are considered to be a balance of the skills and experience Group, its culture and operations.
Jane Bednall, reappointment at this years AGM.
appropriate for the needs of the business and allows it to exercise Meetings and attendance All directors have access to management and to the advice of the objectivity in decision making and proper control of the business.
The The Board held six scheduled meetings in the year under review.
In Service agreements Company Secretary, who regularly updates the Board on material Chairman and four of the non-executive directors are considered to addition, a strategic business review was held off site at which high The service agreements of the executive directors and copies governance and compliance issues.
be independent in character and judgement: they satisfied the criteria level strategic issues, including future business direction and its of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are in the Code on appointment and continue to satisfy the criteria.
The financial and operational implications, were reviewed and debated.
The training and development needs of directors are reviewed and available for inspection during business hours on any weekday non-executives have a wide range of skills and experience: they The Board has an agreed approach for dealing with conflicts of assessed by the Chairman as part of the annual Board performance excluding public holidays at the registered office of the Company constructively challenge management: help develop the Companys interest in relation to matters which are scheduled for Board evaluation process.
and will be available for inspection for 15 minutes prior to, and strategy and have satisfied themselves as to the integrity of the consideration, although no such conflicts arose during the year during, the AGM.
Groups financial information, controls and risk management strategy.
If directors are unable to attend meetings in person Business mentoring by non-executives Further information about how they have achieved this can be found then they are consulted prior to the meeting and their views made The Board continues with the allocation of business units and External appointments in the Audit Committee report on pages 51 to 55 and the directors known to the other directors and or they may attend the meeting or central functions to non-executive directors, including the Chairman.
remuneration report on pages 58 to 82.
The executive directors may accept outside appointments provided part thereof by telephone or other conference facility.
This practice is firmly embedded in the Boards culture so that that such appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability each year non-executive directors are allocated a business unit All directors may take independent professional advice at the to perform their duties as executive directors of the Company.
A monthly board pack is prepared at the end of each financial period and or central function and the non-executive director has regular Companys expense.
There is a formal written procedure, available None of the executive directors currently hold any such outside which includes an update on key performance targets, trading engagement, meetings and visits throughout the year with his her on the Companys website, concerning independent professional appointments but are encouraged to do so in the event that would performance against budget and includes detailed financial data and respective assignment.
Assignments are rotated so that the benefit advice and setting out clear guidelines which have been agreed by bring them further experience and bring benefits to the Board.
analysis including a review of applicable financial covenants.
Board of the mentoring programme continues to be relevant.
papers are generally circulated seven days prior to meetings to The role of non-executive director requires a time commitment in ensure directors have sufficient time to review papers ahead of the Board evaluation At the date of this report Peter Baguley, Adam Fowle and Marisa the order of 15 days per annum plus additional time as necessary meeting.
Attendance at scheduled meetings is set out below: As referred to above during the year the Board conducted an Cassoni have been on the board for, six, five and four years to properly discharge their duties.
There is no restriction on outside internal evaluation of its effectiveness.
This evaluation took the respectively and their reappointment is subject to rigorous review.
appointments provided that they do not prevent the director from form of written questionnaires followed up by individual discussion discharging their responsibilities effectively.
between the Chairman and the Board members and input from Attendance at scheduled Board and Audit Nomination Remuneration Duncan Reed of Condign Board Consulting.
The summary of the Accountability Committee meetings during the year ended Board Committee Committee Committee outcome was presented to the Board for discussion and follow up.
30 September 2018 meetings ii, v i, iv, v i, iii, v The Board presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, maintains The CEO is responsible for regularly reviewing other executive Number of scheduled meetings held 6 3 5 5 sound risk management and internal control systems and manages directors performance against objectives and the CEOs Robert Walker 6 3 5 5 an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditor.
performance is assessed by the Chairman in consultation with the non-executive directors.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee Simon T ownsend 6 3 5 5 Further information about how these principles have been applied is regularly reviews executive director performance in connection with detailed in the Audit Committee report on pages 51 to 55.
Neil Smith 6 3 5 3 their personal performance objectives.
The Chairmans performance is appraised by the SID in consultation with the non-executive Peter Baguley 6 3 5 5 Remuneration directors, taking into account the views of the executive directors, Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and and the non-executive directors performance is reviewed by the Adam Fowle 6 3 5 5 motivate directors of the quality required to run the Company Chairman.
As a result of these individual reviews, it is considered successfully, whilst avoiding paying more than is necessary for this Marisa Cassoni 6 3 5 5 that the performance of each director continues to be effective and purpose, and there should be a formal and transparent procedure that each director demonstrates sufficient commitment to their Jane Bednall 2 1 1 2 for developing policy on executive remuneration.
Consequently, the Chairman can confirm that each director is suitable for re-election or reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
David Maloney 5 2 4 4 Further information about how these principles have been applied is detailed in the directors remuneration report on pages 58 to 82.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for proactively reviewing i A dditional meetings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees were held outside those scheduled meetings referred to above and refreshing the Boards composition and further information to deal with matters arising as required, and were attended by all members of the Committees.
about the roles and responsibilities of this Committee can be found ii Robert Walker, Simon Townsend, Neil Smith attended meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
on page 57. iii Simon Townsend and Neil Smith attended meetings of the Remuneration Committee, or part thereof, by invitation.
iv The executive directors have attended meetings of the Nomination Committee by invitation.
v Until retirement in July 2018 David Maloney has attended meetings of the Committees by invitation.
vi Jane Bednall joined the Board in July 2018 and did not attend any meetings prior to that date.
48 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 49 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Governance report Audit Committee report Relations with shareholders AGM Dear Shareholders, Role of the Committee We are committed to, and place a great deal of importance on, Shareholders receive at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
I am delighted to present my second The Board has responsibility for establishing having an active dialogue with our investor base.
The Company The AGM offers the opportunity for the Board, including the Chairs report of the Companys Audit Committee formal and transparent arrangements for maintains constructive engagement with its key stakeholders of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, to the Committee, for the year ended considering how they should apply the including institutional shareholders.
During the year, our CEO and communicate the Companys progress directly to shareholders.
The 30 September 2018. corporate reporting and risk management CFO met with a number of our leading shareholders to discuss Board aims to ensure that all members, including in particular the and internal control principles and for During the year the Committee has issues relating to the performance of the Group, strategy and new Chairs of the Board committees, are available to answer questions maintaining an appropriate relationship had a full agenda, since on top of its developments.
In addition, the Chairman engaged with the majority at the AGM.
To encourage shareholders to participate in the AGM with the Companys auditor.
The Board has considerations of the integrity of financial of our top ten shareholders on a range of governance matters and process, the Company offers electronic proxy voting through the delegated responsibility for the detailed reporting, the risk management procedures Adam Fowle also met with major shareholders early in the year.
CREST service and all resolutions are proposed and voted on at assessment of each of these areas to its and internal control environment and the Peter Baguley conducted a consultation with major shareholders the meeting on an individual basis by shareholders or their proxies.
Audit Committee, and the Committee external auditor, the Committee has played as part of the review of the Companys remuneration policy and Voting results are announced on the same day as the meeting confirms back to the Board, highlighting any a significant role in the Groups readiness changes proposed thereto.
All other non-executive directors are through RNS and made available on the Companys website.
for GDPR and has approved the Groups first available to shareholders to discuss any matter they wish to raise.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on Pubs Code annual compliance report.
Membership and operation As regards governance issues, the Chairman aims to meet with 7 February 2019 can be found in the Notice convening the AGM on The Committee is formed of the The Company also received a letter from most of our major shareholders shortly after each AGM.
These pages 148 to 151. independent non-executive directors: the Conduct Committee of the FRC during meetings with shareholders are timed early in the process so By order of the Board the year following their review of the Marisa Cassoni Chair that the Board has enough time to consider, and respond to, Groups 2017 Annual Report and Accounts any shareholder concerns well in advance of the next years Peter Baguley R M Walker Based on our activity in and I am pleased to report that there were Annual Report.
The Chairman normally contacts as many major Adam Fowle Chairman no queries or questions that required a shareholders as possible, and not simply the very largest, to ensure the year we are able to Jane Bednall since her appointment response to the FRC.
the widest consultation possible and also to ensure that the views positively confirm that 19 November 2018 to the Board of any shareholder who has substantially increased its stake during Committee members have again ensured the Group continues to the year, have been fully taken into account.
The Board considers that, by virtue of her presence across the business by meeting operate a robust internal former executive and current non-executive regularly with the key business unit leads Following the announcement of results, an investor relations director positions, as well as her roles in control environment.
to really help them understand the risks report is produced for the Board which summarises feedback from various industry and accounting bodies that the various businesses face and the shareholders and ensures the Board has a balanced view from our full details of which are set out on page 41, Marisa Cassoni controls that are in place to mitigate those major investors.
Marisa Cassoni has the requisite current Chair, Audit Committee risks.
Findings from these meetings are and relevant financial experience to fulfil The Company ensures that any price-sensitive information is shared with the wider Committee at the the role of Chair of the Audit Committee.
released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
In addition the Board is confident that regulatory requirements.
All major presentations are available to The Committee has also reviewed the the Committee is independent and, as a shareholders through the Companys website.
whole, that the members have sufficient Groups risk register and approved the Shareholders may choose to receive the Annual Report either in identified risks deemed principal such that competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
This Report, along with a wide range of they require disclosure in the Annual Report shareholder information including the interim report, is also available and Accounts.
These risks are disclosed on The Committee held three scheduled on the Companys website.
Additional information for shareholders pages 34 to 38.
Based on our activity in the meetings in the year under review, which can be found on the inside back cover.
year we are able to positively confirm that were attended by all the members of the the Group continues to operate a robust Committee.
Also in attendance at all of internal control environment and the work of the meetings were Loretta Togher Group the internal audit team confirms that these Legal Counsel and Company Secretary, controls are effective in mitigating risk.
who serves as Secretary to the Committee, Finally I will take this opportunity to and, by invitation, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial welcome Jane Bednall to the Committee and I look forward to working with her over Officer, the Group Financial Controller and the Director of Internal Audit.
The external the coming years.
audit engagement partner and team also Marisa Cassoni attended all the Committee meetings to Chair, Audit Committee ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
50 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 51 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report This year again as part of the wider Board review we have reviewed The Committee reviews the Annual Report and Accounts and Another area of focus for the Committee in the year was in respect Financial reporting the Committees performance to ensure that it continues to perform recommends to the Board whether it is fair, balanced and of GDPR.
The Committee has been reviewing managements plans The Committee reports to the Board on whether the interests effectively, which included reviewing the membership of the understandable when taken as a whole.
In order to do so, it reviews and actions throughout the lead up to the implementation date of shareholders are protected in relation to financial reporting Committee for expertise and independence and ensuring the terms the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure they are including the output of a readiness review performed by Deloitte.
by monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial of reference remain appropriate.
Key priorities for the coming year in line with its understanding of the business, performance for the This review shaped the further actions required in order for the statements.
This is achieved by reviewing and challenging, as have also been identified and include conducting an audit tender year and the risks disclosed are those that concern the Committee.
Group to be compliant before the implementation date.
necessary, the judgements and actions of management in relation process and updating our review of cyber risks and controls to to the financial statements and by ensuring that any formal During the year, the Company has received a letter from the Effective internal control ensure they remain robust.
announcements relating to the Companys financial performance Conduct Committee of the Financial Reporting Council FRC The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than are fair, balanced and understandable.
The full terms of reference are available on the Companys website in respect of a review they have carried out of the 2017 Annual eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can or on request from the Company Secretary.
The review was based solely on the report During the year the Committee, management and the external only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and accounts and did not benefit from detailed knowledge of auditor considered and concluded on a number of significant misstatement or loss.
the business or an understanding of the underlying transactions Responsibilities matters in relation to the financial statements.
Those matters Operating policies, procedures and controls are in place across entered into.
This letter raised no questions or queries that required and what the Committee did to ensure it was comfortable that In order to fulfil its role, the Committee considers all information a response to the FRC, but detailed a few improvements that the business, and have been in place throughout the year under these matters had been appropriately addressed in the financial available such that it can confirm to the Board across three areas review.
These policies ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial could be made to benefit users of the accounts.
These have been statements are set out below: being financial reporting, risk management and internal control and acknowledged and incorporated accordingly into our 2018 Annual reporting and the preparation of financial statements including the the external audit.
The key elements of the Groups ongoing Report and Accounts.
processes for the provision of effective internal control and risk Significant matter What the Committee did management systems include: Risk management and internal control Going concern and viability review established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of The Committee also has responsibility for reporting to the Board responsibility and levels of authority: on whether the Groups key control policies and procedures remain There is a risk to going concern and viability that the Group As the going concern assumption is fundamental to the preparation of the Annual appropriate and that it is operating a robust and effective control may not be able to meet its significant debt liabilities as Report and Accounts, management have prepared a paper for the Committee that documented operational and control policies and procedures: they fall due and that it cannot comply with the financial evidences the appropriateness of the assumption which the Committee reviewed, environment.
This is achieved by reviewing and monitoring the regular Board meetings to consider matters reserved for covenants underpinning these liabilities both from risks to challenged and concluded upon.
This paper considered the Groups principal risks and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management directors consideration: income generation and risks to the carrying value of properties uncertainties together with the controls and actions taken to mitigate those risks, systems, including the internal audit function, controls for considered below.
and further whether any of those risks could impact on the viability of the Group over an annual Board corporate strategy review to assess the preventing and detecting fraud and bribery and the Groups a longer term.
The Committee has determined that the three year period through to appropriateness of the current business strategy and any whistleblowing policy.
30 September 2021 is the suitable period for assessing the viability of the Group and, potential changes to the future Group strategy, including a following evaluation of the testing performed in severe yet plausible scenarios, is able formal review of material business risks and uncertainties facing Risk management to recommend to the Board the viability statement on page 39. the business: The Committee, on behalf of the Board, ensures that the Groups Valuation of the estate principal risks and uncertainties have been appropriately identified regular review by the Board of financial budgets, forecasts and and assessed, including reviewing internal processes used to covenants with performance reported to the Board monthly: The value of properties held by the Group is the largest figure on The Committee ensures it is comfortable with the annual revaluation exercise through identify and monitor all key risks and associated controls.
It further an asset optimisation review process to consider all viable its balance sheet and therefore presents a significant risk if not its review of the approach, key assumptions, valuation reports and managements reviews those key risks and the quality of the assurance on the options for each asset, utilising both local operational appropriately valued.
To address this the Groups policy is to hold analytical review on the results of the exercise, challenging when necessary.
It then effectiveness of the controls that mitigate those risks, allowing it its properties at fair value derived from an annual revaluation applies that understanding to the accounting and disclosures proposed in the Annual knowledge and a custom built segmentation model to identify to conclude on the principal risks for disclosure and what, if any, exercise.
95% of the estate is valued by external, independent Report and Accounts such that it can confirm they are appropriate.
all the relevant trends in the locality of the asset: material residual risks remain so that they could be factored into the professional valuation firms whilst the remainder is valued by the a detailed investment process for major projects, including The Committee was satisfied that a thorough and robust valuation exercise has been assessment of going concern and the Groups ongoing viability.
Groups internal team of RICS qualified chartered surveyors.
capital investment coupled with a post-investment appraisal carried out, it has been challenged by the external auditor and the Committee and analysis: appropriate values have been incorporated into the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, the Committee reviews whether compliance related policies and procedures have been adequately established and a formal management risk committee comprising members Deferred tax implemented to ensure that highly regulated areas, such as the from across the business, which meets quarterly, responsible statutory Pubs Code, are fully complied with.
During the year for the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing Deferred tax provisioning for the Groups 4,524 individual assets The Committee ensures that management have enough time and resource in under review and in accordance with the Pubs Code regulations, a the principal risks faced by the Group through maintenance is a technically complex area due to various elements of tax order to appropriately maintain the tax models and that the output of the models legislation and accounting standards having to be applied in is robustly reviewed.
Where elements of tax legislation are new, the Committee compliance report was prepared for the period from 21 July 2016 of the risk register and evaluation of controls and assurances, conjunction with each other.
challenges management on its application, ensuring they have sought external advice to 31 March 2018 and approved by the Chair of the Committee reporting its findings back to the Committee: where applicable.
The Committee was satisfied that deferred tax provisions were prior to being submitted to the Pubs Code Adjudicator within the an internal audit function which implements the annual appropriate.
guidelines set by the Code.
In order to give this approval, our internal audit plan and provides independent assurance to Code Compliance Officer audited the inputs to the compliance Impairment review executive management, the Committee and the Board on report and reported findings to the Committee.
It was noted that a the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management.
In line with IFRS, Group goodwill acquired on business The Group allocates goodwill across its operating segments and therefore requires compliance officer has been appointed and there is ongoing Code This includes evolving the internal audit plan to ensure that it combinations, which totals 304 million at 30 September 2018, impairment testing to be performed by segment.
The Committee reviewed the growth training for all business development managers, to ensure they are focuses, where relevant, on the highest risk areas identified in is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, and and discount rates used in the testing and compares to prior year and peer companies familiar with it.
Since the Code was introduced, we have not been the key risk register and assurance framework: an impairment test is also performed on the carrying value of to assess their reasonableness see notes 13 and 19 of the accounts.
The external subject to any investigations or enforcement actions by the Pubs investments in the Company 1.8 billion at 30 September 2018. auditor also reviewed the rates used, with input from their specialist valuations team, compliance related teams, such as tie compliance, retail audit Code Adjudicator.
During the reporting period there were 121 MRO The Group and Company use assumptions of growth rates and and confirmed they were within an acceptable range.
The Committee confirmed that and the Pubs Code compliance teams, to ensure appropriate related referrals, and 15 non-MRO referrals.
We had received a total discount rates to determine the net present value of future cash based on the above evaluation, it was appropriate to reduce the growth rate used in focus on the key areas of risk to the Group: of 13 complaints relating to alleged breaches of the Pubs Code flows in the testing.
During the current year, the Company has the investment impairment calculations to be in line with the Group.
of which, five remained outstanding at the date of the report.
No charged an impairment of 29 million.
52 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 53 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report an anti-bribery and corruption code of conduct as the Group is The Committee believes that the Groups risk management process The Committee also reviewed the external auditors performance, Non-audit services committed to conducting its business with the highest degree was sufficiently robust from the start of the financial year and against criteria consistent with that adopted in the prior year, by A key issue that could impair auditor independence, and the of integrity, including a zero tolerance approach towards all up to the date of approval of the accounts.
Further details of risk taking into account: auditors objective opinion on the Groups financial statements, is forms of bribery, corruption, fraud and theft.
Procedures within management frameworks and the principal risks and uncertainties the engagement of the external auditor for the provision of nonthe reports and audit findings presented to the Committee by the Company have been designed to minimise these risks and facing the business can be found on pages 34 to 38. audit services.
the audit engagement partner and other senior members of the comply with our published policy, which is available on the audit team: There have been no material instances of whistleblowing or any Groups website: and The Groups policy on engaging the external auditor for nonevidence that demonstrates whether the external auditor recorded instances of bribery or corruption during the period under audit services has always been designed to ensure that such a whistleblowing policy, which is reviewed annually, that has appropriately challenged management, where relevant, review.
engagements do not result in the creation of a mutuality of interest encourages employees to report any malpractice or illegal acts particularly in respect of the significant matters considered in between the auditor and the Group, that a transparent process or omissions or matters of similar concern whether in the relation to the financial statements, noted on page 52: Role of internal audit and reporting structure is established to enable the Committee to UK or elsewhere by other employees or former employees, Internal audit is independent of business operations, undertaking consideration of responses to questions from the Committee: monitor policy compliance and that unnecessary restrictions on the contractors, publicans, suppliers or advisers using internal an ongoing programme to provide assurance on the adequacy of engagement of the auditor for non-audit services are avoided where interaction between the Chair of the Committee and the audit mechanisms for reporting.
internal control and risk management processes across the Groups the provision of advice is commercially sensible and is more cost engagement partner during the year: and operations.
It is responsible for reviewing and reporting on the effective than other providers.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, the input from management following meetings held with the audit effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems to Committee has: engagement partner and other members of the audit team.
the Committee and, ultimately, the Board.
The internal audit plan for The policy applicable throughout the year to 30 September 2018 received six-monthly self-assurance statements completed each year is approved by the Committee and the Director of Internal specified: As part of the process, the Chair of the Committee met with the by key senior managers confirming that controls and risk Audit attends Committee meetings to present the findings of each services that are specifically not permitted this includes work external auditor without the presence of management during the management processes in their business units have operated audit and the progress against actions identified.
The Committee relating to accounting records that will ultimately be subject year and had regular contact with the audit engagement partner satisfactorily.
These returns are reviewed in detail by the was satisfied that the Director of Internal Audit, and the rest of the to external audit, valuation services, remuneration advice for during the year.
Robert Walker also had two private meetings with Director of Internal Audit and challenged where appropriate team, have suitable internal audit experience and are adequately key management and the provision of strategic advisory or the audit engagement partner during the year.
by the management risk committee, which updates the risk resourced to be able to ensure a robust and independent internal consultancy services: register: control function.
Based on all of this information the Committee concluded that the services that are permitted with prior approval of the Committee received and reviewed the risk register, including detailed external audit process was operating effectively, that EY remains this includes accounting advice and reviews of accounting analysis of the key financial and accounting controls that provide External audit sufficiently independent and that it continued to prove effective standards and advice, due diligence matters as required by assurance to mitigate the key risks, and proposed principal risks in its role as external auditor.
The Committee has therefore The Committee has responsibility to ensure that there is a debt prospectuses, assurance work in respect of tax matters and uncertainties disclosures, which were then approved for recommended to the Board to propose to shareholders the sufficiently robust and effective external audit through considering including tax compliance, routine tax planning and tax advisory use in the Annual Report and Accounts: and reappointment of EY as auditor until the conclusion of the AGM the independence of the external auditor, the appointment and services and any other services not prohibited: and met with the Director of Internal Audit without management in 2020.
Full details are set out in the Notice convening the AGM reappointment of the external auditor and all reports from the that the level of fees paid for non-audit services should be being present to discuss their remit and any issues arising from on pages 148 to 151. external auditor.
These reports include the scope of the interim restricted to 70% of the audit fees over a rolling three year internal audits carried out, reviewed all the internal audit reports review and annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the external period, commencing 1 October 2016. and monitored managements responsiveness to the findings auditor to address and conclude upon key estimates and other Accountability and recommendations of those reports.
key audit areas, the basis on which the external auditor assesses Through their work during the year, the Committee is able to The total fees paid to the external auditor during the year under materiality, the terms of engagement for the external auditor recommend to the Board that: review amounted to 536,000.
Of this amount, 182,000 related In respect of Group financial reporting, the finance department is and an ongoing assessment of the impact of future accounting to non-audit services, some 34% of the audit fees, being work the Groups financial position and prospects as detailed in the responsible for preparing the Group financial statements using a developments on the Group.
To monitor its independence, associated with our financing activities and the bond security 2018 Annual Report and Accounts are, when taken as a whole, well-established consolidation process and ensuring that accounting the Committee annually reviews the remuneration, terms of substitution exercises.
This is work that would normally only be fair, balanced and understandable: policies are in accordance with IFRS.
All financial information engagement and objectivity of the external auditor, including its performed by the external auditor as it requires confirmations to published by the Group is subject to approval by the Committee.
the viability statement as set out on page 39 represents a appropriateness to undertake non-audit work.
third parties, such as Trustees, as to the correct extraction of data There have been no changes in the internal control over financial reasonable assessment of the expectations for the Group over from our accounting records.
Full details are set out in note 29 to reporting during the year under review that has materially affected, the period to 30 September 2021: and Reappointment of the external auditor the accounts on page 129. or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups control over The reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP EY as the Groups the going concern assumption is appropriate for use in the 2018 financial reporting.
external auditor was reviewed in the year and approved.
Independence and performance assessment The Committee has assessed the independence of the external Following advice from the Committee, the Board has confirmed While EY has been the Groups external auditor since the Company M Cassoni auditor and is satisfied that their independence is not impaired that it is satisfied that a robust assessment of the principal risks started trading in 1991, the audit was put out to a market tender Chair, Audit Committee due to the fact that the audit engagement partner rotation policy facing the Group has been carried out, including those that threaten during 2012, with EY chosen to continue with the audit services has been complied with: the level and nature of the fees paid its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
As a and KPMG appointed for taxation services.
Therefore, the Group is 19 November 2018 for non-audit services was of a level that does not present any result it has concluded that an effective system of internal controls planning to tender the audit again for the year ending 30 September ongoing threat to their independence and a separate external firm is and risk management processes are in place which enable the 2021, in accordance with recent EU regulations, and will initiate the appointed for taxation compliance and advisory services.
Group to identify, evaluate and manage key risks and which accord tender process in the coming financial year.
with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and The Committee has authority to take independent advice as Related Financial and Business Reporting 2014.
In accordance with best practice and professional standards, after it determines necessary in order to resolve issues on auditor five years in the role, EY rotated their audit partner in 2016 and independence.
No such advice was required during the year and the Committee is satisfied that the current engagement partner, there are no contractual restrictions over choice of auditor.
Christopher Voogd, has the experience and industry knowledge to be the lead audit partner until 2021.
54 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 55 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee report In planning any appointments, the Committee prepares a full In terms of the year ahead, we intend to Membership Dear Shareholders description of the role, skills and capabilities required: appoints monitor the implementation of succession The Committee is formed of the Chair of the Board and the The Nomination Committee is responsible external search firms, each time reviewing available options, and planning more broadly throughout the independent non-executive directors: for monitoring the performance, ensuring that the firm selected has signed up to the relevant Group: and follow up on the Governments appropriateness and future succession Robert Walker Chair industry codes for example, on diversity and has no connection promotion of greater employee involvement planning of the Companys Board and senior Peter Baguley with the Company.
and consultation, at Board level.
To that end, management talent.
after considering the ways engagement Adam Fowle What the Committee did in 2018 may be best achieved in our business for In my report to you last year, I said the Marisa Cassoni the benefit of our growing workforce, we Committee would focus on two major The main focus of the Committees work in 2018 included: Jane Bednall since her appointment to the Board have determined that Jane Bednall will issues: completing the search for a new non-executive director: be the designated non-executive director Firstly, completing the search for David Maloney attended by invitation until his retirement from the sponsoring a comprehensive review of the strength, responsible for workforce policies and a replacement for David Maloney.
Board in July 2018. development and succession planning of our executive talent practices which reinforce a healthy culture Reflecting the evolution of the Groups across all the Groups businesses: and engagement.
Jane will report to the The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The strategy, our brief concentrated on wider Board through the coming year on reviewing the Committees terms of reference: and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer attend by finding a non-executive director with this initiative.
invitation of the Nomination Committee Chair.
conducting an internal review of the Committees performance.
experience in consumer marketing and customer relationships.
In July, we In all other respects, the Board is stable Roles and responsibilities Diversity announced the appointment of Jane and comprises the right mix of skills at Bednall, currently Chief Marketing The key roles and responsibilities of the Committee are: The Board and the Committee continue to be mindful of diversity, executive and Board level.
Officer at SSE plc and having previously including gender diversity, throughout the business.
40% of the The Board is stable and overall responsibility for leading the process for new worked for Intercontinental Hotels and growing workforce are female, including five out of 15 of the most Robert Walker appointments to the Board and ensure appointments bring the comprises the right mix British Airways, to the Board.
senior managers, one out of five of the executive management Chairman, Nomination Committee required level of experience and skill having regard to, amongst of skills at executive and group, excluding executive directors, and two out of five of the nonSecondly, to review the strength, other things, the benefits of diversity including gender diversity, executive directors, While we have not committed to any specific development and succession planning Board level.
the balance and composition of the Board with the overriding targets for the number of women on the Board, we continue of our executive talent across all the requirement to ensure that recommendations are made on to consider and make appointments based on merit with the Groups businesses.
A year-long exercise merit: Robert Walker overriding objective of appointing the best candidate for the role.
of performance appraisals, evaluations, Chairman, Nomination Committee to act proactively, recognising it is important to plan Board We use executive search firms who have signed up to the voluntary 360 feedback and succession planning succession well in advance and for all scenarios: code of conduct setting out the seven key principles of best reviews culminated in a formal review to to ensure that the Companys Board and executive leadership practice to abide by throughout the recruitment process and we the Board and Nominations Committee skills are fully aligned to the Companys long-term strategy: continue to follow a policy of appointing talented people at every in September 2018. level to deliver high performance.
succession planning for directors and other senior executives taking into account the challenges, opportunities and future R M Walker needs facing the Company: and Chairman, Nomination Committee to ensure any appointees have sufficient time to fulfil their duties effectively.
19 November 2018 56 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 57 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Following a detailed review and an extensive shareholder LTIPs have, or are expected to vest, at the following levels: Information not subject to audit: consultation the Committee is proposing the following changes to % of salary the policy in order to support these principles: Vesting % of ignoring share ANNUAL STATEMENT Year of vesting maximum price growth Dear Shareholders, Changes to policy Rationale 2019 20 estimate c. 80% c. 170% This high quality team embody our principle I am pleased to introduce our remuneration Introduction of a Restricted To reflect our overarching principle of long-term stewardship which is the report for the 2018 financial year.
This report 2018 19 estimate c. 70% c. 170% Share Plan to replace the of long-term stewardship and principle behind all decision making in the includes details of our new remuneration current Long-Term Incentive sustained improvement in the 2017 18 52% 91% business.
They have transformed what was policy for which we are seeking shareholder Plan LTIP for future awards quality of the estate.
our strategic development programme approval at our AGM in February 2019.
2016 17 27% 33% into the successful day-to-day operational Reduction in annual bonus Reduce the focus on short-term execution of our business.
2015 16 New remuneration policy maximum to 125% from 150% strategic delivery now that of base salary execution has become part of the When we introduced our current policy 2014 15 100% 125% Recognising this shift in corporate operational running of the business.
which has applied from the year ended development, it was apparent to the Average c. 55% c. 98% 30 September 2016 we structured it to Committee that our 2015 policy needed to Reduction in pension provisions To more closely align pension focus delivery on a transformational change for new hires to 15% from 25% provision with senior management be replaced with one which supported our The Committee has taken into account those vestings for to the business following the launch of our of base salary levels within the Group.
key reward principles of: which both our executive directors were in situ in assessing the new strategy.
Over the past three years Bringing focus to sustainable appropriate level at which to set the Restricted Share award.
Increase in the shareholding To emphasise shareholder alignment we have driven new behaviours, developed improvement aligned to focus on the They have also taken into account the reduction in the annual guidelines and the importance of long-term new skills and recruited highly experienced delivery ofbest returns for shareholders The pace of change share ownership.
bonus opportunity from 150% to 125% of base salary.
people at a senior level in the business in over the longer-term through improving order to deliver this strategy.
The reduction in the annual bonus opportunity and the change has steadied and our Introduction of a postTo support the stewardship culture the quality and the profile of earnings on to Restricted Shares reduces the expected value of the employment shareholding and quality of the long-term decision leadership team are a sustainable basis.
Whilst our fundamental strategy is compensation package under the new policy by c. 10% for the requirement making of our executives.
focused on creating unchanged, the pace of change has Encouraging and enabling substantial executive directors.
This assumes a bonus payout of 60% and To reflect current best practice and steadied and our leadership team are long-term share ownership applying Extension of malus and LTIP vesting of 50%, when in fact actual and forecast vestings sustained value over an our adoption of the provisions of focused on creating sustained value over this principle throughout our executive clawback provisions are higher as shown in the table above.
This is also when extended period of time.
the new UK Corporate Governance an extended period of time.
Our 2015 management group and creating a compared against an LTIP award of 175% of salary.
The LTIP Code with respect to the ability to remuneration policy was built on the reward structure which is relevant and award for the year ended 30 September 2018 equated to c. 215% recover variable remuneration.
Peter Baguley principle of super stretch performance consistent across our senior leadership of salary.
Against this comparison, the reduction in expected Chairman, delivering enhanced reward.
Restricted Share Plan Remuneration Committee strategic delivery into business as usual, Simplifying and increasing Vesting will be phased over a five year period, with 33% vesting Restricted shares reflect our ethos of long-term stewardship which this principle is no longer relevant, although effectiveness a simple framework after three years, 33% after four years and 33% after five years.
is demonstrated by our executive directors and their commitment retaining our talented management team linked to business success and the A holding period will also apply such that no shares can be to the business and our strategy for transformational change to remains paramount.
sold until at least five years from grant.
This contrasts with the deliver quality earnings.
current LTIP under which shares vest in equal tranches at the The proposed Restricted Share Plan has the following design end of years three, four and five and can be sold after vesting.
features: Vesting Restricted Share awards of 87.5% of salary.
This compares to Yr 1 Yr 2 Yr 3 Yr 4 Yr 5 the current LTIP maximum of 175% of salary although, as the 33% of award LTIP was fixed as a number of shares, the most recent two grants equated to c. 230% of salary.
At this level Restricted 33% of award Shares represent a reduction of c. 60% of the face value of the 33% of award last LTIP grant.
No shares can be sold until five years from grant 58 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 59 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report The Committee will retain discretion to reduce the vesting of As disclosed last year, the salaries of Simon Townsend and Neil The annual bonus opportunity will be decreased from 150% to Business context and incentive impact any award if a performance underpin is not met.
The underpins Smith were increased by 1.7% and 3.1% respectively.
These 125% and as detailed above the metrics and weightings have in the current year for the awards to be granted in respect of the year ending increases were effective from 1 January 2018.
The percentage been adjusted and rebalanced to reflect the change in policy for The existing policy on directors remuneration is set out in 30 September 2019 are below with further detail provided on increase applied to the Chairman and non-executive directors fees how we plan to deliver long-term incentives.
Subject to receiving the 2015 Annual Report.
The Chief Executive Officer and his page 81. was 1.4% and 1.5% respectively.
Additional fees for chairing the shareholder approval for both the new policy and the rules to the management team continue to work closely with the Board to Audit or Remuneration Committee were increased by 1.6% and Restricted Share Plan, these will take effect from the AGM and we Underpins progress the execution of the strategy announced in May 2015.
The the Senior Independent Director fee was adjusted to bring that into will grant Restricted Share awards thereafter.
transformational strategy is now more business as usual.
The new Rationale line with the additional fees for chairing a committee.
The average managed businesses are now fully integrated in order to deliver Shareholder support has been strong for our approach to increase across the wider employee population was around 2% Balance Cash flow Free cash flow KPI of the our long-term strategy of a business with significantly improved remuneration.
Our 2015 policy received votes in favour of 92.8% and including increases around promotions or other adjustments.
sheet improvement business given earnings potential and growth in shareholder value for the benefit voting for the remuneration report has been in excess of 97% over health over the vesting importance of all stakeholders.
We remain confident that the right strategy is the last three years.
I hope that shareholders are supportive of our period of funding Executive remuneration for 2019 in place and that it is being well executed.
In the year under review new policy and particularly the adoption of a Restricted Share Plan reinvestment, Salary reviews for the executive directors, to be effective from the share price rose from 136.50p per share to 165.60p per share.
which the Committee and I consider to be a fundamental change debt and 1 January 2019 have now been conducted and uplifts determined which wholly supports our culture, our strategy and our business.
property of 2% for both Simon Townsend to 500,000 and Neil Smith to During the year we successfully executed a number of refinancing transformation 413,000.
Other benefits, including pension provision, will be activities.
In August 2018 we increased the size of our bank Peter Baguley Investor NAV per Improvement in A KPI of the maintained at existing levels or by reference to existing percentages revolving credit facilities from 140 million to 150 million and Chairman, Remuneration Committee returns share NAV per share business and, of base salaries as applicable.
extended the availability of the facilities from August 2020 to over the vesting as a large August 2022 on substantially the same commercial terms.
In period portfolio owner, September 2018 the Company launched an offer for a 150 a sign of future million high yield unsecured bond which was oversubscribed and investor returns successfully tendered to repurchase 95.4 million of our guaranteed Corporate Major No material Reflects convertible bonds due in 2020. governance governance failure in governance failure governance or and minimum In September 2018 the Company appointed Rothschild & Co to an act resulting standards explore various routes to optimise value from the commercial in significant of behaviour DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY property portfolio.
These activities were an important part of our reputational expected of our This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Mediumbalance sheet management and have given us the platform and damage and or executives sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
This part of the directors remuneration report sets flexibility to deliver on our strategy to monetise and drive returns material financial out the Companys remuneration policy for the year commencing 1 October 2018 and beyond.
A binding resolution to approve this policy and deliver improvements in free cash flow and earnings per share.
loss to the will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
The differences between this policy and the policy approved at the AGM in 2016 are summarised in Group.
More detail is set out in our strategic report on pages 1 to 39. the Committee Chairmans statement on pages 58 to 61.
Conventional best practice share plan provisions regarding The most significant operation with the Group remains our leaver and change of control arrangements have been included.
predominately wet-led Ei Publican Partnerships business and so it is pleasing that this part of the business continued to deliver like-forIf the policy and Restricted Share Plan rules receive shareholder How the views of shareholders are How employees pay is taken into account like net income growth of 1.2% for the year 2017: 2.3% growth approval then the first awards would be made in 2019 after our capturing opportunities presented by good summer weather taken into account The Committee liaises with senior managers in the Group, AGM.
No further LTIP awards will be made.
and sports viewing and underpinned by a controlled investment in particular the HR Director, to ensure pay and employment During the financial year, the Committee consulted with major programme.
This performance in our leased and tenanted estate conditions e. g. base salary levels and reviews, pension provision, shareholders and governance bodies in relation to the proposed Annual bonus was combined with our commercial property portfolio reaching the structure of annual bonuses and long-term incentive provision changes to the policy.
The response and feedback has helped to The annual bonus has been reduced to 125% of salary to refocus significant scale with strong like-for-like growth in net income and and other benefits of the wider Group as a whole are taken into formulate the design of the proposed policy and Restricted alignment on long-term sustainable delivery of the strategy.
50% our managed operations and investment businesses increasing account when framing the executive remuneration policy.
of any amount earned above target continues to be deferred into their contributions to Group net income.
the Committee has not specifically consulted with employees shares for three years.
The weightings and metrics have been when drawing up the policy or used any remuneration comparison rebalanced to accommodate this reduction in quantum and for Overall Group performance has generated annual bonus pay-outs measures between directors and employees.
the year ending 30 September 2019 these will be 75% EPS, 25% for the executive directors in respect of the year ended strategic and personal objectives and 25% free cash flow FCF.
30 September 2018 of 57.5% for Simon Townsend and 58.2% EPS has always been a core part of our annual bonus but the for Neil Smith of the maximum opportunity of 150% of salary, introduction of FCF is new, to recognise that cash flow is a key compared with 65.7% and 66.3% of the maximum opportunity in metric and facilitator to the business in its debt management, the prior year.
Further details are provided on pages 71 to 74 on returns to shareholders and conversion of the estate.
The proposed how performance under the annual bonus targets translated into changes to our long-term incentive structure mean that including bonus payments.
FCF in the bonus is more appropriate.
The LTIP awards granted in February 2016 vested with respect to performance in the year ended 30 September 2018.
These awards were granted under the 2015 policy and were subject to performance conditions based on relative TSR, ROCE and FCF.
Overall vesting against these performance criteria is 52.3% with further details provided on page 75.
60 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 61 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Future policy table Remuneration Remuneration element Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics element Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Core element of Salaries are ordinarily reviewed Whilst there is no maximum While no formal Pension To aid retention Contribution to a personal pension For executive directors N A fixed remuneration annually, with any changes normally salary, increases will performance conditions and to remain arrangement or cash in lieu of pension in office as at the date of reflecting the taking effect from 1 January each year.
normally be within the apply, an individuals competitive in the by way of a salary supplement or a approval of this policy, 25% individuals role and range of salary increases performance in role is market place.
In determining any salary increase, experience.
awarded in percentage of taken into account in For executive directors the Committee takes into account salary terms to the wider determining any salary appointed after the date on a number of factors including but workforce.
which this policy is approved, not limited to the value of the 15% of salary.
individual, their skills and experience, Increases will be performance, pay increases within the implemented over such time To motivate Performance targets are reviewed The maximum bonus The bonus is normally Annual Company more generally and Company period as the Committee executives and annually and any pay-out is determined potential is 125% of salary.
based on a mix of financial bonus plan organisation, profitability and prevailing deems appropriate.
incentivise the by the Committee after the year end targets and individual market conditions.
Dividend equivalents in achievement of based on targets set for the year.
strategic and or personal cash or shares may be paid key financial and objectives, with financial Benefits To provide an Benefits normally comprise a car No maximum value is set but N A The Committee has discretion to on vested shares under strategic goals and performance normally appropriate allowance or use of a motor car, fuel, the Committee periodically amend the pay-out should any formulaic Deferred Share Awards in targets over the accounting for a majority reward package private medical, travel, accident and monitors the overall value output not reflect the Committees respect of dividends that financial year.
of the overall bonus and promote the legal expenses insurance, directors of the benefits package assessment of overall business would have been paid on opportunity.
well-being of and officers insurance and life and provides benefits at a Deferral of part performance.
vested shares in respect employees.
The benefit provision is level which the Committee of the bonus into of dividend record dates The element of the reviewed periodically.
Other benefits considers to be appropriately 50% of any bonus earned above the shares provides occurring between the bonus subject to financial may be provided based on individual positioned taking into bonus earned for target performance alignment with grant date and the date measures will be earned circumstances, which may include account relevant market will be deferred into shares for three shareholders.
The dividend between 0% and relocation costs.
levels based on the nature years Deferred Share Award, although equivalents may assume the 100% for performance and location of the role and the Committee may determine not to reinvestment of dividends between a threshold individual circumstances.
defer any amount of a bonus earned into shares on such basis as level of performance where the amount to be deferred is SIP and SAYE To motivate and The SIP and SAYE schemes are An executive director can N A the Committee determines.
the minimum level of so small as to make the application to facilitate share reviewed annually and if offered are participate by paying up performance that results in of deferral, in the opinion of the ownership on an alloffered to all eligible employees.
to 500 per month or any pay-out and maximum Committee, unduly administratively employee basis.
such other limit as may performance, with 50% of burdensome.
Directors may be be permitted under the the maximum opportunity permitted to defer a greater proportion relevant legislation SAYE for target performance.
of any bonus into a Deferred Share and 1,800 per annum or Award.
Dividend equivalents may be Vesting of the bonus in such other limit as may be paid on vested shares under Deferred respect of strategic and permitted under the relevant Share Awards as described in the individual objectives will be legislation SIP into these maximum opportunity column.
between 0% and 100% of tax advantaged all-employee the maximum opportunity schemes.
Under the SAYE, Recovery provisions apply, as referred for those elements based the per share option exercise to below.
on the Committees price is set at a discount assessment of the extent of up to 20% or such to which the relevant other amount as may be objective has been met.
permitted under the relevant legislation to the share price when participation is offered.
Under the SIP the Company may match the shares up to a two for one basis or on such other basis as may be permitted under the relevant legislation.
62 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
