CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DELIVERING VALUE AND SUSTAINABILITY Corporate responsibility CR is an integral part of our business and we work to align our values and strategy with responsible and ethical business practices across the Group.
Group approach to CR Our Code of Conduct was updated this year to take into Our approach is to address the expectations of our customers, account legislative developments including the EU General suppliers, shareholders, employees and other stakeholders to Data Protection Regulation GDPR and the newly introduced deliver real business benefits and to contribute to sustainability corporate offence of failure to prevent the criminal facilitation and thereby create long-term shareholder value.
Our Code of Conduct is available in seven languages and every employee is accountable for following it.
The Groups CR performance is reported under the headings: Our Business Practices: Our Community: Our People: and Our We seek to embed our Code of Conduct and specifically our Environment, Health and Safety EH&S.
We consider these CR anti-bribery policy through ongoing communications, training impacts to be material to our business and we therefore focus and appropriate controls.
Customised and in-person training our activity and reporting on these issues.
of both our Code of Conduct and anti-bribery this year included training the teams in Eastern Europe, UK sales, RS Pro and RS emerging markets.
OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES Drive accountability and transparency to engender integrity Human rights and compliance We are committed to conducting our business in a way that Work with and positively influence our supply chain to achieve is socially responsible and respects the rights and dignity high ethical standards of all people.
Our respect for human rights is embedded in our employment practices: the rights of every employee are respected and our people are treated with dignity and OUR COMMUNITY consideration.
We recognise freedom of association by Respect and contribute to the communities in which we operate allowing our people to establish and join organisations of Inspire young people toward science, technology, engineering their own choosing without needing our permission.
We also and mathematics STEM and influence the uptake of engineering recognise collective bargaining where required by local laws.
Our employment practices are designed to attract, retain, OUR PEOPLE motivate and train people and to respect their rights.
We Create a high-performance culture and reward success give fair consideration to applications for employment from Recruit, develop and retain a talented and diverse workforce disabled people as well as their training, career development and promotion.
Where appropriate, facilities are adapted and retraining offered to any employee developing a disability OUR ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY whilst employed.
We comply with relevant employment Protect the environment and use resources efficiently and effectively legislation and regulatory obligations.
Eliminate harm to our people and achieve Target Zero We will not allow any form of slavery, human trafficking or child labour to take place in any part of our business.
Our policy is to source products and services from organisations that meet, or are willing to take action to meet, our ethical standards and not OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES to engage with organisations which use child labour or forced labour.
Our Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement is Code of Conduct and anti-bribery published annually on our website.
The Group Code of Conduct sets out the high ethical standards of behaviour to which our people are expected Whistleblower policy to work.
It includes our standards for anti-bribery, which We recognise that our people are the best way to detect and also covers corruption, gifts and hospitality, ethical supply avoid legal and ethical failures.
In line with our whistleblower and modern slavery, information security, data protection, policy, Speak Up, we seek to promote an open and accountable environment, market abuse, health and safety, fraud, trade culture where employees can express concerns without compliance, competition law, tax, conflicts of interest and fear of victimisation.
An independent third party operates the respect for employees.
reporting tools, except in Germany where local requirements prohibit this and an in-house alternative is available.
We undertake focused activity to promote the Speak Up facility to our employees through training and awareness campaigns.
40 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Our team in the Americas is supporting Colorado State OUR COMMUNITY University CSU to create a prototype for the 2018 NASA Robotic Mining Competition.
They are helping students design and build an innovative excavation system to provide solutions Our community activities this year have focused on STEM to the lack of power supply and retrieval of another planets initiatives to promote engineering to the young and we are resources in major space travel.
The CSU team is comprised supporting government and industry programmes across the of students currently enrolled in the Walter Scott, Jr. College of world, such as the UK governments Year of Engineering 2018.
Engineering and will compete against more than 50 teams from This year-long campaign is aimed at raising the profile of across the US in this competition, which is now in its ninth year.
engineering amongst schoolchildren, aged 7 to 16, and their parents and teachers, and widening the pool of young people We have also supported the University of Edinburghs work that consider engineering as a career.
Electrocomponents to design and build a prototype pod for the revolutionary is on the stakeholder advisory board alongside government, Hyperloop mass transportation system of the future.
The engineering bodies and other stakeholders and partners from universitys Hyperloop team, HYPED, which now totals industry and education.
more than 100 members, built a prototype pod for the 2017 Hyperloop Pod Competition, which was set up by technology Our participation in a wide range of new activities now entrepreneur and SpaceX CEO, Elon Musk.
RS has renewed reaches students of university level down to primary school-aged its sponsorship this year to support the next phase in the children.
These new programmes are in addition to our ongoing universitys prototype project by providing key components activities such as RS University, Landrover 4x4 in Schools to build a low-weight, fully autonomous half-scale pod.
The Technology Challenge, Formula Student, women in engineering constructed pods will compete against other finalists from initiatives and our new Titan II innovation truck.
across the world at SpaceXs mile-long test track in California We partnered with Electronics Weekly EW, a leading UK in the summer.
electronics publication, to introduce the EW BrightSparks programme to find the UKs brightest young electronic design engineers.
Aged 16 to 30, they could be in the early stages of their careers or still in education but already showing potential for future innovation in engineering.
This inspiring and successful initiative has now been continued into its second year and the photo below shows this years 30 winners.
We have established an apprenticeship programme for a group ofTexas A&M University students.
Two undergraduates began aproject in September looking at the Internet of Things IoT inthe food and beverage industry.
They are investigating how IoT is having a disruptive impact on the industry through the use of single-board computing, such as Raspberry Pi.
Six MBA students are also looking at how our innovation programme is driving performance in Central Europe and how our competition is using technology.
These project-based studies are now in the students curriculum and are the start of a global apprenticeship programme for the students of Texas A&M.
Our internship programme is continuing to expand and during the year we ran 40 internships.
The interns have come from universities in Singapore, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Yokohomo.
The students joined us for different periods of The Northern European team has partnered with STEM time: project-based activity for one to three months: short-term Learning, a UK organisation that has a network of over holiday periods: and full-year internships where they workedin 30,000 STEM ambassadors.
At an open day held in Corby, different departments across the business.
The programmes UK, more than 70 employees volunteered to become STEM have included DesignSpark community support, technical Ambassadors.
These volunteers will support a series of content creation and student competitions.
The students have workshops for schoolchildren, aged 11 to 16, based on been particularly interested in learning about DesignSpark technologies such as Raspberry Pi, Arduino, 3D printing tools and software as well as getting involved in IoT.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc41 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED A diverse and inclusive environment OUR PEOPLE As a truly global business, we already have diverse nationalities represented by people across all locations.
We believe that to achieve our ambition of becoming first Our focus is to embed a more diverse and inclusive culture.
choice for our customers and suppliers we also need to become By embracing difference, our unique combination of views first choice for all our people, both those in the business today and experience will mean we can better understand and serve and any future employees.
the diverse range of needs of our customers and suppliers.
Managing diversity Our changing culture As part of our cultural evolution we have a new diversity and In setting our ambition, we recognised the need to evolve the inclusion policy and the Senior Management Team are culture in the business too.
The culture we aspire to is expressed accountable for creating: in our ways of working: passion: integrity: innovation: collaboration: accountability: and aspiration.
An organisation which attracts, develops, motivates and retains a diverse workforce Early in the year, we started to bring our ways of working to A culture where people everywhere feel able to give their life and help employees understand why they are fundamental best, where their views, opinions and talents are respected to the Groups future success.
Every employee was sent a booklet Becoming first choice and all line managers were We have also created a global Diversity and Inclusion Steering given materials and support to help them engage their teams.
Committee, composed of senior representatives of different countries, languages, roles and functions to provide direction We are committed to embedding our ways of working into on the most effective ways of making real progress.
As a priority the business and shaping our culture through them.
Our the Committee is particularly focused on increasing the number employee recognition programme has been reviewed and of women in senior and critical roles throughout the business.
we intend to launch a new platform in mid 2019 where, through Working with an external partner that specialises in building this, employees can recognise others for demonstrating one diverse and high-performing businesses, we will be using this or more of the ways of working.
insight to help us make appropriately targeted improvements.
Listening to our people We have launched employee communities to help us drive change, In March 2018, we launched a new quarterly employee beginning with Working for Women communities, sponsored engagement pulse survey, My Voice, generating a positive loop of by our President of Global Supply Chain.
Groups are also being listening to employees, responding to their feedback and building set up to drive change at a local level and provide a network for a rich picture of their experience and what we can do to improve training and development opportunities.
We were very pleased with the results of this first survey with are open to everyone across all locations.
We are looking to 79% of our employees having completed it.
The survey shows launch further communities during the year to support other that 71% of our employees are considered engaged.
employee groups that are under-represented at a senior level.
The key objectives will be career development and progression, providing a greater voice and driving action at all levels of the business.
Overall Group results for My Voice pulse survey While working on longer-term plans and actions to drive change, we are also communicating widely around our commitment to diversity and inclusion, ensuring that our people are informed at this time of cultural shift.
For example, we took the opportunity to play an active part in wider global initiatives such as International 79% 71% Womens Day.
of colleagues of our people completed are engaged Gender pay gap the survey In March 2018, we published our first gender pay gap report under The Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations 2017.
Although this is a report on the UK, our actions will go beyond the UK.
We have a good balance of men and women but we do have a pay gap.
During 2019, we will introduce initiatives to break down any perceived barriers to the advancement of women.
We will also continue our strong focus on recruiting and retaining women in senior and critical roles.
More information on our gender pay gap report can be found on our website.
42 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Acquiring and developing our talent Diversity and inclusion A focus on our management and leadership talent is key to the delivery of our ambition.
We define diversity as the way an individual can People Manager Academy differ from other individuals.
These can include: The People Manager Academy was launched to further build age: disability: marriage and civil partnership status: our management capability.
The programme is built around race: ethnicity: nationality: colour: religion or belief: the 7 essential talents that distinguish exceptional managers gender or gender reassignment: sexual orientation: and and aligns with our ambition.
The programme uses both educational background.
We believe these differences face-to-face and virtual learning techniques and has provide us with the diversity of thought, perspective consistently positive feedback from its alumni and their and experience imperative to our success.
We aim to roll this out globally.
Inclusion is about people within our organisation feeling trusted, respected, listened to and fully part of the team, Competencies development module whoever and wherever they are.
An earlier engagement survey told us that our employees were not always clear how they could progress in our business.
A diverse and inclusive organisation is one that actively We designed a behavioural Global Competencies framework strives for diversity, and treats everyone fairly regardless that defines which universal skills are important and what of difference, to gain the best from its people and to good looks like across the organisation.
A new online module provide the best experience for its customers and has enabled all employees to assess themselves against suppliers.
This aim sits firmly within our first choice the competencies, build targeted development plans and vision and our ways of working.
identify relevant learning solutions through alinked learning management system.
The process is streamlined and dynamic, supporting quality manager-employee conversations and Overall headcount Board composition allowing everyone to keep track oftheir development in real-time and on an ongoing basis.
Talent acquisition Female We have completed a talent acquisition review, which is 3,151 Female 2 aligned to our business strategy to retain and attract top talent.
Male Male 6 From this, our focus is now on: the development of our senior 2,792 hiring process: the development and launch of our Employee Value Proposition: the design and implementation of an enhanced talent acquisition model for the future: and a review of our associated processes and governance frameworks.
Learning and development To meet our strategic aspirations and support the development Management Team of our people, we need to invest more broadly in upgrading skills and capabilities across the organisation.
To that end, we have created a learning and development centre of expertise, which will develop a Group-wide learning academy Female and partner with local companies to evolve existing initiatives 67 and best practices for the benefit of the entire business.
Male 167 The new centre of expertise will specifically focus on creating tools, resources and programmes across several core areas including: business and product knowledge: professional skills: management skills: and the support of compliance, information security and health and safety initiatives.
We Were committed to creating a diverse and will also improve the onboarding experience for all new joiners, inclusive place to work where everyone can from acceptance of offer through to the first months in the deliver their best.
This is key to innovation, new role.
We want to deepen our pool of early career talent and so will be investing in the development of intern, graduate growth and profitability and will help us and apprenticeship programmes.
to deliver the best customer and supplier experience.
Our efforts to improve diversity and inclusion are global.
LINDSLEY RUTH CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Permanent employees as at 31 March 2018 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Environment OUR ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY The Groups key environmental impacts include energy use and the related CO emissions, waste and recycling, packaging use 2 and water consumption.
Electrocomponents Environmental Awards and recognition Policy articulates our commitment to protect the environment and to use energy and other resources efficiently to provide ourproducts and services.
The Groups target is to continuously improve environmental Electrocomponents has participated in the annual performance in all key areas.
Carbon Disclosure Project CDP for 10 years and in The Group complies with the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme 2017 was the top company out of 44 in the FTSE 350 applying to all our facilities in the UK and complies as well with Information Technology sector with a score of A-, Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive applying to our placing the Group in the CDP Leadership category.
facilities in France, Germany, Italy and the UK.
1,2 Environmental performance In 2018 the Group achieved its targets to improve performance indexed to revenue in all key areas.
Revenue growth at constant exchange rates has benefited indexed performance as During the year, RS UK received the Carbon & Energy efficiencies have been improved.
Performance over the past Management and Reduction Scheme CEMARS Gold five years is shown in the charts on the following page, and is Certification Award for the eighth year in a row, having summarised below.
reduced carbon emissions each year.
Over the past five years, emissions are down by 27%.
CO emissions intensity was down 10.5% to 7.7 tonnes 2 per million revenue.
Absolute CO emissions due to energy use in our premises 2 were down by 100 tonnes or 0.8% to 13,100 tonnes as a result of energy efficiency measures and despite capacity expansions.
Emissions were 7.1% lower than in 2016.
Waste intensity was down 7.2% to 2.31 tonnes per million revenue and was 5.7% lower than in 2016.
In absolute terms, total waste was up by 3.4% to 3,940 tonnes.
The increase was mainly due to ongoing office refurbishment activities and the disposal and recycling of old furniture and other material.
The proportion of total waste recycled was flat in the year as the tonnage of waste recycled rose in line with the increase in total waste.
Packaging intensity was down by 17.5% to 2.45 tonnes per million revenue.
This was a result of packaging rationalisation initiatives, which also allowed for lower inventories.
OFFSETTING CO2 EMISSIONS Water use performance is reported indexed to headcount TREE PLANTING IN THE UK 3 and this was down 1.8% to 7.21m per head per annum.
Further progress was made to quantify the CO emissions 2 In the UK, RS is partnering with Carbon Footprint Ltd due to the Groups use of third-party logistics.
toplant around 500 trees in the grounds of two primary schools local to our warehouses in Corby and Nuneaton Environmental initiatives and inthe newly created RS woodland, which is located Throughout 2018, the Group undertook a series of projects inthe samearea.
This will help offset the CO emissions 2 and environmental programmes to help improve performance.
The tree planting These are focused on those locations with the largest impact also engages theschoolchildren in digging, planting supported by employee awareness initiatives covering all and backfilling theyear-old saplings, helping to develop sites worldwide.
their school grounds and enhance wildlife habitats as well as improvingthe air quality in the school grounds.
The trees that are planted are native broad leaf species to help enhance biodiversity.
44 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT The programmes to install LED lighting in our distribution 1,2, 3,4 CO e due to premises energy use 2 centres, trade counters and office locations worldwide have continued throughout the year, complemented by the use CO e intensity CO e 2 2 of motion-controlled lighting.
Along with other measures this tonnes CO e m revenue tonnes 2 has helped the Group to reduce electricity use, indexed to 18,200 13.4 floor area.
15,400 11.0 14,100 13,200 13,100 9.7 Automatic meter reading is now being installed at sites 8.6 7.7 in Europe, combined with regular reporting, which is helping to improve energy awareness and to drive down use.
This has been supported by upgrades to the heating, ventilation and air conditioning HVAC systems across the UK trade counter 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 network and a number of trade counters have been moved 1,2 to newer, more energy-efficient buildings.
Total hazardous and non-hazardous waste Sites in South East Asia have run a go-green campaign, Waste intensity Total waste leading to reductions in water and energy use and improved tonnes m revenue tonnes rates of recycling.
3,940 3,810 3,550 3,490 3,460 2.57 2.46 2.49 2.45 2.31 Electric car charge points have been installed at a number of our UK locations and we are encouraging the use of hybrid and electric vehicles.
A key focus during the year has been on driving a reduction in overpackaging by rationalising the variety of packaging in use, and focusing on recyclable materials.
During the coming year, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 we will also introduce automated packaging to further reduce 1,2 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste recycled packaging use.
% of total waste recycled Recycled waste CO emissions due to third-party logistics tonnes 2 In addition to reporting the environmental impacts of our own 2,920 76 2,820 74 74 74 71 2,630 2,550 2,540 operations and activities, the Group works with our providers of third-party logistics to assess the CO emissions due to our 2 use of their services and those of their subcontractors.
Further understanding of this is allowing us to work with our customers and suppliers to reduce CO emissions, and thus the carbon 2 footprint, of the distribution supply chain.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 This work is ongoing and is helping to inform our supply chain 1 Packaging use strategy through the use of CO emissions as a proxy for cost 2 and efficiency.
As reported previously, the data indicates that Packaging intensity Packaging these emissions are approximately double the emissions due to tonnes m revenue tonnes the use of energy in the Groups premises worldwide.
Once the 3.44 4,670 3.17 4,550 4,460 reports have been finalised we plan to include further details in 2.97 4,270 2.94 4,180 2.45 our CDP submissions and on our website.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures The Financial Stability Board Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD report was published in June 2017 with objectives including promoting more informed investment 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 decisions and enabling stakeholders to understand exposure 1,2, 5 Total water use toclimate-related risks.
The Group has conducted initial assessments of its climate-related disclosures in the Annual Water use per employee Water use 3 3 Report, on our website and in its publicly available annual m head m submission to the CDP.
Whilst work will be ongoing on 7.54 47,700 46,500 7.34 7.26 7.23 7.21 44,800 42,900 43,300 scenario planningin particular, the initial assessment indicates the Groups governance, strategy, risk management and metrics targets are largely in line with, or ahead of, the recommendations from the TCFD.
KPIs are on a constant exchange rate basis and are updated to reflect updates and changes in reporting methodology and emissions factors.
Excludes a number of smaller sites where energy, waste and water costs and consumption are included in lease costs.
The statutory information required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 is set out on page 46.
CO2 equivalent from all energy sources including country-specific CO2 factors for electricity and with 100% renewable electricity reported at zero CO2 per kWh.
Water use data for 2017 updated to include amended supplier data for two sites.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc45 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 2019 priorities for environmental performance Health and safety Environmental campaigns to engage employees in To further the goal of respecting and environmental improvements across the Group.
The safeguarding our people and others first will be linked to Earth Week with a focus on plastics affected by our operations, we continue awareness and reductions at sites in the UK and China.
to work towards Target Zero on the basis Roll out the RS treasure hunt energy audit programme that all incidents are preventable.
designed to encourage people to think about energy-saving opportunities.
In 2018 the Group included All Accidents alongside Lost Time Leverage our health and safety and environmental Accidents LTAs as our primary safety metrics.
This has led programmes, for example by linking Target Zero to our to increased focus on every accident that occurs, not just the global target of zero waste to landfill.
relative few that result in lost time.
This has helped the Group to achieve a 50% overall decrease in reported accidents in Focus on the robust ownership and delivery of environmental the year.
targets at site and regional levels.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions disclosures Health and safety performance In addition to the CO e emissions due to premises energy The Group succeeded in reducing the frequency of 2 use on page 45, the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report All Accidents by over 50% in the year.
The Groups safety and Directors Report Regulations 2013 requires the Group to reports include accidents which occur whilst employees also report emissions due to the fuel used in company vehicles, aretravelling on business.
During 2018, an employee driving fugitive emissions and other sources.
The table below includes onbusiness suffered a non-fault road traffic accident.
the material emission sources from the operations andactivities Thisresulted in 98 lost working days and this one-off case covered by the Groups accounts.
adverselyaffected the overall lost time performance as noted below: 2018 2017 The number of All Accidents, including first aid cases, tonnes tonnes CO e CO e reported in 2018 was 59 2017: 118.
2 2 Emissions from combustion of fuels The All Accidents frequency rate was reduced by over and operation of facilities: 50% to 1.02 per 200,000 hours worked 2017: 2.10.
1 Combustion of fossil fuels 4,837 5,014 The number of LTAs reported in 2018 was 12 2017: 12.
2 Operation of facilities, including fugitive emissions 137 46 The LTA frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked was Electricity purchased for own consumption: 0.21 2017: 0.21.
3 Purchased electricity 10,061 10,148 Excluding the road traffic accident RTA mentioned above, Intensity measurement a total of 59 working days were lost in 2018 2017: 119 days, CO e due to premises energy use per m revenue 7.7 8.6 2 2018: 157 days including the RTA.
Total GHGs per m revenue 8.8 9.9 Excluding the RTA, the average number of lost working Data is for the financial year as updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology days per LTA was down to 5.4 compared with 9.9 in 2017 and to use current emissions factors.
Includes emissions of 1,795 tonnes relating to fuel use in company vehicles 13.1 including the RTA.
137 tonnes of CO e due to fugitive emissions from air-conditioning systems 2 A new programme of quarterly safety campaigns was 2017: 46 tonnes.
Electricity from renewable sources at zero CO e per kWh.
In 2018 these covered motor vehicle safety, 2 by 1,244 tonnes at grid-average rates 2017: 1,258 tonnes.
ergonomics and health and wellbeing.
The reporting of near misses gained momentum with a record The Group uses the GHG Protocol with emission factors for number of reports in the year, demonstrating that safety standard grid electricity by country from the International awareness is increasingly embedded in the culture of the Group.
Energy Agency and other factors as published by the UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs in order Health and safety initiatives to calculate the CO e emissions included in this report.
2 The significant reduction in All Accidents in 2018 has been led by a new process for accident reporting where every incident is reported, regardless of severity.
Each case is reviewed and analysed prior to classification.
This helps ensure consistency and ensures that only real accidents are included in the reported numbers.
46 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT All Accidents performance 547 532 8.54 8.87 317 5.17 144 118 2.40 59 2.10 1.02 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of Accidents Accident frequency per 200,000 hours Quarterly global safety campaigns have been instigated to help to mitigate future accidents.
Through 2018 these campaigns focused on motor vehicle safety, ergonomics and health and wellbeing.
To support motor vehicle safety an employee handbook was developed and delivered in local languages to all employees who drive for work.
This was supported by a motor Vehicle Safety Policy approved by the CEO.
Group-wide, some 24% of accidents relate to handling, carrying and lifting injuries.
As described in the case study IMPROVING ERGONOMICS the Group has engaged a company specialising in ergonomics DORSAVI WEARABLE to support improvement in this area.
TECHNOLOGY Near-miss reporting continues to gain momentum and 2018 saw a 40% increase in the number of unsafe acts, conditions During 2018, the Group worked with dorsaVi who and near misses reported across the Group.
Near-miss provided their wearable technology, myViSafe, to reporting takes safety awareness further and is now deep-seated improve our ergonomic assessments.
This solution in the Groups culture and this continues to help ensure health uses medical-grade wearable sensors to collect and safety is a high-focus area within the Group.
movement and muscle data from the employee In 2018 we implemented global safety standards as a key part and send immediate, reliable and accurate data via of the management system that helps all regions to work to Bluetooth to an iPhone or iPad app.
The results are the same safety requirements baseline.
The implementation used to provide recommendations to the employee on of these standards is reviewed through the annual verification how to improve their posture and movement.
Aligned process and during Group audits.
with our continuous improvement activities, this has led to positive developments in workplace design 2019 priorities for health and safety and worker behaviour.
We will relaunch Target Zero to include environment and wellbeing.
This will help to drive further environmental improvements and ensure that all aspects of health, safety and wellness are committed to by our programme.
Increased focus on ergonomic injuries using the dorsaVi myViSafedevices.
This will help to drive down poor posture and lost days due to muscle-related injuries, some of which are not accident related.
Continue to embed All Accidents as the Groups primary health and safety reporting metric.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 23 May 2018 and is signed on its behalf by: Lindsley Ruth David Egan Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Safe harbour This financial report contains certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy and completeness of all such statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial position, strategy, projected costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted or guaranteed.
These statements typically contain words such as intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and words of similar import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Although Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reflected in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to be correct.
There are a number of factors, which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents plc, which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable rules of any exchange on which our securities may be listed, Electrocomponents plc has no intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements contained herein.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc47
