Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Directors report continued Articles of Association Independent auditor The Companys Articles of Association Articles may only be changed by special resolution at a General Meeting of shareholders.
The Articles Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditor, the Audit & Risk Committee has recommended to the Board that the contain provisions regarding the appointment, retirement and removal of Directors.
existing auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, be reappointed.
EY has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor.
An ordinary resolution to reappoint EY as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in a General Meeting following nomination by the Board or member s entitled to vote at such a meeting.
The Directors may appoint a Director during any year provided that the individual stands for Requirements of the Listing Rules election by shareholders at the next AGM.
The following table provides references to where the information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
Directors indemnities Listing Rule requirement Listing Rule Reference Section Under the Companys Articles, the Directors of the Company may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against certain Capitalisation of interest LR 9.8.
4R 1 Note 10 page 136 liabilities which may be incurred in relation to the affairs of the Company or in relation to the duties, powers and office of each Director.
Publication of unaudited financial information LR 9.8.
4R 2 Not applicable Such qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of the Directors were implemented upon incorporation of the Company Directors remuneration on8May2017 and remain in force at the date of this report.
4R 4 report pages 79 - 94 Political contributions No such waivers.
David Bonanno does not receive No political donations were made during the year 2017: nil.
4R 5, 6 any fee for acting as a Director.
Substantial shareholdings Allotment of equity securities LR 9.8.
Listed shares of a subsidiary LR 9.8.
4R 9 Not applicable The Company has been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules or otherwise of the Significant contracts with Directors and controlling shareholders LR 9.8.
4R 10, 11 Directors report pages 95 - 96 following holdings in the Companys issued share capital: Dividend waiver LR 9.8.
4R 12, 13 Not applicable % of issued Board statement in respect of relationship agreement Number of share with the controlling shareholder LR 9.8.
4R 14 Not applicable shares capital Third Point Hellenic Recovery Lux S.. R. L. 40,782,418 26.7% The Directors Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Company Secretary on 17 April 2019.
Growthy Holdings Co. Limited 18,661,564 12.2% By order of the Board Oilco Investments Limited 17,053,253 11.2% Michelle Churchward Clal Insurance 15,147,504 9.69% Company Secretary The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 10,874,957 7.1% 17 April 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM 44 Baker Street The Companys AGM will be held in London on 13 June 2019.
Formal notice of the AGM will be issued separately from this Annual Report London and Accounts.
W1U 7AL Registrars The Companys share registrar in respect of its ordinary shares traded on the London Stock Exchange is Computershare Investor Services PLC, full details of whom can be found in the Company Information section on page 176.
Greenhouse gas emissions GHG reporting Details of the Groups emissions are contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 50.
Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditor Each of the Directors in office at the date of the approval of this Directors Report has confirmed that, so far as such Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and such Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted inaccordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
96Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201897 S Str tra at te eg gi ic c r re ep po or rt t C Cor orp pora orat te e go gov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nc ciia all s st tat ate em me en nt ts s O Ot th he er r i inf nfo or rm ma at ti io on n Corporate governance continued Statement of Directors responsibilities Financial for the Group financial statements statements The Directors of the Company are responsible for preparing the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys applicable law and regulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act Independent auditors report tothe statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets members ofEnergeanOil&Gas Plc 100 required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 107 Group income statement International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by preventionand detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Group Statement of Comprehensive the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have Income 108 also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Group Statement of Financial Position 109 accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 101 Reduced the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Group Statement of Changes inEquity 110 Disclosure Framework.
Under company law, the Directors must not website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Group Statement of Cash Flows 112 approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Notes to the Consolidated Financial give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statements 114 of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
Company statement of financial Responsibility statement In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors position 161 We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: are required to: Company Statement of Changes X the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the inEquity 162 X select suitable accounting policies and then apply them relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view Company accounting policies 163 consistently: of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Notes to the company Financial X make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Statements 166 and prudent: taken as a whole: Payments to governments unaudited 171 X state whether FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework has Transparency disclosure unaudited 172 X the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development been followed, subject to any materialdepartures disclosed and Glossary 174 and performance of the business and the position of the explained in the financial statements: and Other information 176 Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal X prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis risks and uncertainties that they face: and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the parent company will continue in business.
X the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, arefair, balanced and understandable and provide the information In preparing the Group financial statements, International necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and Accounting Standard IAS 1 requires that the Directors: performance, business model and strategy.
X properly select and apply accounting policies: This responsibility statement was approved by the board of X present information, including accounting policies, in a directors on 17 April 2019 and is signed on its behalf.
mannerthat provides relevant, reliable, comparable and By order of the Board understandable information: X provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Mathios Rigas Panos Benos specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer tounderstand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial 17 April 2019 17 April 2019 performance: and X make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as agoingconcern.
98Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 E E En n ne e er r rg g ge e ea a an O n O n Oi i il & G l & G l & Ga a as p s p s pl l lc c cA A An n nn n nu u ua a al R l R l Re e ep p po o or r rt 2 t 2 t 20 0 01 1 189 89 899 9 9 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Independent auditors report to themembers ofEnergeanOil&Gas plc Opinion Basis for opinion Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial Key audit matters X Recognition of the groups additional X Energean Oil & Gas plcs group financial statements and parent under those standards are further described in the Auditors statements of the current period and include the most significant investment in Energean Israel Limited company financial statements the financial statements give responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to X Recoverability of oil and gas assets, a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had including estimation of oil and gas companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of reserve volumes used in managements profit for the year then ended: relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement impairment assessment X the group financial statements have been properly prepared in the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest team.
We communicated key audit matters and our planned accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards X Karish Tanin development project spend entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in response to each risk to the Audit and Risk Committee in our IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Audit scope X We performed an audit of the complete accordance with these requirements.
These matters were addressed in financial information of three components the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and X the parent company financial statements have been properly We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and audit procedures on specific balances in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
for a further three components these matters.
Accepted Accounting Practice and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and X The components where we performed Conclusions relating to principal risks, full or specific audit procedures X the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with going concern and viability statement accounted for 98% of profit before tax, the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards to 100% of revenue and 96% of total assets the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following information Materiality X Overall group materiality of $7.5 million in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us We have audited the financial statements of Energean Oil & Gas plc which represents 0.5% of Total Assets, to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw Energean that comprise: adjusted to remove the amount of attention to: goodwill connected with groups additional Group Parent X the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 58 - 62 investment in Energean Israel Limited.
Consolidated statement of Company statement of financial that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being financial position as at position as at 31 December 2018 managed or mitigated: Key observations communicated to the 31December 2018 Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee X the directors confirmation set out on page 58 in the Annual Consolidated statement of profit Recognition of the groups additional investment in We performed the following procedures to address the We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee that: Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the orloss for the year then ended Energean Israel Limited risks identified: X The fair value of the derivative asset at the IPO principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten Consolidated statement of Net assets attributable to Energean Israel Limited X Reviewed the approach adopted by management date was appropriate: its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: Energean Israel as at 31 December 2018: $866.6 for the valuation of the derivative asset at the IPO comprehensive income for the X The fair values of the assets and liabilities, million 31 December 2017: $nil date: year then ended X the directors statement set out on page 98 in the financial including deferred tax impacts, and of the nonDerivative asset: $nil 2017: $93.3 million X Reviewed supporting evidence to verify that the controlling interest recognised upon Energean Consolidated statement of Company statement of changes statements about whether they considered it appropriate to criteria were met to treat Energean Israel Limited Israel becoming a controlled subsidiary are Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report page 74 : changes in equity for the year inequity for the year then ended adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, as a subsidiary from the share subscription date: reasonable: Accounting policies pages 118 - 119 : Notes 4.1, 6, 12, 21 thenended and their identification of any material uncertainties to the and 28.5 of the consolidated financial statements.
X Inspected supporting documents in relation to the X The goodwill recognised in the financial Consolidated statement of cash entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve key transactions, including the payment of $266.7 statements, which is driven by the deferred tax The commitment to purchase the Energean Israel B million as a subscription for shares in Energean impacts of accounting for the share subscription flows for the year then ended months from the date of approval of the financial statements: shares crystallised on 16 March 2018 upon completion Israel Limited: transaction, isappropriate: and of Energeans IPO on the London Stock Exchange.
Related notes 1 to 30 to the group Company accounting policies and X whether the directors statement in relation to going concern This in turn triggered the Subscription Agreement for X Evaluated managements attribution of fair X The disclosures required by IFRS 3 have been financial statements, including a the related notes 1 to 14 to the required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule Energean to subscribe for new shares inEnergean values to the assets, liabilities and non-controlling made in the financial statements.
summary of significant company financial statements Israel at a cost of $266.7 million, increasing the groups interest of Energean Israel Limited including 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained accountingpolicies interest in that entity to 70% of the issued equityshares.
deferred tax implications of the relevant fair value in the audit: or adjustments: and Therefore, there is a risk of misstatements in relation X the directors explanation set out on page 63 in the Annual tothefollowing: X Reviewed the disclosures in the financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, statements to ensure they are in line with IFRS 3.
X Re-measurement of the derivative up to preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and 16March2018: The audit procedures to address this risk were over what period they have done so and why they consider that IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting principally performed by the Group team.
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether X Applying acquisition accounting principles for framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Energean Israel becoming a controlled subsidiary they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able company financial statements is applicable law and United in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall IFRS 3 : and Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting due over the period of their assessment, including any related Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom X The recognition of assets and liabilities acquired disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications at fair value, including deferred tax effects, and the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and in accordance with valuation of goodwill arising from the transaction.
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
100Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018101 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Auditors report continued Revenue recognition is a significant risk presumed by ISAs UK.
The reporting components where we performed full scope and Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Itisnot included above, as Energeans revenue streams are specific scope audit procedures accounted for 98% of the groups Recoverability of oil and gas assets, including Management did not identify any impairment We reported to the Audit and Risk Committeethat: routine in nature and do not involve significant judgement or use profit before tax, 100% of revenue and 96% of total assets.
estimation of oil and gas reserve volumes used in indicators as a result of their impairment assessment.
X Managements estimates of reserves and of significant estimates.
Consistent with the prior year, it is not managements impairment assessment Our audit procedures to evaluate managements For the remaining three components, we performed other resources, as well as other key assumptions used included above as Energeans revenue streams have not changed in assessment of impairment indicators for the groups Tangible oil and gas properties: $1,312.3 million 2017: in their impairment indicators assessment, were procedures including the following to respond to any potential risks tangible oil and gas assets included: 2018, are routine in nature and consequently, the auditing of revenue $248.9 million found to be reasonable: and of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements: X Assessing internal and external factors for the recognition did not have a significant effect on our overall audit Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report page 74 : X We did not identify any impairment indicators that existence of impairment indicators: Accounting policies pages 120 - 122 : and Notes 4.2 and would suggest the carrying value of the groups strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit or in directing the X Analytical review procedures on a legal entity basis: 14 of the consolidated financial statements.
X Assessing the completeness of managements tangible oil and gas properties is not recoverable.
efforts of the engagement team.
X Tested consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and reserve and resource estimates report, as well as This refers to the risk that capitalised costs associated the objectivity and competency of the third party foreign currency translation recalculations: We have also identified a significant risk from misstatements due to tangible oil and gas assets may be recorded at a that was engaged by management to prepare level that exceeds the future recoverable amounts.
to fraud or error associated with management override in relation to X Made inquiries of management about unusual transactions in the reserves and resources report authors, and Within the Energean group, we consider this risk to the estimation of oil & gas reserves and other key judgements made verifying specific input data used within the these components: and exist for the established assets in Greece and the report: in impairment assessments and decommissioning provisioning.
X Reviewed minutes of Board meetings held throughout the period.
X Inspecting managements reconciliation of the However, it is not included above, as it is addressed with the Accounting standards require management to assess third party reserves and resources report with at each reporting date whether indicators of asset procedures associated with the recoverability of oil and gas assets Changes from the prior year Energeans valuation models and assessing impairment exist.
Where indicators of impairment in addition to audit procedures conducted in accordance with economic cut off: or reversal exist, management must carry out an In comparison to the prior year the following changes occurred in ISAs UK to address fraud.
X Using EY valuation specialists to assist the the structure of our components: audit team in assessing the reasonableness of Where indicators of impairment exist, management In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter other key accounting estimates and judgements prepares the asset impairment tests under the valueX Energean Israel Limited was included as a full scope component prepared by management as part of their in relation to assessment of impairment indicators for exploration in-use methodology.
The models include a number of following the subscription of new shares in the entity which impairment indicators assessment, as well as the management estimates and judgements including: and evaluation intangible assets.
In the current year, we no longer valuation methodology used in the oil and gas increased the groups equity share by an additional 20% and reserve and resource volume estimates, future oil consider there is a significant risk attributable to the impairment of field cash flow models: and and gas prices, discount rates, production forecasts resulted in Energean Israel Limited becoming a consolidated exploration and evaluation assets due to changes in the size and and operating and capital expenditures for each cash X Assessing the reasonableness of future subsidiary of the group: composition of the balance sheet which have resulted in the risk of generating unit CGU.
Changes to one or more of these production assumptions used by management.
key inputs could lead to a potential impairment, change X The Group merged two previously full scope components, misstatement to no longer be material to the financial statements.
The audit procedures to address this risk were the amount of impairment recognised or result in a principally performed by the Group team and the Greek Kavala Oil S. A. and Energean Oil & Gas S. A. in November 2018. reversal of a previously recognised impairment.
Therefore, our component audit team in Athens reported on the An overview of the scope of our audit consolidated reporting package of Energean Oil & Gas S. A for the Karish Tanin development project spend In order to address the risks identified we performed We reported to the Audit and Risk Committeethat: Tailoring the scope purposes of the 2018 group audit: audit procedures focused on capitalisation criteria and Karish and Tanin development costs capitalised within X The capitalisation of development costs for the completeness of accruals for the key elements Oil and Gas properties for the year ended 31 December the Karish Tanin project spend met the IAS 16 Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our X The activities in Energean International Limited Egypt Branch of costs incurred for the Karish Tanin development.
2018: $638.0 million 2017: $nil capitalisation criteria: and allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope were significantly reduced in 2018, therefore, this component These procedures included: Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report page 74 : X The accruals recorded at year end are for each entity within the group.
Taken together, this enables us to X Understanding the criteria used by management was moved out of specific scope, with balances being subject Accounting policies pages 120 - 121 : and Note 14 of materiallycomplete and appropriately reflect to assess whether costs should be capitalised or form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take toother procedures as described above.
the cost of services provided by the project expensed: contractors, including TechnipFMC as the into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and The Karish Tanin development attained FID in March X Verifying that the capitalisation criteria were met projects major contractor.
2018 and consequently there has been significant effectiveness of group-wide controls, and changes in the business Involvement with component teams for costs that we selected on a sample basis as project-related expenditure in the last nine months of environment when assessing the level of work to be performed at part of our audit procedures relating to the project In establishing our overall approach to the group audit, we the year.
determinedthe type of work that needed to be undertaken at each We focused on the risks of inappropriate capitalisation X Reviewing the agreements entered into with of costs in accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant ofthe components by us, as the group audit engagement team, or In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the group the major project contractors to understand and Equipment and the completeness of project cost bycomponent auditors from other EY global network firms operating the nature of services to be provided and the financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative accruals recorded as at 31 December 2018. associated milestones: under our instruction.
For two full scope components where the work coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, X Obtaining a listing of project cost accruals at 31 was performed by two EY component teams based in Athens and of the nine reporting components of the group, we selected all December 2018, validating a sample of costs Tel Aviv, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable nine components covering entities within Greece, Cyprus, Egypt, to supporting documents and comparing to the us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as Montenegro, Israel and the United Kingdom, which represent the contractual milestones for the development abasis for our opinion on the group as a whole.
project work: and principal business units within the group.
X Performing a search for unrecorded liabilities The group audit team interacted regularly with the EY component Of the nine 2017: ten components selected, we performed an through reviewing invoices received after the teams during each stage of the audit, were responsible for the balance sheet date.
We compared these to the audit of the complete financial information of three 2017: three project costs accrued by management and scope and direction of the audit process and reviewed key working components full scope components which were selected based assessed whether there were any material papers.
The group audit team followed a programme of planned on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining six 2017: omissions.
visits that was designed to ensure that the group audit team seven components, we performed audit procedures on specific The audit procedures to address this risk were members visited the full scope component teams during the current principally performed by the Group team and the accounts within three components specific scope components Israelicomponent team.
The Group audit partner visited the Tel Aviv audit that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the team and the Group audit manager visited the component team in significant accounts in the financial statements either because of Athens.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the the size of these accounts or their riskprofile.
component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting 102Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018103 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Auditors report continued with local management, and reviewing key audit working papers on Audit work at component locations for the purposes of obtaining In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in risk areas.
The group team interacted regularly with the component audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to teams during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of you if, in our opinion: papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit The performance materiality set for each component is based on the other information where we conclude that those items meet the X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed the relative scale and risk of the component to the group as a whole following conditions: company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been at group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
X Fair, balanced and understandable, set out on page 98 the received from branches not visited by us: or consolidated financial statements.
We maintained continuous and In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to statement given by the directors that they consider the Annual X the parent company financial statements and the part of open dialogue with our EY component teams in addition to holding components was $750,000 to $2,800,000.
Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in formal meetings to ensure that we were fully aware of their progress We determined performance materiality for the parent company to balanced and understandable and provides the information agreement with the accounting records and returns: or and results of their procedures.
be $2,100,000, based on the same judgement made for the Group.
necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, X certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our Our application of materiality are not made: or Reporting threshold knowledge obtained in the audit: or X we have not received all the information and explanations we An amount below which identified misstatements are considered We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the X Audit and Risk Committee reporting, set out on pages 74 - 76 require for our audit: or as being clearly trivial.
audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee audit and in forming our audit opinion.
X a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report the company.
the Audit and Risk Committee: or to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $375,000, Materiality which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences X Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Responsibilities of directors The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on Governance Code, set out on page 71 the parts of the or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement qualitative grounds.
directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
set out on page 98, the directors are responsible for the preparation the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent For the parent company, we agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in of our audit procedures.
that we would report to them all uncorrected differences in excess a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose of $215,000, based on the same judgement made for the Group.
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate We determined materiality for the group to be $7.5 million, which statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due is 0.5% of total assets as at 31 December 2018, adjusted to We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the Governance Code.
remove the amount of goodwill connected with groups additional quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light investment in Energean Israel Limited $75.8m.
This goodwill was ofother relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Opinions on other matters prescribed In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible driven by the recognition of a deferred tax liability as part of the for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue bythe Companies Act 2006 business combination accounting which we did not consider to Other information as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to be reflective of the underlying business activities.
We believe that In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting The other information comprises the information included in the adjusted total assets provides us with a suitable basis for setting be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent Annual Report set out on pages 1 - 176, including the Strategic materiality for immature emerging oil and gas exploration and Companies Act 2006. company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but Report and Corporate Governance, other than the financial production companies, providing a reliable measure to assess the to do so.
statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of size of the groups operations.
responsible for the other information.
theaudit: Auditors responsibilities for the audit We determined materiality for the parent company to be $4.3 million Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other which is 0.5% of total assets.
X the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors ofthe financial statements information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this Report for the financial year for which the financial statements During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whetherthe no changes were made.
financial statements as a whole are free from materialmisstatement, In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our X the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Performance materiality that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent The application of materiality at the individual account or balance of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level Matters on which we are required accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are toreport by exception material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we misstatements exceeds materiality.
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was taken on the basis of these financial statements.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have set performance materiality at are required to report that fact.
this percentage based on our assessment of the likelihood of We have nothing to report in this regard.
misstatements based on our understanding of the group as part of our planning procedures.
104Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018105 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Auditors report continued Group income statement Year ended 31 December 2018 X Other procedures performed to address the risk of management 2018 2017 Explanation as to what extent the audit Notes $000 $000 override included evaluating the business rationale for significant was considered capable of detecting unusual and one-off transactions, reviewing the minutes of the Revenue 7 90,329 57,752 Board of Directors and Audit and Risk Committee, and including Cost of sales 8a 60,019 48,648 irregularities, including fraud a level of unpredictability in our testing.
Gross profit 30,310 9,104 The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial Administrative expenses 8b 11,666 5,991 financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit Selling and distribution expenses 8c 453 445 website at https: www.
This evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement Exploration and evaluation expenses 8d 2,102 9,966 description forms part of our auditors report.
due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate Other income expense 8e 7,751 6,398 responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud Operating profit loss 23,840 13,696 Other matters we are required to address identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for Finance income 10 1,735 14 the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged X We were appointed by the company on 16 April 2018 to audit the Finance cost 10 13,471 22,940 with governance of the entity and management.
financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and Gain on derivative 27 96,709 25,786 subsequent financial periods.
Our approach was as follows: Net foreign exchange loss gain 10 23,521 36,243 The period of total uninterrupted engagement including Profit from continuing operations before tax 85,292 25,407 X We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory previous renewals and reappointments is two years, covering frameworks that are applicable to Energean and determined the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018.
Taxation income expense 11 15,527 14,061 that the most significant are those that relate to the reporting X The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard Profit from continuing operations 100,819 11,346 framework IFRSs, Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate were not provided to the group or the parent company and we Governance Code and Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority remain independent of the group and the parent company in and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions Net results from discontinued operations 12 1,403 conducting the audit.
in which the group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations that may have Income for the year 100,819 9,943 X The audit opinion is consistent with the report of the Audit and an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures Risk Committee.
Attributable to: in the financial statements and laws and regulations relating to Owners of the parent 105,279 9,952 health and safety, employee matters, environmental and bribery Non-controlling interests 4,460 9 Use of our report and corruption practices.
100,819 9,943 This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in X We understood how the group is complying with those accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. frameworks by making enquiries of management and with those Basic and diluted earnings from continuing activities per share cents per share 13 Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the responsible for legal and compliance procedures.
We designed Basic $0.80 $0.16 companys members those matters we are required to state to them audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws Diluted $0.79 $0.16 in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and regulations identified in the paragraph above, including permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone corroborating our enquiries through our review of Board Basic and diluted total earnings per share cents per share 13 other than the company and the companys members as a body, for minutes, papers provided to the Audit and Risk Committee and Basic $0.80 $0.14 our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
correspondence received from regulatory bodies, and noted that Diluted $0.79 $0.14 there was no contradictory evidence.
Andrew Smyth X We assessed the susceptibility of Energeans consolidated Senior statutory auditor financial statements to material misstatement, including how for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor fraud might occur, focussing on opportunities for management London to reflect bias in key accounting estimates.
We have reported our findings in our key audit matters section of our report.
We also 17 April 2019 incorporated data analytics and manual journal entry testing into our audit approach.
The maintenance and integrity of the Energean Oil & Gas plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
106Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018107
