Sustainability Equiniti is committed to being a responsible business.
Our behaviour is aligned with the expectations of our people, clients, investors, communities and society as a whole.
Sustainability issues are fundamental to our continuity and this IMPROVEMENTS DURING THE YEAR INCLUDE: section includes a key overview of our people, our values, our key An updated Environmental Policy Statement stakeholders: how we undertake our corporate responsibility and activities to safeguard the environment.
The Board takes overall Reduced carbon emissions per unit of turnover responsibility for these fundamental areas.
A switch to a green energy provider REBECCA GRATTAN CHIEF PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION OFFICER Transforming our people HR function In the same way that Equiniti strives for excellence in client service and operations, we want to achieve excellence in our people management.
During 2018, we began to transform our worldwide communities of practice in support this, we carried out a significant People HR function, so it can better these areas, so we can share the best succession planning exercise for our support our people goals.
One significant ways of working.
The third function is the leaders this year, so we know how to fill change is our move from a country People Operations team, which combines any gaps that might arise.
For the first model to a global operating model for the transactional services provided in time in 2018, we have implemented a HR.
This improves efficiency, by avoiding Chennai and our geographically based global approach to leadership and have duplication at a country level, and ensures People Experience Managers, who help rolled out a Leadership and Management consistency in our processes around the to enhance our employees experience of Programme initially in the UK and the US, world, helping to make Equiniti a truly working at Equiniti so we retain our talent.
with India to follow in 2019. global group.
It also assists with moving Another important initiative is our culture IMPLEMENTING OUR PEOPLE people between countries, so we can programme, which we launched towards STRATEGY transfer our capabilities worldwide.
The programme will In 2018, we developed and began to programme will complete in the first half run during 2019, with a series of initiatives implement an updated people strategy.
of 2019. to engender common customer-focused This covers five key topics: culture and Another major change is our decision behaviours across Equiniti.
We launched leadership: engagement and experience: to split the People Team into three the programme in conjunction with a learning and talent: diversity and inclusion: functions, to improve the way we refreshed set of values.
We developed and performance and reward.
We now have people directors these by running focus groups in the UK, in our divisions, who work closely with US and India, then used our Colleague CULTURE AND LEADERSHIP the divisional leadership to help them Briefings to test the draft values with Strength and depth of leadership is crucial meet their people needs.
The values therefore for any business to succeed.
The Group created a centre of excellence covering genuinely reflect the business as our uses the Gallup leadership model, which key areas such as reward, learning and people experience it, with each value is based on leaders understanding their resourcing.
The global operating model underpinned by a set of behaviours we own strengths and the complementary supports this, by enabling us to create expect to see.
strengths they need in their team.
To 38 Equinit Equiniti Gr i Group plc Annual Report 2018 oup plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRA STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T T SUSTAINABILITY Our values PERFORMANCE GROWTH CUSTOMERS COLLEAGUES We're meticulous We're inventive We keep things We're together real Listen, take time and really Test and develop new ideas Communicate openly and Think as one global team, care about getting things right behave with integrity empowered and stronger Protect time to be creative together Be accountable, make Challenge the complicated Always explore fresh ways amends, learn and move on and promote simplicity We all have a unique voice and to do things and embrace it is listened to Deliver: on time, every time change Support and connect with communities around us Know your role and how you Use your sharp eye for detail Put common purpose first: we contribute to create great service and move quicker together What you do matters solutions for customers show pride Lead by example and create ways for everyone to grow Pictured left to right: Nathan Long and Thomas Kent 39 39 39 We have also begun to review our performance management ENGAGEMENT AND EXPERIENCE process.
The intention is to simplify and digitise performance The Group runs an annual employee engagement survey, which management, allowing our people to get faster and more regular has helped us to understand where we are doing well and what feedback.
This will be implemented through the utilisation of we need to improve to enhance our employees experience.
For WorkDay as our new HR data system in 2019.
2019, we will be moving to a much more targeted engagement model provided by Gallup, which complements our leadership DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION model.
This is a strategic shift in the way we survey our people, Equiniti has a number of diversity networks, which are aligned with an approach that aligns much more clearly to the Groups to particular interest areas, such as gender, diversity and culture.
This will run alongside our new approach to People inclusion and our LGBTQ network.
We have devolved budgets Operations where we will have People Experience managers to those networks so they can create locally relevant initiatives, monitoring and enhancing the employee experience on the resulting in a range of events across Equiniti during the year.
For example, the gender network organised numerous activities We have engagement champions in every location, who around International Womens Day and Equiniti has partnered ensure that our communications reach all our people.
The with Stonewall, Europes largest LGBT charity, including joining Chief Executives Colleague Briefings are also an important its Diversity Champions Programme.
We are sponsors of both communication tool, with Guy Wakeley visiting every Equiniti the 30% club focused on increasing female representation at location around the world after the release of the half year executive and Board level and the Everywoman Campaign.
This allows our people to talk to him directly about our strategy and progress.
In addition, this year we have refined our employee forum to assist in us delivering upon our responsibilities for employee voice.
This has involved us in extending the UK forum to a global forum and involving the Board-appointed non-executive Director for Employee Voice in those sessions.
LEARNING AND TALENT We have invested significantly in learning this year.
Leadership development was a key area of focus, to ensure we are ready to capitalise on the growth opportunities we see.
We have also enhanced our sales capabilities, particularly in the US and in Intelligent Solutions, so these teams are better able to sell new concepts to customers.
This will be increasingly important as we develop new capabilities and as we introduce more of our UK capabilities into the US market.
Our Rising Stars programme accelerates the progress of talented employees, through development, mentoring and stretch projects.
We made the programme more practically relevant this year, by linking it to work-based projects rather than the previous workshop approach.
The Group has a successful apprenticeship programme.
In 2018, we broadened the number of business areas taking apprentices and now have around 30 people in the programme.
We also continued to run Movement to Work with the Princes Trust, which helps unemployed young people into work through training, development and work experience.
A new initiative this year was our introduction of a Leadership Supper Club.
This is an informal networking event, with a speaker running a masterclass on topics relevant to our strategy.
The Group has continued to be successful at filling vacancies internally rather than through external recruitment.
For the first time this year, this has included moving talent internationally.
In total, we filled 43% of vacancies internally during 2018.
PERFORMANCE AND REWARD During 2018, we began to review two key areas of performance and reward.
We need to make sure our reward packages are both attractive in the market and consistent across the business, so we are carrying out an external benchmarking exercise.
This was completed for the HR function in 2018 and will carry on in other areas of the Group during 2019.
We anticipate a fully-refreshed reward strategy to be implemented by the end of H1 2019.
Pictured top to bottom: Syra Khan and Chris Ticehurst 40 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY We have made changes to address our Gender Pay Gap.
This OUR PEOPLE POLICIES includes requiring balanced shortlists for vacancies, to provide Equiniti has a wide range of people policies, covering every more opportunities for female candidates.
We have also adjusted aspect of the employee lifecycle.
In 2018 we undertook a our family friendly policies, including enhanced maternity benefit comprehensive review of these policies, both to ensure and providing incentives and mentoring for mothers coming back continued compliance and to ensure they are fit for purpose for a to the workplace.
More information about our Gender Pay Gap global business.
can be found on our website at https: equiniti.
com uk about-us Our policies include resourcing and recruiting, how candidates  policies .
are vetted, through to on-boarding and induction.
A number of The Group has in place a Disability & Mental Health Taskforce.
policies cover issues such as holiday entitlement, sickness and Initiatives this year included signing the Time to Change maternity and paternity arrangements, while a series of other Employer Pledge, to coincide with World Mental Health Day, polices relate to the facilities our people make use of at work, demonstrating our commitment to changing how we think such as data, equipment and systems.
Finally, we have policies and act about mental health in the workplace.
We have also outlining our approach to informal complaints, grievances, trained our first cohort of mental health first aiders.
We intend to whistleblowing and disciplinary matters, as well as redundancy review our policies in this area and provide increased support to and termination.
To ensure we have strong people governance, in 2018 we The table below shows our gender diversity at the year end.
established the People Compliance Team.
They are the Equiniti has a good gender balance overall, with a broadly guardians of our policies, making sure they are legally compliant equal split between men and women.
There has been a and reflect best practice, so we remain an attractive employer.
notable increase in the level of Board and senior management Our People Policy Manager is responsible for working through representation of 28% to 33% for the Board, and 28% to 38% policy changes required, for example due to new regulations, of the senior management team.
However, we recognise we and for proactively recommending changes where we believe our have more to do to increase the number of women in our policies need to advance.
senior management and we have worked hard on a number of All of our people have access to the full range of policies through initiatives to address the number of women moving through the our intranet.
We also run training and update sessions for key hierarchy.
These include increased maternity benefits, sponsored policies, to ensure they are widely understood and upheld.
female networking and development aimed at STEM science, Our line managers are responsible for ensuring our policies are technology, engineering and mathematics female development complied with.
They are supported by our People Services team and initiated a middle manager female talent programme.
in Chennai, who advise on policy, and by our Employee Relations Team.
This team is part of the People Compliance Team and helps when more detailed advice or coaching is required.
All contacts with the People Services team are logged and the GROUP Employee Relations Team uses a case management system TOTAL to track reported issues.
This enables us to identify issues in a particular location or to spot trends in particular enquiries, which may indicate that we need to update policies to match changing expectations among our people.
During 2018, we did not identify any material non-compliance issues with our people policies.
BOARD BOARD BOARD 6 3 9 SENIOR SENIOR SENIOR MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT 71 44 115 We have trained our first OTHER OTHER OTHER EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 2,613 2,442 5,055 cohort of mental health TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 2,690 2,489 5,179 first aiders BOARD BOARD BOARD 5 2 7 SENIOR SENIOR SENIOR MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT 61 24 85 OTHER OTHER OTHER EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 2,352 2,067 4,419 TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 2,418 2,093 4,511 41 2017 2018 National Grid Wm Morrisons LBG United Utilities HSBC Tesco GSK Sky y t easJe Shell Dominos Santander CitiGroup Sainsburys BT Our Key Stakeholders 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 1 Average client relationships 20 years CLIENTS Our strategy prioritises organic growth, driven by cross-selling clients to win new business.
We also have a bid support team, and up-selling services to existing clients and bringing new which helps us to prepare tenders and to price our contracts.
To do this, we need to develop and Ultimately, our clients stay with us because we have maintain strong client relationships.
We continue to benefit from outstanding technology and deliver excellent service.
The strong key account coverage, which grows revenue from our top average length of our UK share registration relationships is clients by identifying opportunities to up-sell and cross-sell other around 29 years but we also have a good balance of longer solutions.
relationships and clients who are newer to the Group.
We Beyond our key accounts programme, each of our divisions have enjoy a similar quality of client relationships in the US.
specialist sales teams who work with our clients and potential Travel & Leisure Pharmaceuticals Financial Healthcare Aerospace & Defence Publishing Equiniti clients Energy Telecomms Postal Retail Oil & Gas 1 year or less 42 Saga BG Group RSA Barclays Royal Mail Group Bank of America Rentokil BAE Systems RBS Aston Martin Prudential Aldermore Pearson AA NHS Length of relationship years Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY The Information Commissioners Office ICO is the UKs SUPPLIERS independent body for ensuring that data protection rights are Our suppliers are fundamental to our business success.
It provides codes of practice and guidance for all data all of our relationships and have multi-year contracts with our key protection, privacy and electronic communications, as well as suppliers.
freedom of information and environmental information requests.
To ensure we manage our suppliers effectively, we use the The ICO is responsible for ensuring UK entities comply with the law following approach: via data audits and takes enforcement action against any breaches.
Strategic suppliers: we may develop a joint business strategy The Securities and Exchange Commission SEC is the Federal with the supplier, share innovation and product development, regulator for the US transfer agent industry.
Its focus is on safety jointly optimise total supply chain costs and reduce lifecycle and soundness, ensuring that assets are protected and secure.
The SEC requires certain reporting by transfer agents and performs examinations of regulated entities.
The SEC carries Critical suppliers: we look to reduce and mitigate risk, optimise out a risk analysis of all registrants and examines registrants on a specification and supply chain costs, and may develop the schedule based on that risk assessment.
The New York State Department of Financial Services DFS Operational suppliers: we consolidate spend, reduce oversees the trust company activities of Equiniti Trust Company.
transactions and consumption, and aim to have competing Although Equiniti Trust Company is registered with the DFS as a suppliers to maximise efficiency.
banking-type entity, operations are limited to fiduciary activities.
We expect all of our suppliers to comply with our standards, such The DFS requires reporting by regulated entities and performs as those relating to environmental responsibility, modern slavery, annual examinations of them, focusing on information security, data protection, human rights and ethics.
money laundering, sanctions and controls over the safeguarding of assets.
The DFS uses the work done by the regulated REGULATORS businesss internal audit function to focus its examinations.
The Group operates in regulated markets and looks to maintain We engage in regular interaction with both the SEC and DFS, to positive and open relationships with the relevant regulators.
discuss areas of interest to them and to us, to obtain guidance The Financial Conduct Authority FCA regulates the UK and assistance, and to provide them with our thoughts and financial services industry.
It authorises several Group entities recommendations on what they are doing and looking at.
and oversees their conduct and prudential management, As a trust company with operations in Minnesota and Wisconsin, when providing financial services such as share dealing, safe Equiniti Trust Company is also registered as a foreign out-ofcustody of investment assets, consumer credit information and state trust company with those states.
The states of Minnesota administration, and electronic money and payment services and Wisconsin defer the oversight of foreign trust companies to linked to foreign currency exchange.
The FCA supervises and the home state of those entities, which in our case is New York.
engages with these Group firms through periodic and ad-hoc reporting on conduct and financial resilience, thematic industry SHAREHOLDERS reviews on hot regulatory topics, responses to specific events, The Board is committed to openly engaging with our and desk-based and on-site reviews.
shareholders, as we recognise the importance of effective The Prudential Regulation Authority PRA supervises high dialogue, whether with major institutional investors, private or impact firms in the UK, such as banks, building societies and employee shareholders.
It is important to us that shareholders large insurers.
While the PRA does not directly regulate any understand our strategy, objectives and performance, so we look Group entity, many of our corporate banking and insurance to explain them clearly, listen to feedback and properly consider clients are PRA regulated and we are contractually bound by any issues or questions raised.
them to meet certain governance standards required by PRA We have a comprehensive investor relations programme, with regulated firms, when outsourcing regulated activities.
the executive Directors meeting investors and analysts regularly, Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC is one of 28 supported where appropriate by the Chairman and the Senior supervisors for people and businesses covered by the Money Independent Director.
The programme supports the aims of Laundering Regulations.
Several Group entities are registered the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK Stewardship with HMRC, including our international payments and company Code to promote engagement and interaction between listed service providers.
We provide ad-hoc updates to HMRC, which companies and their major shareholders.
With this in mind, we may also carry out desk-top reviews.
welcome any opportunities for investors and shareholders to engage directly with the Chairman and Senior Independent The Pensions Regulator TPR has a number of statutory Director, in addition to the Chief Executive and CFO.
objectives to protect UK workplace pensions and improve how The Groups Capital Markets Day in September 2018 was a key they are administered, by working with employers, trustees, event in the investor relations calendar.
Through a series of pension specialists and third-party administrators such as presentations and question and answer sessions, it explained the Equiniti.
TPR provides guidance and publishes codes of practice Groups strategy and progress and provided detailed insight into for the industry.
the Intelligent Solutions and EQ US businesses.
43 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Equinitis most significant impact on The policy also outlines our commitments We are increasingly looking to work with society is through the day-to-day services in a range of CSR-related areas, such as charities aligned to our business.
The large majority of our volunteering, charitable giving, charity example, we have worked with mental activities have a direct social benefit, partnerships and supporting young people.
health charity Mind, which is directly whether that is ensuring people receive relevant to the mental health network At Equiniti we believe in the link between their pensions on time or helping clients we have introduced, as described on giving and employee engagement.
In to grow and create jobs through our page 41.
We are also exploring ways enabling colleagues to give back to data analytics.
Our intention over the of working with organisations who charities and the causes that really matter coming years is to investigate ways we can support vulnerable customers.
We have to them, we believe we are creating a measure and report on the social impact developed a vulnerable customer policy better place to work.
When employees are of our work.
and have introduced training and are free to choose the causes they support, exploring other ways of helping vulnerable We also want to ensure that we approach they are much more likely to participate customers in the coming year.
our activities in an ethical and responsible than when the Company restricts way.
As the first step on this journey, donations to one or a small number of HUMAN RIGHTS towards the end of 2018 the Board charities, which is why at Equiniti we do Protecting human rights is important to approved our CSR Policy Statement.
not have a specified corporate charity.
We ensure we protect the This sets out what a socially responsible have an active employer JustGiving page, rights of our people, including those organisation looks like, following the partner annually with the charity ShareGift, with disabilities, by adopting suitable definition in ISO26000.
The policy and all employees are able to enrol employment practices and we also aim to statement commits us to: annually in a My Giving scheme, to make act ethically in all our business dealings.
tax efficient donations to charity.
During 2018, we developed and approved All Equiniti colleagues may use two days Behave ethically and responsibly our first formal human rights policy per year out of the office, in addition to at all times.
This policy statement is their annual leave entitlement, to support guided by the international human rights Be accountable for our impact on a charity or community project of their principles encompassed by the Universal society, the economy and choice.
In 2018, colleagues have used their Declaration of Human Rights, including the environment.
Volunteer Days to get involved in a wide those contained within the International variety of activities, helping out at charity Be transparent in our decisions and Bill of Rights and the International Labour shops, creating Christmas grottos, beach activities which impact on society and Organisations 1998 Declaration on cleaning, gardening for local hospices the environment.
Fundamental Principles and Rights at and day centres, and running a Christmas Work.
We will record and report internally Respect, consider and respond to the market stall for Brain Tumour Research.
all legitimate adverse human rights interests of our stakeholders.
A huge effort saw colleagues preparing impacts, in line with this policy statement.
and distributing 1,065 Christmas food and Make a positive impact on colleagues, toy packages to disadvantaged families the community and the environment.
nominated by social support centres for the Salvation Army.
44 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY SOME OF THE CHARITIES OUR EMPLOYEES SUPPORT MODERN SLAVERY Equiniti operates a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and is committed to acting ethically and with integrity in all its business activities and relationships.
Equiniti is also committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not taking place anywhere in our own business and exercising robust due diligence of all its partner organisations and suppliers.
Full details of our policy can be found on www.
JUSTGIVING ETHICAL BUSINESS TOTAL RAISED SO FAR Equiniti has formal anti-bribery and corruption policies, supported by a whistleblowing process and, where necessary, proportionate and independent investigation and follow up of c. 109k any matters reported.
The Audit Committee, in conjunction with the Risk Committee, is responsible for approving our systems and controls for preventing bribery and corruption, and for receiving any reports on non-compliance.
During 2018, no material instances of noncompliance were reported.
45 ENVIRONMENT Policy We take our environmental responsibilities seriously and positively manage our energy consumption.
During 2018, we developed and approved our first formal environmental policy statement.
We recognise our responsibility for the environment and will ensure compliance with all relevant current and future legislation.
We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of our operations.
We believe that having responsibility for the environment is an integral part of doing business in the right way.
We intend to develop processes and controls to ensure that the policy statement is complied with in full.
Performance While revenue in the year increased by 31% and number of employees increased by 15%, the tonnes of CO per m revenue 2 reduced by 16% and the tonnes of CO per employee reduced 2 by 4%.
Transport Vehicle business travel is based on the use of a medium sized car of average value, from the financial records each year ending 31 December.
As we expanded the Group with our acquisition of EQ US overall business travel by car has increased by 3% in 2018.
Air travel is based on data from financial records each year ending 31 December.
Air travel doubled in 2018 from 2017 and miles travelled were up by 66% to 5,707k miles.
reflecting the increased number of flights in connection with the integration of our US business.
Facilities Buildings emissions are based on data for the years ended 31 March 2017 18.
Overall the emissions from our building usage have shown a 4% reduction year on year.
Electricity emissions are down by 17% from 4,408 tonnes in 2017 to 3,665 tonnes in 2018.
Gas emissions have decreased by 19%, from 603 tonnes in 2017 to 487 tonnes in 2018.
The table below shows our greenhouse gas emissions.
We continue to look for ways to enhance our environmental performance.
For example, we switched to a green energy supplier in the UK in October 2018.
This means that, wherever GHG EMISSION TONNES OF CO 2 contractually possible, we are purchasing electricity generated VEHICLES from fully renewable sources such as wind power and solar.
It also BUSINESS AIR RAIL means that our gas comes from green biomethane.
TRAVEL TRAVEL TRAVEL BUILDINGS TOTAL We also look for opportunities to reduce energy consumption 2018 372 1,478 158 4,813 6,821 across the estate whilst providing colleagues with the equivalent or better service level.
Recent changes include modification to 2017 362 683 143 5,011 6,199 air handling systems and transitioning to LED lighting to reduce energy consumption.
CHANGE % 3 116 10 4 10 FTSE4GOOD Equiniti is a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series, which CARBON INTENSITY measures the performance of companies demonstrating strong TONNES environmental, social and governance practices.
The indices TONNES OF CO 2 REVENUE M OF CO PER EMPLOYEES 2 PER M REVENUE are used by many market participants to create and assess EMPLOYEE responsible investment funds.
46 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Every permanent Equiniti employee based in the UK is entitled to take two volunteer days out of the office each year, to support their chosen charity or community project NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING INFORMATION STATEMENT The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to disclose certain nonfinancial reporting information within the Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, the disclosures required in the Companys non-financial information statement can be found on the following pages in the strategic report or are incorporated into the strategic report by reference for these purposes from the pages noted : Information on our Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy page 45 Information on diversity page 40 Information on our employees page 38 Information on environmental matters page 46 Information on our approach to human rights page 44 Information on social matters page 44 Information on our Whistleblowing Policy page 45 Information on business model page 8 Information on principal risks page 48 Information on Key Performance Indicators page 16 47
