Strategic Report Employee Survey The Group Management Committee regularly reviews progress against these Our The results of our 2018 employee survey objectives and monitors performance were delivered in December and show a through monthly updates.
All incidents six point increase in employee engagement resulting in Lost Time are formally People from 69% in 2017 to 75% in 2018, a result investigated and findings are shared that brings us in line with the global and throughout the business.
Participation levels were at market-leading Our aim is to be in the top quartile of Nothing Essentra achieved in 2018 levels: 91% overall up from 89% in 2017, manufacturing companies for Incident would have been possible without a despite the number of eligible participants Frequency Rates.
We are therefore pleased team of engaged, passionate and increasing from last year.
to report that the number of incidents dedicated people in offices, factories resulting in Lost Time has reduced by 46% and distribution centres in every In terms of insights, the survey has told us from 68 in 2017 to 37 in 2018 and the total region of the world.
that Essentra employees feel safer, more number of days lost due to incidents has respected and fulfilled by their work.
They reduced by 53% over the same period.
Our employees are vital in ensuring we are also seeing Essentra demonstrate a provide quality products and services to commitment to safety, quality, customer our customers and operate our business service and responsible business practices.
Indeed, However, perceptions around recognition, their talent and commitment drive the growth opportunities and communication innovation that allows Essentra to provide between departments could all be added value to our customers, enhance improved.
We are committed to responding supply chain logistics and reduce the to the findings and to taking action to environmental impact of operations.
tackle the issues raised through local focus groups and established action plans.
2018 was a year of significant change at Essentra: we have had to make tough Health and Safety decisions as we stabilised the business and we do not underestimate the impact that Our overriding commitment in the some of those decisions have had on workplace continues to be the health, elements of our workforce.
However, safety and welfare of our employees and 2018 has also brought significant change all those who visit Essentras operations, for the better.
We have placed our people as well as those who carry out work on at the heart of our strategic change our behalf.
The Board provides direction journey, making their safety a nonand leadership on all health and safety negotiable priority at all our sites and matters and the Chief Executive has working hard to improve communication primary responsibility for setting the and engagement.
Our ambition is for principal health and safety objectives 75% Essentra to be a great place to work and for divisional managers to achieve and Employee Engagement this is the reason we created the Six maintain the highest possible standards as measured in Q4, 2018 Principles which were developed and rolled of safety.
These objectives are cascaded 2017: 69% out during 2017.
With a renewed focus on throughout the organisation and apply to our people, we are listening to feedback As measured via a survey administered all Essentras managers and employees.
This overall score reflects 91% of employees responding to the survey.
22 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Gender split all employees 46% Reduction in Lost-Time Incidents 2018 compared with 2017 Male: 68% Female: 32% During 2018, we initiated a number of Gender split senior health and safety improvement projects, management Levels 6-8 including committing to a comprehensive programme to upgrade our machinery guarding to the latest standards with a rolling programme of investment over the next four years.
We continued to significantly invest in our global health and safety capability, further embedding a Global Safety Team governance structure and extending Visible Felt Leadership training to 200 managers across Europe and Asia.
We refreshed the look and feel of health and safety communications in 2018 which has led to more impactful Male: 87% and globally consistent communications.
Female: 13% During the year, we also completed Source: Employee Survey Q4, 2018 a Group-wide Assurance Programme to ensure that the foundations were in place to sustainably manage and improve occupational health and safety.
This initiative mandated that every work-task has a written risk assessment and a It is our intention to further develop this documented standard work procedure.
system to allow sites to self-assess the maturity of their local health and safety In 2018 we procured and implemented a arrangements and management systems, new HSE information management system with these self-assessments forming the that provides all employees with a basis for a divisional audit programme standardised incident and near-miss in the second half of 2019. reporting tool.
This will allow findings and lessons to be evaluated and shared across We manage occupational health by the entire business and for appropriate identifying key risk activities, undertaking corrective actions to be implemented health assessments and, where across all regions.
This tool also allows appropriate, implementing health inspections, audits and behavioural safety surveillance programmes.
We continue observations to be performed using a to support the adoption of accredited handheld app, with data able to be Occupational Health and Safety analysed and shared worldwide.
As at Management Systems such as the January 2019, these modules are now OHSAS 18001 standard by our available throughout the business and manufacturing sites and, at the end of during the first half of 2019 we will begin 2018, 30 of our principal manufacturing training users in the use of this new tool.
OUR PEOPLE ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 23 Strategic Report Our People continued We are proud to partner with Essentra on its Diversity and Inclusion agenda.
We are inspired by its energy and commitment to create a culture where all employees feel safe, respected, valued and able to thrive.
Karen Gill MBE and Maxine Benson MBE, co-founders, everywoman Development Programmes Essentra Apprenticeship Make It Work Awards Programmes UK In order to deliver our strategic objectives In October Essentras first global annual All programmes are three years in length we need to be able to attract, retain and recognition programme was launched and are supported by both national and motivate employees with the necessary reflecting our Six Principles and celebrating local training providers.
The programmes skills and talent across the Company.
the people who have gone above and allow apprentices to undertake a real job Essentra runs a number of very successful beyond to deliver what Essentra does best: while being taught the technical skills training initiatives which continue to expand make it work.
More than 130 nominations required to progress with their programme their international reach.
These programmes were submitted from all divisions and many and early careers at Essentra.
There are allow us to continually improve our talent functions across the organisation.
Winners currently 10 apprentices all male enrolled pool at all levels of the organisation.
were announced in January 2019 and have on Print, Engineering and Toolmaking been invited to accept their awards at a Apprenticeships.
Essentra Graduate Programme Gala Dinner held in their honour at the The programme is a structured two-year Leadership Conference in Barcelona, Internal Communications course delivered while the Graduates Spain in Spring 2019. undertake a real job from day one.
The During the year we also made significant Graduates are given the opportunity to progress in terms of improving our internal Diversity and Inclusion learn the business and be developed and communications to employees.
We have The Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group attend training sessions in Management, refined how we describe who we are, what was established in January 2018 with Project Management, Finance, Sales, we stand for, and what that looks and broad-based membership in terms of Negotiation, Operations Management, sounds like for employees, creating a more tenure, level, gender, age, nationality Presentation Skills, Leadership and engaging and vibrant internal brand and background.
Its purpose is to build an Marketing.
They will be given a businessaround the concept of We Make It Work.
inclusive culture in Essentra where diversity focused project to complete and they We have also launched Essentras first is embraced by everyone, ensuring we get present their findings to senior leaders of global intranet, The Works, and the full business benefit while making the business.
In 2018 24 Graduates joined introduced regular, globally consistent, Essentra a rewarding and successful the scheme 10 male 14 female originating town hall content across all our sites.
place to work for our colleagues.
from Europe 19, the Americas 2 and Asia 3.
They join the 23 graduates already on the scheme having joined in 2017 13 male 10 female.
In 2018 16 Graduates completed the programme.
24 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT close it.
Going forward the Diversity and Right to Speak The Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group Inclusion Steering Group will own the has developed a strategy which harnesses Our Right to Speak policy and process activity to assess and close our gender pay and celebrates diversity for everyone, is in place to enable any employee to gap, not just in the UK but across all our across all the areas of difference, whether report circumstances where they businesses globally.
that be gender, age, race, cultural heritage, genuinely and reasonably believe religion, sexual orientation or dis ability.
that the standards of the Ethics Code, Business in the Community As part of the strategy, we are beginning to or the Companys wider policies and In July Essentra joined Business in the take action and introduce some practical guidance notes, are not being upheld.
Community BITC as a Champion Partner steps to ensure we are tackling the barriers We are committed to ensuring that for Race.
BITC is a UK-based responsible some of our employees face in recruitment employees feel able to raise any such business network which helps organisations and progression.
These include reviews of concerns in good faith, without fear of learn how to be more responsible.
This our enabling Group-wide employee policies victimisation or retaliation and with the includes creating diverse and inclusive and inclusive behaviours training for support of the Company.
Employees workplaces, employee wellbeing, managers.
During the year we also took can access the Ethics Reporting Line sustainability and purposeful leadership.
time to celebrate and mark several global via essentra.
com and report events across our sites, including any concerns on a confidential basis, or As part of that partnership, ten Essentra International Womens Day in March and use the confidential individual helpline UK-based employees will be participating International Mens Day in November.
telephone numbers which are displayed in Cross-Organisational Mentoring Circles at each business location.
everywoman Partnership starting in January 2019.
The Circles aim In November Essentra launched a to support the progression and impact of Human Rights partnership with everywoman, an Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic BAME organisation committed to changing employees and address their current We operate in 33 countries, and we the landscape for women in business.
comply fully with all appropriate All Essentra employees have access to legislation in these jurisdictions.
everywomans e-learning platform In November Essentra became a signatory Throughout our international operations delivered online and via an app, giving of the Race at Work Charter developed we support human rights as set down access to a variety of online selfby BITC in partnership with the UK by the United Nations Declaration and its development resources such as workbooks, Government.
It calls on all employers applicable International Labour online seminars, articles and podcasts.
to make a public commitment to Organisation conventions through our Topics are relevant to both men and improving outcomes for BAME employees.
employment policies, our supply chain women and can help with a variety Essentra is proud to be a signatory and the responsible provision of our of challenges, including boosting selfof the Charter, demonstrating our products and services.
This commitment confidence, feeling more empowered as support to equality in the workplace includes a mandatory requirement on a leader and achieving work-life balance.
and commitment to improving outcomes all our sites to avoid the employment for our BAME employees.
of children, as well as a commitment Gender Pay to the prevention of slavery and In line with legislation, Essentra published Approach to disability human trafficking: this is set out in our 2017 gender pay gap information for UK Our guiding principle to provide all Modern Slavery Statement which can entities in April 2018.
Our guiding principle employees with the opportunity to develop be viewed on the Companys website is to provide all employees with an equal and advance includes giving full and fair essentraplc.
Our operations based opportunity to develop and advance consideration to employment applications in India, Indonesia and Thailand are subject to personal performance and by disabled people.
In the event of additionally accredited to SA 8000 business objectives and to remunerate employees becoming disabled, we make which details fundamental principles fairly with respect to skills, performance, every effort to ensure that the training, of human rights.
competitors and local market conditions.
career development and promotion However, we know from the UK data that opportunities available are as far as a gender pay gap does exist and we are possible identical to those of committed to understanding the causes of non-disabled employees.
the gap and the actions we need to take to Our guiding principle is to provide all employees with an equal opportunity to develop and advance subject to personal performance and business objectives.
OUR PEOPLE ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 25
