Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Our business reputation, together with the trust and confidence of the people we do business with, is one of our most valuable assets.
At Essentra we are committed to The Essentra Ethics Code applies to all In 2018 Essentra established a Group conducting business with the our businesses around the world, and to Sustainability Committee which provides appropriate regard for corporate everyone who represents, or acts on behalf advice on and co-ordinates , and to managing our of, the Company and helps them to related activities across the Company.
activities in a way that reflects the understand their role in upholding our During the year the Committee identified expectations of all our stakeholders.
and prioritised corporate responsibility Whether on our own behalf, or through issues which are material to our business Our risk management processes consider our relationships with third parties, we are and to our stakeholders whether specific the potential impact of corporate committed to free and fair competition, to a particular country or location, or responsibility issues on Essentras plus the prohibition of bribery and political applicable globally so that we are well performance: our investment decisions donations, as well as to honest and fair positioned to respond to them in an include due evaluation of the potential dealings with suppliers, customers and appropriate and robust manner.
consequences for our stakeholders and local and national authorities.
In particular, the environment: and our policies promote we seek to confirm that our suppliers fair and ethical dealings as a matter of law protect the welfare of their own workers and conscience.
and employment conditions, to ensure that overall working environments within the Essentra supply chain meet or exceed internationally recognised standards.
Key areas of focus for Essentra People and Communities We operate in a variety of communities across the world.
It is vital Focus areas in that we provide a safe, fair working environment and respect those 2018, momentum communities, no matter where we are.
Because we are so global, the created and more diversity of our workforce brings us a great opportunity.
to do in 2019 Energy and Climate Broader concerns on climate change, plus the concerns of our Change customers and value chains mean that we need to minimise our greenhouse gas emissions as much as possible.
Responsible All of our businesses use and transform materials, including as Focus areas Material Usage packaging for other goods it is important that we develop and use for 2019 onwards these materials and resources as responsibly as possible.
Responsible Supply Chain Because of the global nature of our activities and the businesses and communities that we buy from, we need to ensure that we work with our supply chain as responsibly as possible.
26 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Graduate project People and Communities Zero Waste to Landfill We operate in a variety of communities across the world.
It is vital that we provide During 2018 a team of Essentra Graduates undertook a project to a safe, fair working environment and respect create a decision tool for Essentra to implement a zero waste to landfill those communities, no matter where we are.
The team visited several Packaging sites around the world and researched the zero waste journeys other companies have taken.
We are proud of our international footprint The project identified a number of benefits to gain from sustainable and of being part of the communities in practices including people, environment, legal, financial and competitive which we operate, and it is important to us advantage.
The team presented their findings to the Group Management that we play a key role in local society not Committee in Chicago, USA in October 2018 and were able to highlight least because that is where our employees areas of good practice as well as areas to improve recycling.
As a result of the teams efforts, Essentra has committed In 2018 we created a Community to tracking the number of sites at zero waste to landfill from Engagement Policy which came into effect January 2019.
The work of the team helped to identify six sites in January 2019.
The policy empowers currently producing zero waste to landfill and in 2019 we are employees at each site to volunteer in committed to raising this number to eight.
groups to support local community engagement projects, equivalent to one days work per employee per site per year.
Activities must be based on guidelines governed by the Essentra Ethics Code.
Energy and Climate Change We recognise that business has a role, and an interest, in environmental stewardship.
This is not just a duty we owe to our neighbours, but to future generations.
We know that the way we manage our environmental impacts forms an important Year ended % change Year ended 31 Dec 2017 Year ended Year ended from 2017 element of our reputation and is a measure Tonnes of CO e 31 Dec 2018 restated 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 restated 2 of the quality of Essentras businesses.
Scope 1 11,276 10,929 10,111 10,479 3.18% Our approach to managing environmental Scope 2 82,936 89,086 87,051 95,748 -6.90% impacts is focused on: Total CO e emissions 94,212 100,015 97,162 106,227 -5.80% 2 Total CO e emissions 2 91.86 97.36 94.57 96.23 -5.65% implementing and maintaining per m revenue environmental and energy management systems and, where appropriate, gaining As per the Greenhouse Gas with the Companies Act, for International Energy certification by accredited bodies to the Agency, has been used to Protocol, Scope 1 covers the Mandatory Reporting of ISO 14001 standard.
Globally 35 of our calculate greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion Greenhouse Gases.
sites hold the ISO 14001 environmental emissions for electricity of fossil fuels and Scope 2 consumed: and the accreditation and many of our Boundary scope: Data covers emissions from bought Greenhouse Gas Protocol from all manufacturing electricity, heat, steam operations are additionally required to 2017 has been used to locations over which the or cooling.
calculate emissions from the adhere to more stringent standards, Company has operational combustion of fossil fuels.
control is measured such as those serving the automotive Our Scope 1 emissions Intensity metric: Total and reported.
and health and personal care sectors carbon emissions per m increased slightly year on year, Primary data sources: of revenue are used to whilst our Scope 2 emissions These include meter measuring and monitoring energy and calculate the Companys reduced.
We believe that this readings, invoices and intensity metric.
water consumption, and any associated other systems provided reflects the fact that 2018 Restating of data: The by the supplier of the emissions to air and water, and setting globally was slightly cooler than introduction of a new HSE energy to communicate 2017, resulting in marginally targets to improve performance information system to energy consumption.
more energy required for collate energy and Secondary data sources: providing facilities to segregate and heating and less electricity electricity consumption These include the needed for cooling during the data has resulted in some reuse or recycle production waste Companys internal changes in classifications year.
Due to the energy mix in systems used to record providing training to employees on ways of fuel types, as well as our business, this resulted in a and report the above highlighting regional consumption data.
to reduce their environmental impact positive overall change in our differences in measurement total emissions, with a 5.80% Internal data validation: which were considered engaging with customers and suppliers The process used to review reduction.
Our emissions per sufficiently material to to identify opportunities to reduce the and compare primary data m have decreased by 5.65%.
warrant restating the 2017 with secondary data.
All environmental footprint of our products data in order to allow a invoices and data loggers like-for-like comparison.
The following assumptions, throughout the supply chain are cross-checked with the This revealed that the methodology, definitions and data held within the absolute figures for Scope conducting environmental impact data validation processes have Companys own internal 1 and 2 emissions were not been used to report the data capture systems.
assessments on any prospective materially changed by the Groups key environmental Conversion factors: The acquisitions, site closures acquisitions and where relevant, Electricity Emissions Factors performance indicators in 2018. and divestments that developing site improvement plans by Country 2017 edition, The reported data complies occurred during the year.
published by the CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 27 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Year ended % change In the UK, our sites comply with the Carbon Year ended 31 Dec 2017 Year ended Year ended from 2017 Reduction Commitment scheme and we Waste 31 Dec 2018 restated 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 restated apply the same principles to our operations General waste sent worldwide.
All our UK sites that directly 6,502 7,764 5,928 6,530 -16.25% to landfill tonnes purchase electricity do so from renewable Factory waste sent sources and our sites in Newport, 20,877 21,386 19,753 23,020 -2.38% to recycling tonnes Newmarket, Bradford and Cervia have 1,844 1,760 Incinerated waste tonnes 1,590 1,704 4.77% implemented LED lighting projects in order to reduce energy use.
The following core measures of our environmental impacts are measured and In the UK, our sites comply with the monitored across the Group: Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme energy use, including electricity, natural gas, heating fuel, fuel for and we apply the same principles to our internal transport operations worldwide.
CO emissions arising from that 2 energy use use of resources, including water generation and disposal of waste Ethics and compliance The Essentra Ethics Code is our framework to assist in making ethical decisions, and is supported by further policies and guidance Consistent with our commitment to from unmitigated risk, with a clear and notes.
These governance materials are operating with integrity and to dealing legitimate business reason for every approved by the Board and distributed fairly with all our stakeholders at all times, third-party relationship.
The expectations globally in all relevant languages, and are Essentra adopts a zero tolerance approach and guidance detailed in this policy are intended to promote the positive, diverse to bribery and corruption through our supplementary to our existing know your culture and safe and respectful working Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption ABC customer, procurement or other thirdenvironment which is espoused by our Six policies.
This extends to all business party engagement processes which we Principles.
None of these documents can dealings and transactions in which have in place, including financial controls address every issue that an Essentra the Company is involved, and includes and quality management requirements.
employee may face in the performance prohibiting political donations, offering or of their duties.
However, together with receiving inappropriate gifts and making Our Right to Speak policy and process is common sense, logic and good faith facilitation payments: we also expect the in place to enable any employee to report behaviour, our Ethics Code provides same standards to apply to any third any circumstances where they genuinely a structure to guide each of us in parties providing services on our behalf.
and reasonably believe that the standards determining the correct course of action.
All employees are required to read our of the Essentra Ethics Code, or the While Essentras Legal, Risk and policies relating to Conflicts of Interest Companys wider policies and guidance Governance department is accountable for and Gifts and Entertainments, which are notes, are not being upheld.
We are promoting, monitoring and enforcing our reviewed on an annual basis and where committed to ensuring that employees feel Ethics Code, responsibility for following the their compliance is recorded either digitally able to raise any such concerns in good Ethics Code and for upholding Essentras or manually.
faith, without fear of victimisation or overall integrity and reputation both retaliation and with the support of the globally and locally rests with each Given the number of jurisdictions in which Company.
Employees can access the Ethics employee individually.
we do business, Essentra has adopted a Reporting Line via essentra.
com Third Party Due Diligence policy.
The to report any concerns on a confidential objective of this policy is to ensure that basis, or use the confidential individual appropriate risk-based reviews are helpline telephone numbers which are undertaken and the Company is protected displayed at each business location.
28 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT How will we improve further Priorities goals How do we manage it?
Ensure that Essentra Undertake employee surveys on a Refreshed our internal brand around Undertake annual employee fulfils its commitment to regular basis the concept of We Make It Work engagement surveys and act being a great upon feedback Ensure robust follow-up procedures Launched first global employee place to work to engagement survey findings intranet Establish new internal communications channels such Carry out regular site-level visits Introduced regular, globally consistent as digital screens on sites by the Chief Executive and senior town hall content across all sites divisional management Continue to focus on regular employee Launched first global annual dialogue with the Chief Executive and Regularly communicate with recognition programme Make It divisional management employees in an appropriate Work Awards local language Evaluate findings from Diversity Continued involvement of Chief and Inclusion Steering Group and act Provide appropriate learning and Executive and senior management upon as appropriate development opportunities at in employee communications all levels Continue to expand geographic reach Carried out a global employee of Leadership Development Centres Encourage constructive, open engagement survey and Graduate Development and honest dialogue across Established site-level forum groups Programme the organisation and clear action plans to follow Further develop apprenticeship through engagement survey findings initiatives Established Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group Achieve the highest Regularly review the Groups Health 46% reduction in Lost Time Incidents Maintain the focus on health and standards of health and Safety strategy safety improvement strategies 53% reduction in days lost due to and safety Establish a Global Safety Team that incidents Continue to embed robust meets regularly to set the minimum management systems, standards Over 200 senior leaders attended expectations for the management and processes two-day safety leadership workshops of health and safety in all divisions Develop and embed Group-wide Continued to support the adoption of Assess the risks our processes pose to minimum standards to control health OHSAS 18001 standard with 30 of our the health and safety of our people and safety risks manufacturing sites accredited Encourage employee participation Broaden training to capture in hazard spotting, incident reporting front-line management and identifying and driving health Increase employee engagement and safety improvement initiatives through participation in safety-related Identify areas to improve health improvement activities, employee and safety performance, and share consultation forums, communication lessons and opportunities throughout programmes and training the Group Continue to share examples of good Provide Safety Leadership training practice, lessons identified from past for all senior executives incidents and near misses, and recognition of outstanding Pursue accreditation of our safety performance management systems Minimise any adverse Regular review of the Groups CO emissions down by 5.8% Focus on targeted energy-saving 2 environmental impacts environmental strategy actions to reduce energy usage Waste to landfill down by 16.25% from our manufacturing Establish a Sustainability Committee Initiate new campaign to improve Maintained programme of operations to set Group minimum expectations waste management ISO certification at key for environmental management manufacturing sites Maintain robust management Identify and understand the systems, standards and processes environmental impacts associated Pursue appropriate ISO certification with our activities for selected manufacturing facilities Measure and report on current energy Develop and embed Group-wide consumption, and set targets for minimum standards for the efficiency improvements identification and control of risks Implement initiatives to reduce waste and environmental impacts and increase recycling rates in order to divert waste from landfill Ensure the highest Embed and embody Essentras Continued to communicate Essentras Respond to new risks and standards of business six principles six principles, which describe the way requirements integrity and conduct we work Establish clear policies and guidance Provide further training Continued communication of core Secure employee awareness Drive employee responsibility and policies through e-learning and and engagement cultural change reviews in Essentra Group System Continue to promote the Right to Continue to investigate complaints Continued to promote compliance Speak policy systems Regular review of adherence with policies and guidance by Group Assurance CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29
