Strategic Report Corporate and social responsibility Last year, we said we had more to do in the area of corporate .
Our staff have helped us make significant progress in a range of areas, but there remains much to do Staff survey This year we conducted a global staff survey for the first time.
Empowering and The feedback was clear: our people want to feel more valued.
Let me give you two examples.
Pay is towards the top of the inspiring women list.
As a result, we will benchmark more against the market.
Flexible working is also important to our staff.
Therefore, we have introduced a global flexible working framework and are training Case study: Women@Euromoney all our managers on how to accommodate flexible working within Women@Euromoney launched in November 2017 and we their teams.
We will assess our progress in these and other areas have run at least one event or workshop every month since.
raised by our staff by conducting regular surveys.
I chose to get involved because I loved the idea of having Investing in talent a creative outlet for an already deep-seated passion for At Euromoney we have always given people responsibility early diversity and gender equality.
This year we have focused on training managers and our future leaders.
Over the year, more than 200 colleagues We now have a membership of almost 400 people from have attended courses run in London, Hong Kong, Montreal, many different functions and regions across the Group.
and New York, learning the core skills needed to be a successful Our purpose is to empower and inspire women to go further manager and leader at Euromoney.
We have also introduced an in their careers: drive constructive dialogue on gender issues: early career Academy for staff in the first five years of their career to build a stronger community across Euromoney businesses learn about key business and career-development themes.
and functions: and make Euromoney a better place to work for everyone.
Making Euromoney a great place to work Over the last year, we have run a wide range of successful We have set our colleagues across the world a challenge to events for both female and male staff across the Group.
help us make Euromoney a great place to work.
They have These have included the How to be a better boss with responded enthusiastically.
Radical Candor presentation by the best-selling author, Our Women@Euromoney group hosts monthly meetings and CEO advisor and ex-Googler Kim Scott: various workshops workshops, often with guest speakers, to empower and inspire on mortgages, Euromoneys gender pay report and personal women to go further in their careers.
branding: and an inspiring talk from the acclaimed tech entrepreneur and philanthropist Dame Stephanie Shirley.
Our Well-being Forum focuses on the important issue of well-being in the workplace, with a particular emphasis on mental health.
The initiative has succeeded because we listen to the insights The London group recently hosted a mental health workshop and feedback provided by our members when organising with a speaker from the Samaritans.
We want to support our staff events and the strong can-do attitude that fuels the Women@ whatever the health issues they face.
We love working together and seeing the impact that we have made so far and this is just Passionate environmentalists run our environment@Euromoney the beginning!
Early initiatives include bee hotels and bee-friendly plants on the roof of our London office.
The group members have Our plans for 2019 include a big event for International also used their volunteer days to clear litter from Womens Day, a Wheres the Line?
campaign to address the riverbanks and beaches, with more projects grey areas of inappropriate behaviour and more workshops planned for the coming year.
on issues such as pensions and investing.
Women@Euromoney is already making an impact and we have lots of initiatives planned for 2019.
Izzy Griffin-Smith Co-network Chair, Women@Euromoney 22 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Our LGBT&A and Race, Faith & Inclusion groups are also working Environment hard to enable our colleagues to reflect their full personality and Last year, we said we would ask our staff for their ideas around backgrounds at work, which we believe leads to greater staff the environment.
The result was the creation of our environment@ engagement and better performance.
In the UK, the Group has spent time understanding how we procure our utilities and recycle our waste For Euromoney these are welcome developments and we are lucky our London business now uses a zero emissions green electricity to have an engaged workforce keen to participate for the benefit tariff, recycled printing paper and we work with First Mile recycling of all.
to dispose of the offices waste.
In January, we won the Gold Award at the City of London Clean City Awards Scheme for our approach to recycling.
The environment group is now thinking about how to reduce the Companys total carbon footprint.
We continue to do the easy things like switching the lights off at night and including shower facilities for staff who cycle or run to work, as well as participating Gender diversity in the UK Bike2Work scheme.
Our Board is now more diverse than ever.
This year, Imogen Joss, Lorna Tilbian, Jan Babiak and Wendy Pallot joined.
We are We aim to roll out the environment group beyond London.
delighted to have attracted such talented executives to join the Company.
Social investment Our staff drive our charity fundraising which comes from both We still have more to do to make sure we are recruiting and individual fundraising efforts and the Groups charitable budget.
promoting more women to senior positions.
The charts below summarise our gender split at Board, Group Management Board, In New York, our colleagues have volunteered at The Bowery senior management and Company level.
Mission, a rescue mission which supports homeless New Yorkers.
The US team has also assembled backpacks for The Childrens Our Code of Conduct states that recruitment, promotion and Village, which assists vulnerable children across the world, and remuneration decisions must be made on merit, irrespective of, for participated in City Harvests Skip Lunch Fight Hunger fundraising example, gender, sexual orientation, disability, race or age.
In Asia, employees from our Hong Kong office used their volunteer days to help Hong Kong Cleanup, collecting rubbish Our gender pay gap analysis available on our website shows from Big Wave Bay Beach following a typhoon.
The environment@ that although men and women are paid equally for doing Euromoney team in London used their volunteer days helping equivalent jobs across the business in the UK, the average pay on a wood clearance project.
In addition, our Capacity Media for women is substantially lower than the average pay for men.
team organised a charity run at ITW supporting Telecoms Sans This gap is driven by the under-representation of women in Frontieres.
Overall, through a combination of Group donations more senior roles.
We are taking steps to reduce the imbalance, and staff fundraising, approximately 0.3m has been raised for including, for example, making sure shortlists for senior roles charitable causes, including significant donations or pledges include talented female candidates.
to Haller, Afghan Connection, Haven House, AbleChildAfrica and Orbis.
Staff forum We will shortly introduce an elected employee forum to allow us 2019 to consult staff on issues such as working conditions, employee We said last year, and it continues to be largely true, that relations, pay and staff engagement.
Euromoney is well known as a place where entrepreneurs do well.
We also said that in the past this might have meant we have Volunteer days overlooked people with different skills and motivations as well as This year we introduced two paid volunteering days each some of the benefits of being a large group.
Our aim is to create year, making it easier for staff to participate in the causes they an environment where we have the best of both these models.
We are proud of how our staff are now taking the lead to ensure that Euromoney really can be a place where staff experience, and Gender diversity charts benefit from, our best-of-both-worlds operating model.
Board Group Management Board This will enable us to attract and retain the right talent, which in turn has benefits for our other stakeholders our customers, our Male Male shareholders and the communities in which we operate.
Female Female 4 4 10 11 7 6 If we can attract and retain the right talent, this will benefit our Senior managers Total employees customers, shareholders and the Male Male 25 communities in which we operate.
Female Female 755 82 1,655 900 Andrew Rashbass 57 Chief Executive Officer Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23
