Annual report & accounts 2018 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery The Group seeks to ensure that compliance As the Groups business processes are stable OUR APPROACH managers are present at every major asset and are and consistent year to year, compliance managers EVRAZ has always striven for responsible for handling anti-corruption and antitypically examine the same following processes consistency in its strict compliance bribery matters.
They investigate possible nonfor signs of risk: with the Law of the Russian Federation compliance with policies: monitor charity payments Purchase of goods or services No.
273 On Preventing Corruption, and hospitality spending: and act on whistle-blower Payments the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign allegations of possible bribery, corruption, fraud Sale of goods, works and services Corrupt Practices Act and other and malfeasance.
They then present their findings Business gifts, hospitality, entertainment relevant local legal equivalents.
and recommendations to local managing directors, and travel expenses Battling bribery and unethical the Groups compliance manager and specialists Charity and sponsorship practices are core aspects of its antireporting to the senior vice president for business Interaction with government authorities corruption efforts.
The latter review investigation results Hiring and transferring staff to liaise with senior management as necessary.
Vetting contractors or customers The Group has a developed system The Groups compliance manager routinely informs Contract approval of well-documented and adhered to the Audit Committee about the status of ongoing Group property management procedures which define compliance anti-corruption efforts and prepares memos managers routine.
Today, compliance at the committees request.
When doing so, managers apply the methodology specialists scrutinise all tender developed jointly by the compliance, internal procedures, check potential and Employees have access to a brief summary audit, legal, and business support functions existing business partners, vet of relevant anti-corruption policies as well specifically for this purpose.
According prospective new candidates and as links to the full texts of top-level documents to the methodology, random events current ensure that the principles set forth on the corporate intranet.
Where necessary, and past are evaluated for signs of predefined in the Anti-corruption Policy, Code of the compliance managers discuss the essence risks.
Such events can include tenders, contract Conduct and other relevant policies of the adopted rules and procedures with all approvals, specific purchases, inventory checks, are followed conscientiously and fully.
The compliance managers meet with responsible Risk analysis managers of each asset to inform them of the revealed risks and discuss threats Policies and regulations At the end of each calendar year, compliance to recommend further actions.
The compliance managers perform a comprehensive analysis managers then monitor any corrective measures All EVRAZ subsidiaries comply with the Code of potential anti-corruption risks across all assets.
that are undertaken to mitigate the discussed of Conduct and Anti-corruption Policy, the topFor this purpose, they consider every business risks.
level documents that define the norms of ethical process and redefine key risk areas if necessary.
and responsible behaviour for employees Each area is then evaluated to see if existing At the beginning of the following year, the Groups in all circumstances.
These and other relevant controls and procedures effectively mitigate compliance manager presents a consolidated policies are available on the corporate intranet the associated risks.
EVRAZ has a declared policy analysis to the Audit Committee.
and employees bear personal responsibility for full of zerotolerance for bribery and corruption.
Employees are consistently Group uses every means to investigate carefully In early February 2018, the compliance officer encouraged to seek guidance from compliance and discretely all signals suggesting potential presented to the Audit Committee the analysis managers whenever they have questions violations of applicable law and key internal antifor 2017, which revealed no significant about the expected course of action in difficult corruption policies.
violations of anti-corruption statutes or cases situations or when they want to voice concerns of noncompliance with Group policies.
Key Group policies to regulate anti-corruption and anti-money laundering efforts CODE OF CONDUCT HOTLINE POLICY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY RULES ON SECURITIES DEALINGS WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURES Anti-corruption Sponsorship Gifts and business Candidates' Conflict of interest Contractors training policy and charity policy entertainment background and policy suppliers due policy criminal record diligence check check For more information, see Short summary of relevant anti-corruption policies on page 264.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information Examples of anti-corruption risks tested in the Groups business processes In the process sale of goods, works Other corruption risk indicators here include Similarly, compliance managers further examine and services, compliance managers defined unexplained unjustified bonuses to the buyer every major process for signs of corruption risks, risk indicators to look and then test for: based on the amount of purchased products, unethical practices or bribery.
So, in another Goods are sold at prices and on terms that lack of primary and shipping documentation, example, they consider charity and sponsorship are significantly different from the market and granting a delay in payment that payments to make sure: average: violates the current internal requirements.
There were no violations of the approval Goods, works and services are sought to be So, random transactions recent or past procedure for charity and sponsorship sold via middlemen and agents when direct are singled out and carefully considered projects: contracts are possible: for signs of said risks.
Should compliance All the required and correct documents were There are discounts or mismatched managers reveal systemic or significant violations properly supplied for consideration to decide conditions set in supply contracts that of anti-corruption procedures, this is drawn if the charity or sponsorship payment can be contradict the Groups trade policy to the attention of the Groups compliance manager made: requirements.
and the top management, locally or at the Group Potential recipients of charity or sponsor level.
Compliance managers then ensure that risks support are allowable in accordance are properly addressed and mitigated.
to 11,000 licenses to employees whose functions Anti-corruption risk management cycle and areas of responsibility warrant such training.
The programme will continue in 2019.
Gradually, Determine or update list of risks Inform senior vice president for business support those previously trained will receive invitations for all business processes and interregional relations to refresh their active knowledge of anti-corruption Input from legal, internal audit principles and best practices.
Oct Mar-Oct and security departments This course by Thomson Reuters defines bribery Prepare comprehensive Monitor how risks are being and corruption and examines the implementation list of risks mitigated of anti-bribery legislation in Russia.
The training also covers a business-wide system of controls Oct-Nov Mar-Oct aimed at managing and reducing bribery risks.
Risk owners COMPLIANCE Discuss results with risk TEAM The key learning objectives are to: Check events for signs of risk owners and top managers Confirm the Groups position and full compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws Nov-Dec Feb Input from internal audit Top managers Explain the Groups systems and controls to manage the risk of bribery and corruption Compliance officer presents reports Help identify the damaging effects of bribery Analyse and draft risk reports to t he Audit Committee and corruption Dec-Jan Feb Highlight red flags, eg warnings about possible illegal payments or other corrupt activities Key developments in 2018 The Group has additional compliance control The course aims to provide guidance regarding measures in place for payments to non-resident how to apply anti-bribery laws to relevant business The compliance function of EVRAZ did not initiate companies specifically offshore entities, which scenarios.
any investigations of its own into signs of bribery have proven their effectiveness.
Meanwhile several signals about potential For additional information, see EVRAZ first collusions between company employees Following a request from the Board, Sustainability Report for 2018, which is to be published in May 2019. and vendors came to hotline and were carefully the management together with Linklaters have investigated.
Certain suspicions about potential developed in-person training for the management fraudulent schemes between some unscrupulous team to ensure compliance with the EU Market managers and suppliers providers also led Abuse Regulation.
The training was delivered Outlook for 2019 to investigations initiated by Direction of control on 25 May 2018 in EVRAZ Moscow office over business procedures.
In the past year there for a team of 30 managers.
It was based In 2019, the Groups compliance managers will were over twenty such investigations five of which on the topics covered in the EVRAZ Compliance revisit the methodology applied in risk assessment revealed fraudulent intent.
The involved employees Manual and was followed by a test.
Going forward, to analyse its effect year-to-year and will update were terminated and necessary measures the management will discuss refresher training it together with internal audit and legal specialists.
to improve controls were taken.
The set of anti-corruption policies will be updated to reflect certain changes that have taken place The rather low number of such confirmed In addition, about 2,500 more managers within the compliance system since its launch.
violations results from the Groups ongoing in the whole of EVRAZ Group have completed Finally, there are plans to design in-house Grouppreventive efforts, the clear tone from the top online anti-corruption training developed specific training modules to complement the antiand employees adherence to the anti-corruption by Thomson Reuters.
Overall, compliance corruption course provided by Thomson Reuters requirements set forth in its policies.
managers have so far assigned close that is currently in use.
