Annual report & accounts 2018 Short summary of relevant anti-corruption policies Code of Conduct and environmental protection.
All petitions Candidate background are carefully considered in terms of legitimacy and criminal record checks The Code of Conduct is the key document and transparency of purpose, the amount that all employees are requested to adhere sought, and the reputation of the petitioner.
EVRAZ consistently performs thorough to and act in full accordance with.
Every new The decisions are then taken by the Group CEO.
background and criminal record checks on all employee is trained on the Code of Conduct When support is granted, sponsorship being its potential employees.
Among other requirements on their first day of work.
The document preferred form, such instances are followed up and norms, the policy specifies that all necessary is available on the corporate intranet by experts under the vice president for corporate effort is invested only after the candidate gives and stresses the ultimate importance communications and by compliance managers.
written permission to work with his her personal of ethical behaviour in all circumstances.
This ensures full accountability and strict data.
The company is committed to protecting Anti-corruption training and the tone set adherence of those supported to EVRAZ policy each individuals privacy and works in full from the top of the organisation emphasise requirements.
compliance with relevant laws on personal data.
the role of the Code of Conduct in the Groups daily life.
Gift and business Conflict of interest policy entertainment policy Anti-corruption policy A conflict of interest is a set of circumstances EVRAZ believes that business gifts in which employees have financial or other EVRAZ Anti-corruption Policy establishes and hospitality are accepted ways personal considerations that may compromise and explains key principles that all assets to demonstrate and further develop good or influence their professional judgment have adopted to prevent corruption.
At the same time, adequate or integrity in carrying out their work is easily accessible on the corporate intranet and consistent control over such expenses responsibilities.
The policy specifies how for employees, interested parties and partners, is highly important and is one of the key to identify, consider, and duly take care who are all expected to be compliant areas for anti-corruption compliance to watch.
of situations with signs of such conflicts.
with relevant anti-corruption legislation The policy defines rules and strict approval HR together with compliance managers and the principles upheld by EVRAZ.
procedures to be followed when extending routinely check whether there are conflicts or receiving gifts and hospitality.
In particular, of interests in the Group, whereas employees all amounts above US$100 for a personal gift and particularly their managers are expected Anti-corruption training received or given and US$500 for hospitality to provide information about any potentially received or extended to a person must be risky situations.
Special commissions consider policy approved by the responsible compliance cases that are reported and found to come up Consistent anti-corruption education efforts manager.
Corresponding amounts with the best possible solution to each individual are an integral element of a well-thoughtin U. S. and Canada are US$50 and US$250 situation.
To this end, an electronic in December 2015 defines what positions notification system has been developed.
The and levels of authority are to undergo training internal audit function conducts regular checks Contractor supplier due in anti-corruption awareness.
Specifically, all of the completeness and accuracy of records, diligence checks managers and specialists from compliance, either planned or requested by a compliance legal, controlling, asset protection, investor manager, and compliance specialists act on any To guard against unscrupulous, unreliable, and government relations, and HR are to receive recommendations promptly.
or suspicious would-be agents and partners, training and pass a corresponding test.
The the company runs comprehensive due diligence same refers to all decision makers and or checks on a business or person prior to signing client managers from procurement and sales.
Hotline policy and whistlea contract.
EVRAZ fervently upholds a knowCompliance managers are assigned discreet your-partner client policy and in doing so is fully blowing procedures authority to analyse risk areas and decide who compliant with the applicable anti-corruption else needs to be trained.
EVRAZ encourages employees to raise laws.
The investigation includes but is not limited concerns to their line managers if they believe to checking the companys business reputation the companys policies or cardinal principles and solvency, as well as its top managements Sponsorship and charity are somehow violated.
If employees, clients, profile and reputation.
or contractors feel unable to do so via other policy means and procedures, a confidential hotline This policy regulates all aspects of EVRAZ is available 24 7. sponsorship and charity efforts as necessary.
Under it, the Group may consider supporting low-income or physically challenged individuals, and those suffering from conflicts or natural disasters.
EVRAZ may choose to support certain projects in education, sport, health care, culture, 264 www.
