Annual report & accounts 2018 OUR APPROACH EVRAZ views corporate social responsibility as an integral part of its business and strives to address and monitor all relevant matters in this area.
The corporate social responsibility section of this annual report provides an overview of the Groups policies and performance in 2018 in key areas, including human rights, health and safety, the environment, human capital management and community engagement, as well as an outline of how EVRAZ intends to improve its performance in the years ahead.
The Group considers these policies appropriate and effective.
EVRAZ follows the OECDs Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises to ensure a uniform approach to business standards across its global operations.
Health, safety and environment Governance and approach which reports to operational management EVRAZ operates a continuous-cycle HSE with the oversight of the vice president of HSE.
management process with the following EVRAZ places a top priority on continuously All plant managers are responsible for HSE phases: improving its health, safety and environment compliance.
Forecast and assess primary HSE risks HSE management throughout its operations.
Develop and implement HSE initiatives This includes implementing process upgrades EVRAZ is an active partner in local to eliminate or reduce risks and introducing tiered management and control and international industry organisations, Monitor, review, and investigate incidents systems.
including the World Steel Associations to properly learn lessons from them Environmental Policy EPCO, Technology Analyse performance, correct and set new HSE management covers all levels of EVRAZ Policy TPCO and Safety and Health SHCO strategic HSE goals business, from strategic decision making to daycommittees, as well as the HSE committees to-day operations.
In 2018, a HSE management of Russian Steel, a Russia-based nonFor each HSE KPI, EVRAZ sets primary committee was established, consisting of all commercial partnership, and the Russian Union metrics that are then continuously monitored CEO-1 level excecutives, which review HSE of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
to improve the system using prompt analysis issues on a monthly basis.
Since the HSE and adjustments as necessary.
Committees inception in 2010, the Board of Directors has delegated to it responsibility HSE system EVRAZ main steel mills have been certified for monitoring all HSE strategies, policies, under the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 initiatives and activities.
The Group adopted its Health, Safety standards.
and Environment Policy in March 2011, updated The Groups CEO is the member of the HSE it in 2016 and reviewed it in February 2018 no Committee with ownership and oversight changes were made.
Emergency response of the results of the HSE strategy review that took place in June 2018.
Subsequently, The primary functions of the HSE system Some EVRAZ operations, including the mines the implementation of the decisions taken include identifying potential environmental of the Coal division, have auxiliary mine-rescue as part of the strategy review was regularly pollutants and risks to employees health teams to act as first responders to incidents monitored at HSE Committee meetings.
and safety through the entire production and help to evacuate personnel ahead cycle, from purchasing raw materials to selling of the arrival of professional rescue teams.
Executive-level HSE matters fall under the remit finished products.
This also includes planning, Members of the auxiliary teams are specially of the HSE Committee, which has also delegated distributing resources, collecting, analysing selected, trained and regularly re-trained.
authority to a vice president responsible and submitting information, and reflecting for coordinating HSE issues.
Every entity emerging trends in indicators.
In the event of an incident, an emergency in the Group has its own HSE function, warning system is activated to inform local 72 www.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information The Groups commitments are based on orientation, citizenship status, marital harassing, discriminatory, degrading or internationally recognised standards and status or disability are discriminatory and aggressive speech or written comments, respect for all human rights, including prohibited by the law and the principles verbal or physical demonstrations of civil, political, economic, social and accepted in the Group.
a sexual nature, and actions or speech cultural rights.
EVRAZ fully endorses the that insult the honour or dignity of an provisions of the United Nations Universal Child labour, bonded labour, human individual.
trafficking and other forms of slavery known as modern slavery are strictly In accordance with its internal Code of prohibited at all EVRAZ subsidiaries and Business Conduct, EVRAZ seeks to develop their suppliers.
Modern slavery is an abuse and maintain a work environment that of human rights and is a criminal offence is free from discrimination.
The Group is in the UK and other jurisdictions.
The committed to providing every employee Group is committed to acting ethically and with equal opportunities.
All personnel requires suppliers to conduct business and applicants are assessed according within the same ethical framework.
to their professional skills, qualities, experience and abilities.
Decisions made Respect for others is one of EVRAZ This aspiration is reflected in the Groups on grounds unrelated to an individuals overriding principles.
In the cross-cultural internal codes and principles, including job performance eg related to the environment in which the Group operates, the Business Conduct Policy, The EVRAZ persons race, ethnic origin, sex, religion, all cultures must be treated with respect.
Way, available on the corporate website political views, nationality, age, sexual EVRAZ rules prohibit the use of abusive, www.
com governance documents form the first level of production control, division HSE corporate management structure and shop managers form the second level and senior managers form the third level.
This multi-tiered system helps the Group to ensure EVRAZ PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS strict compliance with HSE requirements.
In 2018, standard incident reporting rules HSE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OFDIRECTORS EVRAZ CEO were introduced throughout the organisation, beginning with recording all injuries and incidents entailing lost time and or fatalities, and immediately issuing a flash HSE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE VICE PRESIDENT HSE report to all relevant management.
The HSE function then conducts standard lean format HEALTH AND SAFETY DIRECTORATE investigations and promptly disseminates lessons learnt to concerned parties.
The HSE Management Committee reviews every case INDUSTRIAL SAFETY DIRECTORATE involving a fatality, severe injury or serious incident and follows up to ensure that all remedial action has been implemented in full.
ENVIROMENTAL MANAGEMENT DIRECTORATE In addition, measures have also been introduced to ensure that injuries and incidents residents and authorities.
For example, improve the process.
The corporate HSE are not hidden to distort the true picture.
Raspadskaya has a commission to prevent functions monitor subsidiaries using monthly, Accountability for hiding or distorting information and respond to emergencies and to ensure quarterly and annual HSE performance is one of the cardinal safety rules that can lead fire safety.
and warns of natural and technological disasters, manages emergency response The internal audit function regularly assesses EVRAZ distributes monthly HSE reports to all assets and works to reduce the damage EVRAZ compliance with HSE policies, which personnel containing data on any injuries from incidents.
is supplemented by external monitoring and incidents that have occurred in the past by government authorities.
The Group conducts month, as well as updated HSE KPI metrics a detailed analysis of any recommendations on the lost-time injury frequency rate, fatalities HSE reporting system resulting from the inspections to ensure that and cardinal rule violations.
The reports also remedial actions can be taken, where needed.
include an analysis of hazards and risks to focus The Group relies on its HSE reporting system efforts on preventing such incidents in the most to collect and share appropriate data throughout All EVRAZ facilities review lessons learnt critical areas.
the organisation with an aim to continuously to improve their own processes.
Line managers 73 Annual report & accounts 2018 HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR APPROACH The nature of EVRAZ  their loved ones, alive and uninjured.
This typical to the Groups diverse operations, operations entails certain potential process begins with identifying key risks including as regards contractors.
safety and health risks being present in and investing in engineered solutions to the environment in which its employees eliminate them.
The Group prioritises this Each day, managers, employees and and contractors work.
The risks when as part of its ongoing efforts, particularly contractors must make decisions mining coal and iron ore underground where corrective measures are identified that will inevitably have an impact include the potential for a sudden rock in the wake of incidents.
In cases where on safe or, in certain cases, unsafe collapse, flooding, exposure to rock engineering controls are not immediately behaviour.
EVRAZ constantly challenges and coal dust, degassing mines and available, EVRAZ instead implements its management team to lead by ventilating methane, as well as using organisational controls to mitigate risks.
example and hold employees ultimately explosives in the extraction process.
accountable for health and safety, Some of the primary risks inherent Another way in which the Group strives including both their actions and to steelmaking include large moving to improve operational safety is by inactions.
The Group seeks to foster machinery, moving material with continuously improving its training a culture in which all employees and high-capacity cranes, excessive heat, methods for employees and contractors contractors understand that they must manipulating molten metal and working regarding risks that have been identified, take personal ownership of their safety.
The Group has also safety and health regulations, and safe This includes a targeted communication identified certain key risks that exist work practices specific to individual tasks.
programme covering identified risks, as across its operations, including working Employees are also periodically tested well as behavioural observations that at height, working with electricity, and to ensure that they have retained the are immediately followed up by safety moving or transporting objects.
knowledge gained from their training.
In conversations in which both coaching the event that a risk cannot be eliminated, and counselling are provided.
As the One of EVRAZ overriding priorities is and as a last resort, EVRAZ constantly organisational safety culture improves, to ensure that every employee and evaluates and issues new personal praise and reward for safe actions are contractor who works in its facilities has protective equipment to guard against then introduced.
a safe and healthy work environment, so such risks.
No effort is spared to identify, that they may return home each day to manage and effectively mitigate the risks Results in 2018 LTIFR excluding fatalities, Fatalities LTIFR per 1 million hours The lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR 2018 2018 6 4 is a strategic KPI that is cascaded down 10 1.91 throughout the organisation in individual 2017 6 4 2017 management performance scorecards.
In 2018, 10 1.90 the group did not meet its target of 1.72x, 2016 2016 6 0 closing the year with an LTIFR of 1.91x.
2.36 6 However, the Coal division reduced its LTI figure 2015 2015 10 3 2.18 13 and delivered an LTIFR reduction of 17% year-onyear.
For more information about EVRAZ efforts 2014 2014 12 7 19 1.60 to reduce the LTIFR, see Key projects below.
EVRAZ employees Contractors The Groups main efforts in HSE were in setting operational managers to lead the HSE management systems and assess rock fall incidents involving employees, two The HSE Committee reviews every fatality the safety culture in their divisions.
The fatal incidents caused by equipment parts and severe injury to determine root causes Group also implemented a project to improve breaking and falling, and two incidents in which and corrective actions.
Identified risk factors the quality of behavioural safety conversations employees became trapped between moving are addressed via the HSE initiatives launched and reviewed the approach to integrating parts of equipment violating restrictions against by the corporate team and operational divisions contractors into the HSE system by standardising approaching these moving parts.
The main in 2018, including falling from height prevention, the performance and planning of high-risk work.
critical risk categories identified were rock fall, traffic management and safety routes, gas falling items and impact by moving or rotating safety, contractor management, and electrical Fatalities equipment.
The group has ongoing focused safety, among others.
In 2018, EVRAZ experienced six employee fatality prevention campaigns in each of these fatalities, as well as four fatal incidents critical risks areas to eliminate future repeated For each incident, a so-called 90-day plan involving contractors.
There were two fatal root causes.
is developed to properly eliminate root causes 74 www.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information The current cardinal safety rules of the incident.
The HSE Committee reviews Employees may also receive financial assistance It is forbidden to be on the territory of and approves these plans.
The HSE Committee from the Group, based on their medical enterprises in a state of alcoholic and and other committees of the Board of Directors condition and other circumstances.
Employees or narcotic intoxication monitors the implementation of these who need prolonged medical treatment It is forbidden to override protective measures and their effectiveness.
As necessary, are also eligible to be compensated for moral interlock equipment and security the committee also ensures that the measures harm, although these funds may not be used systems without prior authorisation are implemented at other Group operations.
to arrange independent medical treatment.
It is forbidden to hide and distort the circumstances of HSE incidents In June, EVRAZ conducted a strategy session In 2018, the number of occupational diseases to assess its HSE management system registered at EVRAZ facilities worldwide was When working at heights, it is forbidden and identify development priorities.
Safety 256 cases, compared with 256 cases in 2017. to not use safety systems for work at leadership and risk management were identified The Group continues to closely examine working height included in the work permit, as as the areas where the greatest improvement conditions and strives to eliminate the highestwell as personal protective equipment could be made, as well as the key channels risk workplaces in terms of employee health.
against falls through which to engage all employees It is forbidden to not use a seat belt in in the process of identifying and mitigating In addition, there are ongoing efforts among personal transport on the territory of hazardous conditions and actions.
all the Groups facilities to properly treat enterprises and motor vehicles of the employer occupational illnesses in an effort to preserve In 2018, the Group used the results of a key risk and improve employee health.
To determine It is forbidden to smoke and or use assessment as a basis for reviewing and updating open fire in coal mines and other places the risk group and evaluate fitness to work, every its cardinal safety rules to prevent the most where explosive hazards are present worker undergoes an annual medical check-up.
dangerous types of employee activity.
These rules It is prohibited to use explosive Employees are compensated in accordance must be followed by all employees and contractors.
materials for purposes other than those with legislative requirements.
When occupational specified in the Permit-to-Work, or not to illnesses are registered, additional payments return to the warehouse the remnants Treatment of occupational diseases are made from the social security fund, of explosive materials after blasting EVRAZ is legally mandated to provide insurance including pension supplements.
Personnel who operations, as well as to change the against work-related accidents and occupational are prone to occupational illness also receive designs of the detonator diseases that covers treatment for all free treatment at therapeutic resorts.
The Group It is prohibited to use machines and occupational illnesses.
Temporary disability also strives to proactively improve working equipment not intended for these benefits are provided to cover treatment costs conditions in an effort to reduce the likelihood purposes to transport people for employees with occupational illnesses.
Case study Number of severe injuries incl.
contractors MODERNISATION 2018 OF EQUIPMENT 35 115 TO IMPROVE 2017 38 OPERATIONAL SAFETY 126 2016 45 133 2015 38 EVRAZ is systematically modernising its primary equipment, which 148 significantly helps to reduce the 2014 risk of injury to personnel, improve 51 working conditions and eliminate 167 negative environmental impacts.
contractors AMHW, million without contractors 75 Annual report & accounts 2018 Key projects Case study DIRECTIONAL DRILLING Corporate-wide initiatives in 2018 were once again focused on cultural change through improving the safety behaviour of employees and contractors.
Safety conversations In 2018, the introduction of directional The Group has shifted its focus to the quality drilling technology made it possible of the behavioural observation and related to increase the volume of methane safety conversation.
This has improved extracted to 45 million cubic metres.
the documentation of unsafe actions and related Overall, more than 365 kilometres of behaviour, helping to correct them before they degassing holes were drilled.
lead to incident and injury.
In 2018, behavioural VLD-1000 directional drilling system safety conversations were conducted with nearly all employees.
A key aspect of improving the quality Contractor safety Key risk localisation programmes of behavioural safety conversations is maintaining EVRAZ continues to integrate contractors into its To make safety initiatives more industry specific a structured approach.
This entails holding HSE management system.
An important aspect and better tailored to the needs of respective the safety conversations after a routine of this integration is increasing the accountability facilities, EVRAZ has suggested that business behavioural observation and subsequent of contract holders for the HSE performance divisions design key risk projects.
These projects comparison with step-by-step operations of contractors.
In addition, the basic principles and related initiatives not only address critical cards.
As these cards are created specifically of working with and oversight of contractors have division-specific risks for example, the risk for the most dangerous operations for been revised.
A vital aspect is ensuring that all of falling from height and LOTO implementation, example, putting derailed railcars back contractors safety procedures are monitored but also consider historic trends to prevent on the tracks, or servicing cold-cutting uniformly, both when planning and providing reoccurrence of past incidents.
saws, among others, the observations access to work, as well as during its performance.
and conversations are focused on the primary For additional information, see EVRAZ first Sustainability Report for 2018, which is to be risks.
In 2018, step-by-step operations cards were Monitoring the safe work of contractors published in May 2019. developed for the operations that were identified begins with a method statement reviewed as critical risks during the year.
In the process of preparing and performing work, contract holders are required to pay special attention Objectives for 2019 to permission and performance of work under a Permit-to-Work.
In 2019, in addition to continuing the divisionspecific key risk programmes, EVRAZ plans to continue implementing the key initiatives Case study targeted at developing a safety culture.
SYSTEM TO MONITOR Hazardous area Risk management FOR THE PRESENCE EVRAZ has had a risk-assessment ON standard in place for several years that OF PERSONNEL IN has helped to create a list of key risks based on an assessment of their likelihood The system lock makes it possible to turn HAZARDOUS AREAS and the severity of their consequences.
However, on the machine when only one worker the operator is present in the security perimeter the Group now needs to actively engage its operational staff more directly in the process of identifying and mitigating risks.
In 2019, Hazardous area the existing HSE toolkit will be reviewed OFF and adjusted to ensure maximum employee To prevent injuries from the moving engagement in identifying the hazards they face parts of tunnelling machines, a so as to help foster conscious safe behaviour.
The machine is locked by switching off system has been developed to lock the power supply when any employee enters the machine when personnel are Contractor safety the security perimeter present in hazardous areas.
System In 2019, the Group will continue to further installation began in 2018 and is integrate contractors into its HSE management Hazardous area expected to be completed in the system.
The primary focus will be on fully OFF first half of 2019.
The system works implementing the principles for working by locking out the machine from with contractors that were developed in 2018, being able to operate without the including planning, controlling access authorisation of the operator and to and monitoring the performance of work.
The machine is locked by switching off the power supply when the operator or when unauthorised personnel are Functional cross-audits of contractors is not present present during tunnelling operations.
management processes are planned to ensure that they meet corporate standards.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information ENVIRONMENT Environmental strategy OUR APPROACH EVRAZ prioritises the mitigation of and community members in the The Groups environmental strategy aims possible environmental impacts from affected area.
EVRAZ uses ESIAs to to minimise any negative impacts caused by its its steel and mining operations by assess how the new operations might operations, as well as to make efficient use introducing best management practices potentially impact the local community of natural resources and find optimal industrial and adopting advanced technology.
and surrounding environment, both waste management solutions.
Environmental This helps the Group to prevent or directly and indirectly.
As part of the compliance is an overriding long-term priority.
control any undesired environmental ESIA process, the Group establishes consequences while consuming less mitigation plans to minimise and EVRAZ has adopted new, five-year environmental energy and natural resources.
manage any potential impact and targets covering 201822 aimed at: engages with local communities Decreasing fresh water consumption by 10% These operations are subject to strict throughout the projects life to discuss Recycling 95% of annual non-mining waste environmental legislation requiring any decisions that may be made.
Maintaining the greenhouse gas intensity that EVRAZ complies with the terms ratio below 2 tonnes of carbon dioxide CO 2 of special environmental permits EVRAZ strictly complies with the equivalent tCO e per tonne of steel cast 2 and licences, which generally entails registration, evaluation, authorisation certain environmental commitments, and restriction of chemicals The Group has committed to implement recruiting qualified personnel, REACH regulations concerning various environmental protection programmes maintaining necessary equipment and various substances supplied to or over 201824.
As of 31 December 2018, environmental monitoring systems, and manufactured in the EU European the estimated cost to implement these periodically submitting information to Economic Area by the Groups programmes totalled US$121 million.
EVRAZ supports the European comply with any of these requirements Communitys health and environmental In 2018, EVRAZ spent US$30.1 million could potentially lead to the goals as established in the Regulation on measures to ensure environmental suspension, amendment, termination EC No.
1907 2006 of the European compliance and US$29.8 million on projects or non-renewal of the environmental Parliament and of the Council, which to improve its environmental performance.
The Group could governs the REACH requirements.
 environmental levies also incur significant costs related to and penalties were US$2.2 million.
eliminating or remedying any such Another aspect of the Groups violations.
environmental programme is training The Groups assets had no significant courses and seminars to encourage environmental incidents or material Understanding that its production the exchange of experience by its environmental claims during the reporting processes entail certain environmental specialists in the field.
risks and liabilities, EVRAZ is focused on preventing or minimising of any EVRAZ also employs environmental potential adverse environmental audits due diligence to perform Biodiversity consequences from its operations.
environmental liability and risk The Groups corporate management assessments of existing sites and EVRAZ recognises its responsibility system includes environmental assets being acquired.
to prevent and minimise its potential impact procedures based on the plan-doon the environment and biodiversity at all stages check-act PDCA model.
It has Throughout its operations, the Group of the mining and steelmaking process, including been developed to promote EVRAZ has introduced an environmental when performing geological surveys, designing health, safety and environment HSE management system that it has facilities, conducting operations and restoring policy principles and support its developed based on the corporate sites that are no longer used.
environmental strategy implementation, approach and prioritises international which includes environmental risk certification, which, while not a legal The Groups long-term goal is to foster a culture assessment, planning, legal compliance requirement, has led to seven of the among its employees of care and concern management, reporting and other Groups sites obtaining ISO 14001 for the environment and biodiversity of the areas processes.
certification, including core operations in which it operates, as well as in how they like EVRAZ NTMK and EVRAZ ZSMK.
implement its projects and create a positive For all new operations and projects, dialogue with the local community.
the Group performs environmental and social impact assessments The Groups primary biodiversity efforts include: For additional information see EVRAZ first ESIAs that engage with local and Restoring damaged lands and landscaping Sustainability Report for 2018, which is to be regional governments, businesses published in May 2019.
Restoring of water biodiversity Implementing social and environmental initiatives 77 Annual report & accounts 2018 Air emissions thousand trees 1 3.5 were planted in 2018 Key air emissions, kt Reducing air emissions is one of EVRAZ 2018 overriding environmental priorities.
The 128.21 72.3 thousand fry key air emissions comprise nitrogen oxides 2017 were released into local rivers in 2018 NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile 137.11 organic compounds VOC.
In 2018, the key air 2016 EVRAZ implements long-term projects aimed emissions dropped by 6.5% year-on-year.
130.68 at compensating for its environmental impact.
2015 134.17 Since 2011, the Abagursky branch of EVRAZ The current strategy for reducing air emissions ZSMK has been working on the reclamation envisages upgrading gas treatment systems, 2014 124.24 of its old tailings storage No.
In 2018, introducing modern technology and eliminating the site completed the dehydration and land obsolete equipment.
planning stages of the project.
The biological A key aspect of EVRAZ strategy is to reduce GHG reclamation will begin in 2019.
In 2018, EVRAZ ZSMK completed emissions by consuming fewer energy resources.
Since 2015, the Raspadskaya mine has been the reconstruction of the gas treatment implementing a long-term project to recover equipment at its sintering facility and made The Group has set a five-year target for its Steel land damaged during open-pit mining several improvements to reduce the plants key segment to keep the GHG intensity ratio below 138 hectares.
air emissions by 6.5 thousand tonnes in 2018.
2 tonnes of carbon dioxide CO equivalent tCO e 2 2 In 2018, a project for landscaping damaged per tonne of steel cast.
In 2018 the target was lands of the old waste storage section at EVRAZ EVRAZ NTMK brought blast furnace No.
Overall, 17.9 hectares during the reporting period.
Emissions from pig of land were restored and 2,400 pine seedlings iron produced in the furnace are captured EVRAZ measures direct Scope 1 emissions 2 were planted.
and impurities are removed using bag filters, of all seven Kyoto GHGs and indirect Scope 2 Work to landscape industrial sites and sanitary which minimises atmospheric pollution.
The emissions from the use of electricity and heat.
The 3 protection zones at facilities continued in 2018. powerful aspiration system has reduced inventory approach was based on the 2006 IPCC the residual dust content of the exhaust Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories As part of EVRAZ environmental initiatives, trees gases by 40%.
The technical re-equipment IPCC 2006 and the WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol are planted in parks, public squares, town city of the aspiration system for mixers No.
1, 2 Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
The streets and in the territory around kindergartens.
and 3 in oxygen converter shop No.
1 is being Group reports data in terms of tCO e, calculated 2 Young trees brought from mine allotments where completed, and the capital repair programme using the IPCC 2006 global warming potentials.
the forest is subject to felling are often used for the dust-gas cleaning equipment is being for planting as part of the Second Life for Trees implemented at the plants shops and production EVRAZ has collected GHG emissions data for 2018 initiative.
EVRAZ NTMKs key air emissions have been and compared them with the 2014-17 levels.
The reduced by 0.5 thousand tonnes.
Steel segment continues to generate more than To restore aquatic biodiversity, the Group releases half of the gross GHG emissions from the Groups juvenile fish into the rivers of Kemerovo region operations.
Nearly 91% of the Coal segments and Sverdlovsk region.
Greenhouse gas emissions full emissions come from fugitive methane CH 4 leakage, which is caused by methane ventilation EVRAZ social and environmental initiatives include: EVRAZ operations generate carbon dioxide from underground mines and post-mining Environmental Saturday voluntary work days and other greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
cleaning parks, planting trees and putting up Group understands that mitigating climate change birdhouses risks is a crucial element in planning for the future In 2018, the overall GHG emissions from EVRAZ Second Life for Trees initiative replanting welfare of its employees and local communities operations decreased by around 6.9% year-onyoung trees from mining allotments where throughout its global enterprises.
Emissions of CO fell by 5.3% or 1.49 million 2 the forest is subject to logging tCO e due to the cease in operations in Ukraine 2 Big Green Games environmental EVRAZ understands the urgency and lower steel production at EVRAZ NTMK.
competitions among local companies in which of preventing climate change and supports In the Coal segment, CH emissions reduced 4 teams choose their own areas to clean up the global effort to reduce the emission by 7.6% -625 ths.
tCO e as a result of lower 2 Clean Games environmental quest of GHGs into the atmosphere.
In compliance volumes of underground mining -1.4 mln.
t teamwork in collecting and sorting garbage with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and higher open pit mining at Raspadskiy Open Pit in parks and Directors Report Regulations 2013, and  2.67 mln.
t. Clean Shore initiative helping to clear debris the Group measures the full GHG emissions at its from the protected watersheds of the Bolshoy facilities and has taken part in the CDP Climate In 2018, the Group decreased its Unzas, Kondoma and Maly Bachat rivers Change Programme since 2011.
Scope 1 emissions by 6% and brought down its Live Spring initiative improving natural Scope 2 emissions by 15%.
The former was due springs to a reduction in both carbon dioxide and methane 1 Air emissions calculation perimeter differs from the calculation perimeter of GHG emissions.
2 Carbon dioxide CO, methane CH, nitrous oxide N O, hydrofluorocarbons HFC and perfluorocarbons PFC, sulphur hexafluoride SF and nitrogen trifluoride NF 2 4 2 6 3 3 The inventory of emissions includes all entities that EVRAZ controls.
Entities that were disposed of during the year were included for the period they were part of the Group.
Only entities that were deemed immaterial for consolidated emissions based on their operational indicators were omitted.
Direct CO emissions from operations were calculated using the carbon balance method for carbon flows within 2 production facilities, including fuel use.
Emissions of other GHGs were calculated based on measured volumes, inventory changes or IPCC 2006 factors and models including for post-mining coal methane emissions where direct measurement data were not available.
Indirect emissions were estimated using emission factors specifically developed for the country or region, if available, or otherwise factors provided by UK Defra.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information EVRAZ GHG emissions in 2018, Specific Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions During the reporting period, the ongoing million tCO e from Steel segment incl.
NA, programmes to improve the water management 2 tCO e per tonne of steel cast at EVRAZ operations continued to deliver 2 environmental benefits.
In 2018, the Group 34.56 4.23 2018 consumed 93 million cubic metres less fresh 2.005 EVRAZ Total water than in 2017, for a year-on-year reduction 25.47 2.68 2017 of 29.1%.
Almost 85.3 million cubic metres Steel segment 2.02 have been excluded out of the balance due 2016 0.75 0.64 to the exclusion of assets in 2018.
Steel, NA segment 2.11 2015 8.34 0.91 Coal segment 2.09 The new five-year target is to decrease 2014 fresh water consumption by 10% compared 2.18 Direct emissions Scope 1 with the baseline of 2016.
The Group has set EVRAZ target 2 Indirect energy emissions Scope 2 2016 231 million cubic metres as a new baseline, taking into account asset exclusion.
emissions, which accounted for some 5% of total Water consumption While water pumped from mines dewatering emissions, while the latter was due to lower is not included in the fresh water consumption and discharge energy purchases at EVRAZ ZSMK and the cease target, pumped water is partly used in operations in Ukraine.
EVRAZ strives to make efficient use of water for technological needs.
In 2018, EVRAZ pumped resources and prevent any negative water quality out and used 17.36 million cubic metres of mine EVRAZ reports an intensity ratio relating its annual impacts through environmental incidents.
water, compared with 21.15 million cubic metres GHG emissions to its activities: total Scope 1 and 2 a year earlier.
emissions per consolidated revenue for the Group In 2018, almost 81% of the Groups total water overall and each operating segment, and specific intake came from surface sources, including emissions in the Steel segment per tonne of steel rivers, lakes and reservoirs, down 4 percentage cast for 2014-18. points year-on-year.
GHG emissions per net revenue, Fresh water intake for production 4 kg CO e US$ purposes, million cubic metres 2 EVRAZ 3 Updated target 207 mln m 2018 3.0 226.49 3.8 3 Target 295 mln m 2017 319.43 Steel segment 3.2 2016 3.9 327.60 2015 Steel, NA segment 340.23 0.5 2014 0.8 332.13 Coal segment 4.0 4.4 2018 2017 EVRAZ GHG emissions, million tCO e 2 5 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 36.68 35.81 36.87 39.05 Direct Scope 1 34.56 28.35 28.76 29.13 31.08 CO 26.86 2 8.26 6.99 7.67 7.89 CH 7.64 4 0.06 0.07 0.07 0.08 N O 0.06 2 0.00003 0.0001 0.0002 0.0002 PFC and HFC 0.00009 SF 6 NF 3 Indirect Scope 2 4.97 5.02 6.17 7.96 4.23 Total GHG emissions 41.65 40.83 43.04 47.00 38.79 4 Calculation perimeter includes the following subsidiaries: EVRAZ NTMK, EVRAZ KGOK, EVRAZ ZSMK, Evrazruda, EVRAZ DMZ, Raspadskaya Coal Company, EVRAZ Caspian Steel, EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli, EVRAZ Vanady Tula, EVRAZ Stratcor, EVRAZ Nikom, EVRAZ Calgary, EVRAZ Camrose, EVRAZ Portland, EVRAZ Pueblo, EVRAZ Red Deer, EVRAZ Regina.
5 The results for 2017 were recalculated due to improvements in data quality and several identified inaccuracies regarding material flows, which resulted in a downward correction of 0.017 million tCO e for 2 Scope 1 emissions.
79 Annual report & accounts 2018 Environment case studies WATER USE BIODIVERSITY EVRAZ ZSMK LAUNCHES MODERN FISH DIVERTER A fish diverter has been installed at the on-shore pumping station to help safeguard young fish in the Tom River water intake.
The on-shore pumping station supplies water to the West Siberian Thermal Power Plant.
EVRAZ ZSMK REDUCES WATER Previously, fish were frequently harmed in the water intake.
Now, a dual-stage fish INTAKE FROM TOM RIVER diverter helps to prevent this.
The first stage is a fine screen that does not allow large EVRAZ ZSMK has launched a new slurry thickening facility for the gas or medium-sized fish into the pumping cleaning equipment at its blast furnaces.
The new equipment will reduce stations intake chamber.
The second stage annual wastewater discharge and water intake from the Tom River is an electronic system to keep young fish away.
by nearly 3 million cubic metres.
An electrical pulse is sent through electrodes at a certain amplitude, creating an electrical Previously, the water that was used to purify blast furnace gases was field that diverts fish from the intake chamber sent to the plants slurry storage facility.
Now, it is sent to a machine and back into the river.
that separates and thickens the slurry.
The clarified water is re-used in production, closing the blast furnace shops water supply cycle.
In 2019, EVRAZ ZSMK plans to install similar equipment at its second basic oxygen furnace shop, which will reduce annual water intake by another 1.5 million cubic metres.
This will effectively close the water supply cycle for the plants main metallurgical conversion facility.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information RASPADSKAYA GIVES TREES A SECOND LIFE Employees of Raspadskaya have continued what has become an annual tradition of planting trees at childcare centres in Mezhdurechensk.
In 2018, saplings from a mining allotment where the trees will be cleared were transplanted at the Kalinka childcare centre.
In total, around 100 birch, acacia and fir saplings were transplanted at the kindergarten.
EVRAZ NTMKS ECOLOGISTS PLANT GREEN DOCTORS EVRAZ NTMKs ecologists have planted green doctors in the draining pond of the Vyazovka River and Nizhny Tagil pond, including chlorella algae, water hyacinth roots and, for the first time, water lettuce plants.
The chlorella algae multiply rapidly in the pond water, absorbing carbon dioxide and saturating the water with oxygen, which oxidises organic and inorganic substances.
The root system of the water hyacinth, which closely resembles an orchid, cleans the water effectively.
This year, the ecologists experimented with water lettuce plants, which originated in Africa.
Unlike the water hyacinth, it takes root in the bottom of the water body, forming a barrier.
Its roots also have an effective cleansing factor.
81 Annual report & accounts 2018 Waste management AWARDS Waste recycling rate, % Mining and steelmaking operations produce 2018 significant amounts of waste, including EVRAZ NTMK Leader in Environmental 111.3 the surplus rock, spent ore and tailings left Management in Russia 2018 as the best 2017 over after processing ore and concentrates.
environmentally responsible city-forming 104.7 EVRAZ aims to reduce the amount of waste that enterprise.
Awarding organisation: Russia-wide 2016 it produces, re-use natural resources where Review Competition for Health and Ecology.
120.1 possible and dispose of waste in a manner 2015 126.3 that minimises the environmental impact EVRAZ ZSMK Winner of the Ecology and maximises operational and financial and Environmental Management 2018 2014 110.0 efficiency.
Awarding organisation: Independent Public Council 100 Best In line with the Groups strategy to reduce waste Organizations of Russia.
storage volumes and enhance waste disposal, EVRAZ operations regularly review opportunities to recycle and re-use waste.
EVRAZ strategy for dealing with non-hazardous retirement.
All the dams have safety zones mining wastes, such as depleted rock, tailings now and one village 107 houses has been The main waste by-product that gets recycled and overburden, is to use them where possible completely resettled by EVRAZ to avoid victims is metallurgical slag, which includes materials for land rehabilitation and the construction in case of accident with the EVRAZ ZSMK that previously had been disposed off in dumps.
The process procedures are controlled Processing this waste has allowed the Group tonnes of such waste material were re-used, by the operations and audited by the HSE to maintain a recycling rate of more than compared with 29.7% or 50.4 million tonnes personal of the sites, the regulators inspectors 100%.
Most of the old slag in these dumps in 2017. and the groups internal auditors.
In 2016, two has been processed over the past few years, out of three dams were audited by industrial which is the primary reason why the recycling All non-recyclable waste is stored in facilities that safety auditors and the measures to improve rate is forecast to decline going forward.
The are designed to prevent any harmful substances the effectiveness of controls were proposed.
All management has decided to continue its waste contained in the waste from escaping into the measures have been implemented.
The next minimisation efforts and set a target to reuse the environment.
Safety at such facilities audit of dams operation will be conducted during or recycle at least 95% of waste.
is monitored extremely closely, and steps have 2019.
The management review of the issue was been taken to mitigate as far as possible any conducted during the HSE Committee of BoD In 2018, EVRAZ steel mills generated danger to third parties in an emergency.
7.95 million tonnes of metallurgical waste and by-products, including slag, sludge, scale The largest tailings dams of EVRAZ are owned and others, and recycled or re-used 8.85 million by EVRAZ ZSMK, EVRAZ KGOK and Evrazruda.
Overall, the Group recycled The company has a dam safety management or re-used 111.3% of non-mining waste and bysystem in accordance with the current legislative products in 2018, compared with 104.7% a year procedures that cover all stages of dam life earlier.
cycle: design, construction, operation and asset Waste management strategy Improve technological processes to enhance product quality.
MINIMISE AT THE SOURCE Secure by-products without generating waste.
Re-use the main types of waste from metals production: RE-USE slag, clinker and tailings, including from old dumps.
Develop new products that feature various types of waste.
RECYCLE Use inert waste to reshape land plots and build dams or roads.
Generate heat from hot slag.
BURN AS FUEL GENERATE HEAT Use waste for heating local boilers.
Store waste that cannot be used today safely, retaining the option STORE of using the locations as industrial sites in the future.
It is forbidden to: burn production and consumption waste without special facilities or dump it outside designated areas BURN EVRAZ Fundamental Environmental Requirements.
com Order of preference Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information ENERGY EFFICIENCY The Group strives to minimise the energy the independence from the third-party thermal Steel, North America intensity of its operations while increasing energy supplier Central CHP with the aim segment its own capacity to generate electricity.
to eliminate steam consumption from it in 2023.
EVRAZ also constantly optimises In 2018, EVRAZ North Americas management the consumption of resources in its production EVRAZ NTMK Russia.
In 2018, EVRAZ focused on negotiations with natural gas process and improves the energy efficiency NTMK reduced its electricity consumption suppliers after the prices for this fuel surged due of its equipment.
and exceeded its planned volume of internal to a pipeline incident in October 2018.
The North America closely monitors the natural gas increase in internally generated electricity made consumption at its facilities.
Steel segment it possible to decrease electricity purchases during the reporting period.
In 2018, EVRAZ continued to install more energy Steelmaking efficient lighting at its operations in Canada.
As the Steel segments Russian operations EVRAZ NTMK also installed more energy efficient In addition, it replaced the heating furnaces are the Groups primary production segment, lighting in its workshops, built a converter at EVRAZ Camrose and EVRAZ Edmonton EVRAZ pays special attention to the energy steam utilisation station and installed new heat Coupling Machining with more efficient units.
exchangers to heat the blast furnace gas.
Due to the growth in production volumes A key driver of the Steel segments energy Iron ore mining in 2018, total electricity consumption efficiency improvement efforts is reducing EVRAZ KGOK Russia.
In 2018, EVRAZ KGOK in the segment rose while natural gas the energy intensity of production.
In 2018, cut its electricity consumption.
the Group compared its operations with those this, more energy efficient lighting was installed of global peer companies and set a target in the enrichment workshops and an automatic of cutting its energy consumption by 6% in five electricity metering system was installed Coal segment years.
The latter will make it possible to analyse electricity consumption In 2018, the Coal segment further implemented The forecast financial effect of this initiative in real time and take timely decisions to save its energy efficiency programme.
After will be reached as a result of several factors: resources.
updating the operating schedule and reducing Reducing the energy intensity of technological power consumption during the hours when processes Evrazruda Russia.
In 2018, employees electricity is purchased from the wholesale Optimising the ratio of internally generated at Evrazruda facilities analysed energy market, the segment achieved its goal and purchased energy consumption at each step of the production of reducing electricity costs by 3%.
Training Eliminating energy losses during transit process.
Electricity consumption fell as a result employees on the main energy efficiency Using secondary resources of replacing equipment switching to modular goals and objectives as part of the School Selling energy resources to third parties compressor stations at the Sheregeshskaya for Young Specialists played a significant role mine, launching a low-power turbo compressor in this achievement.
In 2018, EVRAZ at the Tashtagolskaya mine and installing a lowZSMK increased its internal generation power boiler at the Abagurskaya plant, among Due to increased production volumes in 2018, of electricity and of heat while reducing specific other measures.
the segments total electricity consumption rose.
fuel consumption for electricity generation and for heat generation.
The cost of electricity and steam was reduced For additional information see EVRAZ first by decommissioning and mothballing the main Sustainability Report for 2018, which is to be In addition, EVRAZ ZSMK began development ventilation fan at the Sheregeshskaya mine, published in May 2019. of a risk management program for the main as well as installing modular compressor energy flows, and designed the options to ensure stations.
