Annual report & accounts 2018 Social policy OUR PEOPLE OUR APPROACH EVRAZ knows that its success is One of the Groups core principles treatment is monitored by public predicated on its people and places a is mutual respect.
EVRAZ works in a organisations, including the trade unions particular emphasis on human capital multicultural environment where everyone active at the Groups operations, as development.
The Group prioritises deserves respect and prohibits the use well as regional and federal trade union compliance with national legislation of offensive, abusive, discriminatory, associations and representatives of wherever it operates, including degrading or aggressive speech, in both Russias Presidential Council for Civil regulations governing labour protections, oral or written form, as well as verbal or Society and Human Rights.
minimum wage, annual paid and physical sexual harassment and actions parental leave, collective bargaining or expressions that offend a persons The Group holds its partners to equally agreements, health insurance, pensions, honour and dignity.
Child labour, bonded high human rights standards.
EVRAZ personal data protection and other labour, human traffcking and other forms policies require that all contracts with matters.
of slavery known as modern slavery are partners include sections governing the strictly prohibited at all EVRAZ subsidiaries prevention of corruption and human EVRAZ does not tolerate discrimination and their suppliers.
The Groups Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct underpin its Notably, most of the Groups full-time In 2018, the issue of discrimination compliance with the requirements of staff around 94% are located in Russia was covered for the first time in the international human rights laws.
The entire Russian labour law annual We are together employee documents ensure equal opportunity system is based on general international engagement survey.
Based on the in hiring and prohibit discrimination on legal principles and norms, and contains responses received from employees, the basis of race, age, gender, religious rules explicitly prohibiting any form of focus groups will be held in 2019 and and political beliefs, sexual orientation, discrimination based on gender, social an action plan will be developed.
At the nationality, ethnicity, citizenship, status or class, and any other factors year-end, the survey will be repeated to marital status, disability, etc.
During the not directly related to an employees assess the programmes effectiveness.
onboarding process, all employees are professional qualities.
Similar rules familiarised with the internal labour and exist in the national legislation of other payroll regulations, as well as EVRAZ countries where EVRAZ operates, and For additional information see EVRAZ first Code of Conduct, Cardinal Safety Rules local governments constantly monitor Sustainability Report for 2018, which is to be and Anti-corruption Policy.
In addition, worker published in May 2019.
Personnel profile Number of employees as of Breakdown of employees by age as of Headcount 31 December 2018, thousand people 31 December 2018, % As at 31 December 2018, EVRAZ had 2018 a total of 68,379 employees, a reduction 68.4 of 3% year-on-year.
In 2018, to better achieve 2017 the Groups strategy, it divested its assets 70.2 in Ukraine and sold EVRAZ DMZ, which was 2016 68,379 one of the primary factors that influenced 77.8 employees the headcount reduction in the year.
2015 84.5 Diversity 2014 94.8 EVRAZ sees diversity as a crucial business driver and strives to ensure that all employees rights receive equal protection, regardless 20 0.2 of race, nationality or sexual orientation.
the Board of Directors was joined by a new 20-29 14.8 Diversity improves business efficiency, increases independent non-executive director, Laurie Argo, 30-39 30.5 engagement and stimulates employee bringing the number of women on the Board 40-49 29.8 development.
In addition, Yanina 50-59 20.3 Staniulenaite was appointed as vice president 60 4.4 The Group believes that effective decision responsible for legal matters, bringing making and business management stems the number of women on the management team from having a diversity of opinions.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information Staff recruitment policy Staff reduction policy Breakdown of employees by region EVRAZ is focused on identifying and eliminating EVRAZ strives to consistently improve efficiency.
in 2018, % risks in the field of human rights, including those This is a complex task that ultimately leads related to hiring staff and working conditions.
In cases Staff recruitment is conducted in full compliance where staff are laid off as a result, the Group with the laws of the countries in which the Group approaches this as responsibly as possible, operates.
EVRAZ strives to provide opportunities guided by its Socially Responsible Layoff in hiring and career development for all Programme, which it adopted in 2012.
The 68,379 candidates and employees, regardless of gender, provisions of this programme are enshrined employees age, ethnicity, nationality, religion, etc.
In addition, the Groups collective agreements and industry EVRAZ recruitment principles include: tariff agreements include detailed employment Safety sections.
Respect for people Performance and responsibility Under Russian law, the following categories Russia and CIS 93.6 Customer focus of employees have additional guarantees against Noth America 6.0 Effective teamwork dismissal due to downsizing: Europe 0.4 Single mothers raising a child with a disability In accordance with the Groups policy, staff under the age of 18 are recruited under permanent employment Single mothers raising a child under the age contracts except for certain cases, when fixedof 14 Breakdown of permanent term contracts are used, including: Women with children younger than three years and temporary staff, % University students undergoing practical Parents or other legal guardians who training are the sole breadwinner for a child 100 Interns with a disability under the age of 18 if Seasonal workers, for example, summer camp the other parent is not employed staff and employees hired to unload coal Parents or legal guardians who are the sole 90 from railcars in winter breadwinner for a child younger than three People participating in investment projects, years in a family raising young children three who are hired for the duration of the project or more if the other parent is not employed 80 People hired to cover for employees Women who are pregnant 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 on parental leave Permanent Temporary Employees hired with a probationary period In addition, the preferential right to maintain employment under equal professional qualities Compensation does not differ for employees is granted to: under fixed-term and permanent contracts People in families with no other independent Diversity of employees, senior except for university students undergoing income management and directors, % practical training, as well as internal and external Employees with two or more dependents number of people part-time workers, who do not receive annual Employees who suffered an occupational bonuses or vacation travel vouchers.
Employees illness or work-related injury while employed Board hired on fixed-term contracts receive hiring at the Group 78% 7 22% 2 preferences for permanent positions matching Employees who were sent to employerSenior management their qualifications, education and work sponsored on-the-job training 88% 296 12% 41 experience.
Employees 73% 49,407 27% 18,635 Men Women Employee turnover, % 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Region Overall Voluntary Overall Voluntary Overall Voluntary Overall Voluntary Overall Voluntary Russia and CIS 12 7 11 6 14 5 12 5 17 7 North America 20 13 23 14 26 15 20 12 20 14 Europe 9 5 8 2 18 10 22 14 15 9 85 Annual report & accounts 2018 Beginning in 2019, Russia is introducing Case study additional protections for employees who have MERGER OF five or less years remaining to retirement age.
Such employees cannot be dismissed without EVRAZ ZSMK cause due to their attainment of pre-retirement age, nor can employment be denied on such AND EVRAZRUDA grounds.
In addition, EVRAZ grants the preferential right maintain employment to a broader group of employees than that defined under Russian law, including: In 2018, two of the Groups Single fathers raising a child under the age subsidiaries EVRAZ ZSMK and of 16 Evrazruda were merged into a People whose spouse is retired or unemployed single legal entity, EVRAZ United People who were raised in orphanages West Siberian Metallurgical Plant.
and are under the age of 30 It was highly difficult to merge College and university graduates within three two groups of employees without years of signing the employment contract problems from subsidiaries located for their first job in distant territories, each with People with disabilities who have not reached its own history, traditions and retirement age economics.
Spouses, children under 23 years or parents of an employee who died as a result The Group prepared carefully in of an accident at work advance: trade union organisations People who became ill due were invited to solve problems that to the consequences of the accident workers encountered and establish at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant an ongoing dialogue with employees and local communities.
Effective EVRAZ strives to retain its production staff.
communication, as well as equalising During staff reductions, the Group offers all social benefits and protections, employees, without exception, existing vacancies helped to ensure that the merger and, if necessary, pays for training in their new was closed on time, without any professions.
EVRAZ works with employment social upheavals and without the centres in the regions where it operates and, if need to involve additional resources.
necessary, arranges the relocation of employees to the Groups facilities in other regions.
EVRAZ also provides training and financial assistance to workers who are laid off and wish to open their own business.
Learning and development Preserving and developing engineering In the event of temporary staff reductions, EVRAZ believes that by providing employees competencies were a particular focus area, collective agreements contain clearly defined, every opportunity to grow within the organisation, including through the following events: specific measures to support workers it helps to prepare the Group to overcome future A total of 40 people attended 11 programmes and preserve jobs: changing work schedules, challenges and achieve ambitious goals.
of EVRAZ Chief Engineer School, two of which introducing shorter work days or work weeks, involved a new format, the interdivisional creating temporary jobs, transferring employees In 2018, the EVRAZ Business System EBS School of Recycling and School of Energy to other jobs, with their consent, etc.
Collective principles and tools played an important role Efficiency agreements also define the Groups obligation in employee training.
In particular, managers A total of 230 people attended corporate to develop a social adaptation programme were trained to promote EBS transformations scientific and technical youth conferences for workers with the participation of the trade and adopt a more challenging management in the Urals and Siberia divisions union organisation.
All decisions regarding staff style.
A total of 65 people attended 11 Theory reductions are made in dialogue with the trade of Inventive Problem Solving Russian union organisation.
To this end, the new Top 300 corporate abbreviation: TRIZ workshops programme was launched during the reporting A total of 20 people attended pilot workshops Performance management period.
Its participants were taught such on engineering analytics EVRAZ continues to improve its system management practices as performance of KPIs.
Technical KPIs have been developed dialogues in target setting, feedback, delegation, On average, the Groups employees received in accordance with best industry practices development of subordinates, among others.
89 hours of training during the year, 42 hours monitored by the Groups CEO and are built Each programme participant primarily of which was conducted via distance learning.
into the staff motivation system.
Corresponding shop managers and mine directors was KPI targets are included in managements mentored by a member of the Groups senior In addition, EVRAZ held the Technology scorecards down to the level of shop managers.
corporate scientific and technical conference, which aimed to create 86 www.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information visions of the future for the Group.
After Communication with In 2018, there were no conflicts or collective the conference, a seed group of young engineers labour disputes at the Groups Russian operating employees went to work in each division on projects facilities.
All changes and updates of collective curated by the technical director of their facility.
EVRAZ is committed to regularly engaging agreements were constructive, in strict In addition, every engineer at EVRAZ received with its workforce and realises the value accordance with the law and the principles a special educational resource called in listening to and acting on employee views of social partnership.
At every facility, trade union Engineernik a note pad with a problemacross the organisation.
conferences were held where the employees solving algorithm that is useful for self-learning confirmed that the terms of the collective and practical application.
EVRAZ uses a wide range of tools agreements were complied with in full throughout to communicate with its employees, including the year.
Standard operating procedures and safe the corporate intranet and website, corporate working practices are key aspects of the Groups publications, social networks and web Employee engagement employee development efforts.
EVRAZ conferences, as well as question and answer In 2018, for the third time, EVRAZ conducted invests in training facilities for practical skill sessions or townhalls with members of senior the We are together to develop local development, introduces new safe working management.
In addition, the Group holds and corporate-wide improvement plans.
The methods and improves its production mentoring general meetings and conducts employee focus was on increasing employee awareness system.
surveys to determine the level of satisfaction of what is happening at the Group, including its with working conditions including employee shortand long-term goals, facility development The Group is especially proud of its teams engagement surveys.
The study was victory at the WorldSkills championship.
In conducted from 24 September to 24 October.
In 2018, EVRAZ took part in the competition The Board reviews the engagement data 2018, employees of the Shared Service Centre, for the fifth time, bringing home one gold, three and has appointed in 2018 two non-executive EVRAZ Metall Inprom and EvrazTekhnika were silver and three bronze medals.
The Group was directors to be envolved in townhall meetings included in the study for the first time.
represented by 15 participants and 28 experts.
with employees and is therefore aware of any trends, comments or concerns.
The We are together employee engagement Contractors study gives every employee the opportunity All of EVRAZ human rights and antiWork with trade unions to express their opinion about working at EVRAZ discrimination policies apply to suppliers EVRAZ work with the trade unions representing and helps the management to understand and contractors, as well.
Each contract its workers rights is based on the principles peoples concerns.
Focus groups are currently with a partner must contain sections governing of social partnership.
Senior management meets being held, after which each division will develop the prevention of corruption and human regularly at least once a week with trade union a plan to eliminate pain points.
All contractors working at the Groups representatives at all Group facilities.
Meetings facilities are also required to follow EVRAZ between EVRAZ management and trade union Cardinal Safety Rules.
leaders are held at the site of EVRAZ Social Employee engagement survey response Production Council, a special body created rate, % Existing outsourcing procedures require by the Group to ensure the right of trade unions a three-party agreement preserving workers to protect workers and receive first-hand social benefits and protections to be information.
signed between the Group, the outsourcer and the primary trade union.
Trade unions The overall level of unionisation at the Group are full participants in tendering procedures is 75%, albeit with significant variations across when a service or deliverable directly concerns operations and countries.
In Russia, collective EVRAZ employees for example, when choosing agreements are required by legislation to cover a supplier for personal protective equipment all employees of an operating facility regardless PPE and exercising control, selecting of whether they are union members.
The healthcare centres for wellness leave, etc.
level of employees covered by the collective agreements at EVRAZ Russian operations 2018 74 Every EVRAZ employee must be familiarised is 90%.
At legal entities that do not have 2017 76 with the Contractor Auditing Policy as part collective agreements due to the lack of trade of the onboarding process.
In 2019, the Group unions, local employer regulations are in place plans to draft and approve regulations governing to provide employees with social benefits, Performance as an employer the procurement of goods and services, which protections and compensation in accordance EVRAZ regularly participates in contests that will contain EVRAZ requirements for contractors, with the Groups corporate policy.
confirm its status as a socially responsible as well as methods for monitoring employer.
In 2018, the Group won awards their compliance.
The trade unions at EVRAZ Russian operations for the social performance of its collective are part of nationwide industrial unions including agreements, as well as its HSE efforts, the Russian Mining and Metallurgical Union in the 15th annual metals and mining industry and the Russian Coal Industry Workers Union, contest held by the Russian Metallurgists and are also members of the Russian Federation Association and the Central Council of Independent Unions and international industrial of the Russian Mining and Metallurgical Union.
At the industry level, the Group cooperates with trade unions through industry EVRAZ operating facilities have also received employer associations, including the Russian regional awards for human resource Coal Mining Industry Employers Association management, including from the city of Nizhny and the Russian Metallurgists Association.
87 Annual report & accounts 2018 EVRAZ Hotline Motivation The Group uses the EVRAZ Hotline to help Breakdown of hotline enquiries monitor employee satisfaction and record in 2018, % Financial motivation incidents at its operating facilities.
To ensure EVRAZ strives to look beyond compliance the hotlines effectiveness, it is anonymous, with minimum wage requirements to ensure that works 24 7, uses an IT system to handle it compensates its staff adequately.
enquiries and has a transparent structure of responsible persons.
The process is regulated Since 2017, the Group has used a grading 743 by the EVRAZ Hotline Statutes.
Enquiries programme where consultants helped requests are broken down by the responsible business to evaluate roles within the organisation unit HSE, HR, Security, etc to be investigated and develop remuneration management and responded to.
The grading system and remuneration to employee persecution are investigated management principles have improved by the internal audit department.
All difficult, the transparency of employee remuneration.
controversial or sensitive cases are reviewed Labour relations 63 by members of the Hotline Committee, which In 2018, EVRAZ completed the job evaluations Health and safety 15 includes the vice president for corporate grading for all positions except line workers Security 10 communications, internal audit director at its Moscow assets, regional managing General information 8 and internal and external communications companies and trading network company, Others 4 director.
On a quarterly basis, the internal including: EvrazHolding in Moscow and the Urals, audit director performs random quality control EVRAZ Trading Company, EvrazTekhnika, EVRAZ reviews.
In 2018, the hotline received 743 requests.
Metall Inprom and EVRAZ Vanady Tula.
The The most frequent issues concerned Groups Grading Committee also met regularly labour relations, including the quality at the corporate headquarters to evaluate new of services for workers 174 and labour jobs and ensure that the grading process is up compensation 78. to date.
The grading helps to harmonise fixed and variable compensation, ensure that pay levels are market competitive and maintain the proper ratio of fixed and variable compensation.
Based on the grading and market Case study COAL SEGMENT RECRUITING CENTRE High coal prices and an improved economy have driven rapid growth in the Coal segment, which has opened new mines and open-pit operations, as well as increased production at existing facilities.
This ultimately led to a lack of both management and line personnel.
In July 2018, a recruiting centre began to be created for the Coal segment.
It reached its planned capacity in September, helping to significantly increase staffing levels at the mines.
The centres employees are now working to improve the Groups brand as an employer and expand the staff search geography.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information EVRAZ collective agreements also provide Average wage ratio, EVRAZ vs the region additional leave for childbirth, weddings of presence and funerals of close relatives.
There is also a programme that provides financial assistance Kemerovo region to employees in difficult life situations.
1.50 Tula region 1.62 Key projects in 2018 Sverdlovsk region 1.32 1 As part of the corporate social policy, voluntary health insurance programmes were introduced at EVRAZ Vanady-Tula, EVRAZ Metall practices, in 2018, EVRAZ systematised its Inprom, Evraz Metall Siberia and the Shared approach to determining the target annual Services Centre.
The principles governing the annual developed to meet specific conditions such merit increase were developed on the basis as the scattered branches of EVRAZ Metall of job evaluations and performance appraisals Inprom and Evraz Metall Siberia and workers and were implemented at the headquarters needs for example, at EVRAZ Vanady-Tula, and Urals managing company EvrazHolding employees need access to advanced dentistry, in Moscow and the Urals.
including services for preparing for dental prosthetics while maintaining corporate In 2018, EVRAZ also launched the grading principles: availability and reliability of medical program at its production assets, EVRAZ organisations, provision of quality services NTMK and EVRAZ KGOK, to develop a unified and co-financing by the employer.
In addition, compensation system and remuneration telemedicine is now available to the Groups principles.
The aim is to improve internal employees, providing for remote consultations fairness, transparency and competitiveness with doctors from Moscow, including highly of employee remuneration at every level.
part of the EVRAZ Business System EBS transformation process, the Group implemented an employee motivation system aimed Objectives for 2019 at encouraging the achievement of ambitious goals, developing workflow improvement ideas In 2019, the Group plans to launch and engaging employees at EVRAZ ZSMK a comprehensive health management including at the coke and sinter blast furnace programme for its employees.
The programme production, converter shops and rolling mill will integrate all existing medical programmes and EVRAZ NTMK at the coke and chemical into a single IT-based system that will help production.
It will also incorporate new approaches, including Non-financial motivation identifying risk groups and offering both group As a socially responsible company, EVRAZ and individual preventative programmes.
offers its employees a broad non-financial compensation package that exceeds A pilot project is also planned for EVRAZ ZSMK the minimal legislative requirements and is part that will cover all employees.
In addition, of total remuneration.
The Groups employees the Top 300 programme will be introduced receive voluntary health insurance, additional for shop managers mine directors and higher.
voluntary insurance against accidents at work, Another priority in 2019 is developing a government pension programme, a programme the production mentorship system for EVRAZ that compensates part of the interest employees.
on mortgage loans, free wellness leave vouchers for employees and their families, etc.
EVRAZ also supports retired former employees who worked 10 or more years at its facilities.
It has special programmes to support youth and women that have been united into public organisations.
Cultural and sports events are held for employees and their families in the cities where the Group operates.
Children of employees receive gifts for the New Year holidays and when they start first grade in school.
89 Annual report & accounts 2018 COMMUNITY RELATIONS OUR APPROACH EVRAZ adheres to international corporate social responsibility principles by investing in the future of the regions where it operates.
This includes improving urban infrastructure, labour conditions and the lives of its employees and their families, as well as implementing various charitable, educational, sport and environmental projects.
The Group fosters an open and productive dialogue with all stakeholders, including local governments, nongovernmental organisations, business and cultural associations, and the media.
EVRAZ enterprises are responsible taxpayers, contributing to regional budgets and promoting positive social and environmental policy change in the cities where their facilities are located.
EVRAZ has two charity funds that operate in Siberia and the Urals.
When choosing projects to support, the funds take into consideration EVRAZ charity policy.
This policy defines focus areas for support, including funding orphanages and needy families, sponsoring educational, sport and cultural projects, and subsidising medical centres and environmental programmes.
FEDERAL AND AWARDS PUBLIC REGIONAL EVENTS ORGANISATIONS Steel Dynasties, a joint online-project EVRAZ actively supports social, sport, of EVRAZ and Lenta.
ru, won the Special AND BUSINESS environmental and cultural programmes Look award for best internal corporate in the cities where it operates, including communications project at InterComm 2018.
ASSOCIATIONS hosting its own events and joining nationwide initiatives.
In 2018, the group was a partner EVRAZ ZSMK and Raspadskaya were EVRAZ is a member of important industry of the Clean Games in Kachkanar, a nationwide recognised for their EVRAZ for Cities federal and business associations, including environmental and educational project aimed programme with a gold medal For Innovative the Russian Managers Association, Russian at cleaning up the environment and waste Social Leadership in the Corporate Charity Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, sorting.
In Ekaterinburg, EVRAZ again sponsored leaders Siberia contest, a joint project Russian Steel, Russian Metallurgists the Grand Slam international judo competition.
of the Donors Forum, PwC and Vedomosti Association, Steel Construction Development The Group supports the Documentary newspaper.
Association, National Association for Subsoil Film Centre in Moscow, the Yeltsin Centre Examination, Association of Railway Product in Ekaterinburg and the Novokuznetsk Drama Producers and Russian Railways Consumer Theatre.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information KEY PROJECTS EVRAZ FOR KIDS Several core aspects of the Activities Groups support of children EVRAZ continued to fund rehabilitation programmes for children with cerebral palsy in Nizhny Tagil, are sponsoring academic Novokuznetsk, Kachkanar and Mezhdurechensk.
institutions and programmes, In Tula region, the Group organised a summer outing for children with autism and acquired equipment, furniture and toys for children with health limitations.
financing the purchase of In Novokuznetsk, EVRAZ made charitable donations to the Ostrov Nadezhdy, Orphanage School necessary school supplies and No.
95 and Rovesnik orphanages to implement social projects and assist grown children when they sport equipment, improving the leave the orphanages.
The Group gave holiday presents to disadvantaged children in Tula, Kemerovo and Sverdlovsk landscaping around schools regions.
In Nizhny Tagil, EVRAZ provided equipment for a sport field and playground at School No.
EVRAZ has always placed a high The Group provided funding for laboratory equipment and to improve the facilities and landscaping at Nizhny Tagil Mining and Metallurgical College.
priority on supporting children EVRAZ acquired equipment for the student design bureau at Nizhny Tagil Technical Institute, in orphanages and with special a branch of Ural Federal University.
needs, including through ongoing The Group provided funding for workshop equipment and scholarships at Kachkanar Mining Industry College.
programmes that provide In Kachkanar, EVRAZ arranged roof repairs at the Childrens Art School.
assistance and rehabilitation for In Texas, EVRAZ North America sponsored the Cherokee Creek Music Festival, the proceeds children with health limitations from which went to childrens charities.
The Group helped the Novokuznetsk Drama Theatre to equip a childrens theatre workshop and cerebral palsy.
EVRAZ provided support for the Rogachev Centre for Paediatric Haematology and Immunologys science project aimed to improve the treatment for acute myeloblastic leukaemia in children.
Case study In 2018, EVRAZ and the Social Investment and Innovation Agency held the Childrens Foresight event in the town of Kachkanar as part of a nationwide social project to engage schoolchildren in designing their future cities.
More than 65 children aged 12-17 took part in Childrens Foresight.
Their projects were aimed at improving Kachkanars public services and amenities, improving youth recreation facilities and promoting a healthy lifestyle.
The winners attended a social change leadership camp organised by the Agency for Strategic Initiatives that was held at the Artek international Childrens camp.
91 Annual report & accounts 2018 EVRAZ: CITY OF FRIENDS CITY OF IDEAS The EVRAZ: City of Friends City of Ideas grant contest is a project aimed at engaging people to improve public spaces, protect the environment, develop social initiatives and increase participation in social design, urban improvement, environmental education and preservation of urban natural resources.
Since 2017, the contest has been held in four cities where the Group operates.
In 2018, EVRAZ: City of Friends City of Ideas events took place in summer in Novokuznetsk and Mezhdurechensk, and in autumn in Nizhny Tagil and Kachkanar.
The contest received 167 applications from Siberia and 187 from the Urals in 2018, of which 51 projects received grants totalling RUB14.5 million.
Overall, the projects received more than 23,405 votes and the programmes website had 72,757 visitors.
Case study Winning projects Several EVRAZ: City of Friends City of Ideas Siberia projects were implemented in 2018.
The CyberSchool project in Novokuznetsk is aimed at teaching programming and introducing children aged 6-16 to scientific and technical creativity.
Thanks to a grant from EVRAZ, the Sport The Sport Today Healthy Generation Tomorrow project entailed creating a sport field Today Healthy Generation Tomorrow project for students at Novokuznetsk School No.
12 named for Hero of the USSR Semyon Chernovsky, was implemented.
The project entailed creating as well as children from large or low-income families and at-risk children.
a sport field for school students, children The Dog as a Social Adaptation Agent project in Novokuznetsk aims to help with the social from large or low-income families and at-risk engagement of children with health limitations by working with specially trained dogs.
12 now The From Life Safety Lessons to a Safe Life project in Mezhdurechensk seeks to promote has a universal outdoor sport facility where all awareness and responsibility among schoolchildren regarding safety in the face of the social, muscle groups can be trained.
natural and technogenic threats of the modern world.
The Healthy Lifestyle for Each Resident of Olzheras Village project will help to install modern A grant from EVRAZ also helped to hold sports equipment in the village.
the Veterans Games, which were dedicated The Film Summer project aims to create an outdoor cinema for residents of Mezhdurechensk.
to Novokuznetsks Year of Respect for the Elderly and the 50th anniversary of the Novokuznetsk Urals City Veterans Council.
A total of 120 veterans The At Home in the Forest project involves creating conditions for sport tourism in the Kachkanar took part in the games, playing football, table urban district, including acquiring modern equipment to professionally hold various competitions.
tennis, darts, checkers and chess.
The Sensory Garden project at the sole kindergarten in the Valerianovsk village in Sverdlovsk region aims to create conditions to make up for the lack of emotional and sensory communication with nature including for children with health limitations.
The Reviving Yachting in Nizhny Tagil project seeks to popularise the sport in the city and ensure that teenagers and youth have access to yachting.
As part of the project, volunteers plan to repair at least 30 yachts of various classes and prepare them to sail during summer 2019.
The Fairy Tale Film Workshop project aims to encourage children and youth to study Russian folk culture, customs and traditions by creating a fairy tale film at the live film studio in Nizhny Tagils Hall of Child and Youth Creativity.
The Miracle Pier childrens playground for special children project involves equipping playgrounds at Nizhny Tagils boarding school for hearing impaired children.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information EVRAZ FOR CITIES Each year, EVRAZ invests to Activities improve urban infrastructure in In Kemerovo region, the Group provided donations to help overhaul the municipal heating network the regions where it operates.
The Group sponsors medical, EVRAZ provided donations to improve the municipal infrastructure in Tashtagol district as part of the Miners Day celebrations.
educational and cultural The Group donated equipment and ambulances to medical centres in the Urals and Siberia, institutions.
including a fully equipped mobile intensive care unit for the regional clinical centre for miners health care in Leninsk-Kuznetsky.
EVRAZ provided donations to the Cozy City charity in Nizhny Tagil.
The funds were used to help the veterans council, landscape a city park, acquire books for local residents and other projects.
The Group donated funds to the Gift of Life Centre for Protection of Motherhood and Childhood Case study to repair the facilities of the Baby and Mother crisis shelter in Nizhny Tagil.
In Kachkanar, EVRAZ supported urban beautification efforts, the organisation of public social EVRAZ provided extensive support for various and charity holiday events, and the development of the Club of Humour movement Russian projects and events for Novokuznetsks 400th abbreviation: KVN, humour TV show.
The Group financed The Group helped Kachkanars cultural centre to acquire multimedia equipment and a projector the creation of the only workout stadium screen, equipment and lighting for an ice park, and to conduct various events for local residents.
in Kemerovo region, which was opened as part EVRAZ assisted with a project to develop a comprehensive traffic plan for Kachkanar.
of Russias national street sport festival.
EVRAZ EVRAZ North America sponsored the Alberta Cancer Foundations Enbridge Alberta Ride helped to landscape public squares: repaired to Conquer Cancer.
an Olympic reserve ski school and the Meridian centre of technical creation: and rebuilt the facade of the Metallurg stadium.
In addition, the Group provided equipment to Siberian State Industrial University for a modern auditorium that was named for Ivan Bardin, an outstanding engineer.
93 Annual report & accounts 2018 EVRAZ FOR SPORT EVRAZ supports amateur and professional sports teams, as well as individual athletes, by sponsoring equipment purchases, training programmes and competitions.
Case study For the second consecutive year, EVRAZ sponsored the prestigious Grand Slam judo tournament, which is organised by the Russian Judo Federation and National Judo Union.
Yekaterinburg is the only Russian city where the competition is held.
The remaining four stages of the Grand Slam tournament in 2018 were Paris, Dusseldorf, Abu Dhabi and Tokyo.
The best athletes from 35 countries took part in the competition.
EVRAZ VOLUNTEERS While EVRAZ does not have an official policy PROJECT AWARDS Helping Kindergarten No.
regarding volunteering, for many years The Groups employees acquired kitchenware the Groups employees have been helping and toys, replaced the lighting and electrical people in difficult situations, supporting wiring, repaired buildings, improved childrens institutions and organising various playgrounds, organised holiday events sport and social events.
and gave the children books and school supplies: For the second consecutive year, EVRAZ NTMKs Helping Boarding School No.
1 in Nizhny employees have held the Relay of Good Tagil.
EVRAZ NTMKs employees donated Deeds.
It started at the plant in February 2017 an all-in-one printer scanner copier and has since had more than 8,000 participants and two televisions.
They also repaired who have helped 12 educational institutions the electrical wiring, as well as the equipment in Sverdlovsk region.
in the schools metal and woodworking shops: Helping the kindergartens in the villages In 2018, the following events were held of Bashkara and Kaigorodskoye.
In Bashkara, as part of the Relay of Good Deeds: EVRAZ NTMKs employees repaired Helping Kindergarten No.
The Relay of Good Deeds project has the fence, veranda, kindergarten slide, Employees of EVRAZ NTMK helped received the special Kind Heart nomination kitchen equipment and electrical wiring.
In the kindergarten to prepare for winter, from KFC in the Volunteering programme Kaigorosdkoye, they updated the lighting including replacing pipes, repairing of the Corporate Charity Leaders federal in the classrooms.
They also donated the heating and electrical systems, competition and won third place in the regional educational games, construction sets and toys and improving the playgrounds: Corporate Charity Leaders Ural contest.
for the children in both kindergartens.
com Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR REPORT Additional information Activities As part of EVRAZ fourth-annual High Five event, races took place in Novokuznetsk, Nizhny Tagil and Moscow.
In Tashtagol, the Group held the 15th annual Andrey Sevenyuk corporate ski and snowboard competition.
EVRAZ equipped a skate park for the Jupiter Olympic reserve sport school in Nizhny Tagil.
The Group helped the Uralochka sport school in Nizhny Tagil to acquire office and sport equipment.
In Kachkanar, EVRAZ helped to repair sport facilities and acquire equipment for hockey players at the district Sports and Recreation Complex.
The Group provided sponsorship for the Kachkanar municipal district Federation of Sambo and Judo to organise trips to competitions, as well as to acquire sport equipment and transportation to get children to competitions.
EVRAZ helped Kachkanars Olymp sport school to travel to competitions and provided funding to hold a football competition.
In Tashtagol district, the Group helped the Shoria hockey team to acquire sport equipment.
EVRAZ helped the Mezhdurechensk sport school that teaches team sports to conduct a streetball competition for local amateur teams.
In Novokuznetsk, the Group supported Childrens Sport School No.
2 to organise the 33rd annual City Games and helped to repair a stadium.
EVRAZ installed a modular building on Mount Yugus in Mezhdurechensk for the Khokhrin Olympic reserve sport school for skiing.
The Group provided assistance to Novokuznetsks Metallurg-Zapsib sport school received to organise their teams participation in football competitions at the Russian Championship.
NEW PROJECTS In July 2018, EVRAZ and the online publication In November 2018, EVRAZ Lenta.
ru launched the Steel Dynasties and the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper digital project: http: evraz.
launched the Strength of Generations digital project: https: www.
ru best msk Steel Dynasties presents the story of five sila-pokolenij.
families of steelmakers and miners from Siberia and the Urals, where the professions are passed Strength of Generations is a project dedicated down from generation to generation.
The to mentoring, passing on professional combined work experience of the families experience and production culture.
The five families represent follows six pairs of mentors and their proteges, the Groups core operations: EVRAZ NTMK, describing the growing skills and career paths EVRAZ ZSMK, Kachkanarsky GOK, Evrazruda of EVRAZ people, who also work at the Groups and Raspadskaya.
The project team travelled key assets: Kachkanarsky GOK, EVRAZ hundreds of kilometres to put all the stories NTMK, Raspadskaya and EVRAZ ZSMK.
project underscores the importance of bluecollar professions and seeks to increase their popularity among youth.
