Strategic report 25 Our people and corporate responsibility Creating shared value Were delivering our purpose by Progress in the year ended 31 March 2018 Progress in 2017 18 unlocking the power of data to Our focus areas Our progress transform lives and create a better Powering opportunities See pages 26 27 tomorrow for consumers, clients, our people and our communities.
Creating a better Our social innovation products reached 18 million people, giving them access tomorrow to essential services, and generated an additional US$9m for our business since 2014.
Integral to our business Our employees volunteered over 46,000 hours of their working and Data is the lifeblood of our business.
By out-of-work time to support their communities in FY18.
unlocking its potential we are able to improve Helping people Were using alternative data to help people in South Africa without a bank the financial con dence of individuals all over through lifes account build a credit pro le.
the world and support communities towards biggest moments We enabled 108,000 patients in the USA to get payment plans for healthcare a more prosperous future.
based on their financial needs and the providers payment terms.
Our 16,500 people across 39 countries are Building peoples Millions of people in the UK and the USA are using Experian to see their credit the heart of our business.
They make it financial con dence scores free of charge.
possible to ful l our brand purpose powering We trained over 1,000 teachers on financial education for people in cities and opportunities to create a better tomorrow.
We have developed The Experian Way, Over 22 million people in Brazil have signed up to our Serasa Consumidor site, a consistent way of conducting our business giving them access to credit reports and the ability to renegotiate their debts with integrity, to underpin the inclusive, and weve developed a similar platform in Spain.
high-performing and innovative culture in which our people will thrive.
Inspiring our people See pages 28 32 The Experian Way encompasses: Creating a great We launched a new agile employee listening strategy including feedback place to work mechanisms across the employee lifecycle, with new joiner, onboarding, Value each other pulse and exit surveys.
We achieved an 84% participation rate in our new, Safeguard our future mobile-enabled annual employee survey.
1 Our Glassdoor rating has improved from 3.1 at the start of 2017 to 3.5 in Delight customers March 2018.
Innovate to grow Developing talent Our top 200 leaders globally have participated in High Performance Masterclasses.
Our suite of global and regional talent programmes have continued to enable Underlying all our work is a rm commitment our people to develop their careers.
to acting with integrity, putting our consumers Diversity and We have created an Inclusion Taskforce, with leads from all regions first in all that we do, and protecting the Inclusion collaborating to share best practice and progress on improving gender environment.
diversity and our gender pay gap.
Our Women in Experian network has grown, with nine executive ambassadors For more on The Experian Way see page 30 globally championing gender diversity.
Working with integrity See pages 34 35 Upholding high Weve refreshed our Code of Conduct to make it more accessible and align it ethical standards with The Experian Way.
Safeguarding data Weve made signi cant investments in upgrading processes and technologies, and privacy growing our information security teams and bringing greater organisational clarity to ensure we maintain a world-class cyber security programme.
Protecting the We cut our carbon footprint by a further 6% in 2018 to 51,000 tonnes of environment COequivalent CO e and we beat our target to reduce the carbon intensity 2 2 per US$1,000 revenue, of our business, by 5% from 2015.
1 Glassdoor ratings are determined by employee feedback left at www.
com Experian had 1,436 reviews at the end of March 2018.
Experian plc 26 Strategic report Our people and corporate responsibility continued Creating a better tomorrow Helping people through lifes biggest moments Powering We deliver our purpose through our core business activities, our Social Innovation The big moments of our lives often start with opportunities programme and our corporate responsibility something seemingly small.
pro le may seem like a small thing, but it can play a big part in getting their application Focusing on We hold vast quantities of data and we use our approved for a mortgage, rental property or core expertise, products and solutions to Creating a better tomorrow business loan and in helping them access transform that data into something meaningful Helping people through lifes essential services at a rate they can aff ord.
to help millions of people around the world.
biggest moments We put consumers at the heart of what we do We help people prove who they are and build Building peoples financial con dence and weve evolved our approach to help us a strong financial track record.
Our data and better understand their needs, develop analytics give lenders our clients the solutions that respond to those needs and information they need to make fairer, faster bring people closer to realising their dreams.
decisions for the people applying for credit.
Experian products like Prove-ID and Identity Through our Social Innovation programme, we Authenticate help lenders quickly verify invest in products and solutions designed to identities and prevent fraud.
Other core off er even more social bene ts and create new products provide businesses with revenue streams for our business.
Since 2014, sophisticated data and insight that helps they have reached over 18 million additional them make decisions fast.
people, providing them with access to essential services and generated more than Through our Social Innovation programme US$9m in additional revenue.
we have developed products and solutions speci cally designed to help people with low Experian technology We go one step further with our CR incomes and poor credit scores get access to developed for the programme, which channels our funding and the credit they need.
Association of British product support for causes relevant to our Credit Unions helped business and enables our employees to donate For example, the credit scoring technology we its members provide their time and expertise to support others.
developed for the Association of British Credit over 97,000 loans In 2018, our employees volunteered over Unions helped its members process over to people across 46,000 hours of their working and out-of-work 97,000 approved loans in 2018.
time and our direct community investment were partnering with Good Shepherd totalled US$9.4m.
Micro finance to provide low or no interest loans to people who otherwise couldnt aff ord essentials.
Empowering women in Vietnam Were also tapping into alternative data sources like on-time payments of rent or utility Living in southern rural Vietnam, Ho Thi bills to help people strengthen their financial I have frequent customers Thanh My worked hard to make money for pro les and give lenders more con dence that who are my group members, her family.
She bought fruit and vegetables a loan will be repaid.
In the USA, we already my neighbours and my relatives.
from her neighbours and sold them at incorporate rental payment data on over markets.
But her stock was dependent on 18 million tenants through our RentBureau They call me any time when seasonal harvests.
Sometimes she had and we hope to expand our alternative data they have parties, weddings, etc.
Most days, she only earned sources through our acquisition of Clarity, and ask me to cook sticky rice US$2-US$3.
a leading specialised consumer credit bureau.
They have helped me In South Africa, we have developed a credit My business was diffi cult, but assessment for people without a bank account, earn more money.
I had no idea what to do and using alternative data such as mobile pre-paid airtime or money transfers.
My is just one of the 400 women whose how to do things diff erently to businesses the microfinance programme Many of our products play a vital role in improve my income.
has helped boost through training and meeting one of the most basic human needs: micro-loans.
Through the micro finance programme to have a home.
In Colombia, we aim to help Experian ran with USAID, My completed half a million people build their financial business training that helped her nd new history, become eligible for credit and get ways to attract customers.
She found a access to government subsidies on a good place to set up her stall and display mortgage.
In the Netherlands, our Personal her products in an attractive way.
And with Housing Adviser is using financial pro les to the support of her fellow entrepreneurs and cut the time it takes house hunters to nd the micro-loans, she was able to buy new stock right home, by shortlisting properties that and switched to selling breakfast goods that match both their personal priorities and a are available year round.
With these new mortgage they can aff ord.
products, My has increased her income and her familys life has improved.
Strategic report 27 For people in the USA, paying for healthcare that help them access aff ordable credit, can be a huge worry at a time when theyre protect against fraud and learn how to improve Supporting recovery eff orts already facing health concerns.
More than 10 million people have after hurricanes in the Patient Estimates enables providers to already accessed their free Serasa Experian Caribbean estimate the potential cost of treatment, to credit report in 2018, with 8% increasing their help patients plan for out-of-pocket costs and score every month.
While Ive always been passionate about our Payment Plan Adviser off ers automated Our employees volunteered to support a range human rights, it became more of a lifestyle payment plans for healthcare organisations, of financial education and other community after spending a year in Jordan working based on patients financial needs and the programmes in 2018.
For example, they with Syrian refugees.
When I returned to providers payment terms.
In 2018, these volunteered 20 hours helping refugees in the United States and started working for personalised payment plans helped Bulgaria learn more about their nances, Experian, I decided to volunteer in my free 108,000 patients.
accessing credit and protecting their time with the Red Cross.
I went through Our Credit Services business helps personal data.
disaster training courses that prepared me entrepreneurs build their financial pro le so for deployment when hurricanes Irma and In Brazil, our long-running Real Dreams they can get loans to grow their business at a Maria hit the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.
programme reached over 5,700 more people fair interest rate.
We provide extra support for in 2018.
Now were going the extra mile, When I arrived in St. Thomas and St. Croix, very small businesses through, for example, visiting remote communities by truck and boat.
I immediately saw the devastation not our Real Dreams financial education in Brazil Together with trainers from the Financial only to people, but to the animals as well.
and small loans for micro-entrepreneurs Education Association, our team is travelling While I was doing disaster recovery work in Vietnam.
to 44 cities to train around 2,000 teachers on on the islands, I was also keeping an eye financial education to reach more people out for animals in need.
I quickly became Building peoples financial con dence in these underserved areas.
More than 1,000 acquainted with the team from the We give people the tools and knowledge they teachers have already been trained in 2018.
American Society for the Prevention of need to stay on top of their credit pro le and Along the way, our team is inviting local people Cruelty to Animals and reported any make informed financial decisions to maintain to come and view their credit scores and get animals who looked to be lost or hurt.
A big part of the support advice all for free see story on page 33.
This is how I met my puppy, Croix, who we off er is through our Social Innovation and we rescued from a toppled home.
In 2018, over three million people in Brazil employee volunteering programmes designed signed up to the Recovery Portal to renegotiate It has been amazing being part of an to educate people on how to stay in control of their debts to help them manage payments.
organisation that not only talks about social their nances and pull themselves out of debt.
Weve also introduced a similar platform in responsibility, but is wholly committed.
Seeing and understanding your credit score is Spain that provides people with insight into Experian was behind me the whole way.
the first step to understanding how to improve their debt problems, advice and education on I am so grateful that I can use my project it.
In the UK and the USA, millions of people financial issues.
management skills inside and outside have viewed their Experian credit scores free Experian to make a positive diff erence Many of our products and services, such as of charge in 2018 and over 23 million people to society.
CreditExpert and CreditTracker, help people worldwide visited our blogs and social media protect their credit pro les and themselves channels, AskExperian and #CreditChat, to get Jessica Childs from fraud by alerting them to suspicious tips on managing their nances.
In the UK, were raising awareness Experian North America In Brazil, weve made it possible for consumers of fraud threats among the elderly, who are to access not just their credit pro le but their particularly vulnerable.
We reached over credit score for the first time.
Customers can 120,000 people in 2018 and were extending now go online to access a range of products the programme to more areas.
Community Investment 2018 2017 2016 Year ended 31 March US$000 US$000 US$000 Funds from Experian plc 2,955 3,359 3,272 Financial donations and investments from Experian subsidiaries 2,781 2,237 1,594 Employee time volunteered 1,524 1,243 1,296 Gifts in kind 711 648 620 Management costs 1,401 907 957 Total from Experian 9,372 8,394 7,739 As % of Benchmark PBT 0.78% 0.75% 0.68% Employee fundraising 986 656 937 Value of out-of-work volunteering enabled by Experian 114 229 304 Total value of all giving 10,472 9,279 8,980 As % of Benchmark PBT 0.87% 0.83% 0.79% For more information on how these gures are calculated, see the 2018 Reporting Principles and Methodology at www.
Experian plc 28 Strategic report Our people and corporate responsibility continued Creating a great place to work What we learned from our employees Inspiring our people Our commitment to creating a great place to 89% of respondents know what we work continues, with engaged and committed stand for in the marketplace people, underpinned by a high-performance Focusing on and inclusive culture.
With the introduction Our new brand purpose and beliefs have been Creating a great place to work of a new employee listening strategy, 2018 well embedded, with 89% of respondents What we learned from our employees provided our first opportunity to measure understanding what Experian stands for, Developing talent progress since the launch of our new Brand showing pride in who we are and what we do.
Valuing diversity Purpose to create a better tomorrow, and 83% believe we strive to help customers and our globally consistent behaviours aligned consumers realise their goals and 87% believe to our Brand The Experian Way.
This new we have integrity in dealings with consumers approach captures employee sentiment and customers up 5 percentage points through employee surveys at all stages of the compared to 2015 and 1 percentage point employee lifecycle: from new joiners when above the HPN.
Our work to bring to life they start and through the onboarding period, a stronger consumer and client focus and Our people help to unlock the for all employees through our main annual demonstrate how we power opportunities to survey and again through our six-monthly create a better tomorrow has resonated for power of data for our customers Pulse survey, and when people leave us, our people.
This is due in large part to our and clients around the world.
In May 2017, we ran our approach of empowering local teams through work carries great responsibility first transformed, agile, all-employee annual a network of Brand Pioneers.
These clear survey, as part of our ongoing commitment to brand messages are now identi able in and we believe that how we work employee listening and 84% of our employees our internal and external communications, is as important as what we do.
joined the dialogue by participating.
including our advertising and talent We remain focused on creating a attraction campaigns.
We are proud of the results in which we high-performance, inclusive culture achieved a 71% favourable Engagement In addition to changing the way we talk about in which great talent can thrive, score just 2 percentage points below the working for Experian internally and externally, 1 High Performing Norm HPN and a 74% we have improved experiences for current driving sustainable growth and Enablement score 2 percentage points ahead and prospective employees by embedding making Experian a great place 2 of the HPN.
We were also pleased with The Experian Way into our core people to work.
improvement in areas such as sentiment processes.
To support an improved candidate around senior leadership and communication experience, we have invested in a new which had seen a decline in the previous applicant tracking system to streamline and survey in 2015 up 5 percentage points simplify the recruitment process.
who receive an off er of employment from us, we have introduced a new off er and onboarding platform, piloted in 2017 in the UK and Ireland and EMEA regions.
The Experian Way is also now fully embedded in our global performance management process, Performance For Growth PFG, and is a key part of an employees performance assessment, demonstrating our commitment that how we work is as important to us as what we do.
1 KornFerry Hay Groups Global High Performing Employees by region Global cost prole Companies Norm HPN is a stretch benchmark based on both financial results over a five-year F period and above-average Engagement and D E A North America 40% A Labour 54% Enablement scores.
D 6,700 A A B Data 16% 2 KornFerry Hay Groups Model of Engaged B Latin America 19% TM Performance focuses on two equally C Marketing 10% C 3,100 important outcomes of performance: D IT 9% C C UK and Ireland 22% Engagement a measure of employee 3,600 E Central Activities 2% B pride, levels of motivation, willingness to recommend Experian as a place to work and B D EMEA Asia Pacic 19% F Other 9% long-term commitment to the business 3,100 Enablement a measure of how well an 16,500 organisation enables people to be productive, Number of full-time-equivalent employees.
based on two distinct parts: job role t and supportive work conditions.
Strategic report 29 Were giving clients greater financial visibility to the underbanked and improving consumers access to aff ordable credit.
Andy Sheehan Senior Vice President, General Manager of Clarity Services, Experian Strategy in action: Broaden and deepen our data assets Improving financial Scale in targeted verticals and geographies access using new sources of credit data with our acquisition of Clarity Services, Inc. Accessing mainstream credit can Improving the credit visibility on A more complete picture be diffi cult for millions of people over 60m people through Clarity for lenders and greater access to credit For millions of Americans, obtaining Clarity Services, Inc. brings together the credit from traditional lenders, like banks, data from alternative lenders for people The combination of this new source of or retailers, can be very challenging or who are underserved by traditional alternative credit data, from Clarity, and simply impossible.
These people are often lenders and who fall in the underbanked, traditional credit data, from Experian, viewed as a group that is too risky to lend sub-prime and near-prime lending helps to give lenders a more complete to, often because there is little or no categories.
Claritys data helps lenders picture of a credit applicant.
It enables information on the traditional credit le address fraud, credit and risk needs.
them to develop new products for the that sits with the large credit bureaux.
This data, along with Claritys analytics, underserved and provide the most helps lenders better understand the appropriate credit for their needs.
It helps But does that lack of information mean vastly diff erent credit usage behaviours lenders to approve more applications that a person will be irresponsible of thin le and sub-prime consumers.
and mitigate the risk of defaults.
with credit, or are they otherwise creditworthy?
In times of temporary With the acquisition of Clarity, weve It means improved access to credit for financial diffi culty, such as due to a job been able to strengthen and deepen the responsible borrowers.
Interest rates loss or unexpected medical bill, it means consumer credit data we hold.
This is an are more aff ordable as people can that they have to either sell an asset or important step in improving the visibility demonstrate a lower risk of default, turn to alternative lenders for smallon over 60 million sub-prime consumers helping protect them from excessive dollar loans or payday loans.
It gives them a larger pool of financial services lenders are often lenders to apply to, which means quicker, crucial in helping people manage their easier and more convenient access monthly expenses and cover a shortage to credit.
They currently provide lending to about 100 million people in the USA.
Experian plc 30 Strategic report Our people and corporate responsibility continued The Experian Way The Experian Way is a unique and consistent way of working Innovate to grow globally.
It informs how our At Experian, its the people act and behave, which responsibility of each one of shapes our culture.
Its fide ned us to nd opportunities and across five key areas of improve the way we do things to help our business and our strategic importance: customers grow.
Value each other We make Experian a great place to work.
We treat each other with respect, trust and integrity.
Safeguard our future Delight customers Collaborate to win At Experian, each one of At Experian, whether your One Experian mindset we us acts as a guardian for role brings you into contact work as one united team and the protection of data, with customers directly or use the combined strengths information, assets and not, all of us contribute to and capabilities of our people, our people to safeguard meeting customer needs.
products and services across our future.
At the heart of what we teams, functions and regions.
do are the relations nship hips s This translates into we invest in and seamless experiences es nurture.
recognition badges, 9,600 spot awards, 1,200 Continue to ensure strategic clarity Our employees know what we are half-year awards and 36 elite awards.
74% of andcommunication striving to achieve together employees told us they received recognition While we made strong progress here, we Since the last survey in 2015, there have been for a job well done up 6 percentage points cannot be complacent and will be investing signi cant improvements around perceptions from 2015.
79% said they are encouraged in helping leaders at all levels drive strong of senior leaders and strategic clarity.
85% to come up with new ways to do things and direction and clarity through our continued have a good understanding of their business 81% that they have autonomy to do their job focus on employee communications.
It is units goals up 2 percentage points from 2015 up 7 and 8 percentage points respectively essential that our employees have clarity and 88% understand the results expected of from 2015 and both above the HPN.
to maximise their contribution to our them in their job up 12 percentage points from strategic priorities.
Having made signi cant progress on the focus 2015.
We now have regular leadership updates areas from the 2015 annual employee survey, from the Chief Executive and webinars with the Developing talent there were a couple of areas highlighted for top 600 leaders to improve line of sight and We are proud to see that our work on improvement.
Our employees have told us that interaction on strategic priorities.
Our regional developing our talent has been recognised we need to: management teams have also invested in by our employees, with responses regarding extended leadership communications to better Address barriers to productivity opportunities for development signi cantly engage the entire organisation, introducing 20% of the comments by employees in the exceeding the HPN.
79% of respondents state regular round tables and events geared survey related to internal barriers they felt that their manager supports them in their towards improving employee face-to-face were getting in the way of doing their jobs personal development 13 percentage points contact, clarity and alignment.
well and helping them be more productive.
We have read every comment to understand Our employees feel respected, 72% told us they had good opportunities for the insight that our employees, at the front recognised and empowered learning and development 7 percentage line of our processes, have shared.
We have points above the HPN and 67% said they initiated a range of work streams to address 90% of respondents are motivated to help us had opportunities to achieve their career employee experience, including a review succeed 16 percentage points ahead of the objectives at Experian 5 percentage points of processes in Experian IT Services and HPN group and we know that this motivation above the HPN.
a user experience working group in is driving great work in every area of our compliance and governance.
To ensure that great work never At a global level we have focused on committed to monitoring how our goes uncelebrated, this year we further maximising the performance of our talent employees respond to the question on embedded our One Experian recognition by investing US$8.5 million in FY18 on internal barriers as part of our ongoing programme based around The Experian Way.
development across a range of opportunities, dialogue around making Experian a great The programme has seen strong engagement including training programmes, coaching place to work.
from our employees, with over 36,000 and our e-learning platform which enables nominations and the awarding of 19,000 employees to self-manage their participation.
Strategic report Globally run Regionally run 31 We also engage with external platforms such To foster a culture of high performance in the as Everywoman and GetAbstract where all organisation, one of our main priorities for employees have access to blended learning 2019 is the development of a Leadership 79% and content to support their personal Performance Programme targeting mid-tier of survey respondents say their development.
This year, we saw global and rising leaders.
The programme will be manager supports them in membership grow by 7% on GetAbstract and piloted in 2019 and reviewed for a roll-out their personal development 13 11% on Everywoman.
We have set ourselves for up to 2,000 leaders at this level in the percentage points above HPN the target of increasing membership by a following year.
further 20% in 2019 as we look to utilise Our talent programmes have contributed to a Everywoman content through our employee stronger talent pipeline by reducing attrition networks and partner on the translation of and improving promotion rates amongst high content for our Portuguese-speaking performers and high-potential employees.
For example, our CEO Forum programme We have enabled employees to seek has an average promotion rate of 24%, over 11.5% self-directed assignments which take double the Experian average of 11%, and our Voluntary attrition is now 11.5%, advantage of our global organisation, with Experian Business Network programme has down from 15.5% in 2015 66 employees making an international move 4% attrition, just over a third of our overall 1 in 2018.
In our Asia Paci c and EMEA regions, attrition rate.
we piloted a programme where employees can Our overall voluntary attrition rate has seen apply for an assignment of up to three months recent improvement, decreasing from 15.5% in another country and department, as part of 2 in 2015 to 11.5% in 2018, as part of a concerted their development plan.
In the last 12 months, eff ort to deploy our in-house predictive 13 employees have taken up this opportunity.
analytics tool in all our regions.
The tool is These moves foster better understanding driven by our Attrition Risk Model, which between business areas and encourage our 24% enables HR teams to identify critical people to think more globally.
employees at risk of leaving, for the purpose of On average 24% of participants in our CEO Forum in the last We centrally manage a suite of structured taking preventative action.
For example, our two years have been promoted, global talent programmes which off er growth North America region used the tool to reduce over double the Experian overall opportunities targeted at diff erent tiers of the attrition amongst the high-performing female average promotion rate organisation see below.
population from 11% in 2016 to 4% in the first half of 2017.
Experian talent development opportunities High Senior to Mid-tier Leadership Group Performance Masterclass Mid-tier Leadership Group CEO Forum Rising Leadership Group Experian Business Network Entry-level Leadership Group Emerging Leaders Programme Manager Essentials Get Inclusive All Line Managers Performance Management modules 1 Average promotion and attrition rates refer to 2016 and 2017 cohort analysis.
Education Express e-learning videos e-books All Employees 2 The 2015 attrition rate includes Get Abstract Development Guides Everywoman the CCM business, that has since been divested.
Experian plc 32 Strategic report Our people and corporate responsibility continued By developing and retaining our talent we Examples of the activity undertaken by the aim to improve succession for our most taskforce include: senior roles, ensuring that we safeguard our supporting executive sponsorship of talent 55% organisational performance from external from under-represented groups pressures in the talent marketplace.
The Global employees emergency coverage for senior leader roles sharing best practice examples from are male in 2018 is 100%, up from 97% in 2017.
We have accelerated development programmes for had a number of new appointments into the high-potential females senior leader population while maintaining our championing balanced shortlists for internal succession coverage with 77% the same as promotions, external hires and our talent 2017 of senior leaders having one successor programmes who is ready now or ready in two years and 50% of senior leaders having at least two reviewing our position on family-friendly successors who are ready now or ready in policies in our 39 countries of operation.
45% two years slightly down from 53% last year.
For example, three out of four employees globally received enhanced parental bene t To complement our global programmes and Global employees exceeding local requirements and 96% of activity, our regions have targeted action plans are female our female employees globally bene t from to address skills and capability requirements at least 12 weeks maternity leave relative to their speci c workforce needs, for example, analytics and technical skills in North producing an inclusion annual report for our America, digital capability in Latin America and North America region as a comprehensive commercial capability in EMEA.
communication to employees on progress, including our Get Inclusive programme, our partnership with California State University Valuing diversity Fullerton to access the latest diversity and Value each other is one of the five core 55% inclusion research and our sponsorship components laid out in The Experian Way: for of 10 participants at the Grace Hopper Workforce classed us, it is about treating everyone with respect, Celebration of Women in Computing.
Our ambition is to nurture a as millennial culture of inclusion where we can all bring our 2018 saw the launch of Employee Resource whole selves to work each day.
Our primary Groups across the globe, including groups for focus is on encouraging an environment parents, veterans, LGBTQ, diff erent ethnic that cultivates diverse perspectives and backgrounds and a range of social interests, decision-making, ensuring that individuals are all powered by the passion of our employees able to be themselves and do their best work.
1 In 2019 we will begin to collect data on the In North America, employees across the inclusiveness of our culture by expanding 32% region participated in a celebration of diff erent our annual people survey to include two new cultures, encouraging all employees to share Female questions to measure the impact of our work more about their life outside work.
representation in sharing their own background, story and The female under-representation in our our leadership journey, an initiative was developed called leadership group is the cause of our reported The Power of You, which has seen short videos population gender pay gap in the UK.
Our mean gender released weekly between November 2017 and pay gap, which compares average hourly rate January 2018 with colleagues talking about of pay between all men and all women at what inclusion means to them.
The videos Experian UK, is 29.94%.
Were con dent that have been well received, with 5,700 page views jobs of equal value are paid appropriately globally since the launch.
and we have committed to improving the These are just some examples of the work proportion of women in leadership positions in speci c regions which has contributed to reduce the gap see our UK Gender Pay to external recognition of our culture and Report 2017 for more information.
introduced goals for the gender diversity of our employee population and talent pipeline We were recently named on the Anita Borg which we track on a monthly dashboard.
Leadership Index for Top Companies for Women Technologists 2017 for the first time We have Diversity & Inclusion leaders who and as a Top Workplace Honouree on the partner with our nine executive ambassadors Orange County Register for the fifth time.
from the Women in Experian network and Weve achieved Top Employer status again in To read our UK Gender Pay Report 2017 visit meet monthly as part of a global taskforce www.
co. uk assets about-us reports the UK.
External recognition of our progress to discuss progress on action plans, share experian-gpg-report.
pdf as an organisation can also be seen in the successes and provide cross-region support.
improvement of our Glassdoor rating this 1 In 2018 we expanded our gender reporting of the group year which has moved from 3.1 out of 5 to formerly referred to as senior leaders to include 3.5 out of 5. leadership roles that also contribute at a strategic level globally and or report directly into our Group Operating Committee.
To mark this change we now refer to this group as the leadership population.
Strategic report 33 I discovered that with Serasa Experian I could renegotiate my debts with my creditors.
Now my debts have been cleared, I can focus on making my dreams come true.
Simone Soares Alves was left burdened with her ex-husbands debts, but she was able to renegotiate them from R$15,000 to R$2,000.
Strategy in action: Transform engagement with consumers Scale in targeted verticals and geographies Relieving people from the burden of debt with Serasa Experians itinerant truck and boat project Indebtedness and the need By truck and by boat Reaching as many people for financial education as possible To help more people across the nation we decided to get on the road and visit Brazil, with its 211 million people spread With this project our aim is to reach as over 40 cities across Brazil.
We are doing across its massive landmass, has many many people as possible, promoting this with a purpose-built truck.
In some diff erent cultures.
One thing common financial education and helping people to regions, like the Amazon, there are no throughout however, are the many people lead better lives.
Weve reached 75,000 roads, so you need a boat as well.
The aff ected by the economic downturn.
Weve also truck and boat are self-contained with 40% of adults are in default with overdue partnered with a teachers association to 8-20 computer stations and a dedicated bills and unemployment stands at 12.6%.
provide training for teachers in each city team of Serasa Experian employees.
There is a need for improved access we visit, so they can pass on a financial to information and to better financial curriculum to their students.
1,080 On the truck we can host up to 50 people education.
This is diffi cult though in a teachers have received training at a time.
They can access their credit country where 34% of the population allowing financial education tools to report and score online, nd out how has no access to the internet.
much money they owe and renegotiate their debts with lenders.
They can see In Brazil to be in debt and past-due on Were connecting with about 700 to 2,000 how much money they could borrow your commitments is considered people every day.
Its not just information to make a business plan a reality.
shameful, you are said to have a dirty that we provide, but also a place where Most importantly, they can get access name.
Because of this many people nd people can talk openly about their to educational tools to help them with it diffi cult to talk openly about their debts, circumstances, why theyre in debt and their nances.
to get the help they need or take control what their dreams are.
A place where of their nances.
Traditionally Serasa they feel empowered to focus on and Experian has connected and engaged take control of their nances.
with people face-to-face through its 1 Serasa Experian.
Clear my Name fairs, helping them to 2 At end of February 2018. renegotiate their debts, but these fairs only took place in the main cities.
3 IBGE, Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, Experian plc 34 Strategic report Our people and corporate responsibility continued Weve made further investments in upgrading Upholding high ethical standards processes and technologies, growing our Working with For people to trust us, it is essential that we information security teams and bringing uphold high ethical standards.
Our Global greater organisational clarity to ensure integrity Code of Conduct sets out our expectations we maintain a world-class cyber security and guides our employees to make the right programme.
Our controls are based on the Focusing on decisions to help us support the people we international ISO27001 standard.
We refreshed the Code this Upholding high ethical standards year to make it more accessible and align it Our 16,500 employees are a vital part of our Safeguarding data and privacy with The Experian Way our unique way of security programme and they are all required Protecting the environment working across the business.
to complete training on information security and data protection on an annual basis.
Accompanying policies deal with ethical and Through our SecurityFirst programme, human rights risks related to bribery and we systematically educate our people and corruption, human resources, health and embed the principles of how to handle and safety, and labour practices in the supply treat sensitive data correctly throughout the chain.
The programme is led from the reinforces our zero tolerance of bribery or very top of Experian.
People can report any ethical concerns, anonymously if they prefer, In addition to keeping data safe, we also seek through our 24-hour con dential helpline.
to make our data as accurate as possible.
We are committed to continually reviewing Experian is committed to respecting human and improving the quality of the data we hold rights.
We align our policies with the principles and, through our products, we give people of the United Nations Universal Declaration of the opportunity to view and understand their Human Rights.
Our commitment to preventing own credit reports so they can check for modern slavery in our supply chain is outlined inaccuracies that could aff ect their scores.
in our statement on slavery and human traffi cking.
We have undertaken a programme Lenders need access to secure and accurate of training and communication to increase information about peoples financial pro les our employees awareness of the risks and from Experian or other credit bureaux.
Such have developed risk-based monitoring of information is an integral part of an effi cient our suppliers.
and competitive credit ecosystem that delivers better, cheaper products for consumers and Safeguarding data and privacy contributes to economic growth.
We only Our Global Code of ever share data with authorised and trusted We are the stewards of personal information Conduct sets out our organisations.
When we do so, we follow strict concerning consumers around the world.
It guides guidelines and comply with all relevant laws.
Securing that information is our highest our employees to make priority.
the right decisions, We also engage with policymakers and other to help us support stakeholders to respond to peoples concerns The threat of cyber crime is ever growing and the people we serve about privacy.
The EU General Data Protection evolving.
We are constantly striving to provide every day.
Regulation GDPR comes into force in May secure systems and processes that re ect 2018.
We recognise the importance of good, best practices to help us stay ahead of todays well-regulated data protection and we believe increasingly sophisticated cyber criminals.
the new regulation presents an opportunity This includes regularly monitoring for for organisations to transform the way they fraudulent activity, taking immediate and organise and process personal data.
aggressive action to stop such activity when it is detected, and working closely with law Weve been preparing for the new regulation enforcement, as appropriate, to ensure the by assessing the potential impact on our perpetrators are brought to justice.
business and the industry, and identifying any changes we need to make to comply with the requirements.
This includes reviewing our processes and policies, and supporting our clients in managing their GDPR compliance.
Strategic report 35 changed layouts and introduced hotdesking Protecting the environment to use space more effi ciently, as well as We have cut our total carbon footprint by a moving some offi ces to more modern further 6% to 51,000 tonnes of COequivalent 2 buildings.
In Brazil, our new offi ce building CO e in 2018.
Since 2015, we have achieved 2 in So Carlos is targeting certi cation -1 0% an overall reduction of 12% in our carbon to the LEED Leadership in Energy and footprint.
Over the same time period, weve cut Environmental Design sustainable Since 2015, the carbon intensity of our business by 10% to buildings standard.
weve cut the 10.8 kilogrammes of CO e per US$1,000 of 2 carbon intensity revenue beating our 5% reduction target Our people can play a big part in helping us per US$1,000 for 2018. protect the environment just by making small revenue, of our energy-saving steps, such as switching off We have achieved this through our continued business, by 10%.
We also ask them to focus on optimising energy use in our data think before they travel and to hold meetings centres and offi ce buildings, and by promoting virtually if they can.
We off er dedicated remote collaboration to minimise the need for videoconferencing facilities and weve business travel.
introduced a new solution that makes it easier Since 2015, we have reduced energy use at for people to collaborate remotely by enabling our three main data centres in the UK and the them to hold video conferences and share USA by 4%.
In 2017 18, we introduced a new presentations from their own computer.
While global Technology Lifecycle Management other factors such as divestments have also Policy TLMP to promote investment in more had an impact, these solutions have helped modern and effi cient IT infrastructure in data us reduce emissions from business travel by centres across the business.
To optimise around 22% since we began implementing energy use in our offi ce buildings, we have them in 2014.
Our carbon footprint Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 2016 Scope 1 Thousand tonnes of CO e 3.9 4.4 4.4 2 Location-based Scope 2 Thousand tonnes of CO e 33.0 37.0 38.0 2 1 Market-based Scope 2 Thousand tonnes of CO e 28.0 34.2 36.6 2 Scope 1 and 2 normalised 2 by revenue Kilograms of CO e per US$1,000 7.8 8.9 9.3 2 2 Scope 3 Thousand tonnes of CO e 14.1 12.8 12.1 2 Total emissions Thousand tonnes of CO e 51.0 54.2 54.5 2 Total emissions normalised by revenue Kilograms of CO e per US$1,000 10.8 11.7 12.0 2 1 New reporting requirement for the year ended 31 March 2016.
We have reported on all the emission sources within our total carbon footprint which includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 falling within our Group financial statements in line with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
There are no material exclusions from this data.
The data has been prepared in accordance with the UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 version.
Detailed information on Experians environmental performance and the 2018 Reporting Principles and Methodologies document are available at www.
Experian plc 36 Strategic report Were providing people with tools to protect themselves against identity theft, giving them more control over their lives.
Debbie Hsu VP Product Management Consumer Services, Experian Strategy in action: Transform engagement with consumers Exploit the breadth of our capabilities A proactive approach Accelerate the pace of innovation to identity protection SM with Experians IdentityWorks Identity theft is growing and it is Providing consumers with the Better detection, protection getting more sophisticated tools to protect themselves against and resolution identity theft Technology makes our lives easier.
The key to protection is being proactive.
SM Access to information and applying for IdentityWorks detects and alerts To help protect against identity theft and services online is quick and convenient.
consumers when an activity that could reduce the massive impact that it has on But with that convenience comes the indicate fraud happens.
For example, peoples lives we created a new product SM risk of identity thieves who want to steal when mail is redirected by the US Postal called IdentityWorks.
It is packed full of personal data, such as name, address, Service, if a new bank account has been innovative tools and features, including: date of birth, social security and mobile opened or if contact details in an online at the touch of a button lock unlock numbers, with the intention of using it to bank account change.
If they dont your Experian credit le with Experian commit identity fraud.
When the data recognise the activity, then consumers CreditLock to help stop unauthorised stolen includes an email address and can proactively protect themselves by credit activity password, theyll then try to target and locking their credit le.
If fraud has monitoring of the three credit bureaux take over other accounts, like an email already taken place, then consumers can with a suite of diff erent alerts, for example account.
From there theyll use that to contact our dedicated fraud resolution new credit enquiries or new accounts reset passwords elsewhere, like for teams to help x things quickly.
This is daily scanning of 600,000 dark web pages online banking, enabling them to access all backed by up to US$1m insurance to detect if personal data has been stolen and steal money from bank accounts.
Were putting consumers responding to demand from families for more in control and giving them the In 2016 more than 15 million people in family plans we added a social security peace of mind that they are protecting the USA were victims of identity theft, number trace that checks to see if credit their financial wellbeing.
with US$16bn stolen by fraudsters.
has been taken out using a childs social This causes severe emotional and security number.
financial distress for victims, and may We have also extended a one-time dark web impact their lives negatively for months, scan to all consumers, for free, to help as even years, as they try to recover from many consumers as possible to be able to the damage caused.
take appropriate action before account 1 Javelin Strategy & Research, takeover occurs.
The 2017 Identity Fraud Study, 1 February 2017.
