Sustainability data assurance We engaged  LLP PwC to undertake A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a limited assurance engagement, reporting to Ferguson plc only, a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk using International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal 3000 Revised : Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed or Reviews of Historical Financial Information and ISAE 3410: risks.
Non-financial performance information, including greenhouse Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements over gas quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent limitations the sustainability data on page 43, that have been highlighted with than financial information.
It is important to read the selected the symbol.
They have provided an unqualified opinion in relation sustainability data information contained in the Annual Report to the relevant data and their full assurance opinion is available at and Accounts 2018 in the context of PwCs full limited assurance www.
opinion and Fergusons Basis of Reporting, which is also available at www.
Forward-looking statements Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts is Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or forward-looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties that activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its implied by forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules, cover all matters which are not historical facts and include, without the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and the Transparency limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company undertakes no conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, operations, including, without limitation, discussions of expected future whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
revenues, financing plans, expected expenditures and divestments, Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability risks associated with changes in market conditions and pressures under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with on margins, changes in the level of litigation, employee motivation, such laws.
the performance and resilience of the Companys systems and infrastructure, the level of government regulation and financial risks such as fluctuations in exchange and interest rates.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could orshould or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
158 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Credits Printing Design and production: Radley Yeldar This publication is produced by a CarbonNeutral company www.
com andCarbon Balanced with World Land Trust.
Photography: Andy Wilson Balancing is delivered by World Land Trust, an international conservation charity, who offset carbon emissions through the Paper purchase and preservation of high conservation value land.
This report is printed on Revive 50 Silk paper and cover Through protecting standing forests, under threat of clearance, carbon board, with Revive 100 offset used inthe financial section.
is locked in that would otherwise be released.
These protected forests Revive 50 Silk is made from 25 per cent fide-inked postare then able to continue absorbing carbon from the atmosphere, consumer waste, 25 per centunprinted pre-consumer referred to as REDD ReducedEmissions from Deforestation and forest wasteand 50 per centvirgin fibre.
This is now recognised as one of the most cost-effective Revive 100 offset is made from 100 per cent fide-inked and swiftest ways to arrest the rise in atmospheric CO and global 2 postconsumer waste.
Both products arefully biodegradable warming effects.
Additional to the carbon benefits is the flora andfauna and recyclable and produced inmillswhich hold IS0 9001 this land preserves, including a number ofspecies identified at risk andISO 14001 accreditation.
ofextinction on the IUCN Red ListofThreatened Species.
CBP00019082504183028 Ferguson plc Registered Office 26 New Street St Helier Jersey JE2 3RA Channel Islands Registration No.
106605 Jersey Corporate Headquarters Grafenauweg 10 CH-6301 Zug Switzerland Telephone 41 0 41 723 2230 Fax 41 0 41 723 2231 www.
com Follow us on Twitter @Ferguson plc
