STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 49 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ENSURING A LONG-TERM SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Governance and Ferrexpos policy Management Framework A key priority during the year was the towards Responsible development of a reporting system for corporate responsibility performance data.
Business covers its As a result, reporting became centralised and data has been collected through the efforts in Environmental, Groups accounting system.
Social and Governance The CSR Committee, which is accountable for most of the areas covered by the ESG matters.
High Responsible Business Report, met four times in 2018, and assists the ESG standards underpin Board in its oversight of responsible business-related activities.
a sustainable business In 2018, the UK Corporate Governance that benefits all Code was revised.
One of the new provisions of the Code is to enable greater stakeholders of Through community engagement, board engagement with the workforce to environmental monitoring, compliance understand their views.
As such, Ferrexpos the Group.
training and health and safety Board has agreed to develop an Employee improvements, Ferrexpo aims to sustain a Listening Programme which will be long-term future that not only develops its overseen by the CSR Committee natural resources for its own benefit, but going forward.
also for the shared benefit of those around us employees and their families, local The following diagrams highlight the CSR communities and businesses, the natural governance structure at Ferrexpo and a environment around the Companys mines, framework of how responsible business and tax revenues to national governments.
considerations in green are fully Ferrexpo has once again been recognised embedded within the corporate strategy.
in the Ukrainian governments published list of Top Taxpayers and through its 40 years of continuous operation the Group has been able to maintain a constant presence in Central Ukraine, providing employment as the largest company in the Poltava Region.
During the year, the Group maintained a focus on product quality and increasing its output as well as enhancing its operating processes.
It also focused on softer processes such as health and safety initiatives and compliance training, through which the Company continues to sustain its social licence to operate.
I would like to thank all of the Companys employees, contractors and other stakeholders for their collective efforts to ensure our progress in ESG reporting.
Yuriy Khimich Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee http: officevp.
ua media-ark news-ark 365564. html For more information See our Responsible Business Reports www.
com Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 50 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Governance Structure T TH HE B E BO OA AR RD D O Ov five er rsi sigh ght t o off r re es sp pon onsi sible ble b busi usine fines ss s ma mat tt te er rs s a an nd d p pe er rffor orma man nc ce e 1 CSR COMMITTEE Chairman Yuriy Khimich Members Steve Lucas, Kostyantin Zhevago, Bert Nacken, Greg Nortje, Viktor Lotous EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Focus on priorities and execution of responsible business activities ENVIRONMENT & HEALTH & SAFETY COMMUNITY WORKFORCE SUSTAINABLE RESOURCES STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS LICENCE TO OPERATE Employees and Communities Suppliers Customers Capital providers and Government and contractors shareholders regulators 1 Yuriy Khimich FBM General Director: Steve Lucas Ferrexpo plc Non-executive Chairman: Bert Nacken independent Non-executive Director: Greg Nortje Chief Human Resources Officer: Kostyantin Zhevago CEO: Viktor Lotous FPM Chief Operating Officer and Head of Managing Board: The Groups Chief Operating Officer, Jim North, though not a member of the CSR Committee, was present at all Committee meetings during the year.
Non-Financial Information Statement Ferrexpo aims to comply with the new Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The below table, and information it refers to, is intended to help stakeholders understand the Companys position on key non-financial matters.
This builds on existing reporting that the Company already does under the following frameworks: CDP, Global Reporting Initiative, Guidance on the Strategic Report UK Financial Reporting Council, UN Global Compact, UN Sustainable Development Goals and UN Guiding Principles.
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS POLICIES AND STANDARDS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Environmental statement Environment pages 54-55 Environmental risk ENVIRONMENTAL www.
com responsibility environment management pages 36-45 Ethics and Responsible Business Policy Equality, inclusion & diversity pages 52-53 Board Diversity Policy EMPLOYEES Code of Responsibility Health, safety & wellbeing pages 52-53 page 76 Health and Safety Policy Learning & development pages 52-53 People risk www.
com responsibility people Responsible conduct & culture pages 58-59 pages 36-45 Diversity, skills & composition pages 52-53 Governance risk pages 36-45 Human Rights Policy statement Equality, inclusion & diversity pages 52-53 HUMAN RIGHTS Data Privacy Policy Health, safety & wellbeing pages 52-53 Anti-Slavery and Trafficking Statement Learning & development pages 52-53 Information and Cyber Security Policy Responsible conduct & culture pages 58-59 Diversity, skills & composition pages 52-53 Donations Policy Independent Review Committee Community risk SOCIAL MATTERS Helping communities pages 69-70 and page 155 pages 44-45 www.
com responsibility community see 3.1 and 3.2 Anti-bribery Policy Customer privacy & data security pages 56-57 ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-money Laundering Responsible conduct & culture pages 56-57 AND ANTI-BRIBERY and Counter Terrorist Financing Policy Operational risk pages 36-45 Fraud Risk Management Policy www.
com responsibility governance Customer Business Model pages 10-11 PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk Management pages 36-45 AND IMPACT ON BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Key Performance Indicators NON-FINANCIAL KPI STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 51 Engaging Our Stakeholders ASSESSING KEY ISSUES Occupational health Employment and turnover Health and safety Where issues are considered to be Contracts and collective performance material to Ferrexpo stakeholders, bargaining Financial performance they are included in the Groups Direct value generated priorities and managed as part of the responsible business strategy.
The diagram opposite details the keyissues: Learning and development Energy usage Community recreational of personnel Greenhouse gases and facilities Key to materiality matrix Diversity climate change Sustainable usage of People Resettlement and resources and Business Economic indicators closure plans Improvement Plan Community Responsible purchasing Environment Emissions Community projects Water management Code of conduct Waste generation INCREASING CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON FERREXPO Our Approach to Being a Responsible Business OPERATIONAL LEVEL OUR RESPONSIBLE APPROACH OUR STAKEHOLDERS LOGISTICS GOVERNMENT WORKFORCE INVESTORS PEOPLE ECONOMIC INDICATORS Safety AND BUSINESS ETHICS Occupational health MARKETING Financial performance SUPPLIERS Diversity Local investment Local hiring including purchasing PROCESSING Training and development WORKFORCE and recruitment Employment and turnover Direct value generated Contracts and collective Code of conduct RESOURCE BASE COMMUNITIES bargaining Responsible purchasing MINING CUSTOMERS CAPITAL PROVIDERS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Community support Energy donations Water Government relations Greenhouse gases Resettlement and Other air emissions closure plans Land use and rehabilitation INCREASING CONCERN TO STAKEHOLDERS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 52 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED MONTHS LTI-FREE AT FERREXPO PEOPLE YERISTOVO IN 2018, REPRESENTING OVER 2.5 MILLION HOURS managed to operate without a lost time Ferrexpo is a major employer in the Poltava Region injury LTI for 10 months of the year, and the Companys barging subsidiary on the and the Companys workforce represents a large Danube River, DDSG, registered a 50% reduction in the number of LTIs compared proportion of the population of the local town of to previous years.
Ferrexpos success is therefore The Companys main operating entity, FPM however, noted a year-on-year deterioration closely linked to the relationship it has with its in its lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR from 1.03 to 1.28, due to an increase in workforce and it is important that the Company employees involved in LTIs from 11 to 17.
An analysis of these incidents has identified develops its workforce to achieve this goal.
that road traffic accidents and interactions with heavy-lifting equipment as key areas for improvement, with a number of process improvements identified, such as an The Ferrexpo team comprises 9,170 people Safety and Wellbeing increase in the frequency of inspections globally, with the majority of this workforce It is with regret that the Company reports of the condition of all slings and other located at the Companys iron ore mines in that a fatality occurred at its Ukrainian heavy-lifting equipment.
As a business Ferrexpo aims to operations in October 2018, whereby a January 2019, all vehicles at Ferrexpos recruit and retain a talented workforce, to contractor engaged in maintenance work operations will be required to have safety create a stable and consistent environment on the Companys pelletiser plant was belts fitted, which was not previously across the Companys operations, as involved in a fall from height incident.
evidenced through the length of service for Athorough investigation into this incident employees at the Companys operating hasresulted in stricter guidelines for the Safety-related activities in 2018 focused on assets in Ukraine 58% of the workforce at maintenance of raised walkways, in addition improved reporting procedures, such as FPM and 40% at FYM have worked with to greater oversight of contractor safety by ensuring that initial incident reports are Ferrexpo for at least five years, representing Ferrexpos onsite management team.
available within 24hours in order to identify increases on lastyear from 55% and 32% An important focus for the Company was risks quickly, and Serious Incident Reports respectively.
Ferrexpo aims to provide its on safety throughout 2018, in an effort to SIRs also now include potential serious employees with a fair and inclusive improve safety statistics from the prior year.
incidents in order to capture as many risk environment to work in, and to promote Two notable achievements were recognised areas as possible in the Companys risk diversity where possible.
in Ferrexpos safety record in 2018 FYM registers.
This improved reporting and risk STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 53 identification can be seen in the increase 12 Steps Programme.
As at the end of in SIRs to 25 in2018 from ten, with 2018, a total of 66 individuals classified deliverable action points from each report.
asbeing at-risk were being treated under this initiative 2017: 64 individuals.
20% For a comparison of safety performance Safe Work Australia, an Australian Training 11,500 TRAINING COURSES government agency, states that the Over 11,500 training courses were COMPLETED BY EMPLOYEES IN 2018, industry standard for mining of metal ores completed by employees in 2018, the in Australia is a LTIFR of 4.0.
Ferrexpo equivalent of 1.28 courses per employee, A 20% INCREASE ON COURSES PER therefore continues to maintain an up 20% from 2017.
The number of safety EMPLOYEE injury rate below this benchmark.
training courses undertaken rose by 17% to 4,433, as well as a significant increase in Through improved risk identification functional training 146% to 4,943.
The processes and reporting, the Company number of training hours per employee also also registered a 30% decrease in the rose by 26% to 27hours in2018.
11,157 severity rate of incidents in 2018, an important lead indicator for progress The above increase in functional training is WORKFORCE OF 11,157, COMPRISING in safety.
the result of several new training initiatives OVER 9,000 EMPLOYEES AND NEARLY implemented, including environmental 2,000 CONTRACTORS Drug and Alcohol Testing management 132 employees, and Ferrexpo operates in a region where cross-functional training for employees drug and alcohol addiction is a serious to operate multiple pieces of mobile social concern, and the Company equipment such as excavators and light maintains a strict zero-tolerance policy vehicles 385 people.
on the use of alcohol and recreational drugs in the workplace, with regular In line with the Companys focus on testing for employees, mandatory checks safety in 2018, new training courses were KPIs for new applicants and on-the-spot provided in first aid for 940 employees in GOAL PERFORMANCE testing for anyone suspected of being the processing plant, risk identification under the influence during work hours.
and risk management 129 employees, To operate One fatality in 2018 During 2018, atotal of 3,889 checks as well as emergency medical assistance fatality free 2017: 1 were undertaken 2017: 3,731, with a 71 employees.
Maintain injury LTIFR maintained at failure rate of 4% in 2018 down one frequency rate same level as 2017 third on the prior year.
For employees Ferrexpo also provides training for below peers 1.18, compared to considered eligible, the Company contractors working at its operations, with industry standard of operates a rehabilitation programme to 775 contractors trained in safety and other 4.0. help those affected by alcohol and drug skills 2017: 1,143. addiction, which follows internationally 1 For more information on LTIFR statistics see: recognised frameworks for recovery, Diversity https: www.
au statistics-andsuch as Alcoholics Anonymous and the Ferrexpo monitors diversity in its workforce, research  to help develop a balanced and positive working environment.
Women represent 29% of the Companys workforce 2017: 29%, with the percentage of CASE STUDY female managers declining slightly in 2018 following a grading project by the Companys HR function to grade LOCK-OUT TAG-OUT all positions across the Group and reclassify management roles according SYSTEMS to a specific grade.
Female managers In an initiative to modernise and represented 18% of total managers in improve conditions forplant maintainers 2018 2017: 20%.
The Company has a in its processing facilities, Ferrexpo is number of ongoing initiatives to further the implementing theLock-Out Tag-Out careers of women at Ferrexpo, details of LOTO system whereby maintainers which will be available in the Companys can physically lock equipment in the Responsible Business Report, which will offposition whilst it is being repaired.
be published later this year.
In another area of diversity, 4% of the Companys Control panels are also being moved to workforce are registered disabled, in line be located adjacent to equipment they with a government requirement in Ukraine.
control, inan effort to improve lines of sight for operators to see if equipment is being worked on.
A major focus in 2019 will be to improve workers visibility by replacing darker coloured Personal Protective Equipment PPE with lighter, brighter versions of the same clothing.
For more information on Ferrexpos approach to its workforce, please see the Companys Responsible Business Reports on the Companys website www.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 54 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED WATER REUSE ENVIRONMENT 92% OF WATER EXTRACTED AT FPM WAS REUSED IN 2018 Electricity is provided by the Ukrainian Ferrexpo operations have a bearing on a wide national grid, which continues to be modernised, with reduced reliance on older range of environmental factors air quality, water coal-fired power stations, meaning that the estimated carbon factor for electricity quality, land use and rehabilitation, and biodiversity, generated fell by 2% in 2018.
Furthermore, total electricity consumption fell by 1% with the Company committed to monitoring each in 2018, meaning that electricity was the single largest contributor towards total area and managing its footprint.
Group CO production falling in 2018.
2 Other Emissions Carbon Dioxide Emissions Consumption of natural gas increased in Ferrexpo closely monitors emissions at its Carbon dioxide CO emissions from 2018 as the Company increased the kiln operations in Ukraine, divided into two 2 Ferrexpos operations in Ukraine principally temperatures in its pelletiser as part of categories: stationary sources processing revolve around the consumption of three a planned programme to increase pellet and pelletising plants, tailings facilities, and key consumables the diesel that powers quality.
Diesel consumption throughout waste dumps and mobile sources mining the Groups mining fleet in its mines, theGroup decreased by 3%, despite rock equipment and other sources.
the electricity that drives the Groups mining tonnes increasing by 4% during processing plant, and the natural gas that the year.
This decrease in diesel usage heats the Companys pellets in its pelletiser.
relates to improved mining productivity These three consumables accounted and utilising a greater number of electric for 92% of Group CO emissions in shovels at FPM, which represents over 2 2018 2017: 92%.
Additional sources of 80% of the Groups rock mining activities.
CO from the Companys activities are 2 All figures tonnes unless otherwise stated 2018 2017 % change consumed in the Companys barging subsidiary DDSG, which transports pellets Group CO emissions 2,583,178 2,614,449 -1% 2 to customers along the Danube River, as Scope 1 direct 566,877 554,763 2% well as steam that is used for heating and Scope 2 indirect 1,925,670 1,974,997 -2% is purchased from the local supplier.
Scope 3 biofuels 90,631 84,689 7% Pellets produced million tonnes 10.607 10.444 2% Intensity ratio Scope 1 and 2 only 235 242 -3% STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 55 -3% 235KG CO PER TONNE PELLETS 2 PRODUCED, REPRESENTING A 3% DECREASE ON 2017 19% BIOFUEL CONSUMPTION MAINTAINED AT 19% OF THE TOTAL ENERGY MIX IN THE COMPANYS PELLETISER KPIs GOAL PERFORMANCE Reduce carbon Direct CO 2 footprint emissions rose 2% but total Scope 1 and 2 emissions per tonne of pellets decreased by 3% Increase Sunflower husks percentage of continue to renewable energy represent 19% of usage in fuel mix energy mix in pelletiser, in line with 2017 Emissions from stationary sources in 2018 cells measuring 400m by 400m.
The walls Water Consumption and Treatment were as follows: of the tailings facility are constructed using The majority of Ferrexpos water extraction NO emissions rose by 21% to 3,493 engineered fill, including siliceous waste relates to groundwater inflows and rainfall 2 tonnes as the Company increased kiln from the mine, which has the required into its open pit mining operations in temperatures in 2018 to improve pellet strength characteristics for use in such Ukraine, which directly relates to the level quality, resulting in increased natural gas facilities.
The dam has been designed ofprecipitation incurred each year.
Total and sunflower husk consumption.
by external consultant Ukrgiproruda, water extraction rose by 5% in 2018 to SO emissions rose by 41% to 1,894 with biannual inspections by external 33.8 million cubic metres, with this increase 2 tonnes after a trial to add lime to the ore consultants.
Ferrexpos tailings facility differs related to the 50% increase in rainfall noted as it is processed was halted, when it in its design from the valley fill type of facility at the mine in 2018 619mm.
The majority was discovered that the lime was often utilised by iron ore mines in Brazil.
59% of water extracted is immediately causing excessive wear to the discharged as part of the Companys processing plant.
Overburden removal increased by 4% dewatering operations.
FPM continues Solid emissions fell by 8% in 2018 to to88million tonnes as the Company to reuse the majority of water it extracts 3,619 tonnes after the successful increased its focus on the Poltava mine to 92%, which represents 38% of Group rehabilitation of waste dumps at FYM further improve pellet quality.
resulted in a reduction of dust transported by haul truck to waste dumps emissions.
that are designed by the Companys Ferrexpo closely monitors water quality at mineplanning department, with designs both its mining operations across a suite of Emissions from mobile sources fell by 2% approved by Ukrgiproruda.
13 chemical indicators, and can confirm for the majority of gases, the result of a 2% that it remained within the strict quality to 4% decrease at FPM and a 1% to 2% Energy Consumption control limits set by the Ukrainian authorities increase at FYM.
Ferrexpos mining and barging operations throughout the year.
consumed 18.084 PJ of energy in 2018, a Waste and Tailings Production 1% increase on 2017, which corresponds Ferrexpo operates its own tailings facility tothe equivalent of 604 MJ per tonne of at its mining operations in Ukraine that pellets created 4% vs. 2017. has been in operation since 1974, and covers an area of over 1,500 hectares.
The Overall energy consumption increased Company produced 9.7 million tonnes of asthe Company increased the kiln tailings representing an 8% decrease on temperature inits pelletiser in order to 2017.
The tailings storage facility is a single improve pellet quality.
Sunflower husks For more information on Ferrexpos environmental initiatives, dam facility, split into three sections, with continue to represent 19% of the pelletisers please see the Companys Responsible Business Reports each section comprising multiple smaller energy mix.
on the Companys website www.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 56 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED FERREXPOS PELLET EXPORTS ECONOMIC ARE EXPECTED TO BE APPROXIMATELY 2.0% OF UKRAINES TOTAL EXPORT INDICATORS AND 1 REVENUE.
ETHICAL BUSINESS Tax Compliance Ferrexpo operates in a business environment Ferrexpo complies with the tax laws in each jurisdiction that it operates, in contributing thatincreasingly requires higher standards from to a number of economies globally.
Every year the Company publishes a report on leadership teams, and this is achieved through taxes paid to governments, with each report published in the first half of the year, continuous improvements in compliance the most recent being the report for 2017 that was published on 27 June 2018.
The regulations and compliance training.
Through report for 2018 will be published in Q2 2019, in line with previous years.
goodcorporate governance, the Company can Ethical Business foster a strong bond with its stakeholders.
Ferrexpos success depends on building trust and strong relationships with internal and external stakeholders by conducting Direct Economic Value Generated Ferrexpo aims to do business with local business in a fair, transparent, legally The Company generated revenues of companies in Ukraine where possible, to compliant and ethical manner.
High ethical US$1,300 million in 2018, and from help support communities and develop the standards apply to everyone across the 1.9% whichgenerated value for the national local economy through indirect jobs and Group without exceptions.
It is important governments through taxes and royalties the local multiplier effect.
Examples of that Ferrexpos business partners and paid of US$73 million, in addition to support Ukrainian businesses that Ferrexpo has stakeholders can rely on the Companys at the local level through US$86 million in long-standing relationships with include integrity and have confidence in their wages and salaries, and doing business local drilling contractors, the railway car relationship with Ferrexpo.
with local suppliers that operate in the manufacturing plant in Kremenchuk and communities located close to the mine.
the local clothing garment manufacturers in the town of Horishni Plavni.
1 Source is: UkrStat http: ukrstat.
ua express expr2019 02 17. pdf STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 57 Ferrexpo has an independent compliance telephone with numbers for each country function led by the Group Compliance available via this link.
Ferrexpo does not Officer including four local compliance allow retaliation for raising concerns and will officers in Ukraine and one at the take disciplinary action up to and including 84% Groups logistics subsidiary.
Compliance dismissal for intimidation or harassment teams regularly attend national and of individuals who report business COURSE COMPLETION RATE FOR international compliance conferences conduct concerns.
COMPLIANCE TRAINING IN 2018 to keep up to date with best practice in this field.
The Group Compliance Officer External Transparency Initiatives establishes, reviews and monitors the Ukraine continues to make progress with Groups compliance programme.
implementing the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI since it US$150M The Company has instituted a Code of joined in 2013, with EITI determining Conduct available publicly at Ferrexpos that the country has made meaningful OVER US$150 MILLION DIRECT VALUE website, which sets out the Companys progress inits review published in June requirements in relation to a number of 2018.
In September 2018, the Ukrainian GENERATED THROUGH TAXES, areas such as Anti-bribery & Antiparliament also passed the law On ROYALTIES, WAGES AND SALARIES corruption, Conflicts of Interest, Health & ensuring transparency in extractive Safety and Human Rights.
Ferrexpos industries, which sets out legal principles policies and procedures, developed and for the collection, disclosure and implemented across the Group, are based dissemination of data on Ukraines on the foundation of the Code of Conduct.
KPIs GOAL PERFORMANCE Ferrexpo believes that training is fundamental for an effective compliance Supporting Over US$150 million programme.
Ferrexpos employees, economies where paid in taxes, directors and officers, as well as certain we operate royalties and categories of contractors, receive training salaries on various aspects of the Code of Educate Further two Conduct.
Since the Company published its workforce in Code additional revised and updated Code on Corporate of Conduct and compliance courses Responsibility and Business Ethics in 2015, best practice initiated in 2018, a total of five newly created training courses principles with completion in compliance have been introduced across rates on both new the business, leading to the completion of CASE STUDY compliance courses over 2,500 modules by employees in 2018 reaching 84% alone.
Two additional courses were initiated by Ferrexpos Compliance Department COMPLIANCE WEEK in 2018, relating to anti-bribery and data privacy.
Completion rates for the courses Ferrexpos compliance work in 2018 introduced in 2018 reached 84% as of included face-to-face training sessions December 2018, with the completion of at the Companys operations in the remaining employees targeted for Ukraine.
This has the clear advantage Ferrexpos compliance programme has 2019.
For those who do not have access to over online-based training as it enables been designed to promote ethical e-learning, Ferrexpos compliance teams compliance officers to adapt standards and compliance.
It is aligned convey compliance-related messages compliance teaching materials to their with Ferrexpos strategy and business through posters, internal newspapers, audience.
In November 2018, the objectives and clearly articulates and the intranet, and other available Company held its first site-wide assigns responsibility for compliance communication channels.
Compliance Week, with Compliance outcomes.
Ferrexpo directs its compliance training sessions at each of Ferrexpos efforts and resources in accordance with Ferrexpo acknowledges that any improper operating entities FPM, FYM and the risks that the Company faces, which conduct by its business partners FBM, together with the senior leaders are reviewed and prioritised through a could damage Ferrexpos reputation of the Group, and holding daily biannual risk assessment process.
The and potentially expose the Company briefings, which collectively resulted in presence and effectiveness of existing and individual employees to liability face-to-face meetings with over 250 controls are verified by an independent and penalties.
Other activities included internal audit function, which reports to procedures in place to ensure that its anti-corruption lessons at local schools the Board of Directors.
potential business partners are carefully and an anti-corruption art exhibition.
selected and are following anti-corruption One of the highlights of the Compliance The Board of Directors oversees the laws, observe human rights, and that Week was a Compliance Forum entitled Groups Compliance Programme directly relationships with them do not breach any Integrity in What We Do, which was and through its Committees, receives applicable sanction laws and regulations.
hosted by Ferrexpo in tandem with the regular compliance reports.
The elements In 2018, the Group has developed a Ukrainian Network of Integrity and of the compliance programme, including Business Partners Code of Conduct, Compliance and Business Ferrexpos Code of Conduct and training, which will be rolled out in 2019.
The forum apply equally to the Board as well as featured presentations by Ferrexpos to all Ferrexpo employees.
In 2014, The Group has a system of reporting employees and guest speakers about the Executive Compliance Committee compliance and ethics-related concerns, ethical leadership, case studies on the was founded and meets regularly to available to all employees and third parties.
cost of non-compliance, and best oversee the compliance of the Group Ferrexpo encourages its employees to practice in compliance programmes.
with applicable laws, regulations and raise any questions or concerns with their ethical standards in relation to Ferrexpos managers, another manager or with the employees, neighbours, the environment Compliance Team.
It is also possible to and other stakeholders.
In 2018, a Local submit a query to compliance@ferrexpo.
ch For more information on Ferrexpos approach to ethical Compliance Committee was established or through Ferrexpo Integrity Line available business and other economic indicators, please see the to foster the culture of compliance at Companys Responsible Business Reports on the at http: ferrexpo.
com IntegrityLine and by the Companys operations in Ukraine.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 58 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED COMMUNITY SUPPORT: INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES COMMUNITY SUPPORTED THROUGH DIRECT AID SUPPORT In terms of sports and recreation, Ferrexpos footprint in Ukraine is much more Ferrexpo provides financial support to the local football club in Horishni Plavni, than mining and processing iron ore.
The towns FC Gornyak, which currently has 200 children and teenagers involved in its and villages located close to the mine rely on the youth teams.
In addition, Ferrexpo has helped build and maintain indoor tennis Company for employment, as well as support for facilities that are used extensively throughout the harsh winters in Ukraine.
both local businesses and communities.
In total, Ferrexpo-supported sports facilities in Horishni Plavni registered 1,364 participants in sports competitions in 2018, with 34 professional trainers Ferrexpos Corporate Social Responsibility Total donations to these three areas involved in a variety of sports.
CSR programme in Ukraine was formally amounted to US$15.1 million in 2018, Financial support of the Organisation for established in 2009 and focused on the compared to US$ 28.4 million in 2017. the Protection of the Rights of Children areas surrounding the mines.
The Group Ferrexpos engagement with the with Disabilities Tenderness, which supports the local community and the communities local to its mines does not cares for 95 children in local communities.
country which is recovering from a deep focus on one area of society, instead the Individual aid to those in need of medical recession caused by geopolitical tensions.
Company prefers to support a diverse and treatments, assistance for utility bills and Living standards have reduced broad range of activities, from funding families with multiple children.
The considerably over recent years.
sports activities at local sports facilities, Company received applications from, tosupporting medical institutions, schools and provided assistance to, 574 Ferrexpos local community work and and kindergartens, to supplementing the individuals and families under this charitable donations can be divided into local councils budget.
programme in 2018, in line with its three key areas: 1 work done directly with efforts in 2017. local community projects, 2 direct Specific local projects in 2018 include: Ferrexpos support for local sportsmen transfers to vulnerable individuals in the The financial support of students at and sportswomen helped local local community requiring support such as universities inKremenchug, Dnipro and individuals to succeed in 2018 including veterans and individuals requiring medical Krivyi Rih, as well as students at higher gold and bronze models at the European treatment, and 3 donations to Blooming educational colleges in Horishni Plavni, Rowing Championships, gold medals Land, an independent third party which are institutions from which the atthe shooting World Cup in Germany, responsible for the coordination of the Company continues to recruit its anda number of first prizes at the All Groups national CSR programme.
Ukrainian judo tournament held in Kiev.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 59 US$15M US$15.1 MILLION SPENT ON DIRECT CONTRIBUTIONS TO LOCAL COMMUNITY PROJECTS KPIs GOAL PERFORMANCE Contribute to Direct assistance development, through Ferrexpo education and Charitable Fund of skills of local US$15.1 million population 2017: US$28.4 million Provide targeted 574 families and assistance individuals provided with direct aid in 2018, in line with 2017 575 Blooming Land Charity The Group will continue its current CASE STUDY In 2013, given the severe upheaval in the programme of charitable donations at country and to support its general social a local level supporting individuals and license to operate, the Group established communities surrounding the mines.
COMMUNITY a CSR programme on a national basis.
Theseprogrammes are managed by FPM Blooming Land the Charity was used for and supervised by the CSR Committee.
SUPPORT THROUGH this programme and its activities included diabetes prevention, eyesight care and For further information MODERNISING See Chairmans Statement page 18, support for the elderly.
For further Principal Risks page 45, Corporate information see the Chairmans Statement EQUIPMENT Governance Report page 63, on page 18 and the Independent Review Independent Review Committee Report Committee Report on page 69.
At the request of the local council in the page 69, Audit Committee Report page village of Kozelshchyna, Ferrexpos 71 and Note 7 page 121, Note 29 page As discussed in the Independent Review charity fund and Ferrexpo Belanovo 155, Note 33 page 161 and Note 34 Committee Report, Ferrexpo is currently page 161 to the financial statements.
Mining jointly purchased a modern conducting an independent review in wheeled tractor MTZ-82.1 for use by relation to the Groups relationship with the council for improving farmland the Charity.
This includes reviewing certain around the village, clearing snow from irregularities which have been identified public roads in the village and for waste in copy banks statements and other removal, which was previously left to documentation provided by the Charity, and individual villagers for disposal.
The also the application of funds by the Charity.
purchase of modern equipment such as this is an important part of the Companys community engagement policy, addressing specific concerns and needs raised through dialogue with each community.
For more information on Ferrexpos community support initiatives, please see the Companys Responsible Business Reports on the Companys website www.
