Sustainability Building a better business The focus areas described in our Better Business framework are important to us and to our stakeholders.
They actively support our growth, improve associate engagement and address our top risks and compliance requirements.
We incorporate these focus areas into the Our focus areas Our principles Opportunities Risks way our business works, which is reflected inthis report.
We are committed to people A multi-skilled and well-trained workforce will Changing operating models require us to Talent management Our development at every level help us to deliver against our objectives and constantly up-skill our people.
A competitive and development Many of the focus areas are described within people ofthe organisation.
adapt to changing customer needs.
marketplace puts greater emphasis on the key resources and relationships section All excellentcareer development to attract talent.
We offer competitive remuneration Well structured remuneration and incentive An uncompetitive remuneration programme Competitive pay and reward to our people.
programmes align associate and Company could impact our ability to attract and retain Sustainability and Transparency All objectives in order to maximise results.
Reporting our progress towards our sustainability goals in a clear and transparent We value our associates and Motivated and engaged people deliver Low associate engagement can lead to Associate engagement manner is important to our programme.
actively work to improve excellent customer service, develop sub-optimal business results and poor All associate engagement.
strong supplier relationships and maximise retentionofour people.
As such, we report annually to the Carbon operational efficiencies.
Disclosure Project, which is shared with investors and customers, and publicly We understand, respect and value A diverse workforce brings with it the widest In an ever-changing market a lack of diversity Diversity and inclusion available for download at www.
range of knowledge, skills and experience and can limit business progression.
An inclusive environment Additionally, the Company reports to allows our people to feel at ease in the workplace.
the Morgan Stanley Capital International Sustainability Index and Ecovadis platform We strive to be First in Safety and A robust health and safety programme protects Our principal risks relate to manual handling, Health and safety for suppliers.
While the performance values put the wellbeing of our associates our people, customers and suppliers.
working at height, the use of motorised All first and foremost.
If not are an important part of measuring the mitigated, these risks can harm our associates, effectiveness of our programme, we are impact our service and incur costs.
See pages equally committed to initiating projects 25, 26 and 42. that will make a meaningful reduction in We adhere to strict Human A commitment to high ethical standards The business is exposed to risks of bribery Ethical behaviour these values.
Resources policies and follow our strengthens our reputation with customers, and fraud, which can damage our reputation.
andhuman rights own Code of Conduct.
Compliance programmes are in place to All mitigate these risks.
Our values We work with our suppliers to Sourcing and supplying safe, quality products Product liability can arise if manufacturers Product quality and integrity Our maintain excellent standards of improves our margins, enhances customer donot stand behind their products.
products product quality and safety.
satisfaction and enables our people in branch todevote more time to service.
We act with integrity We expect our suppliers, Working with reputable suppliers gives our There is increasing focus on supply chain Responsible sourcing contractors and agents to adhere to stakeholders confidence in the integrity of our transparency due to the risk of business We conduct all our activities with fairness, our Code of Conduct and to adopt supply chain, including standards around ethical interruption or reputational harm.
labour, modern slavery, conflict minerals and anti-bribery and corruption.
We are a positive link in the Where the opportunity exists, we can gain market Building regulations increasingly focus on Promoting eco products sustainable construction share by supplying eco products and offering sustainable construction.
training and advice to our customers.
can be missed if we do not adapt to our We drive for results and improvements customers changing product needs.
We listen and respond to the needs of our We run efficient operations that Better energy and waste management decreases Energy costs and increasing green taxes customers, then exceed their expectations.
Environmental efficiency Our consume less energy and produce costs and improves operational efficiencies.
can reduce Fergusons profit margins.
We are not happy with the status quo and operations less waste.
We have reduction targets in place to minimise constantly strive to improve.
We consider legal compliance our High standards of compliance differentiate Mitigating the risk of non-compliance with Compliance with the law minimum threshold of performance.
increasing levels of governmental regulations isa priority see page 49.
Without certain licences the Company cannot operate.
We value our people We understand, respect and value personal We protect both digital and Robust systems and processes together with Information technology is one of our principal Protecting information and cultural differences: we are open and physical information on behalf aninformed workforce allow us to protect our risks.
For more detail, see page 48. honest in all our dealings with our people.
We voluntarily contribute our time Engagement with the communities in which we There are no risks, this is just part of who we Active corporate citizen Our and our financial support to the operate promotes our business and enhances areand what we do.
communities communities in which we work.
40 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Key to drivers of profitable growth Operating model and All nine of our drivers Engaged associates Organic expansion All e-commerce development of profitable growth Excellent service ethic Bolt-on acquisitions Pricing discipline Strong sales culture Adjacent opportunities Own brand penetration Sustainability and drivers Our focus areas Our principles Opportunities Risks ofprofitable growth We are committed to people A multi-skilled and well-trained workforce will Changing operating models require us to Talent management Our The symbols above are displayed in the development at every level help us to deliver against our objectives and constantly up-skill our people.
A competitive and development table to the left to indicate which of our people ofthe organisation.
marketplace puts greater emphasis on All excellentcareer development to attract talent.
strategic drivers are most directly supported by each of the Better Business programme components.
The strategic drivers are We offer competitive remuneration Well structured remuneration and incentive An uncompetitive remuneration programme Competitive pay and reward to our people.
programmes align associate and Company could impact our ability to attract and retain summarised on page 16.
All objectives in order to maximise results.
Continuous improvement We value our associates and Motivated and engaged people deliver Low associate engagement can lead to Associate engagement actively work to improve excellent customer service, develop sub-optimal business results and poor Our commitment to sustainability remains All associate engagement.
We engage regularly with our operational efficiencies.
stakeholders to identify innovative ways we can continue to improve our business and We understand, respect and value A diverse workforce brings with it the widest In an ever-changing market a lack of diversity Diversity and inclusion personal and cultural differences.
An inclusive environment allows our people to feel at ease in the workplace.
Governance We strive to be First in Safety and A robust health and safety programme protects Our principal risks relate to manual handling, Health and safety Due to material changes in the business, put the wellbeing of our associates our people, customers and suppliers.
working at height, the use of motorised All the overall Better Business framework is first and foremost.
If not currently under review to test the ongoing mitigated, these risks can harm our associates, impact our service and incur costs.
See pages relevance of the focus areas identified.
The Groups Chief Marketing Officer and Director of Sustainability are responsible We adhere to strict Human A commitment to high ethical standards The business is exposed to risks of bribery Ethical behaviour Resources policies and follow our strengthens our reputation with customers, and fraud, which can damage our reputation.
to the Board for the overall programme.
Compliance programmes are in place to Objectives and where appropriate, All mitigate these risks.
See pages 26, 42, 43 quantified targets, are set for relevant and 49. goals.
Business units monitor performance throughout the year and performance We work with our suppliers to Sourcing and supplying safe, quality products Product liability can arise if manufacturers Product quality and integrity Our maintain excellent standards of improves our margins, enhances customer donot stand behind their products.
reports are submitted, reviewed and products product quality and safety.
satisfaction and enables our people in branch discussed by the Executive Committee todevote more time to service.
We expect our suppliers, Working with reputable suppliers gives our There is increasing focus on supply chain Responsible sourcing contractors and agents to adhere to stakeholders confidence in the integrity of our transparency due to the risk of business Performance our Code of Conduct and to adopt supply chain, including standards around ethical interruption or reputational harm.
Our progress over the year in review similar standards.
is detailed over the next two pages.
Where further information is available, We are a positive link in the Where the opportunity exists, we can gain market Building regulations increasingly focus on Promoting eco products thesource of the reference material is cited.
sustainable construction share by supplying eco products and offering sustainable construction.
can be missed if we do not adapt to our Additional information on Sustainability and customers changing product needs.
Our People is available on our website at www.
We run efficient operations that Better energy and waste management decreases Energy costs and increasing green taxes Environmental efficiency Our consume less energy and produce costs and improves operational efficiencies.
We have reduction targets in place to minimise Promotion of eco products these costs.
Particular customers are more focused on sustainable products and we promote We consider legal compliance our High standards of compliance differentiate Mitigating the risk of non-compliance with Compliance with the law minimum threshold of performance.
increasing levels of governmental regulations products that conserve water and isa priority see page 49.
Without certain energy where there is customer demand.
licences the Company cannot operate.
For example, we sell digital thermostats that allow our customers to remotely control their We protect both digital and Robust systems and processes together with Information technology is one of our principal Protecting information physical information on behalf aninformed workforce allow us to protect our risks.
For more detail, see page 48. energy consumption and conserve energy ofour stakeholders.
when they are away from home.
Pages 24 We voluntarily contribute our time Engagement with the communities in which we There are no risks, this is just part of who we Active corporate citizen Our and our financial support to the operate promotes our business and enhances areand what we do.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Sustainability sourcing entities continue to visit and assess Ethical behaviour Our people our suppliers.
Rigorous testing protocols are and human rights in place to ensure quality standards are met, Our progress on the people focus areas is Page 26 and should an issue be identified, immediate described on pages 24 to 27.
Diversity and steps are taken to identify the root cause of health and safety statistics and our human Human rights the issue and prevent it from re-occurring.
rights statement are provided below.
Both the United Nations Global Compact and Universal Declaration of Human Rights All material issues relating to our people Responsible sourcing have been considered in determining directly affect all of our strategic drivers Each business assesses its suppliers against the human rights issues that are material on page 16.
The effectiveness and level set criteria to provide protection toboth us and to the Company.
These topics include of engagement of our people is crucial in our customers in the event of aproduct failure associate policies covering topics such as delivering on our strategy and maintaining or breach of regulation in the supply chain.
anti-discrimination, health and safety and the sustainability of the business.
Pages 26 to 27 ethics and conduct.
All of these issues are managed through policies and programmes Diversity and inclusion UK Modern Slavery Act of work and are regularly monitored for Total Total % compliance.
Business partners and suppliers Since 2016, the Company has responded Unspecified men women women are expected to conform to our Code of to the UK governments directive under the Directors Conduct.
The Code of Conduct is set out Modern Slavery Act for concerted action to Board 6 3 33% onour website www.
tackle the occurrence of forced, involuntary Senior and child labour in the global supply chain.
1 leadership 68 22 24% Whilst collectively Ferguson buys products Talent management from over 43,000 suppliers in 36 countries, Total anddevelopment 2 we primarily source manufactured goods associates 11 27,318 8,019 23% Page 24 from suppliers in North America and Europe 1.
The senior leadership group consists of those where the risk of modern slavery is lower.
members of the Executive Committee, who are Competitive pay and reward As we continue to enhance our anti-slavery not Board Directors, and their direct reports.
Page 24 measures, we will focus our efforts on our This isconsistent with the data we supply to theannual Hampton-Alexander review.
The total average individual associate number Associate engagement of 35,348 is reported above total men plus During 2017 18, key milestones included: total women plus total unspecified including Page 25 Increasing the number of suppliers allcontinuing businesses.
subject to Fergusons anti-slavery For more information on diversity and inclusion standards.
In total, 1,307 major suppliers Our products and our approach see pages 25 and 61. have contractually pledged to abstain from Pages 25 and 61 Product quality and integrity use of child, forced, or involuntary labour in their operations.
Approximately 10 per cent During 2017 18 we continued to strengthen Health and safety of these suppliers are in countries with a our quality control procedures for sourcing Ferguson aims for continuous improvement prevalence of modern slavery according products.
Quality teams in our overseas on each of the three health and safety metrics.
to The Global Slavery Index.
Harmonising anti-slavery measures Injury rate 0.6% improvement across our businesses.
Our businesses 1.70 per 100,000 have begun incorporating ethical and hours worked anti-slavery elements in their supplier Lost workday 0.7% improvement audit methodologies.
rate 2.99 per 100,000 Developing a risk assessment tool hours worked toenhance the effectiveness of our Fleet third party 17.8% improvement anti-slavery engagement with our collision rate 1.01 per 100 vehicles international suppliers.
The risk assessment Developing own brand solutions tool will detect high risk suppliers, without While we achieved small improvements in In some of our businesses, specific revenue regard to level of spend, based on our injury and lost workday rate, we believe and profit based targets have been set to geographic location, level of corruption as we can accelerate improvements in future stimulate sales of high efficiency products.
measured by Transparency Internationals For other areas of our business, new product years.
This year we improved our health and development has offered an opportunity for Corruption Perceptions Index, and safety programme and in the second half of growth.
For example, we recently developed manufacturing sector.
the year we made encouraging progress.
an own brand toilet under the PROFLO Further information on key health and safety Greenlee brand that meets WaterSense We remain steadfast in our commitment to risks and the actions we are implementing is standards and also has an ultra high eradicating any form of modern slavery in provided in the Chief Executives Review on efficiency rating while only using 0.8 gallons our global supply chain.
per flush, one of the lowest in the US market pages 16 to 20 and in the Key Resources and for gravity fed toilets.
Ferguson has also Additional details of our anti-slavery activities Relationship section on pages 24 to 27. developed a green choice product label during 2017 18 are set forth in our annual Pages 24 to 27 that is available on our website and allows statement in accordance with section 54 consumers to filter for energy efficient or of the Modern Slavery Act, available here lowflow products.
42 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Total carbon emissions Compliance with the law Our operations Metric tonnes of CO equivalent 2 Legal and compliance teams across the Group work with the businesses to adhere Environmental efficiency 396,846 414,416 408,500 toall legal and regulatory requirements.
In 2015 16 we set five-year targets to reduce 100,997 95,033 116,509 carbon by 10 per cent and waste by 15 per Protecting information cent per $m revenue and to increase the 126,512 110,387 128,448 percentage of waste that is recycled to As our channels to market develop, so too 40per cent.
does the technology that we employ and 186,907 181,604 173,365 the data that we hold.
We are committed In recent years, the reduction in our portfolio to protecting the security of our systems of businesses has decreased our physical 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 and information so that customers can footprint and therefore our carbon footprint.
transact with us and remain confident that Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 To aid comparability of performance we have we have the appropriate safeguards in removed non-ongoing operations from the 1 tCO e $m revenue place.
The Group operates an IT governance 2 current and prior year periods.
framework, including a full set of dedicated Carbon Increase emissions 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 reduction In 2017 18 we reduced total carbon emissions IT policies, aligned to known security and per $m revenue by nine per cent.
This was operational risks see page 48.
Scope 1 and mainly achieved through improved route 2 emissions 17.2 16.4 14.1 14% Pages 46 to 60 planning and retiring older vehicles from Scope 3 our fleet.
The implementation of a utilities emissions 5.4 5.3 5.6 5% management system in the US allowed us to Our communities Total better manage energy usage and decrease emissions 22.6 21.7 19.7 9% Active corporate citizen our Scope 2 emissions.
The percentage of total waste recycled deteriorated slightly The Group has a long tradition of against our goal mainly due to volume Total waste contributing to a number of charitable growth in the business and, to improve this US tons organisations.
Our associates invest their number, each business is developing a waste time and talents at a range of charities, which 55,843 60,136 65,945 diversion plan.
Performance at the end of include support for the homeless, hunger, 2017 18, two years into the target period, veteran support and provision of care for isasfollows against our stated targets.
sufferers of cancer and other illnesses.
50,042 Carbon 12.8% improvement versus 45,715 The skilled labour gap is a challenge for 42,652 2015 16 baseline 22.6 to many of our customers.
Reflecting this, 19.7tCO e per $m revenue 2 in 2017 18, our US business committed 1,585 1,164 311 14,318 12,880 13,257 to a three-year partnership with a skilled Total waste No change versus 2015 16 trade organisation known as SkillsUSA.
baseline 3.18 tons per 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 This organisation is comprised of students, $m revenue Recycled Incinerated Landlled teachers and industry working together % of total Deterioration versus 2015 16 I ncluded in PwCs limited assurance scope to ensure the development of a skilled seepage 158. waste recycled baseline from 23.1% to21.7% workforce.
The $300,000 commitment To align with the change in presentational currency waste recycled will fund conferences and competitions to US dollars last year, our waste data has been Ongoing revenue of $20,752 million is used when converted from Tonnes to US Tons, and will be to develop and test technical skills, and calculating the relative carbon andwaste performance.
reported in those units going forward.
For the educational programmes to introduce the first six months of 2017 18 for which we have data, All Scope 1 and 2 emissions and selected Scope 3 trades to students.
non-ongoing operations contributed 17,434 tCO e 2 emissions are reported.
Scope 1 data includes direct and 8,387 US tons of waste to our total footprint.
emissions from fuel operations, owned leased vehicles We will also continue to seek opportunities In 2016 17, non-ongoing businesses contributed and refrigerant leakage.
Scope 2 data includes indirect 35,500 tCO e and 22,975 US tons of waste.
to support apprenticeship programmes and 2 emissions from purchased electricity and heat.
Scope 3 In 2015 16, non-ongoing businesses contributed attract talent to the field.
Another example data includes indirect emissions from outsourced 54,122 tCO e and 26,859 US tons of waste.
2 transportation, private vehicles and business travel.
of our commitment to the skilled trades Inaccuracies identified in prior year numbers resulted in immaterial adjustments to the absolute carbon includes product donations for the We received limited third party assurance andwaste totals in the corresponding charts.
development of skills labs at regional on data marked with the symbol by 1.
Constant currency revenues are used in order to technical training centres, which ensures  PwC.
It is remove the impact of currency fluctuations from that students receive the hands-on training important to read this data in the context our performance.
This has reduced the relative that they need.
of PwCs full limited assurance opinion carbon figures for prior years.
Our approach to measuring carbon was developed in accordance andourBasis of Reporting.
More information Additional information and case studies of with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG is provided on page 158 andon our Protocol.
Emissions are calculated using DEFRA the events our associates and businesses websiteatwww.
com en and IEA carbon factors and are reported as tonnes have supported over the last year can be of CO equivalent abbreviated as tCO e, based on 2 2 sustainability.
the Global Warming Potential GWP of each of the basket of six greenhouse gases, as defined by the Kyoto Protocol.
This data includes some estimates where actuals are unavailable.
Page 25 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43
