Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Relations with shareholders Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders Fergusons shareholder engagement programme The Board is fully committed to engaging with all shareholders, including employee shareholders.
The Company maintains an active dialogue with shareholders throughout the year through a planned programme of communications and investor relations activities.
Our Group Director of Communications and Investor Relations is the senior executive who has day-to-day responsibility for all investor relations matters and for contact with shareholders institutional and private, as well as with financial analysts and the media.
He reports to the Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Chief Executive and regularly provides the Board with details of feedback received from institutional shareholders and any key issues raised.
Regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and financial analysts based in Europe and North America is maintained through: meetings and conversations involving the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Investor Relations team: release of updates on the financial performance of the Group incorporating revenue, profitability by region, net debt and appropriate commentary on key business trends: and the Chairman regularly engaging with larger institutional shareholders to discuss matters including the Board, strategy, remuneration and corporate governance.
In order to engage with private shareholders, periodic meetings are arranged with the UK Shareholders Association and all communications from individual shareholders receive a response.
In an effort to ensure that all shareholders have equal access to information we make all documents presented at investor events available on www.
There is also a shareholder information section on www.
com and at the end of this report on pages 154 to 156.
Plans for engagement in 2018 19 A similar investor relations programme will be run during the 2018 19 financial year.
AGM The AGM is held in Switzerland with an audio-visual link to London so that shareholders in London are able to participate and can question the Board during the meeting.
All Directors attended the 2017 AGM.
During the AGM, the Board answered a wide range of questions from shareholders.
Details of the 2018 AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM and are available on www.
Additionally, the Group Chief Executive and Director of Communications and Investor Relations will make themselves available to answer questions from individual shareholders in advance of the AGM at a meeting hosted by the UK Shareholders Association at the offices of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, 2 King Edward St, London EC1A 1HQ on 21 November 2018.
Overview of how Ferguson engaged with shareholders in2017 18 October 2017 Roadshows in London, New York, Bostonand Chicago April 2018 Roadshows in New York, Boston, Chicagoand London November 2017 Roadshows in Toronto and Edinburgh May 2018 Roadshows in Edinburgh, Frankfurt, Toronto, NewYork, Baird Global Investors Conference in Chicago Kansas and Denver UK Shareholders Association meetingin London Ferguson plc General Meeting to approve the special Ferguson plc Annual General Meeting dividend and accompanying share consolidation January 2018 Roadshows in San Francisco, June 2018 Business Services, Transport & Leisure Investor Conference LosAngelesandSanta Fe with Goldman Sachs in London March 2018 Roadshow in London July 2018 Chairmans meeting in London Investor meetings at Ferguson Enterprises inNewport News Engagement with other stakeholders Engagement with associates Engagement with customers A healthy and highly engaged body of associates is fundamental to At Ferguson, our excellent service ethic is underpinned by the the success of the Company.
During the year the Board has sought way our associates create partnerships with our customers and to engage directly with and understand the views of the Companys understanding the wants and needs of our customers is a key part of associates by meeting with associates during site visits.
The Board the Boards role in setting the Groups strategic direction.
During the receives reports on health and safety at every Board meeting, year the Directors met with customers during their visits to the USA and the Group Chief Executive reports on health and safety in his and improved their understanding of the role of digital technology monthly Board reports.
Additionally, the Group Chief Executive in the customer experience through regular discussion and regularly engages with senior associates on performance and management presentations.
See page 55 for further information.
See pages 55, 25 and 26 for further information.
Engagement with the communities in which we operate Engagement with suppliers We operate our business responsibly and contribute actively to The Board understands the importance of the Companys the communities in which we operate.
Our active corporate citizen relationships with its suppliers and has continued to develop programme along with ethical behaviour and human rights, product its understanding of the supply chain during the year through quality and integrity, responsible sourcing, promoting eco products regular reports on the Groups Product Integrity programme and and environmental efficiency are all pillars of our Better Business other management reports.
Additionally, the Board reviewed framework.
Please see pages 40 and 41 for further information.
and approved the Companys Modern Slavery Act statement.
See pages 42 and 43 for further information.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59
