Strategic report Corporate responsibility Local air quality Environment Public transport is at the heart The link between vehicle exhaust emissions, ofthe local economy in all poor local air quality and the impact on human Transport related CO emissions 2 health drives our programme of investment markets in which we operate contribute 23% to the global total incleaner vehicles and information systems.
andcentral to the quality of life and are increasing at an annual Regulatory standards for bus engine types 1 ofcommunities that we serve.
inboth the UK and North America have become increasingly stringent as shown Buses and trains connect people to jobs In the last two years, the transport sector inthegraph on page 24. and customers to businesses, offering hasovertaken the power sector as the largest access to education and public services contributor to greenhouse gas emissions The air quality impact of our vehicles is and promoting social inclusion.
Not only bothin the UK and North America.
At the something we are constantly striving to does local transport contribute to local sametime, there has been a focus on local air improve.
One way in which we can do this prosperity and growth, it can also offer quality due to the increasing number of studies istouse the cleanest vehicles we have most lower levels of greenhouse gases and local showing the links between local air pollutants often.
The latest diesel engine type that we air pollutants per passenger and reduces and human health.
A significant modal shift in canuse in the UK is called Euro VI offering congestion due to lower traffic volumes.
urban transport from private vehicles to more significant improvements in local air emissions efficient public transport modes is needed to such as Nitrogen Oxides NOx and Particulate As a leading transport operator we achieve related objectives of CO emission 2 Matter PMs.
In the US the latest diesel engine providesustainable travel solutions for 2 reductions and improve urban air quality.
types must conform to the EPA 2014 standard.
ourcustomers and the communities weserve.
The contribution of safe, The provision of affordable and accessible First Student affordable and accessible transport is transport is central to our offering end In the US, the American School Bus Council keyto the sustainability of our business.
toendjourneys with exceptionally low reports that each yellow school bus carries Our approach to corporate responsibility perpassenger emissions and high levels onaverage 54 students and takes 36 cars 3 covers our commitment to the ofcomfort and safety.
offthe road during the morning and evening environment, safety, our people and peaks.
Without school buses more than 17m Greenhouse gas emissions communities the areas where we extra cars would be needed to transport The significant contribution that the haveamaterial impact and can bring students currently riding on all schoolbuses transportsector makes to the greenhouse aboutpositive change.
gasemissions in the countries in which we We have detailed policies in place operate has led to increasing scrutiny from First Student emissions of PMs and NOx acrossFirstGroup that ensure a cohesive policy makers and regulators.
havefallen by 22% and 17% respectively approach to corporate responsibility.
This decrease Transport services provided by FirstGroup Ineach of these areas, we aim to exceed results largely from our replacement of older offercompelling per passenger CO 2 regulatory requirements, and work with fleet with lower-emission alternatives and reductions when compared with private expert networks and groups to learn from becausewe are using our older vehicles less transport and air travel.
This is indicated in best practice, helping us to respond to often.
Forexample, we have achieved a 28% thetable below: current and future trends.
To ensure we are reduction in mileage by vehicles which sharing industry best practice, we are pre-date 2007 which is the year in which the gCO e passenger active members in groups such as the UKs 2 EPA emissions standards became markedly Mode kilometre Rail Safety and Standards Board RSSB more stringent with respect to NOx and PMs.
First Bus 81.8 and Greener Journeys a campaign First Transit dedicated to encouraging people to make First Rail 44.8 First Transit are at the forefront of new more sustainable travel choices.
In the US, Greyhound 32.1 technologies offering zero tailpipe emissions, First Student works closely with the School Car average UK 112.1 such as the battery electric vehicles operating Superintendents Association AASA.
in Rochester, Minnesota and Arlington, Texas Car average US 222.7 We are constantly striving to find innovative as well as autonomous shuttle vehicles in San ways to meet the changing expectations Domestic Flight 267.4 Ramon, California.
and needs of our customers.
Our aim is Source: We have delivered a range of alternative fuel, always to be the provider of choice for low and zero emission buses both in response those we serve optimising our resources DEFRA Conversion Factors 2017 and UK Gov NTS 0905 2016. to customer demand and to meet our longer and investing in the future of our people term aims of carbon reduction and clean air.
EPA Climate Leaders 2018 and NHTS Federal Highway Administration 2017 In 2017 18 we completed 13% of miles with natural gas and liquid petroleum gas LPG powered buses these are amongst the lowest emission vehicles in our fleet.
Whilst tailpipe emissions of CO are on par with 2 1 http: www.
org en news pressrelease 2016 05 05  the latest generation of diesel engines,  harmful air emissions of NOx and PMs are 2 IEA International Energy Association significantly reduced.
3 RSSB FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Corporate responsibility continued Local air emissions vehicle standards US and Europe NOx PM Biogas buses in Bristol, UK 9 Euro standard, NOx 1.0 US EPA standard, NOx 0.9 8 Euro standard, PM US EPA standard, PM 0.8 7 0.7 6 0.6 5 0.5 4 0.4 3 0.3 2 0.2 In 2015 First Bristol trialled the UKs first 1 0.1 bio-methane powered single-decker 0 0.0 bus.
In August 2017, working in 1988 1990 1991 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2004 2005 2007 2008 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 partnership with Bristol City Council and South Gloucestershire Council we were Greyhound The planned implementation of Clean Air awarded 4.8m grant funding for 110 At 32g CO2e per passenger km, intercity Zones CAZs in five UK cities, plus London, double-decker bio-methane buses and travelby Greyhound bus offers the lowest highlights the importance and relevance of fuelling infrastructure.
per-passenger carbon emissions of any modal reducing pollutant emissions, and our alternative around 88% lower CO2 emissions continued investment in low emission vehicles The grant funding will unlock 29.4m of than an equivalent domestic passenger plane ensures we are strongly positioned.
The private investment from First Bus, which journey at 267g CO2e pkm and 86% lower introduction of CAZs is likely to spread to other takes our investment in clean vehicles than that of the average US passenger car locations in the UK as the desire for cleaner for Bristol to more than 60m in under 223gCO2e km.
Using bio-methane, the vehicles greenhouse gas GHG Greyhound is investing further in new bus and In these cities it is expected to be mandated emissions are 84% cleaner than a Euro V engine technologies and techniques.
In 2017, that all diesel buses must be Euro VI standard diesel bus on a well-to-wheel basis i. e. we added 88 new vehicles to our fleet and in a short timeframe.
In many of these areas when looking at carbon emissions using planto acquire up to a further 84 new vehicles weare a significant, or the largest, bus operator a lifecycle approach that encompasses in 2018 19.
This would result in up to 12% of in the city.
As such, First Bus will support these emissions from procurement of ourfleet meeting the most stringent EPA aims through deploying cleaner Euro VI materials through tocombustion of requirements for diesel engines.
For each engine diesel and alternative fuel buses where thefuel.
typical 1994 model that is replaced we will possible leading to reductions in roadside emissions of PMs and NOx.
seea 98% reduction in gross particulates In addition to the new biogas fleet, and99.6% reduction in nitrous oxides.
weare also retrofitting up to 72 existing Funding has been made available through local vehicles with new engines and selective authorities across the UK and we are confident Further efficiency savings have been catalytic reduction technology to of securing more than 7m to retrofit a achievedthis year through our work to reduce achieve a Euro VI standard the best proportion of our fleet to the cleanest Euro VI aerodynamic drag on the bus body and chassis, environmental standard available standard.
This would allow us to retrofit more introduction of smart micro-hybrid charging EuroVI engines produce 95% less than 400 buses over the next two years.
systems and replacement of mechanical fans NOxemissions compared to Euro V. with efficient electric alternatives.
In addition to modern efficient diesels we In 2020, after all biogas vehicles are continue to pilot alternative fuel types such as First Bus inservice, every vehicle operating hydrogen, electric and biogas.
For example, The topic of air quality has become inthecitys designated Air Quality inYork, where First Bus has been operating  in the UK and at First Management Areas will meet the battery electric vehicle BEV fleets successfully Bus we have continued our investment in the highest emission standards.
Bristol will since 2014, First Bus will add a further 21 new latest Euro VI diesel technology which has have one of the cleanest and greenest BEVs to its existing fleet of 11 vehicles, to been independently proven to produce a tiny bus fleets in the country.
support growing local and tourism demand.
fraction of NOx and PM emissions compared Find out more to previous generations.
Independent testing First Rail www.
com responsibility toverify the emissions data for our bus fleet First Rail operates three rail franchises and shows our new diesel buses produce fewer oneopen access operator, carrying around localair pollutants than many new diesel 263m passengers, around 11.9bn passenger cars.
In the UK, the proportion of miles we kilometres per year.
The rail sectors completed using Euro VI buses has increased contribution to reducing the UKs greenhouse by 10% in the last two years.
gases is directly influenced by investment in electrification infrastructure, the continued fide-carbonisation of the UK energy grid and 24 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Our carbon footprint First Transit 19% 13% of miles completed by Liquid Natural Gas LNG, Compressed Natural Gas CNG and Liquid Petroleum Gas LPG First Student 29% Operating zero emission vehicles in 17% reduction in harmful NOx emissions SanRamon 22% reduction in particulate emissions Forefront of autonomous vehicles Carbon Each bus takes 36 cars off the road emissions Greyhound 12% per division Over 10% of fleet will have latest emissions standards in 2018 Reduced aerodynamic drag to improve fuel efficiency Smart micro hybrid charging systems First Bus 16% More than 7m funding will supplement further investment to retrofit more than 400 buses to Euro VI standard 110 biogas buses to be added in Bristol First Rail 25% First operator to introduce tri-mode trains Rapidly increasing electric vehicle fleet Automatic energy efficiency controls inbuildings Winner of Sustainability & Environmental Excellence industry award ourability to attract travel from other carbon Carbon reporting Scope 3 Indirect emissions from: First intensive modes through rails greater Our reporting follows the Greenhouse Gas Travel Solutions third party vehicle provision : convenience, speed, price and accessibility.
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting business travel by air: and North America Standard, applying the operational control and UK waste recycling and disposal In 2017, we were the first UK rail operator to approach to our organisational boundary.
introduce next generation bi-mode trains Out of scope Indirect emissions from: offering increased seating capacity, reduced Scope 1 Direct emissions from: vehicle use burning biofuels in our First Bus vehicles, emissions zero point emissions when operating owned and leased : fugitive refrigerant gas inline with Defra reporting guidelines in electric mode and lower overall carbon emissions: heating fuels used in buildings: For more information, see our reporting emissions per occupied seat.
When operating and road and rail fuel use guidelines at www.
com 2018 in electric only mode, we have calculated up to Scope 2 Indirect emissions from: electricity Reporting Guidelines 30% reduced CO emissions.
2 used in our buildings, and to power our electric rail and bus fleet.
We report both FirstGroups investment in reduced carbon location based emissions taking into emissions from its fleet has been supplemented account the UK grid average and market by a range of measures to reduce energy use at based emission stations and depots.
GWR and TPE have invested in energy efficiency controls, which have centralised the monitoring and management of energy and the use of automated switching through timers and sensors.
Data in this table has In winning the UKs Rail Business Award for Our performance in 2017 18 beenindependently Sustainability & Environmental Excellence in Our carbon footprint in tonnes CO e : 2 assuredby Carbon Clear.
2018, TPE demonstrated how their innovative Seewww.
com 2017 18 2016 17 portfolio-wide lighting upgrade to the latest LED responsibility for assurance Scope 1 2,308,915 2,377,452 opinion and for notes on the lighting has ensured that they are on track to Scope 2 location based 276,973 270,988 breakdown of this table.
achieve their ambitious 31% franchise energy Scope 3 9,340 10,668 Reporting period 1 April reduction target.
Out of Scope 10,065 9,530 2017 to 31 March 2018, in line with the Groups financial year.
Total tonnes CO2 e 2,605,293 2,668,639 Data has been re-baselined Total tonnes CO e per 1mrevenue 384.81 399.80 toreflect new addition 2 ofSWRrail franchise in Scope 2 marketbased 46,683 46,128 accordance with our statedre-baselining policy.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Corporate responsibility continued Touchpoints happen across the Group Safety everyday, and more than 42,000 debriefs Using technology to have taken place since the programme began, Our commitment to the safety of monitor driver condition from the Chief Executive down to front line ourpassengers, ouremployees and enhance driver managers.
Behavioural change takes time andall third parties interacting with but, in the last 12 months we have seen our alertness ourbusinesses remains unwavering, employee injury rate reduce by 4% and the and is articulated though our number of days lost following incidents is down by 3%.
Dedicated to safety Value which applies ineverything we do.
First Rail has focused on the use of precursor events to have a positive impact reducing Dedicated to safety, always front of mind potential significant operational events.
Throughout the year, Leadership training has further reduced we have continued to feel the impact of the employee injuries through changing tragic incident on the Croydon tram network behaviours in a positive way.
inNovember 2016 our thoughts remain with the victims and everyone affected.
We are We abide by our Be Safe Principles of: fullyassisting with all ongoing investigations.
Knowledge Directing our greatest efforts Over the past year from before the final Rail The Seeing Machines Guardian system atthe key safety behaviours that will help Accident Investigation Branch report, Tram uses an onboard processor linked to reduce incidents Operations Limited TOL took a series of aninfrared sensor that monitors driver actions, working closely with TfL on whose Learning Taking learning opportunities to head position, facial gestures such as behalf we operate the tram services, to continuously improve workplace safety from yawning and eye closure, through implement additional measures including the reporting of incidents and near misses real-time image analysis.
Algorithms enhanced speed monitoring and restrictions, developed and enhanced over the last Recognition Focusing on acknowledging improved signage and renewed guidance on 20 years can interpret these physical colleagues doing it right and positively fatigue management.
TOL has learned from behaviours as signs of drowsiness reinforcing these actions whilst continuing to the RAIBs analysis and its own internal andinattention, and by tracking head challenge unsafe behaviours reviews and it will continue working position and direction of gaze, can hard, alongside TfL, to follow the RAIBs Openness Regular safety conversations determine if the driver is not looking recommendations and to make further and coaching activities take place and inan appropriate place.
communication is open and honest If an event is detected as possible Sadly, there were two employee fatalities this Courage Our employees are empowered to fatigue the system will trigger an audible year and seven passenger fatalities across accept responsibility for their own safety and alert as well as vibrating the drivers ourdivisions.
These tragic events strengthen that of colleagues.
If something is assessed to seat.
The event is recorded and then our resolve to achieve zero harm to our be unsafe we have the courage to stop and followed up with the driver.
If an event employees, passengers and anyone else find a safer way of doing things.
isdetected as possible distraction the wecome into contact with in the course of system will trigger an audio alert only Assurance ourbusiness.
and uses a different tone from the Our Executive Safety Committee ESC is fatigue event.
Approach chaired by the Chief Executive, and meets six Our approach is a combination of behavioural times per year to review the Groups safety Ten vehicles on our Reading-Heathrow change, constant evaluation including external strategy, procedures, performance and Airport RailAir coach service had the assurance and technology, to ensure weare practices.
The ESC assists the Board Safety system installed in June 2017.
Once always operating as safelyas we can.
Committee in obtaining assurance that thesystem went live to the drivers, appropriate operational systems and areduction in reported events Behavioural change processes are in place to manage safety wasrecorded.
Our behavioural change programme, Be Safe, risksand to promote a safety focused culture.
focuses on our objective of zero harm and The system has also been fitted to the Our Board Safety Committee reviews the making safety a personal core value for our 35 London trams, with the addition of safety performance of the Group on behalf employees.
The delivery of Be Safe training an overspeed reporting functionality.
ofthe Board, oversees the management of toall managers and supervisors is supported theGroups operational safety risk profile The system is being considered for by robust safety management systems, and andpromotes a positive safety culture other applications in First Bus and is aclear focus on ensuring compliance with throughout the Group.
More information being considered for our divisions in processes, policies and procedures.
onthe Board Safety Committee can be found North America.
TheBeSafe programme promotes the on page 67. positive reinforcement of safety critical Find out more behaviours through regular touchpoints In 2017 we commissioned an independent www.
com responsibility dailypositive safety coaching interactions review of the completeness and effectiveness anddebriefs weekly collective discussion of our safety arrangements across operations andfeedback on touchpoints delivered.
in the UK and North America.
The review wasundertaken by Arthur D Little, selected fortheir extensive experience of strategic 26 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report independent reviews of safety as well as Voice.
The survey measures employees Gender diversity deepindustry expertise.
satisfaction with the way they are managed, Diversity snapshot at 31 March 2018 the pride they feel in working for the business, The review considered both defined safety and how likely they are to recommend us to Female management arrangements, and the extent Male others as a great place to work.
Survey towhich these were effective in the operational feedback stimulates action on the issues businesses both from a compliance thatmatter most to our employees.
Total employees perspective and in behaviour.
The report gave assurance on both systems and compliance During the year, our First Rail businesses 2018 38.9% 61.1% andour UK corporate functions conducted and proposed some development 2017 40.1% 59.9% Your Voice surveys.
Engagement scores opportunities for strengthening safety systems.
2016 40.5% 59.5% ranged from 60-88%, which compared This year First Student and First Transit wellwith UK external benchmarks.
1 Senior managers developed and implemented a Safety QualityAssurance Programme to audit Surveys for First Bus and our North American 2018 22.3% 77.7% location compliance to our standards.
divisions are scheduled for later in 2018.
2017 20.6% 79.4% Theyhave also designed and implemented a 2016 18.0% 82.0% Employee communications Location Safety Manager programme for new Good employee communication is key to starters to improve compliance and role clarity.
Board Directors engagement: with a large, mobile workforce 2018 20.0% 80.0% covering thousands of locations, we are Initiatives in technology 2017 11.1% 88.9% continually looking at new and better ways We continue to innovate and explore the use 2016 11.1% 88.9% toenable effective two-way communication.
oftechnology to improve safety performance, learning from other businesses and sharing Following successful pilots in our First Bus best practice across our divisions.
1 Using the Companies Act definition of any andTPE businesses, an employee app employee who has responsibility for planning, hasbeen rolled out across First Student.
Each division has pursued best available directing or controlling the activities of the Theapp enables employees to receive technology to enhance and monitor driver Company or a strategically significant part of company news, safety information and theCompany.
performance and assist with alertness.
First Student drivers System solutions that are now available have wereintroduced to the technology at the improved dramatically in recent years with the offemale managers remains at 35% of all beginning of the 2017 school year, and wide availability of GPS data.
This availability is management roles across the Group, 50% bymid-March, 18,795 employees had redefining best practice requiring a constant ofsuccession candidates for the most senior downloaded it on their personal smartphone assessment of the systems in use.
The roles are female compared with 28% in 2016. devices.
This is now a vibrant source of local majority of the Groups fleet is now equipped news with 65% of First Students 500 Location with safety sensors and recording devices.
In our First Student division, more than 28,000 Managers posting an average of 6.3 updates women are employed across a variety of per month.
The app is also now live across driving, supervisory and management roles, First Bus and will be launched in our First Our people and 47% of managers are female.
Transit, Greyhound and GWR businesses During the year the Group published our during 2018.
Our people are at the heart of our firstgender pay gap report.
In depots, stations and Diversity and inclusion aggregated UK results showed a positive offices across North America, A diverse workforce is better able to reflect the gender pay gap, with the median average communities we serve, understand and meet theUK and beyond, FirstGroup payfor women 9.1% higher than that for the needs of our diverse customer base, and men, we recognise there is still much to do.
employees are all working attract and retain the best available talent.
Inorder to close gender pay gaps where they towardsthe same goal of do exist insome of our individual businesses, Our full gender snapshot is shown in the table keepingpeople moving.
we aredetermined to accelerate our progress, above.
The passenger transport industry increasing the number of women at all levels, During the year, we have taken action remains male dominated, and we are and supporting them to take advantage of the aimedatensuring our people feel valued committed to improving the gender diversity wide range of career opportunities and andsupported, that their views are listened ofour workforce.
interesting roles we can offer.
toandthat we are developing the skills we During the year, the overall proportion of needfor the future.
Our businesses are leading a variety women reduced slightly from 40.1% in ofinitiatives to further improve diversity Employee engagement 2017to38.9% in 2018: this was due to a andinclusion.
Engaged employees are better able to headcount reduction in our largest division, delivergreat service to our customers, work First Student, which is majority female.
The Women in Bus Forum has recently been safely and find ways to continually improve However, the proportion of women in senior launched in First Bus, to increase the number thebusiness.
management has increased from 20.6% of women working at all levels in the business.
Whilst this forum is in its infancy, it is hoped As well as gathering feedback through informal that it will play a key role in identifying and channels, FirstGroup employees are given the We have also been strengthening the pipeline preparing women for leadership opportunities, opportunity to make their voice heard through of women building their experience for the through the provision of mentoring and our regular employee opinion survey Your most senior roles: although the proportion positive role models.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 Corporate responsibility continued We are piloting new approaches to the way we Inaddition, each runs local initiatives targeting market roles which have traditionally attracted the issues most relevant to the workforce.
Our UK graduate scheme many more male than female candidates.
For SWR provides interactive wellbeing kiosks at example in TPE, advertising the Conductor key locations, where employees can measure role as a Customer Service Professional last themselves on a range of health indicators year resulted in 38% of new hires being including mental wellbeing.
SWR is also rolling female, a significant increase.
Following a out mental health awareness workshops to proactive campaign at TPE to encourage help managers to understand how they can females to apply for train driver vacancies, bestprovide support for their people.
12.5% of recent hires were women, compared with 4.7% of the existing driver population.
At TPE, free health assessment events helpcolleagues understand their key We have refreshed all our UK recruitment healthindicators such as cholesterol, advertising photography and video content to bloodsugar and lung health.
A network of Following a degree in International ensure women are prominent, and we now wellbeing champions have received training in Business at Edinburgh University, Evie use the software tool Textio to check the musculoskeletal health, nutritional awareness, was looking for a hands on graduate language of our recruitment advertising communication and influencing skills so that scheme which would give her the material to ensure it is not unconsciously they can act as role models and encourage opportunity to apply what shed learned.
Following colleagues to adopt a healthier lifestyle.
The transport sector appealed because these actions, we saw a 9% increase in the of the change and modernisation thats number of women viewing our opportunities in At GWR, the in-house occupational ongoing, and she felt that First Bus First Bus, and a 3% increase in the proportion healthteam continues to provide free rapid offered a broad graduate scheme of job offers made to female candidates.
access tophysiotherapy for employees withlots of opportunities.
withmusculoskeletal conditions, and also Health and wellbeing proactively undertakes risk assessments Evie says: Its a fantastic graduate We want to support our people to stay inticket offices, on trains and in depots to scheme with the chance to see all healthyand active: good physical and mental prevent incidents and injuries from occurring.
aspects of the business first hand.
health helps ensure better customer service, People here are very friendly and employee motivation, performance and safety.
First Bus has promoted healthy eating options supportive.
I love the variety, it will All our businesses offer access to free and in canteen menus, and has offered health helpme decide which type of confidential counselling for employees.
miniMOTs and healthy eating workshops.
management role I want to take In North America, we operate a variety of onafterthe two-year programme.
wellness initiatives and reward programmes designed to help employees to get a full Audrey Simpson picture of their health, provide them with Bus driver, First Bus advice and support to help them meet their goals, and encourage healthy lifestyle choices.
Building future capability Greyhounds Rolling Strong programme In addition to investing in the skills of our provides wellbeing advice to drivers existing workforce we are expanding our withaparticular focus on healthy eating.
UKgraduate and apprenticeship schemes Theprogramme expanded further this year tobring in new engineering, operational bypartnering with a major gym provider in andleadership talent for the future.
Canada, enabling colleagues and their families In 2017, 75 new apprentices began their to benefit from discounted gym membership.
careers in our First Bus and Rail divisions, Developing our people anincrease on the 66 who joined in 2016.
Audrey works on the flagship Across the Group we continue to invest in GlasgowAirport service based out Our UK graduate programme continues to developing the skills of our people.
This year, ofour Caledonia Depot.
Before joining help us attract engineering and leadership we are proud that our North American divisions First Bus in 2008, mother-of-three talent, with ten graduates joining in 2017, have developed e-learning platforms, giving Audrey previously worked in the school and22 due to join us in 2018. our frontline distributed workforce access to kitchens, then later as a Catering good quality training to enhance and grow During the year we made significant efforts Supervisor at a local hospital but was their skills.
During the year, employees across topromote our graduate opportunities to always interested in changing career the US, Canada, Mexico, and Panama took women, and we were particularly pleased that paths to become a bus driver.
more than 11,000 online courses through 55% of the offers and 67% of the engineering Audrey says: I always wanted to be FGAUniversity and Greyhound University.
places for our 2018 graduate scheme went to abus driver.
After having kids, I saw female candidates.
This represents another anadvert on the back of a bus and step forward from last year when 43% of our decided to go for it.
Working on the graduates were female.
Airport bus, Im often the first person tourists speak to when they arrive in Glasgow.
28 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report tolearn, ask questions and share best Our communities practices.
Wetake this further with crossdivisional collaboration opportunities in key We are proud to serve our cities and regions to develop synergies and communities across the UK, North expand strategic plans to collectively deliver America and beyond.
We use our onour communities needs.
expertise, passion and support to Community investment make a positive impact wherever we An important part of our approach to engaging work, helping to meet our ambition in the communities in which we operate is of being the preferred partner of theinvestment we make with charitable thecommunities we serve.
organisations who share our ambition of Prostate Cancer keeping our communities prospering.
In total, Community engagement UKPartnership FirstGroup and our employees donated Community partnership and engagement 4.12mduring 2017 18 as measured by the remains at the heart of our business.
Much of London Benchmarking Group LBG model our success depends on the relationships we oncommunity impact.
This year we supported foster in the communities we serve.
Towards this, hundreds of charitable organisations through our focus is building a culture of engagement corporate donations and gifts in kind, including with our stakeholders and within our five the donation of advertising space and vehicle divisionsacross the UK and North America.
hires, event sponsorships and tickets.
To ensure a consistent approach to Our employees take us even further into our stakeholders, every new employee is trained communities, giving their time and effort to inour approach to community engagement.
fundraise and support the causes they are We also hold cross-divisional sessions to passionate about.
This year we continued provide opportunities for our location leaders tooffer our UK employees matched funding fortheir fundraising efforts, matching up to 200 per person to registered charities.
In Partnering with schools addition, many of our UK employees took part in ourpayroll giving scheme, donating almost In 2015, FirstGroup employees voted 100,000 to charity through their pre-tax pay forProstate Cancer UK as our UK inthe past year alone.
charity partner for a three-year term, with the ambition of raising 1m in UK charity partnership fundraising, corporate donations In 2017 FirstGroup employees in the UK voted andthe commercial value of gift for a new charity partner and from April 2018 inkindadvertising to support men until 2021, FirstGroup will work with Action for withprostate cancer and those close Children to support the mental health of the tothem.
The partnership exceeded all UKs most disadvantaged children.
Photo credit: Ahead Partnership expectations due to the commitment Action for Children helps young people TPE has been working with the Ahead and generosity of everyone connected acrossthe UK through fostering or adoption, Partnership, anorganisation that links to FirstGroup and by March 2018 had by intervening early to stop neglect and abuse, up businesses and educators to help achieved a partnership value of more by influencing policy, and by making life better employers engage, inspire and motivate than 1.5m, significantly ahead of our for disabled children.
With more than 600 young people about skills, career original target.
services, the charity improves the lives of options and future employment.
Over the course of the partnership, 370,000 children, young people and families Through the Make the Grade employee fundraising and corporate every year.
programme TPE is helping young donations have funded the production people develop employability skills Our three-year partnership will have the of one million Know your prostate across the Leeds City Region and objective of raising funding for mental health pocket guides and ensured more NorthEast, as well as raising greater projects and enable the delivery of essential menhave access to this vital health awareness of career opportunities and specialist support to young people who message.
FirstGroup has also donated pathways into the transport industry.
hugely valuable advertising space Projects have included a transport throughout our bus and rail networks scheduling challenge which sees across the UK to promote Prostate atechnical team from TPE working Cancer UKs health awareness withstudents to give an insight into campaigns and the support available howtheScience, Technology, from the charity.
Engineering and Maths STEM Find out more subjectsstudied atschool are www.
com responsibility appliedina real world scenario.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29
