Sustainability and our ESG policies As stewards of over 3.7 billion of shareholder assets, and a voice as a shareholder in many companies, we have a duty through our Manager to influence and support positive change.
Investee company boards are expected to disclose to shareholders Environmental, social and governance issues can present both that they are applying appropriate oversight, on material issues such as opportunities and threats to the long-term investment performance labour standards, environmental management and tax policies.
we aim to deliver to our shareholders.
We are therefore committed to taking a responsible approach to ESG matters in ensuring that we have We believe that engaging with companies is best in the first instance appointed a manager that applies the highest standards of ESG practice rather than simply divesting or excluding investment opportunities.
in managing FCITs investments on behalf of shareholders.
Our approach Engagement with companies on significant ESG matters, so as to reduce covers our own responsibilities on matters such as the composition of the risk, improve performance, encourage best practice and underpin longBoard, and also the impacts we have via the investments made on our term investor value forms an important part of BMO GAMs approach behalf by our Manager and its sub-managers, which we recognise as the towards responsible investment.
most material way in which we have an impact.
Voting on portfolio investments As responsible investment and sustainability are integral to the longer BMO GAMs Corporate Governance Guidelines set out expectations of the term delivery of growth in capital and income, we believe that our boards of investee companies in terms of good corporate governance.
disclosures should go beyond minimum standards.
Our aim is to be We expect to be informed by our Manager of any sensitive voting issues proactive in reporting our ESG approach and to promote best practice involving FCITs investments.
In the absence of explicit instructions from in reporting by investment trusts generally.
In setting and reporting on the Board, our managers are empowered to exercise discretion in the use our ESG policies, we have considered the impacts of our activities and of FCITs voting rights.
All shareholdings are voted at all listed company followed the relevant regulatory guidance including the requirements meetings worldwide where practicable in accordance with the managers of section 172 1 of the Act and, in so far as they apply, the non-financial own corporate governance policies.
A brief summary of voting in 2018 is 1 reporting requirements in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Act.
FCIT does not fall within the scope of these two sections, we believe that it will provide shareholders and stakeholders with a greater level of BMO GAMs statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code insight and transparency by so reporting.
We have also reported under has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board, which encourages the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code published in 2016 and supports BMO GAM on its voting policy and its stance towards ESG as well as a number of the key aspects of the revised UK Code issued in issues.
The statement has been awarded Tier 1 status by the FRC for its 2018 and fully applicable from 1 January 2019.
Stewardship Code Compliance Statement, the highest possible ranking.
It is available on BMO GAMs website.
Responsible ownership We support BMO GAM in its belief that good governance and sustainability practices create value.
BMO GAM is a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI under which signatories... engaging with companies is contribute to the development of a more sustainable global financial best in the first instance rather system.
As such it aims to systematically incorporate ESG factors into its investment processes.
This is based on the view that companies with than simply divesting or excluding strong management focus on these areas have the potential to reduce risks facing their business and deliver sustainable performance over the longer investment opportunities.
1 See Glossary of terms on page 98 for an explanation of the Non-Financial Information Statement and where the information is referenced within the Strategic Report.
12 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Strategic Report Engagement % % 5 9 Climate Change Environmental Standards % 20 FCIT Business Conduct % 164 3 companies engaged Human Rights across 25 countries % % 44 9 Corporate Labour Standards Governance % 10 Public Health In 2018, BMO GAM engaged 164 companies in the FCIT portfolio, across 25 a particular focus on business conduct issues, where topics included countries.
This engagement is aimed both at addressing material risks, and responsible tax policies and cybersecurity.
With the protection of data also at promoting more sustainable practices with investee companies, in becoming a high priority both for regulators and consumers, BMO GAM line with the SDGs: a set of 17 goals for a more sustainable future by 2030. encouraged companies to put in place strong governance structures including board-level oversight.
Environmental issues were prominent The most common topic for discussion was corporate governance, where in the engagement with extractives companies in particular, where the BMO GAM pressed for improvements in areas including executive pay, objective has been to press companies to develop and disclose long-term board diversity and the balance of independent directors.
2018 saw strategies taking into account different future climate scenarios.
Examples of engagement in practice Company Topic Engagement In 2017 BMO GAM assembled an investor coalition representing US$2.3 trillion and wrote to the CEO, calling Labour Amazon.
com for stronger policies and disclosure to protect labour standards for workers and contractors.
This resulted in Standards dialogue with Amazon.
com and in 2018 we were pleased to see steps taken to raise wages for US workers, but BMO GAM believe further progress is still needed and will continue to engage.
BMO GAM has engaged intensively with Royal Dutch Shell including 10 meetings with its board and Climate senior executives over the past three years.
In 2018 we saw significant progress, with the company Royal Dutch Shell Change adopting strong ambitions to cut the net carbon footprint of its operations and its products, and committing to link this to pay policy.
A key issue for pharmaceutical companies is affordability of drugs, not only in emerging markets but also amongst lower-income consumers in developed markets.
BMO GAM hosted an event with GlaxoSmithKline Responsible GSK Drug Pricing 11 pharmaceutical companies on the topic in 2017 and has collaborated with the Access to Medicine Foundation to press for companies, including GSK, to improve their policies and disclosure.
In the latest Access to Medicine Index, GSK was ranked in first place.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 13 Voting Voting We expect our shares to be voted on all holdings where possible.
In % 2018 BMO GAM and the US sub-managers in total voted in favour of 85 Votes with 85% of resolutions at 531 shareholder meetings.
management FCIT One of the most contentious voting issues was remuneration.
Either by voting against or abstaining, BMO GAM did not support over 35% of 531 % all management resolutions relating to pay, often due to either poor 15 meetings voted disclosure or a misalignment of pay with long-term performance.
In Votes against the case of concerns relating to decision-making on company boards, management lack of genuinely independent directors or directors overcommitted through other directorships, BMO GAM cast votes against 17% of those standing for election.
Climate change 250 Climate change Of all the ESG issues our managers consider, climate change is one of 203 the most important both in terms of the scale of potential impact and 200 in how widespread this impact could be across sectors and regions.
We expect our managers to incorporate considerations around climate change risks and opportunities in their investment processes.
142 150 This year we are disclosing the carbon footprint of FCITs investments, in line with the recommendations of the Task force on Climate-related 100 Financial Disclosures.
This measures the amount of greenhouse gas emissions produced by each investee company, per US$1m of revenue they generate.
This is then aggregated for FCIT as a whole, 50 using the portfolio weights of the companies, and compared with the benchmark.
0 The carbon footprint is a measure of the carbon intensity of the 2018 companies we invest in.
Whilst it does not provide a full picture of FCIT climate risks since it does not, for instance, capture the innovation 1 Benchmark that companies may be undertaking to find solutions it is a valuable 1 See Glossary of terms on page 96 for explanations of benchmark starting point both for analysis and for shareholder dialogue.
In 2018 FCITs carbon footprint was 30% below the benchmark.
The main reason for this was that compared with the benchmark, FCIT has a relatively smaller share of its overall holdings in two sectors which have a high emissions intensity energy and utilities.
We will continue to monitor this metric.
14 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Tons COe sales $m Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information S Str tra at tegic R egic Repor eport t Finance could be, should be and will be the decisive factor the difference between winning and losing the war.
Finance in its very nature is forward-looking.
We must make sure that it works not only for profit but for the future of people and the planet.
United Nations Secretary-General, Antnio Guterres Investing in sustainability leaders over 200 clinics, which provided almost 900,000 primary healthcare ESG issues present opportunities as well as risks.
FCIT has investments in services in 2018.
It is also addressing the undersupply of pharmacists a number of companies which BMO GAM has identified as being leaders in South Africa through funding bursaries and providing internships: in providing sustainable solutions, through the products and services and has been outspoken in calling for action by regulators to overcome they provide.
barriers to the provision of cheaper generic drugs.
We believe that companies such as these can provide both sound longHDFC Bank: HDFC is one of Indias largest banks, with almost 5,000 term financial returns hand in hand with a positive sustainability impact.
It has a substantial rural lending business and, alongside As challenges such as climate change, water shortages and population this, a sustainability programme which includes a focus on rural growth intensify, companies able to provide solutions to these issues development, where activities have included the installation of irrigation should find their goods and services in ever greater demand.
Notable examples include: Novo Nordisk: Danish pharmaceutical company Novo Nordisk focuses on treatments for diabetes, a condition which already affects over 400 Clicks Group: Clicks Group owns South Africas largest pharmacy million people and is growing rapidly.
It has extensive programmes to chain, as well as the countrys leading pharmaceutical wholesaler.
This ensure the affordability of diabetes treatment, including its Access to company has a commitment to support the governments agenda to Insulin commitment, which guarantees provision of affordable insulin to increase access to affordable medicines.
Through its retail chain, it runs patients in low-income countries.
