66 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT RESPONSIBLE SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW We are committed to the responsible operation of our business.
We do all we can to ensure the highest standards of ethical behaviour, health and safety, environmental stewardship and governance, while sharing the benefits of mining with our communities.
Arturo Fernndez Prez Chairman, Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE HEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT & COMMUNITY RELATIONS HSECR COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER HSECR COMMITTEE ACTIVITY During the year, the Committee met in accordance with its terms of reference.
Our key activities during the year were: The long-term sustainable success of the Company relies on building trust and mutually beneficial relationships with its POLICIES AND SYSTEMS stakeholders.
The Health, Safety, Environment & Community Relations HSECR Committee evaluates, on behalf of the Review of the strategy and implementation plans of the Board, the Companys effectiveness in responding to the wider I Care, We Care programme.
and evolving interests of its stakeholders.
Our commitment to Evaluation of community relations strategy and flagship sustainability is founded upon an ethical culture, responsible projects with the communities where we operate, on issues mining practices and sharing the benefits of mining with wider such as education, health, water and capacity building.
As Chairman of the HSECR Committee, I am pleased to Evaluation and recommendation to the Board of Directors present the activities of the HSECR Committee during the year.
of a set of Board-level Sustainability KPIs.
The Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure that PERFORMANCE EVALUATION management has effective policies, due diligence processes Recommended evaluation of the Companys HSECR and management systems in place to proactively address performance with a new set of KPIs.
issues that are material to the business and relevant to its stakeholders.
We have instructed management to enhance EXTERNAL REPORTING the Companys reporting practices through a set of Strategic Review of the Modern Slavery Statement 2017.
The Committee also evaluated and recommended to the Board of Directors ETHICAL CULTURE a specific set of KPIs in order to appraise sustainability Monitoring the progress of the ethics culture programme.
performance in a more structured manner.
We remain strongly committed to promoting a long-term Maintaining a safe and healthy workplace is our highest focus and rigorous analysis of the Companys sustainability priority, above production and profitability.
I am very pleased to report that our Environment, to report that five fatal accidents occurred in 2018 and one Social and Governance ESG performance was recognised in early 2019.
Independent of the root cause analysis of these by the inclusion of Fresnillo plc in the FTSE4Good Index.
accidents, we believe that our safety culture must be deeply embedded within the Company through behavioural change.
However, there is no room for complacency, and we continue to To this end, we prompted implementation of the I Care, We be fully committed to making further improvements on the ESG Care programme that integrates best practices, systems, issues that are material to the Company and its stakeholders.
programmes and behaviours with the goal of working in a safe manner.
As part of our governance agenda, we evaluated the Yours faithfully Companys Modern Slavery Report and monitored the progress of the step-up ethics culture initiative.
Arturo Fernndez Prez Chairman, Health, Safety, We strongly believe that consultation and participation Environment and Community are fundamental rights of indigenous peoples.
Good faith, Relations Committee transparency and accountability, must always be the compass that guides our community engagement efforts.
Through constructive dialogue and inclusive participation, the Company obtained the free, prior and informed consent of the Raramuri indigenous people to build and operate a water reservoir for our San Julin mine.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The role and duties of the HSECR Committee are set out in its terms of reference, a copy of which can be found on the Companys website www.
The Committee has responsibility over the following HSECR matters: Policies and systems.
HSECR COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP In 2018, we welcomed Dame Judith Macgregor, an independent Non-executive Director, as a member of our Committee and I am sure that she will make valuable contributions going forward.
S H A R E T H E B E N E E R F U I S T R T S E L D U L O 68 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED HUMAN RIGHTS We are committed to the responsible operation of our We respect and support human rights and will never be business.
We do all we can to ensure the highest standards complicit in their abuse.
We address grievances related to our of ethical behaviour, health and safety, environmental business activities where relevant, and do not tolerate human stewardship and governance, while sharing the benefits of rights violations committed by our employees, contractors, mining with our communities.
During 2018, we were again or public or private security providers acting on our behalf.
proud to be part of the FTSE4Good Index.
We were also Key human rights issues for businesses operating in Mexico recognised by a number of other bodies this year, including: Occupational Health & Safety an Ethics and Values in Industry award from the Mexican See our compatible mining section Modern slavery Confederation of Industrial Chambers CONCAMIN : and Working conditions the Socially Responsible Company award from the Mexican See our people section Child labour Centre for Philanthropy CEMEFI.
Unions: freedom of association OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY See our people section Discrimination We believe that responsible mining is compatible with Environment high stakeholder expectations in terms of ethical, social and See our compatible mining section Land rights environmental performance, and recognise that our social Corruption: Transparency in government licence to operate is dependent upon being trusted by our payments See our compatible mining stakeholders.
This underlines the importance of responsible and risk sections Security business practices being deeply integrated into our business model, and of factors that affect stakeholders Source: Country Guide to Human Rights and Business in Mexico published by the being considered at every critical decision-making level.
Danish Institute for Human Rights.
MODERN SLAVERY Modern slavery is a grave violation to human rights.
It comprises all forms of contemporary slavery such as forced labour, servitude, human trafficking and all forms of child labour.
We have a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery BUILD TRUST and demand that all employees, suppliers and contractors reject any and all of its forms.
Visit us online to read our Modern Slavery Report.
CHILD LABOUR Child labour deprives young people of their childhood, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS dignity and education.
Our minimum age for employment is 18, and we require contractors at all our sites to adhere to this Since we adopted the United Nations Sustainable rule.
We contribute to the eradication of child labour in our Development Goals SDGs, we have strategically aligned communities by supporting school infrastructure, as well as our sustainability strategy to advance these goals directly reading and other programmes that improve educational as part of our core business processes, or indirectly opportunities for children.
DISCRIMINATION We are committed to ensuring that our people are treated fairly and with dignity in the workplace and do not tolerate any form of harassment, intimidation or discrimination.
We promote equal opportunities, ensuring that employment and career development decisions are based on performance, qualifications, In collaboration with other members of the Silver Institute, skills, experience and ethical behaviour.
We have policies in place we are working on a sustainability initiative to communicate based on salary scales to mitigate gender payment gaps.
In 2018, how silver, our flagship product, contributes to a sustainable the gender payment gap of non-unionised, non-executive future.
For example, it is a key material used in renewable employees was 3.95%.
We train our executives, managers and energy, electric vehicles, and anti-bacterial applications non-unionised employees to raise awareness of unconscious such as water treatment, medical applications and clothing.
bias and their impacts on decision making.
See our website for more on the alignment of our sustainability strategy and the SDGs.
GENDER PAY GAPS OF NON-UNIONISED, NON-EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES Support and Average Gap Open pit Underground administrative per hierarchical Operations Operations Projects Explorations staff level First level Senior Engineer -2.50% -6.15% -23.46% -3.21% -13.91% -6.61% Second level Junior Engineer -0.85% -4.63% -5.16% 8.71% 5.39% -1.04% Third level Assistant 16.33% -21.36% -100.00% -7.98% 51.86% -9.28% Overall average gap -3.95% C H E S K A C C T I S O H M T E P A T I B L E M I N I N G Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PEOPLE We seek to attract, develop and retain the best people, and engage them over the long term.
We are committed to eliminating unsafe workplace conditions and behaviours, and to keeping our people healthy.
We continue to work hard to develop an organisational culture based on trust, and to embed ethics and integrity into that culture in order to create a fair and respectful workplace.
5.22% 8.89% 2017 5.71% We respect labour rights and engage seminars throughout the year as a 8.50% 2016 union representatives constructively.
mechanism to engage and mobilise 4.07% 8.33% We engage our people through our people.
The executives participate 2015 3.45% employee surveys to better understand in a training programme organised 9.40% and respond to their expectations.
by the Mexico Autonomous Institute 2014 3.85% During 2018, we were proud to be of Technology ITAM, a leading Percentage of women in managerial roles recognised as one of the Best Places business school.
Percentage of women in the workforce to Work in Mexico.
unionised and non-unionised DIVERSITY & INCLUSION TALENT MANAGEMENT We value and respect all people from VOLUNTARY LABOUR TURNOVER We seek to recruit, retain, and develop diverse backgrounds.
We aspire to 11.99% 2018 the most talented people in order to develop an inclusive culture where 5.99% ensure we have an appropriate pipeline our people feel valued and are inspired 9.09% 2017 to meet the future needs of the business.
to contribute to their fullest potential.
5.61% 10.48% We attract and develop talent with a With the support of the University of 2016 6.29% long-term mindset see the case study Arizona, we continue to train managers 9.21% 2015 Securing a talented and diverse and executives on how to manage a 5.39% engineering workforce on page 70 diverse workforce, raising awareness 7.77% 2014 and emphasise the value of training of unconscious bias and its impact on 5.48% and mentorship.
We believe that the decision making.
We also supported Voluntary labour turnover Total turnover best retention strategy is to provide the Women in Mining chapters in the opportunities for people to learn and Mexican States of Zacatecas and Sonora.
AVERAGE WORKFORCE TRAINING HOURS grow.
For example, among our nonSee our website for our Diversity 2018 94 unionised workforce, we promoted 143 and Inclusion Policy.
2017 87 employees to higher positions and 2016 89 offered changes of business unit to a 2015 100 further 58.
In addition, we reviewed 2014 87 our incentives to better recognise performance.
Our new performance appraisal mechanism aligns training AVERAGE HSECR TRAINING HOURS needs and helps us identify high 2018 45 potential people.
We develop our high 2017 35 2016 50 potential middle managers via the 2015 69 Leaders with Vision programme.
This 2014 57 involves senior executives delivering 70 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED UNION RELATIONS HEALTHIER LIFESTYLES Unions are our strategic partners and key To prevent and control obesity-related CASE STUDY players in our drive to foster productivity diseases, our long-term campaign and develop a safety culture.
We respect Bienestar siempre raises awareness Securing the rights of employees to freedom of of healthy lifestyles based on good expression, association and collective dietary habits and exercise.
We engage unions to build the fitness challenge to engage and and diverse trust through continuous dialogue, support our employees with dieticians leadership development programmes, and trainers in their journey towards engineering wellbeing activities sports, culture, etc.
Our and continuous improvement projects.
dieticians monitor the dining rooms workforce We have successfully reviewed our of our mining operations to ensure collective agreements at our Fresnillo, that healthier choices are on offer, Saucito, Cinega and Penmont mines.
and also engage local schools to During 2018 we did not experience any promote healthier dietary habits work stoppage or industrial action as a in our communities.
We collaborate with leading educational institutions in Mexico to attract young and diverse talent in geology, metallurgy and mining engineering, offering students internships of varying lengths.
We recruit graduates from our pool of interns through the Engineers in Training programme.
These graduates are assigned a coach from our operations team who supervises their development and provides performance appraisals and those with good appraisals receive permanent job offers, securing the talent pipeline for our growth strategy.
Through this programme, we engage students from the earliest stages of their college education and encourage more women to participate in mining.
Programme Men Women Total Short internships 79 57 136 Long internships 34 16 50 Engineers in Training 149 24 173 73% 27% 100% E T S T H A D S I C L C U I T A R U S L T B L Y Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ETHICS CULTURE Our behaviours and actions should always reflect our CASE STUDY well-established ethical culture.
We have identified the winning behaviours of a step-up culture and a strategy Ethics to embed ethics throughout Fresnillo.
ambassadors WINNING BEHAVIOURS OF OUR STEP-UP CULTURE FRAMEWORK KEY ACTIVITIES: We expect our people We encourage people to to be role models, to be create a culture of candour, empathic, to stimulate to be accountable creativity and to be and to find solutions an inspiration for to their ethical their team.
dilemmas, and to have the courage to implement Trained by the University of Arizona, them.
in 2018 our ethics ambassadors delivered more than 40 ethics culture workshops reaching 81% STEP UP of our non-unionised employees.
CULTURE We encourage Our ambassadors come from diverse our people backgrounds and represent all our to embrace business units and departments, diversity, to learn including operations, finance, how to deal Every employee explorations and sustainability.
with and minimise should support unconscious biases, Because our people have been others speaking up, and to challenge trained on ethics by their own raise ethical concerns and the existing colleagues, they become more make correct decisions.
open when discussing ethical issues.
Our ethics ambassadors PERFORMANCE also trained around 80 senior level 2018 2017 contractors as part of our step-up Alleged inappropriate arrangements with suppliers 21 10 culture programme.
Last December, Alleged harassment 18 5 the hard work of this group was recognised when they were awarded Alleged conflict of interest 6 an ounce of silver and a course Alleged professional negligence 5 7 in Innovation delivered by the Alleged theft 1 7 University of Arizona.
Alleged abuse of authority 4 Alleged misuse of assets 3 Alleged fraud 1 Other 9 9 60 46 The ethics culture programme has raised awareness and encouraged people to speak-up or report whenever they observe actions and behaviours prohibited by our code of conduct.
HOW WE EVALUATE, TRAIN AND SUPPORT OUR STEP-UP CULTURE KEY ACTIVITIES: EVALUATION: TRAINING: SUPPORT: We benchmark our ethics and We trained our executives and We use the moral compass tool and the compliance practices with managers in masterclasses delivered step-up culture framework to enhance Ethispheres Ethics Quotient, monitor by the professors of the University ethical decision making.
We are converting our culture through Ethispheres of Arizona.
We also trained a group our trainers into ethics ambassadors, Ethical Culture & Perceptions Survey, of internal trainers to deliver ethics and learn and share best practices by and monitor our winning behaviours workshops for the rest of our participating in Ethispheres Business with the ad hoc survey designed by employees, and are deploying an Ethics Leadership Alliance BELA and the Centre for Leadership Ethics of e-learning course to reinforce areas the Center for Leadership Ethics of the the University of Arizona.
of opportunity detected in the culture University of Arizona.
In addition, we raise survey.
All our training follows the awareness of key elements of our code.
For more details, see the Audit Committee Visit us online to read the article by Mr Alvdrez, which was published by Ethispheres Magazine, on our Report pages 119-129. journey to embed ethics in the culture of the organisation.
Y L E V L I T E D I A V S V E M D E R A R R A E S O I L G T F Y E S S N A R T 72 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED COMPATIBLE MINING The outcomes of the materiality assessment continue to guide our sustainability strategy.
MATERIALITY Our non-financial materiality assessment helps us better understand the relative importance of non-financial issues to our business and our diverse group of stakeholders, at local, regional and global levels.
The outcomes of the materiality assessment continue to guide our sustainability strategy and streamline our reporting.
CASE STUDY Land acquisitions 6 & resettlements 3 Safety Cyanide Consulting 1 Management Soil 10 Mineral waste pollution 2 Ethics and indigenous management 4 Integrity tailing, waste rock Occupational 8 Transparency & and heaps health 7 Accountability people Government payment 5 9 Water stewardship transparency We are committed to interacting with indigenous peoples, respecting their values, culture and traditions.
We recognise that consultation is a fundamental right of indigenous Fresnillos issue materiality communities and a mechanism for building trust.
Consultation allows Note: Material issues in blue, other issues in green.
us to understand their perspectives OTHER ISSUES on our projects and address their Non-mineral waste and hazardous Air emissions SOx, NOx, particulate concerns.
Prior to consulting, we materials management.
matter, etc.. assess potential impacts and benefits Government relations & lobbying.
Compliance with international labour of our projects and develop the Employee wellbeing.
capacities of the communities to fully Fair remuneration.
Employee recruitment, development exercise their right to consultation.
To Respect the culture and heritage and retention.
consult, we consider their preferred of local communities.
Protection against forced or method of engagement, present Energy.
information in a culturally appropriate Acid Mine Drainage AMD.
manner and reach agreements Union relations.
Effectiveness of the Mexican Mining on shared benefits.
transparency and accountability Local procurement Small Climate change physical, reputational, are the key values that guide our and Medium Enterprises.
Appropriate disclosure of information Biodiversity.
and consultation on new projects.
Read more about our community Human rights in the workplace.
Equal remuneration for women Indigenous rights.
Society issue significance Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INSTILLING A CULTURE OF SAFETY Our goal is to instil a safety culture where our workers and contractors have the knowledge, competence and INTENT desire to work safely.
Relevance and risk in the lifecycle of mining EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATION CLOSURE Risk: High Medium Low IMPROVEMENT APPROACH ME CUIDO, NOS CUIDAMOS I CARE, WE CARE ME CUIDO This comprehensive programme integrates the best systems, projects NOS CUIDAMOS and behaviours into one cohesive initiative in order to encourage safe working.
It enables us to continuously innovate in safety, risk assessment and emergency preparedness, while also developing accountability through better leadership and clearer responsibilities.
A key strength RESULTS DEPLOYMENT of the programme lies in its ability to involve each and every one of us in building trust and respect.
It highlights the importance of safe working, recognises positive behaviours and creates a learning environment.
LEADERSHIP: RISK COMPETENCIES BEHAVIOUR: LEARNING ENVIRONMENT: VALUES-DRIVEN LEADERSHIP A MATURE AND RESILIENT REDUCE RISKS THROUGH SAFETY CULTURE ENGINEERING, SYSTEMS, KEY ACTIVITIES: BEHAVIOURS AND KEY ACTIVITIES: Senior leadership education courses.
LESSONS LEARNT Stepback & Think STOP.
Communicate and implement improvements and corrective ACCOUNTABILITY: RISK COMPETENCIES SYSTEMS: ESTABLISH A RISK-BASED actions.
INTEGRATION OF SAFETY AND OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Investigation Eye On Risk.
KEY ACTIVITIES: KEY ACTIVITIES: Internal documents aligned Safety is the responsibility of with ISO standards.
Critical control risk protocols and Senior management involvement organisational implementation.
in processes, systems, operations and reports.
Protective equipment used when handling sodium cyanide.
74 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED CERTIFICATIONS Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Penmont San Julin OHSAS 18001 Certified Certified Certified Certified Sets out criteria for international best practice in occupational health and safety management.
PERFORMANCE We regret to report five fatal injuries in 2018 and one fatal injury in early 2019.
We are committed to implementing the measures required to reverse the negative trend in our safety record.
FATALITIES I CARE, WE CARE TRAININGS: Number Number 2018 5 Mine of courses of people 2017 1 Saucito 96 3,254 2016 3 2015 1 Fresnillo 64 2,706 2014 1 San Julin 78 2,358 Cinega 42 1,472 Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors.
Juanicipio 13 201 TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE LTIFR RATE TRIFR FOR EVERY 1,000,000 HOURS FOR EVERY 1,000,000 HOURS Employees by the vertical conveyor at the Fresnillo mine.
TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE LTIFR RATE TRIFR FOR EVERY 1,000,000 HOURS FOR EVERY 1,000,000 HOURS 8.69 4.68 Herradura Herradura 7.53 4.63 7.93 3.45 Noche Noche Buena Buena 9.86 6.57 31.18 14.04 Fresnillo Fresnillo 29.39 9.47 23.65 11.72 Saucito Saucito 27.74 10.25 19.95 4.09 San Julin San Julin 32.52 7.63 17.84 6.35 Cinega Cinega 23.41 6.57 Employees in front of the shaft winch at the Saucito mine.
2017 2018 2017 2018 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH We strive to keep our people healthy and prevent occupational diseases.
Our approach aims to pre-emptively identify and manage the health risks to which our workforce is exposed.
Relevance and risk in the lifecycle of mining EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATION CLOSURE Risk: High Medium Low Preventive care and the promotion of healthier lifestyles can limit certain chronic diseases and enhance overall wellness and fitness for work.
While our focus is on prevention, emergency response is also a core competence of all our health teams.
KEY ACTIVITIES: PERFORMANCE Monitor level of exposure to physical We have reviewed our criteria regarding and chemical risks to the health of our how we report new cases of occupational people noise, dust, vibration, heavy diseases.
We have transitioned from metal contamination, extreme reporting occupational diseases temperatures, etc.
determined by the Mexican Social Determine operating procedures, Security Institute IMSS for indemnity equipment, training and controls.
purposes, to reporting new cases Engage Safety and Operations teams identified during annual check-ups to eliminate unhealthy conditions.
for special surveillance, rehabilitation Ensure that every employee entering or reassignment.
the workforce has a health check, NEW CASES OF OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES including physical and psychosocial 2018 30 evaluations.
2017 106 Perform regular check-ups to screen 2016 154 for occupational diseases and advise 2015 119 on preventive care.
2014 82 Manage our own rehabilitation Clinic in the Cinega district.
facilities to accelerate recovery from injuries.
CERTIFICATIONS Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Penmont San Julin Healthy Company Certified Certified Certified Certified Certification by Mexican health authorities of the implementation of best practice in occupational health and preventive care, including the promotion of healthier lifestyles.
Smoke-Free Company Certified Certified Certified Certified Certified A prerequisite for Healthy Company certification.
CASE STUDY Ventilation on demand The intelligent ventilation systems of our underground mines allow us to monitor gas concentrations and ventilate on demand to protect the health of our people.
Optimising ventilation also enables us to reduce our energy intensity, operating costs and carbon footprint.
In 2018 the system allowed us to save 4,051 MWh which represents an estimated reduction of 2,358 tonnes of CO. 2 Read more about our environmental impact on pages 76-80.
76 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT While the mining and processing of precious metals are essential industries, we recognise that our business has the potential to consume water, disturb land and produce waste and greenhouse gases.
Optimising our use of resources, curbing important to modern mining.
We are any negative impact of our activities and part of the World Environment Centre CASE STUDY being transparent and accountable WEC, a think tank that advances regarding our environmental footprint sustainable development through Biodiversity are crucial elements of sustainable the business practices of member mining and help us to retain our social companies and in partnership with management licence to operate.
governments, non-governmental organisations, and other stakeholders.
constructing Clean technologies play an essential a water dam role in improving environmental ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENTS performance and reinforcing the social Before developing any mining project, for San Julin acceptability of the mining industry.
we conduct Environmental Impact We support the Colorado Cleantech Assessments EIAs, which identify Challenge, an innovation showcase that potential impacts and the actions connects mining companies with clean required to manage them.
EIAs address technology solution providers, with the many issues, such as surface and mutually beneficial goal of meeting our groundwater resources, water quality, industrys environmental challenges.
air quality, soils, biodiversity including In addition, our CEO, Octavio Alvdrez, threatened or endangered species, is a member of the Lowel Institute of landscape and socio-economic Mineral Resources of the University of conditions.
We present our EIA report, As part of our efforts to mitigate Arizona.
This leading research institute known as an Environmental Impact the effects on biodiversity from the has the depth of expertise necessary to Statement EIS, to the environmental construction of our water dam in tackle the challenges that are critically authorities for evaluation.
San Julin, we have implemented the following measures: CERTIFICATIONS Penmont Relocation of 9,844 plants Noche of pines, oaks and biznagas, Exploration San Julin Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Herradura Buena in 7.5 hectares.
ISO 14001 Certified Started Certified Certified Certified Certified Certified Framework and criteria for in 2017 9.2 hectares reforested with an effective environmental 12,000 pine trees.
29 captures and releases Clean Industry N A Started Certified Certified Certified Certified Certified of wildlife, including foxes, Certificate granted by the in 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Mexican Environmental skunks, squirrels and snakes, Authority to promote among others.
environmental audits, 25,554 metres of soil compliance with regulations and adoption conservation works.
7 filtering dams under Environmental Award Award construction to increase the Excellence Award natural filtration of water and Award granted by the Mexican Environmental protect the quality of the stream.
Authority to recognise 77 photo captures phototraps leadership in the adoption for wildlife monitoring.
of best practices and continuous improvement Community monitoring of water of environmental quality with the participation of performance.
International Cyanide N A Started N A N A On hold Certified Certified Management Code in 2016 Sets criteria for the global gold mining industry on cyanide management practices.
The process will resume once the mines capacity optimisation plan is determined.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ENERGY AND CLIMATE Our goal is to improve energy efficiency and progressively integrate renewables and clean technologies into our energy mix, in order to mitigate the physical, regulatory and reputational risks of climate change.
Relevance and risk in the lifecycle of mining EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATION CLOSURE Risk: High Medium Low PERFORMANCE Mining is energy intensive.
We use energy at every stage of the value chain In spite of the increase in energy demand, we reduced our greenhouse gas emissions.
and this accounts for a significant portion This reduction was driven by an increase of renewables in our energy mix, going from of our overall costs.
This prevented the emission of 26,000 tonnes of CO e. 2 the extraction and haulage of ore and GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS FOR THE PERIOD 1 JANUARY 2018 TO 31 DECEMBER 2018 waste rock removal, while electricity is used in our processing plants.
As mining GHG emissions tonnes of CO e Energy MWhe operations go deeper in response to 2 decreasing ore grades, we expect our Reporting Comparison Reporting Comparison year year year year energy demand to increase.
2018 2012 2018 2012 Scope 1 direct emissions : Combustion INTEGRATE RENEWABLES AND CLEAN TECHNOLOGIES of fuel mobile and stationary sources.
530,377 375,121 2,042,982 1,385,448 KEY ACTIVITIES: Scope 2 indirect emissions : Electricity Increase the use of renewables purchased from the Mexican National Grid in our electricity supply mix.
CFE, WindForce Peoles FEISA and Monitor the development of clean Thermoelectric Peoles TEP.
286,697 329,245 950,547 420,615 technologies such as ventilation Intensity measurement: Emissions and systems and electric underground energy reported above per tonne of vehicles.
0.016 0.013 0.059 0.034 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Methodology: We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our operational control.
We do not have KEY ACTIVITIES: responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in our Consolidated Statement.
We have used The WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition.
Increase the energy efficiency of Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions.
our processing plants and set targets Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity.
ENERGY GHG PROFILE 2018 Optimise truck fleet performance and test diesel additives to improve Energy 45.07% 23.18% 5.15% 7.36% 0.480.48% 18.77% fuel combustion at our open pit GHG 42.85% 22.06% 10.97% 24.11% 0 0 operations, and locate waste dumps Combustion of fossil fuels to reduce haulage distances.
Combustion of fossil fuels contractors Optimise ventilation, dewatering Electricity from the National Grid and ore dilution at our underground Electricity from TEP operations.
Electricity from FEISA wind Electricity from EDC wind PUBLIC POLICY AND PREPAREDNESS GHG INTENSITY TONNES OF CO E PER ENERGY INTENSITY MWHE PER TONNE 2 FOR THE PHYSICAL IMPACT OF TONNE OF MINERAL PROCESSED OF MINERAL PROCESSED CLIMATE CHANGE 2018 0.019 2018 0.059 KEY ACTIVITIES: 2017 0.017 2017 0.053 2016 0.019 2016 0.051 Engage public policymakers and 2015 0.016 2015 0.050 other stakeholders through the 2014 0.016 2014 0.050 Mexican Chapter of the World Business Council for Sustainable GHG EMISSIONS ENERGY USE Development CESPEDES.
Learn more about our risk assessment and governance in our report to the CDP climate change programme.
78 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED CYANIDE MANAGEMENT CASE STUDY Our goal is to protect human health and the environment by responsibly managing sodium cyanide solutions and Reducing costs, waste tailings and spent heaps.
cutting emissions Relevance and risk in the lifecycle of mining EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATION CLOSURE Risk: High Medium Low DESIGN AND OPERATE OUR GOLDEnvironmental protection measures are ORIENTED FACILITIES IN COMPLIANCE critical for cyanide leaching systems.
We WITH THE INTERNATIONAL CYANIDE comply with international best practices MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE ICMI as promoted by the International Cyanide Were making good progress KEY ACTIVITIES: Management Institute ICMI and towards our commitment the Mexican standard NOM-155 Purchase sodium cyanide from announced at the 2018 AGM: SEMARNAT-2007, which establishes certified manufacturers.
to improve energy efficiency while environmental requirements for gold Protect the environment and moving Fresnillo rapidly towards and silver leaching systems.
As part communities during transport cleaner, greener energy sources.
of our commitment to safe cyanide to our facilities.
management, we engage with local Protect our people and the Over the last 12 months we have authorities and collaborate with fire environment during handling continued to support energy departments and hospitals to build and storage.
innovations and to deliver on our emergency response capabilities.
We Follow working practices that prevent pledge to integrate more renewables make operational and environmental impacts on health or ecosystems.
and clean energy technologies into information regarding cyanide Optimise mineral processing to our energy mix.
For example, the management available to our minimise the residual cyanide in percentage of our electricity usage stakeholders.
derived from wind power was 61% by Manage and monitor seepage to the end of the year and we are on PERFORMANCE prevent impacts on groundwater.
track to hit our target of 75% by the Provide our people with emergency Our operations at Herradura and Noche close of the next financial year.
response training, and on how to Buena are certified by the Cyanide Code.
During 2018, we reported no incidents A new fuel system currently being Decommission facilities responsibly related to cyanide management.
piloted at our Herradura mine is also to prevent legacy issues.
helping to underline our increasingly 2018 2017 positive environmental credentials Visit us online to learn more about our Sodium cyanide by reducing costs and cutting responsible cyanide management practices.
Currently at the pilot stage, new dual fuel engines in Herraduras haulage truck fleet can automatically switch between diesel and clean liquid natural gas LNG, depending on the terrain.
Early tests reveal that diesel is accounting for just 30% of usage, with the less expensive and greener LNG powering the trucks for the remainder of their journeys.
This has led to fuel savings in the order of 20%, reduced the number of engine failures and is expected to result in a 5% fall in GHG emissions from the fleet.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MINERAL WASTE MANAGEMENT Our goal is to protect local communities and the environment by managing mineral waste responsibly.
Relevance and risk in the lifecycle of mining EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATION CLOSURE Risk: High Medium Low PERFORMANCE Our operations produce mineral waste and, in much smaller quantities, nonOur historical tailings facility at Fresnillo has been transformed into an ecological park mineral hazardous waste.
The global trend for the community, and its environmental quality has been certified by the Mexican towards lower ore grades will increase Environment Ministry.
mineral waste over time, especially in Unit 2018 2017 open pit mining.
Mineral waste includes waste rock, spent heaps and tailings, with Mine waste Waste rock Tonne 164,490,105 164,431,521 the management of the latter being a key Processing waste Tailings Tonne 8,795,869 8,062,207 concern for the industry.
While very rare, Metallurgical waste Tailings Tonne 3,560,486 3,049,216 recent tailings incidents in the industry Heaps Tonne 39,912,814 42,448,200 have served as a reminder of the critical nature of these structures.
MANAGE OUR WASTE RESPONSIBLY TO CASE STUDY PROTECT THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF COMMUNITIES, THE QUALITY OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND OUR REPUTATION Responsible management of KEY ACTIVITIES: Tailings Storage Facilities TSFs Design, build, operate and monitor all tailings dams in accordance with our own high standards and in line with the requirements of the Mexican authorities see case study opposite for details.
MANAGE CLOSURE RESPONSIBLY TO PREVENT LEGACY ISSUES KEY ACTIVITIES: Close waste storage facilities in a manner that is compatible with the surrounding environment.
Include the closure of such facilities as part of our overall project closure plans.
Visit us online to learn more about how we manage mineral waste.
Tailings management is a key concern for the mining industry.
While very rare, recent tailings incidents We maintain strict control over the in the industry have served as a water balance to prevent overtopping reminder of the critical nature of TSFs.
failures and ban the use of tailings We are fully committed to addressing dams as water reservoirs.
Diversion the expectations of our stakeholders channels are incorporated to prevent to build and operate TSFs responsibly.
runoff water from entering the dam Our tailings dams are designed and reservoir, while seepage collection built to resist extreme weather and systems protect the environment seismic events, in line with the downstream.
In addition to regulatory hydrological, geotechnical and requirements, such as daily inspections structural design requirements of the and internal audits, we conduct Mexican authorities.
We pay particular third party stability reviews of the attention to the chemical stability of the embankments of our operating tailings, so that any seepage does not and closed tailings dams.
represent a danger to human health or the environment.
80 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED WATER STEWARDSHIP Our goal is to increase access to safe water by minimising our water footprint and cooperating with our stakeholders, notably communities, authorities and NGOs.
Relevance and risk in the lifecycle of mining EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATION CLOSURE Risk: High Medium Low ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE TO Although we operate in a number of AND COOPERATION WITH LOCAL REDUCE OUR WATER FOOTPRINT arid regions, the mining and processing STAKEHOLDERS KEY ACTIVITIES: of ore requires large volumes of water KEY ACTIVITIES: and this is often a relevant issue for local Implement closed water circuits, communities.
We recognise that water Secure water rights from authorities eliminating the need to discharge is a human right and cooperate with before using any water in mining and processed water into water streams.
communities to increase water access.
Reuse wastewater from municipalities Securing access and being responsible Send unused water from dewatering to and our own operations and camps.
water stewards are critical success settlement ponds in order to control Account for water use, using the Water factors, and the prevention of suspended solids, before discharging Accounting Framework proposed by environmental impacts on water the cleaned water downstream.
the Minerals Council of Australia.
resources and related ecosystems Respect our water quotas, monitoring is fundamental to our social and our discharges and taking action to PERFORMANCE environmental licences to operate.
ensure that they adhere to water During the year, we detected no quality regulations.
negative downstream impacts on Before we commence any project, we Cooperate with water authorities ecosystems or waterbodies due to our carry out EIAs to gain knowledge of water and other stakeholders, including groundwater intake or water discharges.
resources and their vulnerability on a local communities, to increase water access.
Responding to the expectations of our stakeholders, we evaluate water risk using the Aqueduct WATER WITHDRAWAL WATER INTENSITY tool from the World Resources Institute MEGALITRE M3 TONNE OF MINERAL PROCESSED WRI.
SOIL POLLUTION Our goal is to prevent soil contamination by managing our operations responsibly, thereby protecting the environment and the health of local communities.
Relevance and risk in the lifecycle of mining EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATION CLOSURE Risk: High Medium Low MANAGE OUR PROCESSES RESPONSIBLY Mining operations require the use Regularly monitor the chemical TO PREVENT IMPACTS ON THE SOIL of engine oils, fuels and chemical characteristics of the soil at our KEY ACTIVITIES: compounds as well as the management operations to verify compliance of tailings that may contaminate the soil with Mexican regulations.
Responsibly manage engine oils, fuels, if accidently spilled.
Soil can also be Manage our tailings facilities to chemicals and hazardous wastes.
polluted by air-blown dust from tailings prevent air-blown dust.
Remediate spills and report them to storage facilities.
Our management environmental authorities, complying system has procedures in place to with Mexican regulations.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMMUNITIES Our communities are our strategic partners.
We earn and maintain their trust through effective engagement and by being accountable for our impacts and we recognise that this is the only way to obtain and preserve our social licence to operate.
Our community strategy, which embraces Operate: We regularly engage all phases of the mining lifecycle, aims to with the community via formal and build mutual understanding between informal meetings in order to manage our operations and local communities, expectations and detect risks and ensuring that we engage, develop and opportunities.
We also carry out grow together.
comprehensive perception studies which help us monitor how benefits ENGAGING COMMUNITIES EFFECTIVELY are perceived and assess our impact IN THE LIFECYCLE OF MINING on the key issues facing the KEY ACTIVITIES: community.
Explore: Our exploration teams are AVOID OR MITIGATE NEGATIVE the first to establish contact with IMPACTS ON THE CULTURE AND a local community.
We identify the HERITAGE OF COMMUNITIES relevant stakeholders and focus our KEY ACTIVITIES: engagement efforts on obtaining temporary land access to explore Conduct social baseline studies at and assess social risks.
our development projects in order to Develop: Our stakeholder build greater understanding of local relationships deepen in this phase of culture and traditions.
the cycle, as we build trust through Collaborate with communities activities including local hiring, in local celebrations.
Conduct regular perception studies For our advanced feasibility and to monitor positive and negative Water Security Wastewater Road development projects, we conduct impacts and perceptions.
infrastructure Pavement of streets and walkways social risk assessments to help us Respect the regulatory framework Unemployment Electricity supply Garbage collection and street cleaning Public lighting identify the issues that matter most for consultation with indigenous Sport and recreational spaces to the community.
Local priority assessment larger spheres represent greater importance.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY EXPLORATION PROJECT OPERATION CLOSURE Stakeholder analysis Information system Media monitoring Studies baseline, perception and KNOWLEDGE social risk Evaluation of partnerships with NGOs Community activities EFFECTIVE Formal meetings Informal meetings Consultation Communication ENGAGEMENT Register of incidents Register of commitments Grievances Social investment Social Investment Committee Community requests DEVELOP Capacity building Local employment and local contractor Community Formal authorities Informal authorities Unionised employees Non-unionised employees Contractors 82 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED LAND ACQUISITIONS Being transparent and accountable AND RESETTLEMENTS for our social and environmental CASE STUDY Relevance and risk in the lifecycle of mining performance are essential factors in EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATION CLOSURE building trust.
By disclosing material Measuring the non-financial information, we are able to Risk: High Medium Low help our investors make more effective social impact: investment decisions.
Managing our Our goal is to manage negative impacts is the key to ensuring the benefits resettlement responsibly, that our business model is socially of reading respecting local laws and acceptable.
following international DISCLOSURE OF ENVIRONMENTAL, best practices.
SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE ESG INFORMATION USING THE Developing a mining project involves APPROPRIATE CHANNELS land acquisition and, in some cases, KEY ACTIVITIES: the resettlement of households.
recognise that these are complex and Website.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI.
When poorly planned and managed, Carbon Disclosure Project.
Measuring their impact in land acquisition and resettlement can Modern Slavery Report.
communities is an important adversely impact the livelihoods and Meetings and traditional media to element of social programmes.
social structure of communities, damage inform our local stakeholders.
our relationships or even cause conflict.
Our Picando Letras reading We recognise that the right to an ACCOUNTABILITY AND SENSIBILITY programme aims to create a space adequate standard of living after land REGARDING OUR POSITIVE AND where teachers, parents, youngsters acquisition and resettlement projects NEGATIVE IMPACTS and children interact, raise awareness is a basic human right.
KEY ACTIVITIES: and reflect as a result of reading in Conduct perception studies in the an enjoyable, free and meaningful KEY ACTIVITIES: communities where we operate manner.
This strengthens community Avoid resettlements whenever to identify positive and negative bonds, educates people so they can possible, by exploring alternative perceptions and impacts.
self-reflect, express their feelings options.
and thoughts and really listen to If resettlements are unavoidable, Hold regular meetings with our others in a tolerant and respectful work together with affected stakeholders.
We conducted pre and households, communities and Operate grievance mechanisms to post programme evaluations in the governments to minimise adverse engage people that may be adversely remote communities of Cinega and impacts, restoring or improving affected by our activities.
San Julin with the following results: livelihoods and living conditions.
Further develop our competences GOVERNMENT PAYMENT An increase of 8% in the number and internal processes to manage TRANSPARENCY of children who decide to read on resettlements, including social Relevance and risk in the lifecycle of mining their own at home.
baseline and asset surveys, an EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATION CLOSURE entitlement and compensation An increase of 12% in the number Risk: High Medium Low framework, negotiation, livelihood of children who spontaneously restoration programmes and ongoing mentioned that reading was one Our goal is to disclose monitoring and evaluation.
of their favourite things to do at home.
transparently our payments PERFORMANCE On average, book collections in to governments.
No community resettlements occurred the schools increased by 69%.
at our operations or development Responsible mining can be a driver An increase of 14% in the number projects during 2018. of economic and social development.
of children who say they love to However, corruption and poor read and 12% in the number of TRANSPARENCY AND governance diminish the benefits that children who enjoy people ACCOUNTABILITY society should gain from the revenues reading to them.
Relevance and risk in the lifecycle of mining generated by mining resources.
We 28% of the children improved believe that transparency regarding EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATION CLOSURE their comprehension skills, and payments to government builds trust Risk: High Medium Low their understanding of the stories.
7% improved their narrative skills, Our goal is to provide access Visit us online to consult our report when telling others about the to non-financial information in on payments to governments.
order to facilitate the decisionmaking processes of our investors and stakeholders.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHARING THE BENEFITS ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED BY STATE In addition to effective stakeholder engagement, sharing the benefits of mining is essential to the social acceptability of mining projects.
We create value in the regions where we operate in the form of employment, procurement, talent development, strategic community investment and payment of our fair share of taxes.
US$1,765.2m MINING FUND LOCAL EMPLOYMENT AND PROCUREMENT In 2014, Mexico introduced a special tax to create a fund for the sustainable Local employment is a key driver of development of mining regions.
The social acceptability and community Sonora 29.79% Zacatecas 18.26% funds are allocated to federal, state development.
We promote local Mexico City 15.06% and municipal governments.
Although employment from the early days of Durango 8.88% this fund is intended to develop the the exploration phase onwards.
In the Coahuila 8.81% infrastructure of communities development and operational phases, Chihuahua 8.15% Guanajuato 6.34% surrounding mining operations, in reality for example, we offer employment Estado fide Mexico 4.71% state and municipal authorities invest opportunities directly or through our large amounts of it elsewhere.
Our local and partner with our communities to engage regional labour as a percentage of the COMMUNITY INVESTMENT IN MILLION US$ the authorities, and aim to encourage total workforce is 73.39%.
Our Centre for 2018 3.12 them to fund infrastructure projects Technical Studies CETEF trains mining 2017 2.39 that benefit mining communities.
technicians to meet our specific needs.
2016 2.59 CETEF candidates are chosen from 2015 2.65 FRESNILLOS CONTRIBUTION TO THE the communities surrounding our 2014 2.21 FUND FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT operations, thus securing talent and OF MINING STATES AND MUNICIPALITIES strengthening our social licence to USD MILLION operate.
We participate in the mining COMMUNITY INVESTMENT BY STRATEGIC LEVER % clusters of Zacatecas, Sonora and 2018 2017 Chihuahua.
Clusters contribute to the $19.0 $26.5 development of regional suppliers, strengthening their participation in the value chain of mining companies.
US$3.12m SOCIAL INVESTMENT We work with our communities to develop a purposeful social investment portfolio aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Education 33% Water 28% Over the years we have increased our partnerships with civil society organisations Infrastructure and other 19% in order to build capacity in the communities where we operate.
Health 17% Capacity building 3% CREATE LONG-TERM VALUE WITH OUR COMMUNITIES HEALTH CAPACITY EDUCATION WATER AND SPORTS BUILDING 84 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED EDUCATION HEALTH PRIORITIES PRIORITIES In line with SDG 4, we seek to support inclusive and quality In line with SDG 3, we seek to ensure healthy lives and education as a key lever to reduce poverty and inequality.
We work closely with NGOs, authorities collaborate on programmes which encourage children to read, and communities to provide healthcare, and to promote sports communicate, appreciate music, and learn about rocks and and resilience.
2018 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2018 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS In partnership with the National University Foundation, we Picando Letras Carving Letters programme with the support organised Health Weeks in Fresnillo, Cinega, Penmont and of the NGO International Board on Books for Young People San Julin, benefiting close to 8,000 people during the year.
IBBY, we bring books and children together.
This project Comprising reclaimed tailings ponds and a zoo, our Fresnillo benefits around 8,500 children in 72 schools see case study.
parks received an average of 2,000 visitors per month.
Together with the NGO INNOVEC and the Zacatecas State Our football school, in partnership with Santos Futbol Club, Government, we launched a pilot programme to teach Rocks has a capacity for 300 children in our Fresnillo District.
and Minerals in our Fresnillo district, which benefited more than 1,000 children in nine schools.
We partnered with high schools in Fresnillo, Caborca Penmont, and Turuachi San Julin, entering four teams in the FIRST For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology Robotics competition see case study.
In partnership with LaSalle Laguna University, we offer four excellence scholarships to pursue college education in Torreon.
We partnered with Maestro Elena Duran and her Flutes without borders initiative to offer two concerts for 600 people from our Rodeo project, as well as 300 people from our Cinega mine.
WATER CAPACITY BUILDING PRIORITIES PRIORITIES In line with SDG 6, we are committed to ensuring the availability In line with SDG 8, we promote sustained, inclusive and and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.
sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment We collaborate with indigenous communities on rainwater and decent work for all.
We offer training of local entrepreneurs harvesting systems and engage authorities to develop water in addition to our local employment and procurement and sanitation infrastructure with the Mining Fund.
2018 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2018 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS With the support of Captar AC we are implementing 325 To diversify local economies, we provided training and follow-up rainwater collection system for houses, benefiting 15 for entrepreneurs in the communities of Fresnillo, Uruachi, communities close to our San Julin mine.
We continued to engage with the municipalities, campaigning for higher levels of investment by the Mining Fund in the communities neighbouring our operations.
CASE STUDY Robotics competition We partnered with local schools in communities neighbouring our Fresnillo, Caborca Penmont and Turuachi San Julin mines to compete in the FIRST For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology Robotics competition.
With the support of mentors from our Rarmuri community to compete in Company, children aged from 15 to 18 an international robotics competition, learnt how to develop their expertise in proving that with the right support and robotics, as well as the importance of encouragement, everything is possible.
teamwork and volunteering for their The Cabots from Conalep of Caborca communities.
We are preparing a Sonora advanced to the quarter finals, fourth team from La Cinega to while the Jeunes dArgent Silver compete in 2019.
Youngsters, of the Cbetis 1 of Fresnillo won the Spirit Award for the most The results saw the Potrobots of the dynamic and enthusiastic team.
Cecytech of Turuachi community become the first team from the
