Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Doing business responsibly Funding Circle was founded as a response to poor behaviours and customer outcomes in traditional financial services.
Doing business responsibly is therefore at the heart of everything we do.
We believe in building a better financial world, igniting opportunities for businesses and investors by providing better propositions for both.
By improving competition in the market and reducing dependency on bank lending, Funding Circle is helping SMEs to boost their local economies and communities through much needed job creation.
Maintaining high industry standards Since the early days of the business, we have campaigned for effective and proportionate regulation of our sector, firstlyin the UK and subsequently in all of our geographies.
InAugust 2011, we formed together with two other foundingmembers the Peer-to-Peer Finance Association, aself-regulatory platform lending association in the UK.
Wecontinued to campaign for regulation and in 2014 the FCAtook over regulation of the sector and Funding Circle was given an interim permission.
FundingCircle became fully authorised in May 2017.
This commitment to upholding the highest standards in our industry exists across all of our markets.
In April 2016, we formed together with two other founding members the Marketplace Lending Association in the US, which isfocused on promoting responsible business practices, developing the role of platform operators for the benefit of investors and small businesses alike, and sound public policy.
Both Associations FC Impact in the UK and US have adopted a platform lending code of Many Circlers are passionate advocates and supporters of conduct or operating principles.
We also co-authored and various charitable and non-profit organisations.
FC Impact, adopted the Small Business Borrowers Bill of Rights, which avolunteer group, enables people to contribute to causes that identified the fundamental financing rights to protect SMEs matter most to them: from the more abusive practices that some credit providers have employed in the underserved SME lending market, and - In the UK, Circlers are involved in a variety of activities, represented the first cross-sector consensus on responsible fromparticipating in the Whitechapel Breakfast Challenge, SME lending practices in the US.
In the Netherlands we are to hosting Techie Tea Parties on behalf of Age UK.
part of the Nederland Crowdfunding Association and in 2018 - In the US, Circlers co-ordinated a raffle and quiz to we began work to create our own self-regulated platform raisefunds for victims of the destructive 2018 Northern lending association in Germany.
Over the past 12 months we California wildfires, in addition to other volunteer and have built relationships in the European Union to influence the fundraising activities.
development of a pan-European regulatory framework.
- In the Netherlands our company is participating in BNRs We have also been appointed to governmental and regulatory Spitbrekers, an initiative to find sustainable solutions to the panels, for example the FinTech Delivery Panel in the UK Netherlands car and traffic issues.
HMTreasury appointee and the FinTech Advisory Panel - In Germany, Circlers supported the Berlin charity Conference of State Bank Supervisors appointee in theUS.
StrassenKinder by collecting warm winter clothes forunderprivileged children and their families.
28 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report Funding Circle is also an active member of the tech Human rights community.
In 2018, we became a member of the Clojure Funding Circle does not have a specific human rights policy in development community and regularly host best practice place: however we respect and promote human rights through events.
Our Engineering teams ran an open-sourced project our employment policies and practices, and apply them on the Clojure Jackdaw library and hosted ClojureBridge, a equally to everyone who works at or is part of Funding Circle.
free workshop teaching the Clojure programming language, for those who identify as women, transgender women and Modern slavery non-binary.
We have a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and human trafficking and we are committed to ensuring that Environmental awareness ourbusiness operates in a socially responsible way.
We are As an organisation, Funding Circle is committed to doing committed to playing our part in helping the world to improve business in a sustainable manner and combating the effects practices designed to combat slavery and human trafficking.
Within our business, the primary drivers of We have published a Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement our natural resource consumption are our physical locations in compliance with section 54 of the Act and this is available and work environment, our technology infrastructure and to view on our website.
It is our policy to ensure our office locations are as environmentally friendly as possible.
Examples of this Code of Conduct include lighting with automatic shut-off to reduce our carbon Funding Circle is dedicated to implementing and maintaining footprint and full recycling and waste separation facilities at all the highest standards of behaviour, ethics and integrity among locations.
While we support and encourage mobility between its workforce, and to creating a culture where adherence to our offices, we ensure this is done in a controlled manner and these standards is recognised and rewarded.
We are developing is governed by a global mobility policy.
Finally, as a technology a Code of Conduct that outlines these standards and which platform, we continually seek to drive efficiency through addresses subjects such as integrity, conflicts of interest and automation and digitisation.
This not only drives a better ensuring our staff bring their passion to work and maintain the experience for our customers, but also helps us reduce our fun, positive working environment that exists at Funding Circle.
consumption of natural resources such as paper and our The Code of Conduct will support our company mission and overall energy consumption.
will complement the company values against which each employees performance is appraised.
It will provide guidance The Group has presented the greenhouse gas GHG as to what conduct we should expect of each other and how disclosures for the first time for the year ended 31 December 2018 we should interact with others.
as required by the Companies Act.
The calculation of these disclosures has been performed Anti-corruption and anti-bribery using the UK Governments conversion factor guidance in We recognise that our reputation for integrity and relation to 2018 in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas trustworthiness is critical to our success.
Funding Circle Protocol Corporate Standard.
upholds all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption The Groups operations that release scope 1 and scope 2 in each jurisdiction where it operates.
The Funding Circle GHGprimarily include the usage of gas and electricity at Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy outlines the management ourleased offices.
We do not select or control the provision of bribery risk at Funding Circle.
Employees are trained and ofelectricity.
This is the first time that Funding Circle has tested annually on bribery and corruption risks that may arise reported on its GHG emissions and we are continuing to in the course of their employment at Funding Circle, and on develop and enhance our data gathering capabilities.
We are required to show an intensity ratio and have determined that the most appropriate for our growing business is tonnes of CO equivalent tCO e per m of revenue.
2 2 2018 tCO e 2 GHG emissions scope 1 direct 154 GHG emissions scope 2 indirect 590 Total gross emissions scope 1 and 2 744 Total revenue m 141.9 Intensity ratio tCO e per m of revenue 5.24 2 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
