Strategic report Our people Made to do more Our team consists of a talented group of Circlers who have a strong alignment with our mission and share the same drive and passion as our customers: they are made to do more.
Overview our people At a glance The dedication and passion everyone brings to Funding Circle - 1,074 Circlers globally, 217 new across each of our locations bring our mission to life.
Just like our customers, our people embody the made to do more spirit.
Fostering and strengthening our culture is fundamental to our success.
We are proud of our mission-driven, values-based - 83% would recommend Funding Circle culture.
Our values are embedded within everything we do asabusiness, and we work hard to ensure we create the right as a place to work December 2018. environment for Circlers to thrive and feel fully connected toour Company goals.
We strongly believe that building and - 92% CEO approval on Glassdoor sustaining our unique culture is critical to attracting, developing and retaining the best and most diverse talent.
also owners in the business, through our employee equity scheme, and will continue to be as we grow.
- Funding Circle UK was named as the16th Best Company toWork ForinThe Sunday Times 2018 annualsurvey.
At Funding Circle, our people are our business.
24 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report TheCompany also has a variety of other clubs, social Building and embedding our culture networks, support groups and committees, which add to Each Tuesday, everyone in the Company takes 30 minutes therichness of life at the Company.
outof their day to participate in the weekly Global Gathering.
When the Company first started, the meeting was an effective Our values play a key role in how we work at Funding Circle.
way to share important updates across different teams.
Our entire recruitment approach and performance Today, the Gathering is much bigger, co-ordinated across all management process is values based and globally aligned.
five office locations at the same time, and led by our CEO Individuals are also able to provide 360 feedback to peers andLeadership Team.
New Circlers are introduced by their andmanagement.
buddies and a weekly Mission and Values award is presented Read more about our values on page 26 in each office to an individual who has lived the values through their work and contributions.
Going further At the end of each quarter, a longer Gathering the quarterly As a FinTech organisation, we believe in developing new is held over two to three hours where we reflect on progress andinnovative ways of doing things, and we are committed made and look ahead to the coming months.
We believe it is tohelping our team develop the skills they need to be fundamentally important to our business to communicate and successful.
In 2017, we launched FC Academy, a peer-to-peer share information with each other through these forums.
It is learning network where Circlers design and deliver learning also important to us that everyone has the opportunity to hear content to each other.
This has been hugely successful across and understand the strategic direction of the business, the all locations with almost 3,000 registrations and over 200 journey including the highs and the lows, and of course that courses delivered.
The Global Leadership Team has delivered they get to hear this from senior management and our founders.
courses ranging from leading in a competitive environment to how to do a start-up delivered by our CEO.
Measuring our progress During 2018, we launched Learning Circle, our global online We also use these forums to share the results from our culture learning platform which gives each Circler access to a large survey and to update on the progress and initiatives we learning library to support their personal development.
undertake to strengthen our culture.
Funding Circle runs a Learning Circle also allows teams to develop their own content global, quarterly culture survey across all businesses and to ensure it is relevant and personalised to their teams needs functions to track employee engagement and satisfaction.
The results are reviewed by the Global Leadership Team, and help shape and drive actions to improve life at Funding Circle.
We also recognise our team may wish to develop skills that Each manager is also provided with access to an online tool are outside of their current role or immediate teams need.
for their own results and encouraged to discuss them amongst Money to do more is a development allowance each Circler their teams.
This is done through a variety of town halls and can access, in order for them to pursue and develop particular team-specific forums, which are run at a local level, and globally skills.
This can be done individually or collectively as a team.
for teams which are dispersed geographically.
This helps Throughout the year, we invite customers into our offices to foster a strong feedback culture at the Company, where share their journeys, so our team can share in their real-life everyone has a voice.
This is reflected in our culture survey learning experiences.
The Company also operates Bright results, with 83% of Circlers recommending Funding Circle as Ideas days, where a Circler can take up to two paid days out a place to work and 86% stating they are proud to work here.
ofthe office each year to work on a new idea or project for Our culture is championed by culture committees across theCompany.
each location of our business.
These committees are Circler led and supported by a member of senior management.
25 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Our people continued Our values Each Funding Circle office is unique and brings with it flavours of the local culture, and at the same time each and every office is exactly the same, with our values at the heart of everything our business does.
Challenge assumptions, seek insights and make informed THINK decisions.
Everyone has a voice, sobe ambitious.
SMART Be courageous and take ownership.
Take small steps fast and commit MAKE IT toseeing it through.
HAPPEN Treat everybody with respect andbehonest with each other.
BE OPEN Transparency and integrity buildtrust.
Listen, understand and support eachother.
STAND TOGETHER Bring your passion with you everymorning and have fun.
LIVE THE ADVENTURE 26 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report Creating a diverse and inclusive environment Gender diversity foreveryone More needs to be done to significantly improve gender At Funding Circle, we recognise the power and value in diversity across the sector in which we operate, especially at building a diverse team, where peoples skills and personalities senior levels.
As a FinTech company, we operate across two complement each other and reflect the customers we are here traditional industries, financial services and technology, which to help.
It is therefore fundamental we continue to do everything have historically experienced low levels of gender diversity.
we can to create an environment where Circlers from all Analysis of our business and external talent pipelines during backgrounds feel supported and can give their best.
2018 has allowed us to develop a greater understanding of where the biggest challenges lie, notably within our Engineering Our culture survey tells us that people feel this is the case, and Capital Markets teams.
This remains our biggest focus with 85% saying they believe everyone has an equal opportunity and is the prevailing challenge for our industry.
We now regularly report on gender diversity through our To support and foster an inclusive working environment, in management information.
We believe education and awareness 2018 we successfully established and launched a mentoring of gender diversity across the business is an important aspect programme, which pairs up senior management with junior to moving the dial.
Gender diversity is considered an important Circlers from different parts of the business, to provide advice management KPI for our business.
and professional support on an informal basis.
There are also a number of other diversity and support groups across the Women@FC Company, many of which are employee led.
These include Established in early 2015 in the US and 2018 in the UK, FCAllies LGBT, FC Impact volunteering and charity works, Women@FC is a mixed-gender group of Circlers that focuses discussed on page 28 and our aforementioned Culture teams.
on gender diversity through three pillars: awareness, community These groups of volunteers from each part ofour business come and development.
Women@FC founded Women in FinTech together to help shape and cultivate theFunding Circle culture.
US and FinTech Women UK, an external arm to help women Stand Together is one of the core values of our organisation.
working in the FinTech sector expand their professional At its heart, this means creating an inclusive culture, free from network and accelerate their career development.
In the UK, discrimination of any kind.
Funding Circle is committed to Funding Circle has signed up to the Governments Women providing equal opportunities to all Circlers, irrespective of inFinance Charter which is a commitment to support the age, disability, gender, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy progression of women into senior roles in the financial or maternity, race, religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
Our policy for the employment of disabled persons is to provide equal opportunities with other Circlers to develop Gender breakdown skills and secure roles relevant for them and their career ambitions.
This includes making reasonable adjustments to the Gender breakdown Gender breakdown workplace to support this.
Our recruitment process outlined Overall Global Leadership Team below ensures all applications, including those from disabled persons, are treated equally and fairly.
Hiring the FC Way Launched in 2018, Hiring the FC Way is Funding Circles 36 64 Q33 67 Qstandard for recruitment.
This global process specifies certain requirements for every hiring process, and helps us ensure a Female 390 36% Female 4 33% fair and objective experience for all candidates, free from bias.
For example, every interview panel must include at least one Male 684 64% Male 8 67% female, and we aim to have at least one female on our interview shortlists.
We also no longer ask for current As at 31 December 2018.
Gender breakdown compensation during the interview process.
Group Board Read the UKs gender pay Diversity training gap report on our corporate website: corporate.
All of our managers globally undertook diversity, anti-harassment fundingcircle.
and unconscious bias training in 2017 and2018.
This training is now being rolled out to all Circlers, and we are planning to deliver further diversity training programmes throughout 2019.
20 80 Q Female 2 20% Male 8 80% 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
