36 PEOPLE AND CULTURE LEADING TODAY, T TR RA AN NS SF FOR ORM MIN ING G TOMORROW A Diverse Team further growth.
This year, for example, We are a global company and employ we employed more than 180 colleagues, approximately 2,900 people in 25 with nearly 120 hired to scale up countries.
Theyrange from geneticists operations for IntelliGen Technologies, tolivestock technicians, veterinarians including a whole new team to produce toaccountants, all working together Sexcel in India.
We also established a graduate We are an increasingly diverse, multiprogramme for ABS in EMEA, national organisation.
One example is introduced a university internship gender diversity: 32% of our workforce programme for ABS in North America are women, and 27% of our managers: and established best-in-class global we are looking to increase that number.
recruitment and onboarding practices toPICs owned production facilities.
An Inclusive Culture OUR PEOPLE PLAY A CRUCIAL Our work is underpinned by five core A Global Framework ROLE IN HELPING US PURSUE values, which our people helped to We maintained and regularly reviewed OUR STRATEGIC GOALS AND shape.
They inform a culture that is our comprehensive set of global policies engaging, fair and respectful.
We are for employees, including our AntiUPHOLD THE CORE VALUES apassionate, high-performing team, Harassment and Diversity and Inclusion THAT UNDERPIN OUR thatis also open and supportive.
policy and a range of health and safety Wecommunicate regularly regarding policies health and safety is covered in ORGANISATION.
WE ENGAGE, business plans and progress and we this reports Responsibility section.
EQUIP AND SUPPORT THEM proactively seek employee feedback These policies shape the way we work.
TO ACHIEVE THEIR FULL andideas.
They ensure employees have a clear framework in which to carry out their POTENTIAL WHILE BUILDING A Thirst for Great People role and can do so in a safe environment OUR BUSINESS We are always looking to develop that is free from discrimination.
existing employees and bring in new ANGELLE ROSATA talent to challenge current thinking, We publish all our policies and support GROUP HR DIRECTOR improve ways of working and fuel them with periodic training where relevant.
Our indicators including employee survey feedback and health and safety statistics show these arebeing implemented consistently.
There are many routes through whichemployees can raise concerns, frominformal feedback to our formal grievance procedure.
We follow the same investigative procedure referenced in this reports Anti-Bribery and Corruption section see opposite.
During the year, we continued to strengthen our global framework for managing people.
Everyone has a performance discussion twice a year to review their progress, future aims and support needs.
Managers are supported by HR Business Partners to help everyone make the most of this process.
We invest in people at all levels, from senior leaders to front-line employees.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 37 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON GENDER DIVERSITY YOUR VOICE In November 2017, we ran our third global employee engagement survey, 25% 13% 32% Your Voice, to explore employee BOARD OF DIRECTORS GELT WORKFORCE views of working at Genus.
2 FEMALE 1 FEMALE 915 FEMALE We achieved a record response rate of 82%, with contributions from 6 MALE 7 MALE 1,981 MALE more than 2,200 colleagues.
Global results showed higher scores than our last exercise in 2015, with Female highlights including: Male Question 2017 2015 I understand We develop leaders from around the by an independent third party.
Any ourvision 90% 89% world to nurture the talent we need concerns reported are immediately toimprove, innovate and support our referred to the Group General Counsel I understand the customers.
We encourage individual &Company Secretary and are then Genus business development plans and run specific investigated and discussed accordingly strategy 80% 79% programmes for different groups, with our Group HR Director, Head of The Genus values fromtraining for people managers and Internal Audit and the companys Audit help me decide the supervisors to technical skills training Committee.
This process is regularly right thing todo 78% 73% forfront-line employees.
As a global reviewed as part of our annual Audit company, we encourage our people Committee activity.
I think the Genus togain experience of working in other leaders are taking countries to develop global business the Company in Human Rights knowledge and cross-cultural agility.
theright direction 82% 76% Genus is committed to respecting the human rights of workers throughout I think we are Improvement in Health andSafety our value chain and the local pioneering animal We prioritise the safety of employees communities in which we operate.
genetic improvement 93% 87% and the well-being of our animals.
We We aim to ensure that anyone who reduced overall injuries by 2% and Genus regularly might be affected by Genus can enjoy animal-related injuries by 1% despite improves products the human rights described in the working with a larger number of animals and services relative International Bill of Human Rights and during the year.
We increased reporting to those of its the ILO Declaration on Fundamental of near misses in key regions across competitors 82% 71% Principles and Rights at Work.
We also identified areas in which we This principle has underpinned our work Anti-Bribery and Corruption could improve, such as strengthening for years and is being incorporated Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy people management capabilities at within a new, global employee sets out our responsibilities, and those different levels of the organisation handbook.
We monitor it through the of people working with us, to act and enhancing clarity over career same process used for the policies professionally, fairly and with integrity paths within the Company.
outlined earlier and there were no in all business dealings.
We have a specific issues identified during the year.
zero-tolerance approach to any form of We received breakdowns of results bribery, inducement or corrupt practice.
from our businesses and markets All employees undertake mandatory Looking Ahead and, for the first time, specific annual training on this policy and must In the coming year, we will continue results from individual teams achieve 100% in a post-training test.
inspiring, challenging and supporting our wherethere were six or more people to perform, develop and grow.
We provided detailed The training is supported by our This will help us strengthen relationships materials to help managers hold Whistleblowing policy, which confirms with customers and build our business.
feedback and action planning an obligation to report any concerns sessions with their teams and we about unethical behaviour and explains are now engaged in implementing the process for doing so including a the resulting local, business unit confidential reporting hotline, managed andcompany-wide actions.
COM WORK FOR US TO LEARN ABOUT GENUS AS AN EMPLOYER.
