24 GSK Annual Report 2018 Trust Operating responsibly to deliver on our purpose and ensure the greatest possible long-term impact in improving health around the world.
Trust is one of our three long-term priorities and is essential to External benchmarking how we deliver our purpose.
Society has high expectations of us, ATMI: topped the Access to Medicines Index and led the industry and the dynamic environment in which we operate presents us in the Antimicrobial Resistance Benchmark.
with big challenges and opportunities that we must respond to DJSI: ranked 2nd in the DJSI World and Europe indices, placing in order to remain commercially successful, uphold our reputation us in the top 2% of our sector.
FTSE4Good: member of the FTSE4Good Index since 2004.
To ensure that we are able to identify and respond to these expectations effectively, we need to have mechanisms in place to CDP: received a score of B in CDP Carbon and CDP Water.
engage with our key stakeholders.
On page 9 we summarise the key Named a CDP Supplier Engagement Leader in CDP's supply trends for our industry and on page 11 we highlight how we engage chain programme.
across the different stakeholder groups.
Corporate Political Engagement Index: ranked number one With these external expectations in mind, in 2018 we published in Transparency International UKs 2018 Corporate Political a new set of 13 commitments describing the actions we will take Engagement Index.
to help deliver societal value and build trust.
Our ambitious Our approach to reporting commitments will drive progress in three key areas, underpinned by From 2019, we are reporting progress against our 13 commitments our fundamental commitments to running our business responsibly: in our Annual Report to reflect the integration of our responsible Using our science and technology to address health needs business approach into our core business strategy.
A performance data document is also available online to provide both current and Making our products affordable and available previous years data.
These replace the annual publication of our Being a modern employer Responsible Business Supplement.
com: 2018 performance data summary Our commitments on Trust Our purpose is to help people do more, feel better and live longer Using our science and technology Making our products affordable Being a modern to address health needs and available employer New medical innovations Pricing Engaged people Develop differentiated, high-quality Improve the health of millions of people Achieve and maintain a competitive and needed medicines, vaccines each year by making our products employee engagement score by 2022 and consumer healthcare products available at responsible prices that Inclusion and diversity to improve health are sustainable for our business Accelerate our progress on inclusion Global health Product reach and diversity, aiming for over 37% female Improve global health impact through Use access strategies to reach representation in senior roles and R&D for infectious diseases that affect 800 million underserved people in recognition in global LGBT indices, children and young people in developing developing countries with our products by 2022 countries focusing on HIV, malaria by 2025 Health, wellbeing and development and TB Healthcare access Be a leading company in how we support Health security Partner to improve disease prevention, employee health, wellbeing and personal Help the world to better prepare for awareness and access to healthcare development future disease outbreaks with pandemic services by 12 million people by 2025 potential, and tackle antimicrobial resistance Being a responsible business Reliable supply Ethics and values Data and engagement Environment Commit to quality, safety and Operate an ethical, valuesUse data responsibly and Reduce our environmental reliable supply of our products driven culture, in which any transparently.
Improve patient impact by one quarter by 2030 for patients and consumers issues are responded to swiftly and scientific engagement and transparently 25 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Science and technology We are using our science and technology to address health needs.
We are continuing the trial with the International AIDS Vaccine This is achieved through our medical innovation but we also have Initiative, a long-standing GSK collaborator in HIV vaccine a responsibility to impact global health, particularly in the prevention development, which has recently acquired Aeras TB vaccine and treatment of infectious diseases where we have world-leading clinical programme.
We have taken a proactive approach to GSK also has a number of promising TB medicines in development, addressing some of the biggest global health challenges, from including two that are in preparation for phase II trials.
We are preventing child deaths from infectious diseases to tackling the a member of several major publicprivate partnerships and urgent public health threat from growing resistance to antibiotics.
programmes, such as the TB Drug Accelerator, which aim to speed up the discovery and development of novel compounds New medical innovations against the disease.
We currently have three pre-clinical candidates and a strong discovery pipeline arising from these partnerships.
The biggest impact that we can have as a science-led global Malaria healthcare company is to successfully research and develop innovative products.
Through our innovation, we aim to develop In 2018, we received approval from the US FDA and the Australian differentiated, high-quality and needed medicines, vaccines and Therapeutic Goods Administration for tafenoquine Krintafel consumer healthcare products to improve health.
Read more about Kozenis, a single-dose radical cure for P. vivax malaria developed innovation within our three businesses on pages 13, 18 and 21. in partnership with the Medicines for Malaria Venture MMV.
This is the first new treatment for this type of relapsing malaria in over 60 years and marks a major contribution towards efforts to eradicate Global health the disease.
Together with our partners, MMV and PATH, we aim Each year malaria, TB and HIV AIDS kill almost 3 million people, to provide the treatment at an affordable price in malaria endemic the vast majority in developing countries.
There remains huge need countries.
We have submitted a regulatory filing for tafenoquine for innovation to address this.
Our new global health strategy aims in Brazil, the first submission in a malaria endemic country.
to improve global health impact through R&D for infectious diseases Our RTS, S vaccine aims to protect children from P. falciparum that affect children and young people in developing countries, malaria, which is most common in sub-Saharan Africa and focusing on HIV, malaria and TB.
responsible for most malarial deaths worldwide.
Ghana, Kenya and The biggest contribution we can make is through our science, but to Malawi have approved the use of RTS, S for malaria as part of a pilot have the greatest impact, we need strong collaboration with others vaccination implementation programme coordinated by the WHO.
to ensure there is always a clear path for our innovation end to end Clinical trials are also under way for a next-generation malaria vaccine.
We have learned from our malaria vaccine and HIV our chlorhexidine gel, Umbipro, that getting our innovation to patients Developing new formulations of HIV medications specifically for in developing countries is extremely challenging where the traditional children, who are disproportionately affected by the disease in route to market is absent.
We cannot alone carry the significant developing countries, is a global priority.
Through ViiV Healthcare, costs and risks associated with full clinical development, registration, we are progressing clinical development programmes for paediatric manufacture and market access for new medicines and vaccines that formulations of our medicines in partnership with the International dont have a commercial return.
Without action to secure the right Maternal Paediatric Adolescent AIDS Clinical Trials Network and procurement models and partnerships, we risk the potential impact the Paediatric European Network for Treatment of AIDS.
of these treatments being undermined.
Instead we need new sustainable, collaborative models, where risk and costs are shared TB is a leading cause of death for people living with HIV and this across partners, to translate scientific discoveries into benefit for co-infection is hard to treat.
A phase IV study of ViiV Healthcares the most vulnerable patients.
Tivicay dolutegravir in combination with other antiretrovirals demonstrated positive results in people receiving treatment for both As well as addressing the disease burden in developing countries, HIV and TB.
The latest WHO HIV treatment guidelines recommend our investment in global health also brings business benefits, which dolutegravir-based regimens as the preferred firstand second-line helps us to ensure that it is sustainable over the long term.
innovative science and platforms discovered through global health R&D can be applied commercially.
For example, the adjuvant used Other developing world diseases in our RTS, S malaria vaccine has been pivotal to the success of our As well as our main focus on HIV, TB and malaria, our early discovery shingles vaccine, Shingrix, and is being used in our TB candidate work allows us to pursue the most promising scientific leads in other vaccine, M72, and a number of other vaccines in development.
areas, both within GSK and through our Tres Cantos Open Lab and Our discovery work in infectious diseases also has the potential Vaccines Institute for Global Health.
to uncover insights relevant to other disease areas that will benefit In 2018, we pledged an additional 5 million in funding for the our portfolio in the long term.
Tres Cantos Open Lab Foundation.
The Open Lab furthers R&D for Tuberculosis diseases of the developing world by offering external researchers We are aiming to develop a world-leading portfolio of first-in-class the potential to access GSKs compound library, screening tools medicines for TB, including a candidate vaccine in a phase IIb trial.
As well as supporting research into TB We have been working with non-profit scientific organisation Aeras and malaria, projects include neglected tropical diseases such to develop the vaccine with the support of the Bill & Melinda Gates as Chagas disease, leishmaniasis and sleeping sickness.
Since it Foundation, the UKs Department for International Development and was established in 2010, the Open Lab has approved 74 projects, others.
We received positive interim results in 2018 for the phase IIb trained 85 scientists in global health drug discovery and delivered study, which showed that our candidate vaccine reduced the risk of a significant pipeline of candidate medicines, including a novel developing pulmonary TB by half in adults with latent TB infection.
TB drug candidate with treatment shortening potential.
26 GSK Annual Report 2018 Trust continued The Vaccines Institute for Global Health also has around We are also committed to researching and developing new vaccines 40 scientists working on diseases such as Shigella, invasive against infections that will reduce the need for antibiotics even nontyphoidal salmonella, typhoid and paratyphoid fever, and further.
For example, we are currently developing vaccines against Group A streptococcus.
RSV a virus, as well as shigellosis and TB both caused by bacteria which are all drivers of current antibiotic use.
Health security In our Pharmaceuticals pipeline, gepotidacin, is the first in a new class of antibiotics.
In 2018, we worked with the UK government We are using our vaccines, medicines and scientific know-how to on the proposal to develop and test a new payment model that help the world to better prepare for future disease outbreaks with should incentivise much-needed R&D into new antibiotics from pandemic potential, and tackle antimicrobial resistance AMR.
We are pleased that the UK will be the first country in the world to progress this type of model, and To prepare for future public health emergencies, we continue to have submitted gepotidacin to the programme.
advance rapid-response vaccine platform technologies and we are collaborating on the development of a universal influenza vaccine We supported the creation of the Innovative Medicines Initiatives candidate.
AMR Accelerator, which launched a call for proposals in 2018.
AMR is one of the biggest health challenges the world faces and This publicprivate partnership will aim to speed up the discovery we are playing a leading role in the industrys response, ranking and development of new medicines to treat or prevent resistant first among the large pharmaceutical companies in the Access bacterial infections through collaboration and capability building.
to Medicine Foundations AMR Benchmark in 2018.
Through our Survey of Antibiotic Resistance SOAR programme, Vaccines play a critical role in avoiding the need for antibiotics by we study, analyse and publish reports on antibiotic resistance at preventing bacterial, viral and other infections.
Our vaccines against a local level and share the findings with HCPs and public health diseases such as diphtheria, meningitis, pneumonia and pertussis bodies to inform the development of local antibiotic prescribing have protected tens of millions of individuals from bacterial infections, guidelines.
In 2018, we trained over 15,000 HCPs across 20 which are major drivers of direct antibiotic prescribing.
In addition, countries on the appropriate use of antibiotics.
our vaccines for non-bacterial infections such as influenza, rotavirus GSK.
com: Antimicrobial resistance and malaria prevent the development of diseases that can trigger the use of antibiotics, for example to treat secondary infections.
Affordability and availability We are making our products affordable and available to more people In the US, the pricing of all our product launches including our around the world through responsible pricing, and strategic access most recent launches of Trelegy Ellipta, Benlysta SC, Shingrix and programmes and partnerships.
Juluca incorporate specific market dynamics unique to the drug, as well as the profile of the new medicine or vaccine in the context In 2018, GSK topped the Access to Medicines Index for the sixth of existing treatment options.
The assessment recognised us for having the 1 largest proportion of our R&D pipeline dedicated to priority diseases, The average net price for our products in the US has fallen by and for the creation of an integrated Global Health R&D unit to around 3% on average per year over the past five years.
offer various types of patient assistance to help ensure appropriate access to our medicines, and in 2018 we provided prescribed medicines and vaccines to over 126,000 eligible uninsured patients Pricing through our Patient Assistance Programme.
We aim to improve the health of millions of people each year by In Europe, we engage with governments and payers to work making our products available at responsible prices that are towards sustainable health systems that support ongoing innovation.
For example, the pricing of Trelegy Ellipta reflects economic value In developing countries, we use innovative pricing structures as by demonstrating cost-effectiveness and innovation within an part of our access strategies to extend product reach see page 27. acceptable budget and offering a potential cost saving compared However, we recognise that pricing of pharmaceutical medicines with alternatives.
and vaccines is also an important issue in developed countries, We do not file patents for our medicines in least developed countries and we understand patient and payer concerns about affordability.
and low-income countries, and do not enforce historic patents that When setting the price of our medicines in developed markets, we we have in those countries.
This allows generic companies to apply a value-based approach to balance reward for innovation with manufacture and supply generic versions of GSK medicines in access and affordability.
We price our medicines according to the those countries.
value and outcomes they bring to patients, providers and payers, GSK.
com: IP and access in developing countries while being sensitive to market and societal expectations.
1 Price after discounts, rebates or other allowances.
27 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Product reach Healthcare access We have set a new target to use access strategies to reach We have set a new long-term target to partner to improve 800 million underserved people in developing countries with our disease prevention, awareness and access to healthcare services products by 2025.
These strategies include tiered pricing, product for 12 million people by 2025.
In 2018, we reached 4.2 million people donations and voluntary licensing agreements to extend access through these partnerships.
In 2018, our products reached This year, we have invested a further 10.5 million in improving 1 over 102 million people through these access strategies.
health infrastructure in developing countries by training frontline In accordance with our tiered pricing principles, we reserve our health workers in partnership with Amref Health Africa, CARE lowest vaccines prices for organisations such as Gavi, the Vaccine International and Save the Children.
This support is tailored to Alliance, which supports countries with a GNI per head of less meet specific community needs and align with government health than $1,580.
Eight Gavi countries are now using our new four-dose priorities.
In 2018, this investment helped to train over 20,000 vial presentation of our Synflorix pneumococcal vaccine, designed frontline health workers, and over two million people were directly 2 to address cold chain challenges in hot countries, and our Rotarix reached with a health worker, healthcare service or health facility.
vaccine is available in 36 Gavi countries to protect against rotavirus.
As well as our efforts to combat malaria through R&D see page 25, In 2018, we distributed around two million doses of our vaccine we have partnered with Comic Relief in Africa and South East Asia Cervarix in Zimbabwe in support of its multi-age cohort vaccination to support 21 local projects that improve awareness and prevention programme to protect over 800,000 girls against human efforts and get treatment to the people who need it.
In 2018, we delivered 270 million doses of oral we reached more than one million people in 2018, including health polio vaccine to UNICEF in support of the Global Polio Eradication workers and vulnerable populations such as pregnant women and Initiative, reaching over 54 million children.
Umbipro, our innovative chlorhexidine gel to prevent umbilical cord Alongside local and global partner organisations, we continue infections, has been approved in 13 countries so far and has already efforts to remove stigma and support HIV education and prevention benefited over 30,000 newborns in Kenya.
Created in partnership in at-risk communities around the world through ViiV Healthcares with Save the Children, this potentially life-saving product is available Positive Action programmes for girls and women, adolescents, at an access price not for profit, not for loss.
In collaboration with children, men who have sex with men MSM and transgender USP and USAID, we will share manufacturing know-how to stimulate people.
In 2018, for example, ViiV awarded grants of 2.3 million local production and wider access to quality-assured chlorhexidine to support organisations working to prevent and treat paediatric HIV, in developing countries.
and 1.8 million to support social science research in adolescent In 2018, ViiV Healthcare extended its voluntary licence agreements HIV.
Our Positive Action for Children programme reached over for dolutegravir with the UN-backed Medicines Patent Pool and our 530,000 people in 2018 with interventions to alleviate the impact direct licensee Aurobindo to two further countries Mongolia and of HIV and AIDS on women and childrens health.
Tunisia to enable generic manufacturers to supply dolutegravir Our partnership with Save the Children aims to combine the two to more adults living with HIV.
Our joint partnership with the Clinton organisations global expertise, skills and energy to help reduce Health Access Initiative, Unitaid and two generic manufacturers is child mortality.
In 2018, the partnership reached over 220,000 also helping to catalyse the development, manufacture and supply children under five over 2.8 million children since 2013 with of paediatric formulations of dolutegravir.
interventions including: widening immunisation coverage, In 2018, we donated over 840 million albendazole tablets 8.5 billion accelerating access treatments and strengthening healthcare over the last two decades to the WHO to tackle neglected tropical systems.
We have extended our partnership over the next five diseases, helping to deworm millions of school children and free years to support our shared ambition that no child under five 14 countries of lymphatic filariasis LF.
Tackling LF and intestinal should die from preventable causes.
worms is part of our commitment with the WHO and other partners With GSK Consumer Healthcares heritage in specialist oral health, to help control or eliminate 10 of the 17 neglected tropical diseases we know the importance of a healthy mouth.
This year, we launched by 2020. a five-year partnership with Smile Train to provide funding and expertise that will help more children get access to life-changing Through our partnership with Americares, Direct Relief, IHP UK surgery for cleft lip and palate.
We reached over 4,000 children in and MAP International, we also donated 150,000 units of essential the first year through corporate donations and employee fundraising.
medicines, including antibiotics and inhalers, for humanitarian and emergency response in countries such as Guatemala, South As a leader in pain relief and fever management, GSKs Consumer Sudan and Syria.
Healthcare business has also created the Allied Against Dengue campaign in India and South East Asia.
The campaign was created GSK.
com: Access to medicines in developing countries to bring together key stakeholders and partners to prevent and treat outbreaks of dengue fever, a potentially fatal mosquito-borne disease.
In 2018, we trained over 1,000 healthcare workers and reached over 100,000 people through a range of programmes to mobilise communities and promote behaviour change.
Our contribution to community health programmes amounted to 224 million in 2018.
This includes our support of access partnerships such as Comic Relief and Save the Children, in-kind product donations such as albendazole and those made through our Patient Assistance programme, and the volunteering time of our employees.
1 Total excludes reach through albendazole donations which will be assessed GSK.
com: Access to healthcare partnerships in 2025.
com: Positive Action programmes 2 Health worker data is estimated based on 2017 reach through the same partner programmes and level of funding.
Final 2018 data will be available in April 2019.
28 GSK Annual Report 2018 Trust continued Modern employer As a modern employer, we want to make sure that everyone is Women in management % empowered to be themselves, feel good and keep growing at GSK.
2018 2017 2016 2015 We believe this will help us to attract, retain and motivate the very SVP VP 33 31 30 29 best people to support our business now and in the future.
Director 43 43 42 40 Manager 48 47 46 45 Engaged people Total 45 44 43 42 Employee engagement is an important barometer to gauge how our Employees by gender number people feel about working at GSK.
We aim to achieve and maintain a competitive employee engagement score by 2022.
Male Female Total Board 6 5 11 We now survey our employees twice a year to get more regular feedback about how we are doing on our long-term priorities and Management 9,704 8,051 17,755 culture change.
For our first global employee survey of the year Total 53,188 42,302 95,490 in April 2018, we had a record high 84% response rate and the Management: senior managers as defined in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic results showed we had strong employee engagement at 79%.
Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 which includes persons For the second survey in September, we saw a one-point drop responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the company, in engagement but it remained high at 78%.
or a strategically significant part of the company, other than the Board, including directors or undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
As part of our culture change, we have encouraged our people We support development and career progression for high-performing to share their views and ideas on key topics through regular female managers through our Accelerating Difference programme, conversations hosted by our leaders, including Lets Talk sessions which provided coaching and support for around 130 women in with our executive team.
We also introduced a collaborative internal 2018.
We also recruit and support women early in their careers, tech platform to enable employees to communicate and collaborate with women representing more than half of the intake of our graduate more informally, discuss the topics that matter to them, and share and MBA programmes and 35% of our apprentices in 2018. knowledge and perspectives to support faster decisions across the organisation.
More than 68,000 users are active on this new We published our second gender pay gap report in 2018. online tool.
Our gender pay gap for all permanent UK-based GSK employees is 2.15% mean, outperforming the national average of 17.1%.
Inclusion and diversity We do not tolerate harassment, unwelcome, unreasonable or offensive behaviour, or discrimination of any kind.
This includes any We take a progressive approach to inclusion and diversity because form of sexual harassment and, in 2018, we included a module in our we want everyone to be themselves and bring their own perspectives mandatory Code of Conduct training to reinforce our zero-tolerance to our business.
Together, these unique perspectives and wide approach.
This emphasised the importance of bystander intervention variety of personal experiences make our business stronger, to empower our employees to intervene if they see harassment enhancing our ability to innovate and respond to the diverse occurring.
needs of patients and consumers around the world.
In September 2018, nearly 3,700 people at 150 locations took part We want to accelerate our progress on inclusion and diversity, in activities to raise awareness of our commitment to inclusion and aiming for over 37% female representation in senior roles and diversity during Global Inclusion Week.
As part of this, we launched recognition in global LGBT indices, by 2022. new learning programmes focused on unconscious bias and In 2018, women made up 33% of our senior roles at SVP VP resources to help build leaders awareness of inclusion and diversity.
level up from 31% in 2017 and we maintained strong female We have a Global Disability Council and a Global LGBT Council, representation at management level 45%.
In January 2018, as well as inclusion and diversity implementation groups.
In addition, we signed up to the 30% Club gender campaign focused on in 2018 we created new global gender and ethnicity councils, all of achieving 30% female representation in senior management which will drive our diversity agenda with support from our employee within FTSE 100 companies by 2020.
GSK has already exceeded resource groups.
We achieved a top 10 listing for our LGBT this target and remains committed to maintaining and improving Network Group at the British LGBT Awards and, in early 2019, on this.
the group was named the UKs Employee Network Group of the The latest independent Hampton-Alexander Review of FTSE 100 Year by the Stonewall LGBT rights organisation.
companies found that GSK has the sixth highest proportion of In 2018, we pledged our support for the UN LGBTI Global Business women on the Board with 45.5% representation.
In the US, GSK was named Best Place to Work for increased our female senior executive population our executive team LGBT Equality for the third consecutive year in the Human Rights and their direct reports from 25.7% to 32.5% as our long-running Campaigns Corporate Equality Index and, in early 2019, we were programmes to create a strong female pipeline deliver results.
ranked 24th in Stonewalls UK Workplace Equality Index.
We are GSK is also one of 12 prominent healthcare and life science committed to removing barriers, increasing understanding and companies to join the Healthcare Businesswomens Association ensuring that those with disabilities have the same opportunities.
Gender Parity Collaborative in the US, launched in 2018 to foster We signed the Charter for Change at the 2018 UK governments measurable gender parity progress in the industry.
Department for International Development Global Disability Summit, joining other organisations with a common aim to ensure rights, freedoms, dignity and inclusion for people with disabilities.
29 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Development Health, wellbeing and development We want our people to keep growing at every stage of their career.
We need resilient, motivated people with the right skills and Thats why development is one of four expectations for the company knowledge to help us achieve our objectives.
That is why we and we have a strong focus on improving the effectiveness of our aim to be a leading company in how we support employee health, people managers.
In 2018, 89% of our employees had development wellbeing and personal development.
plans in place and, in support of developing leaders, more than 2,000 managers also participated in leadership development Health and wellbeing programmes this year.
In 2018, we successfully rolled out a comprehensive preventive healthcare package for our employees and their eligible In 2018, we introduced One80 reviews for nearly 9,000 managers dependants in every country where we operate.
The Partnership to help them improve based on feedback from their teams.
Through for Prevention programme, now covers over 200,000 people in a short survey, it measures leadership effectiveness in three key every country in which we operate and includes up to 40 preventive areas: knowing their people, delivering results and maximising healthcare services at little or no extra cost.
One80 is part of our performance management system and is designed to ensure our managers are role models for our We provide programmes to help our people feel good by taking values and expectations, as well as helping them enhance their control of their health, managing their energy levels and adopting leadership skills.
We know from One80 scores that employees healthier behaviours as well as giving them flexibility to manage feel supported by managers in their development.
The question their lives through life-friendly policies.
my manager provides highly effective coaching and guidance to In 2018, more than 15,000 people took part in our energy and support my development scored an average of 3.8 out of 5 from resilience programmes.
Our personalised digital health platform 51,630 responses.
We are encouraged by this and have aspirations was piloted by over 5,000 employees in Belgium and 38% said to further improve on these scores.
that they changed one or more health behaviours as a result.
GSK is now a member of the 5% Club, a group of companies We will continue to roll out technology platforms to support committed to hiring young people in development programmes into a holistic approach to health and wellbeing in 2019. at least 5% of UK roles.
In 2018, 336 people joined our graduate GSK was named the Worlds Most Active Organisation by Virgin development programmes globally and 165 began apprenticeships Pulse Global Challenge for the third year running, with over 15,500 in the UK, Canada, Ireland, Singapore, Belgium and the US.
employees collectively taking over 18 billion steps during May 2018.
This year, employees contributed over 120,000 volunteering hours Participants reported increased productivity and lower stress levels.
through our Orange Days and 63 employees went on PULSE Mental wellbeing is just as important as physical wellbeing and we assignments with 25 non-profit organisations in 31 countries to raised awareness of this important issue on World Mental Health share their expertise and learn new skills.
Our most recent volunteer Day, encouraging people to seek support through our 24-hour assessment found that, after completing their assignment, 73% confidential Employee Assistance Programme and other resources.
agreed that they brought new ideas and fresh ways of thinking or working to GSK.
Preventing injuries and illnesses at work is fundamental to our peoples health and wellbeing.
Our reportable injury and illness rate GSK.
com: Employee volunteering Training and development data 1 has continued to decline from 0.24 per 100,000 hours worked in 2017 to 0.23 in 2018, and remains comparable with other leading 2 companies in our sector.
Reliable supply Ensuring a high-quality, safe and reliable supply of our products for In 2018, we conducted 1,650 audits of our suppliers quality patients and consumers is a priority for all three of our businesses.
processes and 221 audits of clinical trials run by, or on behalf Product shortages can happen for a variety of reasons, including of GSK, to assess their quality and safety.
supply disruptions and unexpected demand.
Since launching our Detecting, monitoring, understanding and preventing side effects Shingrix vaccine, we have delivered more than 9 million doses globally, pharmacovigilance is important in evaluating the safety of but the unprecedented demand has meant that some people have pharmaceutical products, and we work with the WHO and other experienced supply shortages.
We are working hard to build capacity partners to enhance systems for reporting these.
Through the and meet this long-term global demand and we are committed to TransCelerate Collaboration, we are working with others to promote communicating transparently on the actions we are taking.
harmonised approaches and procedures for the clinical development Our robust quality management system supports continuous and safety evaluation of drugs, and to implement key regulations.
improvement, helping us to maintain high standards for product Counterfeit GSK products present a risk to patient safety.
quality and safety and comply with relevant regulations, including We support efforts to prevent the manufacture and distribution those on Good Manufacturing Practice, Good Pharmacovigilance of counterfeit GSK products by working closely with government Practice and Good Clinical Practice.
bodies, international organisations such as the World Customs Of the 151 external regulatory inspections at our Pharmaceutical, Organization and the WHO, customs authorities and industry Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites in 2018, associations.
We also conduct our own investigation and most found no issues or resulted in only minor observations.
enforcement activities to tackle counterfeit GSK products.
We address every issue, however minor, and regulatory authorities Our commitment to high standards of product quality and safety have accepted our proposed plans for corrective actions.
across the value chain helps to ensure a reliable supply, which is important for our performance see the sections of this report on performance in our individual businesses.
1 2017 data has been restated from 0.23 to 0.24 due to incidents reported after the previous verification period.
com: Pharmacovigilance Anti-counterfeiting 2 Based on benchmarking data from the Pharmaceutical Safety Group.
30 GSK Annual Report 2018 Trust continued Ethics and values We are committed to creating an ethical, values-driven culture, Reporting and investigating concerns in which any issues are responded to swiftly and transparently.
We expect everyone at GSK to live our values and expectations, We encourage people to speak up if they have any concerns speak up if they have any concerns, engage appropriately with relating to unethical conduct or behaviour that is inconsistent with stakeholders and respect human rights.
We also extend these our values or if they simply want to ask a question about how to ethical expectations to the third parties we work with.
apply our Code of Conduct.
Anyone within or outside GSK can raise concerns or speak to an Living our values and expectations independent third party through our integrity lines, confidentially or anonymously if they prefer.
We take every reported concern very Together, our values patient focus, integrity, respect and seriously and we review each one to understand whether a formal transparency and expectations courage, accountability, investigation is warranted.
If our investigations show that an employee development and teamwork help us to create the culture we has breached our policies, we take appropriate disciplinary action.
They are included in our Code of Conduct, which we have updated to make it simpler and easier to use.
In 2018, 2,842 employees were accused of misconduct: we Every GSK employee and complementary worker is required to reviewed all of these cases, and initiated 1,805 formal investigations.
complete mandatory training on the Code of Conduct annually.
As a result, 940 employees were disciplined for policy violations, In 2018, 98% of our employees and 91% of our complementary of whom 115 employees were dismissed or voluntarily left the workers completed the training, which covered topics such as safety, organisation.
A further 656 received other documented warnings.
health and wellbeing, third party oversight, data breach reporting, In other instances, action short of a documented warning was taken.
sexual harassment, and anti-bribery and corruption ABAC.
Employees disciplined in 2018: breakdown of types of We also introduced additional microlearning modules to be taken policy violation % throughout the year to keep our values and expectations top of mind, and updated our discussion guides for leaders to engage with their Mandatory training completion 29% teams about related topics.
Further in-depth training for over 35,000 people used real-life examples of dilemmas experienced at GSK to 20% Behaviour in the workplace help them understand how to manage ABAC risks relevant to their 11% Good manufacturing and distribution practices roles and reinforce our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and 8% Marketing and promotional activities corruption.
4% Expenses In 2018, we assessed 18 different parts of the business against 3% Protection of physical assets and security a values maturity matrix including interviewing approximately 25% Other 1,500 employees to understand how well our values and expectations are embedded.
Individual areas of the business are using insights from the assessments to put plans in place Political engagement that further enhance the way our values are integrated into ways of working at GSK.
Local examples include increasing opportunities Everyone working for, or on behalf of, GSK must follow our for engagement with leadership teams to improve trust and Code of Conduct in their interactions with political stakeholders.
enhancing employee recognition to encourage a greater sense Additionally our selection process for public policy groups includes of accountability.
criteria to ensure those groups share our values.
In 2018, GSK topped Transparency International UKs Corporate GSK.
com: GSK Code of Conduct Political Engagement Index of 104 global companies operating in the UK, based on criteria such as political contributions, responsible lobbying and transparency in reporting.
We spent $4.57 million on federal lobbying activities in the US in 2018, which are registered on the US Federal Lobbying Register.
The spend includes the cost of operating our office in Washington DC, and the cost of travel and consulting.
The cost of representing our interests to EU institutions, published on the EU Transparency 1 Register, was 1.73 million.
We also publish a list of our memberships in trade associations that may lobby indirectly on our behalf.
GSK does not make corporate political contributions.
Our US employees may support individual candidates or political groups financially through a Political Action Committee, which contributed $345,190 to state and federal candidates in 2018.
A breakdown of this spend is available online.
com and online: EU Transparency Register US Federal Lobbying Register Trade association membership list Criteria for working with Public Policy Groups 1 These are the latest available figures, and 2018 figures will be available in April 2019 for submission to the EUs Transparency Register.
31 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Human rights Working with third parties GSK is committed to upholding the Universal Declaration of Human Our Third Party Oversight programme strengthens our management Rights and the core labour standards set out by the International of risk in the supply chain by driving improvements in our network Labour Organization.
In 2018, as part of our commitment to of third parties including suppliers, distributors and other implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human organisations with which there is a transfer of value to ensure Rights, we reassessed our human rights risks to ensure we are that they share our values and work to the ethical and business focusing efforts where our business has the greatest potential standards expected by GSK.
The programme has now been rolled to impact people.
out across all areas of the business.
Six priority areas were identified: access to healthcare: research During 2018, over 23,000 risk assessments were completed, practices: patient safety: labour rights: environment, health and and over 1,400 third parties identified as high-risk have undergone safety: and privacy.
An initial review found that there were appropriate detailed independent assessments by EcoVadis.
In 2018, we measures in place to manage the human rights risks related to most also conducted 83 in-depth audits on health and safety, ethics of these areas, but identified the need to continue to strengthen and environment.
While we will work with third parties to help our approach to managing third-party labour rights risks.
We are them improve, if significant issues are not resolved, we may developing actions to address this, and will continue to build our suspend or terminate their contract.
understanding and management of human rights risks, taking GSK.
com: Working with third parties account of evolving external expectations and best practice.
com: Human rights Modern Slavery Act statement Data and engagement We are committed to using data responsibly and transparently, In addition, people in key roles across the organisation are and engaging with patients and healthcare providers to help meet undergoing certification from an accredited external association patient needs.
This includes treating data with respect, sharing to increase expertise and enable us to make informed decisions the results of our clinical trials, integrating patient insights into about handling personal data.
our product development and providing healthcare professionals The protection of individuals data and privacy is a high priority with the information they want in the way that they want it.
in our exclusive collaboration with 23andMe, which combines 23andMes genetic expertise and advanced data science skills Using data responsibly and transparently with GSKs extensive scientific capabilities and scale, to enhance the discovery and development of entirely new medicines and Data is becoming increasingly central to our business and the potential cures.
23andMe customers can choose to participate in healthcare industry more broadly.
Our digital, data and analytics research and contribute their information to the unique and dynamic strategy harnesses the power of data and technology to strengthen database for the purpose of advancing scientific research.
our business and make a real difference to patients around the world.
Participation is voluntary and customers are required to affirmatively We believe this will help our scientists develop innovative medicines consent to their data being used for research.
Should they choose more quickly and with higher probability of success than ever before, to participate, their information is aggregated so no individual will it will enhance clinical trials and improve interaction with healthcare be identifiable to GSK.
providers, customers and consumers, and it will make our own Clinical trial transparency processes more efficient.
As part of our long-standing commitment to data transparency for Data privacy our clinical trials, we have published 2,484 clinical study reports We recognise that people are increasingly concerned about the and 6,427 summaries of results positive and negative from our protection, and inappropriate use of personal data, particularly trials on our clinical study register.
when this is related to health.
New EU regulations have also We also share anonymised patient-level data from 2,333 of our trials increased requirements on how companies use personal data.
com, which we launched five years Loss or inappropriate use of personal information could have a ago to facilitate innovative data-driven research.
It is now used by serious impact, both on the individuals affected and on our business, 19 other trial sponsors and funders.
External researchers are granted and we take our responsibility for data and privacy very seriously.
access based on a review of the scientific merit of their research We have developed a comprehensive suite of training to drive a proposal by an independent panel.
Access to GSK trial data has culture where everyone at GSK takes personal responsibility for been approved for 125 proposals since 2013. the correct handling of personal data.
Our privacy principles ensure GSK.
com and online: GSK Privacy Notice GSK Clinical Study Register that our use of personal information is kept to the minimum necessary and is fair, transparent, accurate and secure.
In 2018, we trained 113,000 of our employees and complementary workers on our privacy principles to help them understand how to apply them in their daily work and raise awareness of why privacy matters for all those who handle personal data.
32 GSK Annual Report 2018 Trust continued To improve engagement with patients involved in our clinical trials, Improve patient and scientific engagement we have begun developing patient engagement plans for key assets To improve the delivery of ground-breaking new therapies, we are to get their input on the development of trial protocols, improve their strengthening our focus on patients needs by seeking their insights experience during the trial and make sure they are informed about across the business.
In 2018, we began implementing new global the results when it is completed.
standards on working with and supporting patients.
Through our engagement with HCPs, we aim to provide information We also support several initiatives that are empowering patients to on our products in the way that best suits them.
In recent years, get more involved in the development of medicines through training, we have significantly strengthened our online resources and tools and dialogue including the European Patients Academy, in-house medical capabilities to provide bespoke product information PARADIGM Patients Active in Research and Dialogues for an for HCPs.
Improved Generation of Medicines and Patient Focused Medicines In 2018, we updated our policy on working with HCPs, following Development.
consistent feedback that they prefer to learn about new products We held Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits in Japan, Portugal through peer-to-peer programmes with experts who have direct and Switzerland and supported one in the US this year, to build experience of our medicines.
The update was designed to ensure relationships between GSK employees, patient advocates, health that we continue to operate responsibly and improve how we help policy experts and industry.
Representatives of patient organisations prescribers to understand new data and clinical experience with also provide insights through our European Health Advisory Board our innovative products.
The Pharmaceuticals section of this report and our Respiratory Health Board.
provides more detail on this policy change.
com: Patient engagement Environment Our new goal, by 2030, is to reduce our environmental impact by Globally, around 5% of our electricity came from renewable sources one quarter, cutting greenhouse gas emissions, reducing water in 2018.
We are targeting 60% by 2030, with an interim target impact and redirecting waste for beneficial use.
This is underpinned of 30% by 2020 to further reduce our operational emissions.
by five new environmental commitments for 2030 against a 2016 In 2017 our latest available data, Scope 3 emissions increased baseline to: 1 by less than 1%, but decreased by 8% per 1 billion revenue.
reduce operational carbon emissions Scope 1 and 2 by 20%: Our supply chain makes up the largest share 48% of our value chain carbon footprint.
We encourage suppliers to share best reduce value chain carbon emissions Scope 3 by 25% practices through the GSK Supplier Exchange, running kaizen per billion revenue: events to improve energy efficiency and recognising achievements source 60% of electricity from renewable sources: through our Supplier Environmental Sustainability Awards.
reduce total water use at each high-risk site by 30%: Carbon emissions plus intensity ratios as per regulations ensure all waste is repurposed for beneficial uses.
2 000 tonnes CO e 2018 2017 2016 2 823 865 889 Scope 1 emissions Carbon 606 694 700 Scope 2 emissions Full data 18,152 17,897 We are committed to playing our part to address climate change.
Scope 3 emissions available in In 2018, we set new targets to cut our carbon footprint across the next years value chain, which are intended to be challenging but achievable.
report We also conducted a review of the reporting requirements of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD Intensity ratios 2018 2017 2016 and will be considering how we can use the guidelines to better 46.4 51.5 56.0 Scope 1 and 2 emissions understand and report the risks that climate change presents to sales revenue tonnes our business.
In early 2019, we were accredited by the Science CO e m 2 Based Targets Initiative for a set of Scope 1, 2 and 3 targets in line 15.0 15.8 16.0 Scope 1 and 2 emissions with a level of decarbonisation required to keep global temperature FTE tonnes CO e FTE 2 increase below 2C.
Full data 0.6 0.64 Scope 3 emissions bn Our overall value chain carbon footprint is made up of Scope 1 and 2 available in revenue million tonnes next years emissions from our own operations 14% and Scope 3 emissions CO e bn revenue 2 report from our supplier base 48%, logistics 4% and the use of our products 34%.
In 2018, Scope 1 and 2 emissions were reduced by 8% through ongoing efficiency measures, investment in on-site generation of renewable energy and a reduction in the number of sites.
In India, for example, we have saved over 24,700 tonnes of CO e emissions 2 over the past four years through investment in solar installations, a combined heat and power plant, and more efficient lighting, heating and manufacturing.
1 2018 figures will be available from April 2019.
2 Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition.
33 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information In 2018, the emissions from the use of our products have increased Environmental stewardship by 4% since 2017, as we make medicines accessible to more We are committed to moving towards deforestation-free sourcing people.
Most of these emissions come from propellant gases used for all key commodities purchased directly by GSK or indirectly in Ventolin metered dose inhalers MDIs.
Over the last few years on our behalf, although we recognise that this is a challenge due to we have conducted detailed analysis to explore the requirements of the complex nature of our supply chains.
To date, we have focused developing a new propellant for MDIs with a lower carbon footprint.
on paper packaging, palm oil and palm oil derivatives and have Our findings show that this would be extremely complex, requiring developed supplier selection criteria, as well as sourcing standards extensive R&D, significant changes to our manufacturing process in conjunction with the Rainforest Alliance.
and new clinical trials to test for efficacy and safety for patients.
The packaging of our products plays an important role in delivering safe, stable and trusted medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare Weighing up these challenges, and given there are no incremental products.
However, GSK recognises the impact that plastic benefits to patients, along with the need for us to allocate our capital packaging has on the environment.
We have a number of initiatives investments to developing promising new medicines to improve in place to reduce plastic use, increase use of recycled plastic content health, we have therefore decided to instead focus our investment and encourage the recycling of plastic components.
For example, on our new generation dry powder inhaler technologies which do ensuring our packaging is no larger in volume, weight and thickness not release greenhouse gas emissions.
Our entire new portfolio than it needs to be to fulfil its function of protecting the product.
of inhaled medicines is delivered via the dry powder Ellipta inhaler which has a lifecycle carbon footprint around 24 times lower than In 2018, we took steps to understand and quantify the amount 1 a propellant-based inhaler, based on an assessment that won of plastic packaging that we produce globally across our business.
GSK the Carbon Trusts Best in Product Carbon Footprinting We are now using this information to evaluate how we can further Award in 2018.
In addition, we support efforts to promote lowreduce the impact that our plastic use has on the environment.
carbon inhalers where possible, such as the commitment made GSK.
com: Environmental policies by the UK government, and to increase inhaler recycling for the recovery and reuse of HFA gas.
Water While climate change must be tackled at a global level, water challenges are much more localised.
We used 12.9 million cubic metres of water across our operations in 2018 compared with 14.7 in 2017 and we are focusing our reduction programmes in the areas where we have the biggest overall water impact.
All our Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites have completed risk assessments to ensure compliance with our water stewardship standard by 2020.
Through these assessments, we identified 13 high-risk sites, based on water scarcity, local water quality, health and social risks, and regulatory and reputational risks.
These sites are now developing strategies to reduce their water impact.
Our goal is to reduce our total water use at each high-risk site by 30% by 2030.
Waste We have cut the amount of waste we produce by 7% since 2016, generating a total of 126,000 tonnes in 2018 including 36,000 tonnes of hazardous waste.
Further reductions in the amount of waste created or complete elimination of waste is extremely challenging.
Our new goal is for all our waste to be repurposed for beneficial uses by 2030.
This avoids harmful environmental impacts from landfill and keeps materials, such as solvents, in circulation for use in new products.
In 2018, 71% of our sites achieved zero waste to landfill.
Globally, 77% of our waste was recycled or incinerated with energy recovery.
For example, more than 1.5 million used inhalers have been recycled through our Complete the Cycle programme in the UK since it began in 2012.
1 For one years treatment, use of propellant-based inhalers results in a carbon footprint of 228kg CO e compared with a carbon footprint of 9.6kg CO e from 2 2 using Ellipta dry powder inhalers.
