92 GSK Annual Report 2018 Corporate Responsibility Committee report Dear Shareholder As Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee the Lynn Elsenhans Committee I am pleased to present the Committees 2018 report.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair The Committee forms an important part of the Boards oversight of the Companys responsible business agenda, ensuring management Role is working to deliver long-term value for both shareholders and The Committee reviews: society.
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that external issues that have the potential for serious impact progress in meeting our responsible business commitments is upon GSKs business and reputation reviewed on a regular basis.
oversight of the views and interests of internal and external stakeholders Committee membership consideration of GSKs Trust priority and annual governance Committee members bring a wide range of sector experience, oversight of progress against GSKs commitments which insight and stakeholder perspectives to help provide oversight on reflect the most important issues for responsible and these topics.
This helps monitor the companys work to engage sustainable growth effectively with its key stakeholders and to assess if the company is Membership operating in a way that seeks to meet the high external expectations The membership of the Committee and appointment dates are of GSK as a global healthcare company.
set out below: During the year, Professor Sir Roy Anderson stood down from the Committee when he retired from the Board in May 2018.
Committee members Committee member since I greatly appreciated the insights that he brought to the work of Lynn Elsenhans Chair from 8 May 2015 1 October 2012 the Committee during his tenure, including the development of the Dr Vivienne Cox 1 July 2016 new commitments to support the delivery of GSKs Trust priority.
Dr Jesse Goodman 1 May 2016 I was pleased to invite Regis Simard, President Pharma Supply Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 May 2016 until 3 May 2018 Chain, to attend the Committee on a regular basis.
Regis has Details of the Committee members skills and experience are given in responsibility for product quality and environment, health, safety their biographies under Our Board on pages 69 and 70.
See page 72 & sustainability EHSS : vital areas of the companys operations for Committee member attendance levels.
over which the Committee exercises oversight.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee Areas of focus in 2018 and attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: The Committee has again focused on topics that are material to the companys purpose, strategy, values and expectations.
Regular Attends as Attendee attendee required The Committee plays an integral role in the oversight of GSKs Chief Executive Officer responsible business commitments.
This year, the work of the Committee included continued oversight of the development of a Company Chairman new set of focused commitments to support the Companys Trust Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D priority.
These new commitments build on a strong performance General Counsel in responsible business over many years and are set in the context President, Global Affairs of external trends and stakeholder expectations.
The framework President, Pharma Supply Chain surrounding these commitments had been subject to review by key President, Global Pharmaceuticals stakeholders after which their feedback was incorporated to further President, Global Vaccines strengthen its design and operation.
The Board was pleased to support the Committees recommendations.
CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare Head of Human Resources The new framework identifies 13 commitments across three focus SVP, Corporate Affairs areas where the company can maximise its social impact: using science and technology to address health needs: making products VP, Trust and Global Health affordable and available: and being a modern employer.
These focus Other Executives areas are supported by commitments across the fundamentals of Independent external corporate being a responsible healthcare company: reliable supply: ethics responsibility adviser and values: data and engagement: and the environment.
93 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate Responsibility Committee report continued During the year, management presented to the Committee on Independent external corporate responsibility advisor a number of topics across the breadth of the Trust priority: Ms Sophia Tickell serves as an independent external advisor to Using science and technology to address health needs: the Committee.
Ms Tickell has extensive experience in the The Committee reviewed proposals from management for a new pharmaceuticals industry in improving health systems productivity, global health strategy, designed to align to the companys IPT sustainability in energy supply and distribution, climate change strategy.
The new approach is more focused to achieve maximum policy and short-termism in financial markets.
social impact to support the strategic theme of fighting infectious She is co-founder and Director of Meteos, from where she directs diseases impacting children and young people in developing the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to better align societal and countries.
The Committee discussed the importance of end-to-end shareholder value.
She holds several other board and advisory roles.
planning of global health assets through partnering with others from R&D to manufacturing to ensure their sustainability over Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided the long-term.
independent advice and guidance on corporate responsibility Making products affordable and available: During the year matters to both the Committee Chair, the CEO and the President, we also considered access and affordability, and the companys Global Affairs.
commitment to making our products available at prices that are Committee evaluation responsible and sustainable for the business.
We reviewed the global pricing strategies of our Pharmaceuticals business with a The Committees annual evaluation exercise was internally facilitated particular focus on the US environment, which is the companys by the Company Secretary, who interviewed Committee members on current largest single market, and where the operating context behalf of the Committee Chair.
It was concluded that the Committee continues to evolve.
In terms of enhancements, the Being a modern employer: The Committee also had oversight Committee would continue to review opportunities to develop its of the companys new commitments for being a modern employer remit to further support the companys CR agenda and goals.
which centre on three main elements: engaged people: inclusion As part of this process, it would consider best practice at similar and diversity: and health, wellbeing and development.
The committees and examine its current responsibilities in relation to Committee discussed the results from the global employee survey the remit of GSKs other Board Committees.
and managements plans for responding to lower scoring areas.
Committee aims for 2019 Responsible business: During the year the Committee reviewed the progress made on GSKs commitments to the fundamentals of Over the next year we will continue to understand GSKs being a responsible business.
This included oversight of progress material responsible business topics and seek to understand made to reduce the companys environmental impacts across how management is responding to the expectations of external carbon, water and waste, and the setting of new targets to 2030. stakeholders.
The Committee is well positioned in 2019 to support Updates on business conduct and engagement with healthcare the delivery of the new commitments to support Trust, one of professionals were also discussed by the Committee.
The Committee also reviewed and approved the companys reporting Lynn Elsenhans on progress made on the companys responsible business Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair commitments.
11 March 2019 Stakeholder engagement and insights The Committee pays close attention to the evolving views and expectations of the companys broad range of key stakeholders.
Area of responsibility Items addressed during 2018 A regular report on stakeholder insights is reviewed and discussed External issues that have the Health and safety update at each meeting to ensure the Committee considers the issues that potential for serious impact upon may have a bearing on the companys reputation and the delivery of Regular reputational and emerging GSKs business and reputation issues update its responsible business agenda.
The Committee also received an update on GSKs reputation research to understand relevant insights Oversight of corporate reputation for its strategy.
Employee insights were discussed in relation to the research and KPI companys modern employer agenda and the results of the Global Oversight of stakeholder views Stakeholder insights update employee survey.
and engagement Employee survey This year we have continued to enjoy positive engagement with Annual governance oversight Responsible Business Supplement investors on our responsible business approach and performance.
of progress against GSKs approval I meet directly with shareholders from time to time to understand responsible business Oversight of new commitments any issues and concerns they may have and other Committee commitments to support Trust members also meet informally with shareholders before the AGM.
Global health strategy The Committee was very pleased to see the company maintain first Sustainable access and affordability position in the Access to Medicines Index, and second position in Business conduct the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for our industry, two investor Modern employer supported external benchmarks.
