Our strategy for a sustainable future We recognise our ongoing responsibility to not only deliver financial performance but also make a positive contribution to society and create lasting benefits forstakeholders in a manner that is responsible, transparent and respectful to the rights of all Strategic objective To sustainably grow total shareholder return while maintaining a strong investment grade rating and acting as a responsible operator 16 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information CEOs review Page 4 Strategic priorities We believe that by being a better operator with a reputation for doing things the right way, we will be seen by our stakeholders asapartner of choice.
We are achieving this through taking an approach of continuous improvement.
This approach is delivered 1 through our health and safety programmes, advancing our Integration of environmental performance, respecting human rights and sustainability bydeveloping, maintaining and strengthening our relationships with all ofour stakeholders.
throughout ourbusiness 3% Increase in Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate in 2018 We recognise that a robust and sufficiently flexible balance sheet contributes to the delivery of sustainable, long-term shareholder returns and ensures that Glencore is well placed to withstand the 2 cyclical nature of the natural resource industry.
We aim to increase returns on capital and cash flows while targeting a maximum 2x Maintain Net debt Adjusted EBITDA ratio throughout the cycle.
We aim to arobust only deploy capital when strict and clearly defined financial criteria, andflexible relating to returns and payback, can be met.
balance sheet $ $ 10 16bn Managed Net debt range Our major industrial assets are mainly long-life and low-cost, reflecting our substantial investment into existing assets as well asour appetite, capabilities and belief in some commodities andgeographies where our peers are not materially present.
3 Ourindustrial assets provide a consistent source of volumes for Focus on cost ourmarketing operations, which are supplemented by third party control and production.
Our marketing activities use their scale and capabilities to extract additional margin throughout our business model and operational provide a superior service to our customers and a reliable supply efficiencies ofquality product.
We seek to increase the value of our business by improving the competitiveness of our assets through an ongoing focus on cost management and logistical capabilities, including operating safely and efficiently.
We take a disciplined approach towards all of our assets and will divest when another operator places greater value on them, or curtail production in response to oversupply when it makes sense to do so.
15% Increase in Industrial Adjusted EBITDA Glencore Annual Report 2018 17 Our strategy for a sustainable future continued Strategic priorities Performance in 2018 Priorities going forward KPIs Principal risks SafeWork programme Climate change Water management Sustainability Transparency Safe and healthy Health, safety Continued to progress On track for meeting Operations continue We will continue to We are committed to workplace TRIFR, andenvironment ourSafeWork programme, group-wide carbon emission toimplement our water implement activities that operating transparently, LTIFRand occupational Climatechange aninitiative that focuses intensity reduction target management guideline promote an approach of responsibly and meeting or disease cases oneliminating fatalities ofatleast 5% on 2016 levels whichaligns with the consistent improvement for exceeding applicable laws Community relations Environmental andoccupational diseases.
ICMMsposition statement sustainability throughout orexternal requirements.
andhuman rights performance water onwater and its water ourbusiness tosupport our Regrettably, there were As one of the worlds withdrawn, greenhouse management framework.
commitment to continuously thirteen fatalities during the largestdiversified resource gas GHG emissions, improve ourstandards of year.
Wecontinue to work companies, we have a key role Community engagement meeting our commitments 1 health, safety, environmental towards the elimination of to play in enabling transition Our community on climate change and community and human Integration of fatalities from our business.
Long-term value for Our TRIFR and LTIFR Wedo this through our well arean integralpart of our sustainability communities community increased by 3% and 4% positioned portfolio that community andstakeholder As part of our commitment investment spend throughout respectively compared includes commodities that engagementstrategies.
toa low-carbon economy, ourbusiness to 2017. underpin energy and mobility In2018, wespent$95 million wewill limit our coal transformation that is a key ontheseprogrammes production capacity part of the global response 2017: $90 million.
tothe increasing risks posed by climate change.
Conservatively repositioned Conviction to create value Credit rating Balance sheet strength Investment grade rating Returns to shareholders Supply, demand and Capital structure andcredit Targeted bolt-on acquisitions, The Groups credit We are committed to We will preserve a robust Funds from operations, prices for the commodities profile managed through low-cost risk organic growth ratingsarecurrently Baa2 maintaining our balance capital structure and business Net funding and Net debt we produce targeting a maximum 2x and recycling of capital enabled positiveoutlook from sheet strength to ensure portfolio that reflects our Value for our shareholders Currency exchange rates Netdebt Adjusted EBITDA capital efficient growth in Moodysand BBB stable itiscapable of supporting commitment to targeting, Adjusted EBIT EBITDA, throughout the cycle, compelling commodities.
growth and shareholder receiving and maintaining a Liquidity Net income attributable augmented by anupper returns regardless of strong BBB Baa investment Bonds Credit facility toequity holders Counterparty credit Netdebt cap ofc.
In this regard, Issued $0.625 billion of Revolving credit facility andperformance environment.
weare targeting a maximum Year-end Net debt and FFO non-dilutive cash settled refinanced and resized 2 2x Net debt Adjusted EBITDA Netdebt were $14.7 billion convertible bonds due 2025. toreflect current funding through the cycle, augmented Maintain and78.8% respectively.
Issued a six-year CHF 175 million needs.
Committed available by an upper Net debt cap Netincome attributable bond.
Post-2018 maturities liquidity of $10.2 billion a robust ofc.
In the current toequity holders for 2018 capped at c. $3 billion in any atyearend covers more uncertain economic cycle and flexible was$3.4 billion.
thanthreeyears of backdrop, aiming to limit balance sheet bondmaturities.
Netdebt Adjusted EBITDA toaround one times.
Industrial Marketing Supply Industrial activities Positioned to leverage Returns to shareholders Geopolitical, permits Strong Adjusted EBITDA Achieved $2.4 billion Adjusted Continued our disciplined Our industrial activities ourscale and diversity Funds from operations, andlicence to operate mining margins of 38% EBIT across ourmarketing approach to supply.
willcontinue to focus Our marketing activities Net funding and net debt Laws and enforcement and46%respectively in our business.
Thebenefits of Partialrestart of idled oncontrolling costs and priorities are to maximise Value for our shareholders metalsand energy operations supportive market conditions zincproduction in 2018. generating sustainable thereturns and cash flows Operating risk Adjusted EBIT EBITDA, reflect the benefit of higher during theyear, particularly Additional contribution operating and capital from the pool of allocated Net income attributable Cyber risk prices thatmore than offset inthefirst half, were partially forecastfrom 2019 with efficiencies.
Our marketing capital, which, in turn, toequity holders modestinflationary and offsetby some customer anincrease in McArthur business supports the supports the strengthening costpressures as well as the non-performance in cobalt Riverzinc production.
creation of incremental ofour balance sheet.
Our 3 optimisation ofcost structures aswellas alumina basis valuethrough critical mass, presence at every stage and efficiencies over the last riskexposure.
blending, storage and ofthevalue chain means Focus on cost twoyears.
thatGlencore is uniquely control and positioned to leverage ourscale and diversity.
operational efficiencies 18 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Key performance Principal risks indicators anduncertainties Page 22 Page 24 Strategic priorities Performance in 2018 Priorities going forward KPIs Principal risks SafeWork programme Climate change Water management Sustainability Transparency Safe and healthy Health, safety Continued to progress On track for meeting Operations continue We will continue to We are committed to workplace TRIFR, andenvironment ourSafeWork programme, group-wide carbon emission toimplement our water implement activities that operating transparently, LTIFRand occupational Climatechange aninitiative that focuses intensity reduction target management guideline promote an approach of responsibly and meeting or disease cases oneliminating fatalities ofatleast 5% on 2016 levels whichaligns with the consistent improvement for exceeding applicable laws Community relations Environmental andoccupational diseases.
operational efficiencies Glencore Annual Report 2018 19 Climate change looking beyond 2020 As one of the worlds largest diversified resource companies, Glencore has a key role to play in enabling transition to a low-carbon economy.
We do this through our well positioned portfolio that includes copper, cobalt, nickel, vanadium and zinc commodities that underpin energy and mobility transformation.
We believe this transition is a key part of the global response to the increasing risks posed by climate change We recognise climate change science as set out by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
We believe that the global response to climate change should pursue twin objectives: both limiting temperatures in line with 1 2 thegoals of Articles 2.1 a and 4.1 ofthe Paris Agreement the Paris Goals and supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, including universal access toaffordable energy.
To deliver a strong investment case to our shareholders, we must invest in assets that will be resilient to regulatory, physical and operational risks related to climate change.
To meet the growing needs of a lower carbon economy, Glencore aims toprioritise its capital investment togrow production of commodities essential to the energy and mobility transition and to limit its coal production capacity broadly to 3 current levels.
20 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Following engagement with investor signatories of the Climate Action 100 initiative, we are taking the following steps to further our commitment to thetransition to a low-carbon economy: 1 1 As Glencore rebalances its portfolio towards commodities that support the Paris-consistent transition to a low-carbon economy, the intensity of Scope 3 emissions is expected strategy capital to decrease.
Starting in 2020, we will disclose our longer-term projections for the discipline intensity reduction of Scope 3 emissions, including mitigation efforts.
Glencore recognises the importance of disclosing to investors how the company ensures that material capital expenditure and investments are aligned with the ParisGoals.
This includes each material investment in the exploration, acquisition or development of fossil fuel including thermal and coking coal production, resources and reserves, as well as in resources, reserves and technologies associated with the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Starting in 2020, we intend to report publicly onthe extent to which, in the Boards opinion, this was achieved in the prior year and the methodology and core assumptions for this assessment.
These disclosures will bemade in our Annual Report.
2 2 In 2017, we announced our first target of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions Public Scope 1 intensity by 5% by 2020 compared to a 2016 baseline.
We are currently on track to meet and 2 targets this target.
Glencore recognises the importance of continued reductions of greenhouse gas emissions from our operations.
We are developing new, longer-term targets based on policy and technological developments that support the Paris Goals, and intend to make these public in our Annual Report in 2020.
We will report annually on our progress.
3 Glencore reports annually on the progress in meeting its climate change objectives.
The disclosure is included in our Annual Report and supported by further details intheSustainability Report.
We are committed to transparency and will continue to publish data on our climate change performance on our website, including continued disclosure of our Scope 3 emissions.
We will give consideration to how our climate change objectives can be reflected inthedesign of the relevant schemes for 3 executivemanagement.
Review of Progress In addition to our reporting under 1 and 2 above, every three years, we will review anychanges to the Nationally Determined Contributions NDCs in line with the ParisAgreement mechanism, and other relevant policy, economic and technology developments to assess societal progress in the energy transition and to update ourscenario-based portfolio assessment.
4 Glencore was an early supporter of the voluntary guidance on consistent climate related financial disclosures produced by the TCFD.
We are pleased to publicly supportthe TCFD guidance and have started to implement its recommendations inour annualreporting.
4 Consistent with TCFD recommendations, as appropriate, Glencore will continue to Alignment with Taskforce on Climatedisclose the metrics, targets and scenarios we use to assess and manage relevant related Financial climate-related risks and opportunities.
Disclosures TCFD 5 Glencore believes that it is appropriate that we take an active and constructive recommendations rolein public policy development and to participate in relevant trade associations.
Glencore acknowledges IIGCC Investor Expectations on Corporate Climate Lobbying and recognises the importance of ensuring that its membership in relevant trade associations does not undermine its support for the Paris Agreement and the Paris Goals.
Glencore will consider whether its membership in relevant trade associations aligns with the companys stated positions in this statement.
The result of this review, including any material misalignments identified and actions that will be taken, willbemade public in 2019.
5 Corporate climate change lobbying 1 Article 2.1 a of The Paris Agreement states the goal of Holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels, recognising that this would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change.
2 Article 4.1 of The Paris Agreement reads: In order to achieve the long-term temperature goal set out in Article 2, Parties aimtoreach global peaking of greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible, recognising that peaking will take longer for developing country Parties, and to undertake rapid reductions thereafter in accordance with best available science, so as to achieve a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of this century, on the basis of equity, and in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty.
3 This may include the exercise of our pre-emptive rights to acquire minority stakes of joint-venture partners in our existingoperations.
