Sustainability Our approach to sustainability reflects our commitment to operate transparently and responsibly.
It also encompasses our desire to protect the wellbeing of our people, our host communities and the natural environment, while sharing lasting benefits with the regions where we operate andsociety as a whole Overview Lost time injury Total recordable Water withdrawn We recognise that the success 3 frequency rate injury frequency rate million m ofourbusiness and the creation Water withdrawn per million per million offinancial value is dependent on 3 million m hours worked hours worked 1,020 971 our responsibility to make a positive 924 contribution to society while creating 1.40 4.05 1,020 971 924 lasting benefits for stakeholders 3.18 1.06 3.08 1.02 inamanner that is responsible, transparent and respective to the rights of all.
2016 2017 2018 Our sustainability strategy, policies and procedures support good 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 business practice and drive positive change throughout our business.
Our sustainability strategy sets outour ambitions against four core CO e Scope 1 CO Scope 2 Community 2 2 CO2 Scope 2 pillars: health: safety: environment: million t CO e Scope 1 onnes location based investment 2 location based and community and human rights.
million tonnes million tonnes US$ million million tonnes 23.1 Each pillar has clearly defined 21.6 11.9 11.8 23.1 11.9 11.6 95 11.8 imperatives, objectives, priority 18.5 11.6 90 21.6 84 18.5 areasand targets.
2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 36 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Oversight and ultimate responsibility for our Group sustainability strategy Sustainability framework and framework, as well as its implementation across the Group, rests with the Board HSEC Corporate strategy Committee the Committee.
TheCEO, principally through the Integration of Maintain Focus on cost support of the Groups senior sustainability a robust and control and management team, is responsible throughout flexible balance operational for implementing and executing ourbusiness sheet efficiencies thesustainability strategy.
We review our sustainability strategyannually to confirm that itiscontinuing to fulfil the needs Values ofourbusiness.
Safety Entreprenuerialism Simplicity Responsibility Openness Further details on this strategy, Code of Conduct ourapproach to its implementation, performance andambitions are available in our  Group sustainability strategy Board HSEC Committee publications.
These include an theCommittee has oversight annual sustainability report Health andultimate responsibility.
published inaccordance with the Become a leader in the protection core requirements of Global The Committee receives and improvement of our peoples regular updates and Reporting Initiative GRI : and communities wellbeing hasoversight of how our Safety Our approach to sustainability businessis performing across Become a leader in workplace all ourinternally defined, Sustainability report and highlights safety, eliminating fatalities  andinjuries Data book and GRI references materialrisk areas.
Environment Payments to governments report Minimise any negative Sustainability principles, environmental impact from Modern slavery statement guidance and policies ouroperations and apply Integrated throughout the All of our sustainability theprecautionary principle business and give guidance indecision-making communications are available on the standards we expect.
com Community and human rights sustainability Foster sustainable growth and respect human rights wherever weoperate Group HSEC policies Material topics Internal and external materiality assessment process to identify Operational policies materialtopics Developed for the specific needs Material topics are the focus ofindividual assets of our sustainability strategy review and reporting Operational activities Management, data reporting, focuson addressing andprogressing the riskmanagement and assurance materialtopics to monitor compliance Glencore Annual Report 2018 37 Sustainability continued External commitments In addition, we uphold the framework principles and We are signatories to the United International Labour Organization areanactive member of its Nations Global Compact UNGC, ILO Declaration on Fundamental workinggroups.
aligning our strategies and Principles and Rights at Work We strongly support transparency in operations with its principles, andthe UN Universal Declaration the redistribution and reinvestment whichcover human rights, labour, ofHuman Rights.
We work in ofthe payments we make to environment and anti-corruption.
accordance with anumber of localand national governments.
The UNGC also encourages specific international frameworks, Weareactive participants in the participants to support the including the Core Conventions Extractive Industries Transparency Sustainable Development Goals ofthe ILO and the UN Guiding Initiative EITI.
We comply SDGs, with an emphasis on Principles on Business and withtheEU Accounting and collaboration and innovation.
We are members Transparency Directives: in line ofthe Plenary of the UNs Voluntary Wewelcome the SDGs and withthose provisions, we publish Principles on Security and theadvent ofa systematic global separate annual reports detailing HumanRights.
approach to societys overall material payments made to development.
We believe that We have been a member of the governments, broken down wecan play a role in supporting International Council on Mining bycountry andproject.
ourhostgovernments to meet &Metals since 2014.
itssustainable development Achieved On track Not achieved Performance overview Material topic 20152020 strategic priority Performance indicator 2017 2018 Status 9 13 Catastrophic hazard No major or catastrophic Number of health and safety incidents management  majorandcatastrophic 0 0 Number of environmental incidents majorandcatastrophic 9 13 Total number of catastrophic and major incidents Workplace health No fatalities Fatalities at managed operations 9 13 andsafety 50% reduction of Group LTIFRbythe endof 2020, Lost time injury frequency rate 1.02 1.06 1 against 2015 figure of 1.34 50% reduction in TRIFR by 3.1 3.2 theend of 2020 using 2014 Total recordable injury frequency rate 1 figures as baseline of5.02 Year on year reduction in New occupational disease cases 46 32 thenumber ofnew cases ofoccupational disease Number of HPRIs reported 368 434 21.6 18.5 Climate change 5% minimum carbon CO e Scope 1 million tonnes 2 emissionintensity reduction on2016 baseline by 2020 CO Scope 2 Location based million tonnes 11.6 11.8 2 Total energy use petajoules 202 208 4.38 4.09 Carbon emissions intensity tGHG tCu Water and effluents Complete implementation of Share of sites that have implemented the water n a n a water management guideline management guideline by the end of 2019 % Human rights and No serious human Serious human rights incidents 0 0 grievance mechanisms rightsincidents Community Implement our social Community investment spend $ million 90 95 engagement and  socialcommitment Distribute the community compliance leadership Programme Toolkit Product stewardship Ongoing engagement Continued engagement with a broad range of withorganisations and stakeholders, including customers, regulatory interested stakeholders organisations and industry associations onresponsible sourcing 1 Baseline figures include Glencore Agriculture.
38 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information As part of our commitment to We align our framework with Our internal HSEC assurance responsible product stewardship, international standards.
The programme has a primary focus wefollow the UN globally framework provides a harmonised onour systematic management harmonised system for classification approach tomanaging our health, ofthe catastrophic hazards and and labelling of chemicals GHS, safety, environment, community, theirrelevant controls and critical theEU REACH regulations on the human rights and reputational controls.
Internal and external registration, evaluation, authorisation risks, as well as those linked to seniorsubject matter experts and restriction of chemicals, and the themanagement of financial participate inthisprogramme London Bullion Market Association andlegalissues.
andthe Committee receives LBMA Responsible Gold guidance.
Weactively Our assets use the framework Where appropriate, we participate follow up and verify these findings.
toidentify hazards, including inthe REACH consortia related thosewith potentially major The assurance programme is tothematerials we produce: these orcatastrophic consequences, contributing to improving standards include the consortia for zinc, andtodevelop plans to address and performance group-wide.
cadmium, sulphuric acid, lead andeliminate, or mitigate, the andpreciousmetals.
For each of the identified catastrophic hazards Risk management and assurance wehave implemented a The identification, assessment standardised approach to andmitigation of risk determines identifyingand understanding ourapproach to sustainability theircauses andcontrols.
All of our assets applyour risk management framework and its supporting guidelines.
Creating long-term, sustainable returns As one of the worlds largest diversified resource companies, Glencore has a keyrole to play in enablingtransition toalow-carbon economy.
Total CO e Scope 1 To deliver a strong investment case 2 and CO Scope 2 toourshareholders, we must invest in 2 emissions assets that will be resilient to regulatory, locationbased physical and operational risks related toclimate change.
30.3mt 2017: 33.2mt Carbon intensity reduction 5.6% versus 2016 baseline Glencore Annual Report 2018 39 Sustainability continued Materiality assessment We align our materiality assessments Our material topics for the 201718 We focus our approach to reporting with GRI requirements and consider period are: on our sustainability performance topics at global and local levels, Catastrophic hazard management and progress on the topics identified aswell as considering information as being material to our development, relating to our business and the Workplace safety and health performance and position as well as natural resources sector: our Climate change for our future prospects.
regulatory requirements and the topics raised during engagement Water and effluents We undertake a sustainabilitywith our people and external related materiality assessment Waste and air emissions stakeholders including local everytwo years.
This assessment communities, investors, the media, Human rights and grievance establishes the material topics governments and NGOs.
mechanisms forour sustainability strategic reviewand publications.
Community engagement and social commitment compliance Our people Engaging with ourstakeholders We engage with all relevant stakeholder groups to build We reach out to our stakeholders atlocal, national, regional meaningful relationships and understand their expectations and international levels.
We hold transparent negotiations and aspirations.
Through recognising theimportance of with union officials and our employees receive regular openand transparent engagement, we are ableto minimise briefings on health and safety matters.
Many of our assets our negative societalimpact, optimisethe value webring hold opendays, when local community members can visit tolocalcommunities, and maintain our licenceto operate.
our sites and interact with ouroperational teams.
We engage on a broad variety of topics with a wide Where appropriate, we take an informed and constructive rangeofstakeholders with diverse interests and opinions.
role in public policy development processes.
For example, Ourstakeholders include our employees and contractors, weare working with policy makers directly and through host communities, civil society, unions, governments, tradeassociations, on issues related toclean energy, business partners, non-governmental organisations, carbonreporting andcarbon pricing, recognising that investors and the media.
governments and industry must worktogether to establish policy frameworks that deliver the optimal balance of social, environmental and economic considerations appropriate forindividual nations.
40 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information these hazards, we have developed Our material topics protocols that detail the actions Lost time injury Catastrophic hazard management necessary to identify and mitigate frequency rate We are committed to ensuring the theassociated risk.
per million safety and wellbeing of our people hours worked We encourage our workforce to and the communities and recognise the need to record and environment around us.
1.40 report HPRIs through the promotion 1.06 1.02 Catastrophic events that take place of a risk-based safety culture.
in the natural resource sector can We are saddened to report that we have disastrous impacts on workers, have not met our goal of zero fatalities.
communities, the environment and In 2018, thirteen people lost their corporate reputation, as well as lives at our operations, compared having substantial financial cost.
All loss of life is We are actively identifying, monitoring unacceptable and we are determined and mitigating the catastrophic to eliminate fatalities across our Group.
Total recordable Our lost time injury frequency rate injury frequency rate We require hazards that could lead LTIFR reflects the total number per million to catastrophic or fatal events to oflost time injuries per million hours worked becontrolled at all times.
We ensure hoursworked and does not include 4.05 that those who might be directly restricted work injuries or fatalities.
exposed have appropriate awareness 3.18 3.08 Our LTIFR is recorded when an of such hazards, along with other employee or contractor is unable legitimate stakeholders.
towork following an incident: daysrecorded begin on the first The Board receives regular updates rostered shift that the worker is on this area and actively encourage absent after the day of the injury.
an approach of ongoing improvement.
2016 2017 2018 In2018, our LTIFR was 1.06 per Workplace health and safety millionhours worked 2017: 1.02.
The health and safety of our people Despite our LTIFR increasing slightly Number of HPRIs isour top priority.
Our ambition 4% year-on-year, we are continuing reported istobecome a health and safety to embed our SafeWork programme, leader, and to create a workplace 434 build capacity throughout our 405 without fatalities, injuries or 368 business and we remain committed occupational diseases.
towards achieving a fatality andinjury-free work place.
Each We take a proactive, preventative commodity department has in place approach towards health and safety.
a safety work plan that reflects the Our aim is to establish a positive specific production process for their safety culture that supports all of 2016 2017 2018 operations.
We are continuing our ourworkforce being empowered efforts to establish a sustainable tohave the authority to stop work culture of safety in our work places ifthey consider a workplace or New occupational that contribute towards our long-term situation unsafe.
We believe that disease cases goal of reducing employee and alloccupational fatalities, diseases contractor lost-time injuries by 50% and injuries are preventable.
89 by the end of 2020 against a 2015 An important tool in improving figure of 1.34. safety at our operations has been 46 The total recordable injury frequency therecording of high potential 32 rate TRIFR is the sum of fatalities, lost riskincidents HPRIs.
time injuries, restricted work injuries The reporting of HPRIs represents and medical treatment injuries per 2016 2017 2018 apositive part of our strategy to million hours worked.
The metric reduce fatalities and, as such, we do represents all injuries that require not target a reduction in this metric.
medical treatment beyond first aid.
They support the identification of 2016 data includesGlencore Our 2018 TRIFR of 3.18 is regrettably activities that we need to prioritise Agriculture: 2017 and 2018 excludes GlencoreAgriculture.
a3% increase on 2017s rate of inorder to advance further our 3.08.
However, we are continuing safetyperformance.
tosupport the changes that are During 2018, the majority necessary to deliver the progressive ofourHPRIs related to mobile improvement required to achieve equipment, ground strata failure, our long-term goal of achieving a lifting and cranage, working at 50% reduction in TRIFR by the end height, fire and explosion, energy of2020, using our 2014 TRIFR of and electrical safety.
For each of 5.02as the baseline.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 41 Sustainability continued Climate change This working group is overseeing The impact on our business theongoing integration of carbon CO e Scope 1 2 As a significant energy products emissions and energy into our million tonnes producer and consumer, we are annual business planning process 23.1 aware that energy is a key input and the mapping to 2020 of our 21.6 18.5 andcost to our business as well forward projected energy and asbeing a material source of our carbon footprint.
Its work is feeding carbon emissions.
We are working into adetailed review of our carbon tomitigate the physical impacts emissions and energy profile.
It ofclimate change where we can includes an assessment of potential andconsider resource efficiency mitigation and abatement projects, 2016 2017 2018 when making operational decisions.
and underpins the basis of our Wherever we operate, we seek internal Marginal Abatement Cost tooptimise our energy and Curve MACC.
2 How we are taking action location based We recognise the global climate We use renewable energy sources million tonnes change science as laid out by the where possible: renewable sources 11.9 11.8 11.6 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate deliver 12% of our total energy Change IPCC.
We believe that the needs 2017: 14%.
In Australia, we global response to climate change usecoalseam gas from our mines should pursue twin objectives: both tosupplement power generation limiting temperatures in line with the ata number of our assets and goals of Articles 2.1 a i and 4.1ii of the haveflares installed at those Paris Agreement the Paris Goals underground coal mines with the 2016 2017 2018 and supporting the United Nations necessary supply andconcentration Sustainable Development Goals, of methane.
including universal access to We play an active role in engaging affordable energy.
Emissions intensity with governments and other tGHG tCu We believe the measures interested stakeholders to develop implemented by national and 4.38 strategies for reducing the impact 4.34 4.09 intra-national governments, as ofclimate change.
We actively wellas public sentiment, will drive support the development of low public policy developments and emission technologies and some programmes that restrict global renewable energy sources.
We are investing in a number This is likely to affect our business oflowcarbon energy projects that 2016 2017 2018 and represents both risks and address direct and indirect emissions opportunities that we need to from our operations.
We support a least-cost treatment of fugitive emissions Total energy use pathway to achieving climate fromcoal processing and ventilation petajoules change goals that considers the and alarge-scale carbon capture costand consequences of all andstorage demonstration project 222 208 202 available policy options and does inAustralia.
nothinder socio-economic Reporting on our emissions development.
We divide CO emissions reporting 2 Addressing climate change into three different scopes, in line acrossour business with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, To address the impacts, opportunities and measure both the direct 2016 2017 2018 and risks relating toclimate change andindirect emissions generated within our business, our internal bythe industrial activities, entities cross-functional and cross-commodity and facilities where we have working group, led by our Chairman operational control.
with Board oversight, considers and examines climate change issues.
42 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information During 2018, we emitted 18.5 million Our Scope 3 emissions include Financial Stability Boards tonnes CO e of Scope 1 direct thosefrom a broad range of sources, TaskForceon Climate-related 2 emissions from our consumed fuel including the use of the fossil fuels Financial Disclosures TCFD 2017: 21.6 million tonnes.
This figure that we have sold to our customers We support the TCFDs voluntary includes emissions from reductants and shipping transportation by our framework for the reporting used in our metallurgical smelters.
We report ofclimate-related financial risk Italso includes CO e of methane our Scope 3 emissions inour 2018 disclosures for use by lenders, insurers, 2 emissions from our operations, Sustainability Report.
which is around 25% ofour Scope 1 Our 2018 carbon emissions We welcome the opportunity emissions.
The reduction in Scope 1 intensity, measured in terms of toengage with our stakeholders emissions is mainly due to lower coal tonnes ofgreenhouse gases emitted onclimate change matters and seam emissions at our Australian pertonneof copper equivalent reporton our progress.
industrial production tGHG tCu, is Our Climate Change Considerations In 2018, we emitted 11.8 million 4.09tGHG tCu 2017: 4.38tGHG tCu: for our Business publication analyses 1 tonnes CO of Scope 2 location- 2016: 4.34tGHG tCu.
Lower coal 2 the robustness of our portfolio based indirect emissions seam emissions due to the closure against climate-related scenarios 2017:11.6million tonnes.
We apply ofunderground assets in Australia and provides an assessment of the appropriate country-by-country drove this reduction.
Expected risks and opportunities available to gridemission factors to all of our mineplanning changes at certain Glencore in a low-carbon economy.
purchased electricity, regardless assets including Mutanda are likely ofspecific renewable electricity to increase emissions intensity In response to the guidance contracts.
The increase of our Scope2 temporarily.
However, we believe produced by the TCFD, we have emissions is based on our new assets thatwe are on track to achieve provided a cross-reference table and overall production increases ourgroup-wide carbon emissionbelow.
The table references ramp-ups which outweigh any intensity reduction target of at thesections in this report and reductions asaresult of site closures least5% on 2016 levels by 2020. otherpublications that meet the and divestitures.
Cross reference table to Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Governance: Disclose the organisations governance around climate-related risks and opportunities a D escribe the Boards oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.
Board Committees: Page 100 Risk Board leadership: Page 103 b D escribe managements role in assessing and managing climate-related Board activities during 2018: Page 101 risks and opportunities.
HSEC Committee report: Page 112 Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisations businesses, strategy, andfinancial planning where such information is material a D escribe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation Principal risks and uncertainties climate change: Page 33 hasidentified over the short, medium, and long term.
b D escribe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on Principal risks and uncertainties climate change: Page 33 theorganisations businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
c D escribe the resilience of the organisations strategy, taking into 2017 Climate Change Considerations for Our Business: Page 20 consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2C orlower scenario.
Risk management: Disclose how the organisation identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks a D escribe the organisations processes for identifying and assessing Approach to risk management: Page 104 climate-related risks.
2017 Climate Change Considerations for Our Business: Page 14 b D escribe the organisations processes for managing climate-related risks.
Addressing climate change across our business: Page 42 c D escribe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related Principal risks and uncertainties: Page 33 risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
Reporting on our emissions: Page 42 Metrics and targets: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities wheresuchinformation is material a D isclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related Reporting on our emissions: Page 42 risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.
b D isclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas Reporting on our emissions: Page 42 GHG emissions, and the related risks.
Key performance indicators: Page 23 c D escribe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related Addressing climate change across our business: Page 42 risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
1 The 2016 and 2017 carbon intensity have been updated in accordance with the Greenhouse gas protocol in order to account for acquisitions and divestments.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 43 Sustainability continued 3 Water and effluents In 2018, we withdrew 1,020 million m 3 Water is an essential component of of water 2017: 924 million m. Water withdrawn 3 our business activities.
We recognise Theincrease is mainly due to the million m that water is a shared and finite inclusion of the Volcan zinc assets.
resource and we are conscious of 1,020 971 We publicly report to the CDP 924 theincreasing concerns of our local WaterDisclosure programme.
stakeholders and other local water users regarding ongoing availability Waste and air emissions of water, security of access and Most of the waste that Glencore thepotential for impacts on generates is mineral and includes watersupply.
Our assets 2016 2017 2018 We are committed to managing have rigorous management ourimpact on water resources systemsto dispose of waste responsibly.
We prioritise efficient whilepreventing environmental water use, water reuse recycling, contamination.
We reuse as responsible waste water disposal muchwaste as possible.
and maintaining any equipment that Our metal and coal assets may pose a hazard to water quality.
generatetailings residues of We engage with local water users mineralprocessing, which are toavoid material adverse impacts storedin purpose-built tailings onthe quality and quantity of storage facilities TSF.
Our assets watersources or compromising evaluate natural phenomena theiraccess to water.
suchasflooding and seismic activityand incorporate these considerations intotheir TSF designswhere relevant.
Piloting water catchment assessments Our Horne Smelter is progressing apilot project on the International Council forMining & Metals ICMM catchment-based approach to watermanagement.
Catchment-based water management isa comprehensive, systematic approach toidentifying, evaluating and responding to local water-related risks through the lifecycle of an asset as well as capturing an assets impact on other local waterusers.
The project is supporting an improved understanding of water, better investment planning and prioritisation and stakeholder engagement.
The site will initiate a water management action plan that aligns with the MiningAssociation of Canadas water stewardship protocol.
The learnings of this project will be shared group-wide.
44 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our TSFs are heavily regulated, Ouropen cut operations emit dust undergo regular inspections, from excavation and movement Total amount of andaremonitored continuously ofmaterial.
We monitor dust levels hazardous and nonforintegrity and structural stability.
ataffected communities and hazardous mineral Werequire the design, construction, minimise dust in a number of ways.
waste generated operation, and closure of our TSFs million tonnes andassociated dams to comply Human rights and 2,264  grievancemechanisms 2,137 2,025 engineering standards and in We prioritise respect for human linewith our management plans.
rights everywhere that we operate.
Since2016, our approach has been We uphold the human rights of our built around a Dam Safety Assurance people and our local communities, Programme with a foundational including vulnerable groups such assessment against more than 100 aswomen, children, indigenous 2016 2017 2018 criteria in dam safety and governance people and victims of conflict.
This Programme sets Respect for human rights is out clear and consistent requirements enshrined in our Code of Conduct, for maintenance procedures and Sulphur dioxide which lays out the essential emissions annual inspections, and details requirements for our people and thousand tonnes assurance processes to be followed.
We work in partnership with a leading 401 381 external expert, Klohn Crippen Berger 358 Our Code of Conduct also explicitly KCB.
The Programme improves aligns our security procedures our identification and minimisation or withthe UN Voluntary Principles elimination of potential health, safety, onSecurity and Human Rights environmental, social or business Voluntary Principles.
We also risks associated with our TSFs.
endorse the Voluntary Principles 2016 2017 2018 within our public Group Human We conduct risk assessments on our Rights Policy.
TSFsto evaluate the risks associated with a TSF failure, and to identify As a member of the Voluntary theassociated preventing and Principles Initiative, we are working mitigating controls.
We carry out with the member governments, regular surveillance and quarterly companies and NGOs to develop toannual TSF safety inspections to further our approach towards assess the compliance of the TSFs humanrights.
We have with regulations and engineering implemented the Voluntary standards.
Any corrective actions Principles at our assetswith a taken following a safety auditare highrisk of human rights subject to verification.
audit of technical and governance Our Group Human Rights Policy procedures is carried out by KCB applies to all Glencore operations every 1218 months.
and offices over which we have The slight increase in waste operational control.
The policy produced during 2018 was primarily requires our operations to identify due to increased stripping ratios at and assess risks of human rights anumber of assets and the ramp-up breaches as part of our general ofsome assets after completion riskassessment processes, which ofoptimisation projects.
include baseline and impact studies at existing operations and due Our operations emit emissions diligence on new operations suchas sulphur dioxide SO, 2 andbusiness partners.
dustand nitrogen oxide as well asgenerate waste, which can Assets conduct regular human affectthe environment and rightstraining for their workforce.
This covers general human rights awareness during day-to-day We monitor all material emissions activities for our wider workforce, and continuously look for ways to aswell as focused Voluntary reduce those that pollute the air Principles training for our security around us.
Wherever we operate, employees and contractors.
wecomply with relevant regulatory limits and or international standards for air emissions regarding SO.
2 Glencore Annual Report 2018 45 Sustainability continued At operations with a relatively high Our community development risk of breaches of security-related, programmes are an integral part Community human rights, we require our own ofour community and stakeholder investment employees and private security engagement strategies.
We design US$ million contractors to undergo specific our programmes to help reduce 95 training on human rights, aligned dependency on our operations, 90 84 with the Voluntary Principles.
encourage self-reliance and Wherepossible, we also provide contribute to sustainable growth awareness-raising sessions on inour host regions.
theVoluntary Principles to public We are continuing our Community security forces deployed on Leadership Programme CLP ourconcessions.
2016 2017 2018 training for our assets general All our operations are required managers and site-based tohave in place grievance community practitioners.
During mechanisms that are accessible, 2018, we held CLP training sessions Community accountable and fair, and that in Australia and Peru: a European complaints enableour stakeholders to training session took place in raiseconcerns without fear 1,063 February 2019.
Wealign our In 2018, we spent $95 million grievance mechanisms with the oncommunity development requirements of the UN Guiding programmes 2017: $90 million.
Principles on Business and HumanRights.
Product stewardship During 2018, we received 1,057 2016 2017 2018 Our products are vital to todays complaints from the communities society, creating devices used daily, living around our operations all over the world.
Our goal is to 2017:1,063 complaints.
The majority provide competitively priced ofthe complaints received commodities that meet our relatedtoChad E&P, Mount Isa customers needs and contribute andMangoola primarily regarding toglobal society, while addressing accessto property Chad, air any associated health, societal emissions Mount Isa and noise andenvironmental risks.
We take all complaints We work with experts, industry seriously andcontinuously look for consortia and our peers to study new ways to minimise our impacts.
theproperties and impacts of our products throughout their lifecycles, Community engagement and to spread understanding of our social commitment compliance products.
We engage with a broad The communities surrounding range of stakeholders, including ouroperations are our neighbours, civilsociety, governments and our employees, business partners customers, to promote responsible andfuture workforce.
commitment to two-way dialogue with our local communities, we aim In 2018, Glencore did not produce, to secure a broad base of support process or market any conflict forour activities.
We aim to foster minerals originating from the sustainable growth where we conflict areas as defined under operate.
We work with communities theDodd-Frank Act tin, tungsten, to deliver socio-economic tantalum and gold from the DRC development through investment and adjoining countries.
ininfrastructure, procurement, health and education projects.
We contribute to society throughout our value chain, via employment, procurement, enterprise development, infrastructure and social investment programmes.
46 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our people Our employees and contractors are fundamental tooursuccess.
At Glencore, our people are at the heartofeverything we do.
Wefoster an environment where our different backgrounds, cultures and beliefsaresupported and encouraged.
Union relations Our people Diversity 2018 saw the end of 230 days Our people are our greatest Diversity is at the core of Glencore ofnegotiations at our Oaky Creek assetand we offer them diverse and it is applied from our varied Coalmine in Australia.
It also opportunities and support for commodities and portfolios, to our global operations, and at our offices sawthebeginning of active theirdevelopment throughout internationally.
We support the engagement with IndustriALL, theircareers at Glencore, with International Labour Organization aglobal unionfederation.
Declaration on Fundamental We emphasise our grievance In accordance with local labour Principles and Rights at Work.
We procedures and their importance, laws, regular labour negotiations recognise and uphold our peoples and aim to ensure the wellbeing and with South American unions rights to a safe work environment, protection of our entire workforce.
Our last freedom of association, collective negotiations atLomas Bayas took representation, fair compensation, A Corporate Human Resource place at theendof 2014 where a job security and developmental Framework provides a holistic collective bargaining agreement opportunities.
guidance to our Human for38 months was agreed.
Glencore is committed to InNovember 2017 we entered In 2018, we updated and redistributed developingand uplifting members intonegotiations and were able our Corporate Human Resources ofthe communities in which it tocomplete them under the new Policies, ensuring we fulfil our operates.
Our Alloys team in legislation, without disruption, Dutyof Care to our employees SouthAfrica have enrolled more byearly January 2018. andcontractors.
artisans than any other group in Wellbeing theindustry, having invested more The safe work culture is inherent Our progress in 2018 than $18million in thepast five years.
We strive for a trained, Our rankings as an Employer of Upon successful completion of competent, and motivated workforce Choice continue to improve as we theprogramme, participants are and continue to promote and support tackle issues more transparently able toaccess employment in any health and wellness programmes andtimely.
We aim to proactively sectorrelevant to their training, forall our workers andsurrounding engage with young talents and including mining, construction, communities.
At Antapaccay, we developed a More than 25 Glencore employees In 2018, we updated and redistributed Leadership Programme for staffing were nominated for a place on our marketing content and material, levels, supervisors, superintendents thelist of Top 100 Women in Mining.
reinforcing our Employer Value and managers with the intention Ultimately, four of our female Proposition to ensure attraction topromote and underpin the employees joined the list of leaders andretention of top talent.
practice of reaching targeted goals pioneering initiatives to improve We are proud that according byencouraging the appropriate worldwide diversity and foster toUniversum Globals ranking of behaviours and attitudes womens professional development Employers of Choice, we continue anddeveloping key attributes, within our industry.
toimprove our standing within the suchasleadership, teamwork, Swiss market and gained four points Our South African Coal assets communication, and drive for results, amongst business students.
We haveintroduced a Womens among others.
The programme were recognised again on thelist of Development Programme called reached a participation rate of 96% the Top 100 Employers inSwitzerland WeLead amentoring programme and achieved a total satisfaction as well as being ranked as one of focused onsupporting and rateof93%.
theBest Employers inSwitzerland advocating for female colleagues.
thanks to our employees providing their personal opinions on working atour HQ in Baar.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 47 Sustainability continued Our values Our values reflect our purpose, ourpriorities and the ways by whichwe conduct ourselves.
Theyare the fundamental basis ofour sustainability management system, along with our Code of Conduct and our Group Policies.
Safety Our first priority in the workplace is to protect the health and wellbeing of all our people.
We take a proactive approach to health and safety: ourgoal is continuous improvement inthe prevention of occupational disease and injuries.
Tamatumani a second start fortheInuit Entrepreneurialism Raglan Mines programme named Our approach fosters the highest Tamatumani second start inInuktitut levelof professionalism, personal wasrecognised for its commitment to ownership and entrepreneurial spiritin all our people while never trainingand workforce development of our compromising on their safety and Inuitemployees.
The programme intends to wellbeing.
This is important to our offer permanent employment opportunities success and the superior returns we within our operations to the Inuit, while aim to achieve for all our stakeholders.
fostering development of their individual skills, and promote the economic development of Nunavik.
Our Tamatumani programme implements several initiatives favouring harmonisation of cultureswithin the company.
Simplicity We aim to achieve our key deliverables efficiently as a path toindustry-leading returns, Outlook Our focus for 2019 HR Governance and Strategy whilemaintaining a clear focus onexcellence, quality, sustainability Talent We will continue to place an and continuous improvement in Throughout 2019, we will continue emphasis on strengthening our everything we do.
tofocus on talent attraction and HRgovernance on the basis of retention to ensure the continued ourCorporate HR Framework, success of our business.
We will measuring ourselves against alsointroduce the launch of our ourKPIs.
Corporate Scholarship Programme, The new UK Corporate Governance Responsibility focusing on mining engineers to Code will form an important part We recognise that our work can address the predicted shortage and basis of the HR Governance havean impact on our society and ofsuch qualifications in the from2019 onwards.
ourperformance in relation to environmental protection, human Employer Branding rights, and health and safety.
We maintain the emphasis on our Employer Brand Proposition being Dedicated Driven Diversified.
Theupgraded Employer Branding will be launched in Q1 of 2019 along Openness with updated campaigns whereby, We value open relationships and amongst many other activities, communication based on integrity, ourown employees are given the co-operation, transparency and opportunity to speak about their mutual benefit, with our people, experience at Glencore.
ourcustomers, our suppliers, governments and society in general.
48 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Ethics and Compliance Glencores success is founded on a reputation, builtover manyyears, as being an honest and reliable business partner.
Byupholding our commitment to ethical business practices, weseek to maintain this reputation and meet our long-term objectives through being regarded as a business partner ofchoice.
We have also established an Employees can access the Our Approach Ethics, Compliance and Culture compliance policies, procedures and We seek to maintain a culture of Committee with effect from guidelines through various channels, ethical behaviour and compliance 1January 2019 which further oversees including via the compliance team, throughout the Group, rather than the operationand implementation the Group intranet or local intranet of simply performing the minimum ofourcompliance programme.
the specific asset at which they work.
required by laws and regulations.
Our managers and supervisors are Wewill not knowingly assist any The Group has a Business Ethics responsible for ensuring employees third party in breaching the law, or Committee BEC which comprises understand and comply with the participate in any criminal, fraudulent Glencores CEO, CFO, and General policies and procedures.
We monitor or corrupt practice in any country.
Counsel, senior management and and test their implementation To support this, we have a Group members of the compliance team.
Employees and compliance programme that The BEC considers compliance contractors who have access to a includes a range ofpolicies, issues relevant to the Group and work computer must confirm their procedures, guidelines, training reviews and approves our policies, awareness and understanding andawareness, monitoring and procedures and guidelines.
Our permanent and TheBECreports to the Board electronically every year.
Certain temporary employees, directors through the relevant committees.
assets implement their own andofficers as well as contractors, The BEC approves policies, policies, procedures and guidelines where they are under arelevant procedures and guidelines which in addition to those of the Group.
contractual obligation must comply arethen implemented by our Theseare designed to address specific with our relevant compliance compliance function.
local requirements, while being policies, procedures and guidelines, consistent with our policy framework.
inaddition to complying with Group Policy Framework applicable laws and regulations.
andCompliance Structure We employ compliance officers When we enter into joint ventures Our policy framework encompasses generally based in Glencores major where we are not the operator, our values, Code of Conduct and offices in Baar, London, Rotterdam, westrive to influence our partners policies, procedures and guidelines New York and Singapore, regional toadopt similar policies to ours.
on various compliance topics compliance officers responsible for including anti-corruption, sanctions, implementation of the programme Board Oversight and Governance anti-money laundering, the in specific geographical jurisdictions We provide training to the Board prevention of fraud, market abuse, and compliance coordinators who sit ofDirectors emphasising the role the prevention of the facilitation in individual offices and or assets ofthe Board in the oversight and oftax evasion, competition law, across the globe.
Compliance officers implementation of an effective dataprotection and conflicts of are full time compliance employees ethics and compliance programme.
This framework reflects who provide dedicated compliance Furthermore, the Board receives ourcommitment to uphold good support to the business.
Regional regular updates on the programme business practices and to meet or compliance officers manage through the relevant committees.
exceed applicable laws and external implementation of the compliance These updates cover allfocus areas requirements.
We emphasise their programme at a regional level and including anti-corruption, sanctions importance in our business activities, provide guidance to the business and money laundering and include including recruitment and induction.
and to local compliance coordinators.
topics such as team and programme Training and awareness on our Local compliance coordinators, structure, policies, procedures and policies, procedures and guidelines, guided by the corporate and regional guidelines, as well as updates on as well as strong leadership, compliance teams, take on a thetraining and awareness activities arecritical components of our compliance role in addition to their theGroup facilitates.
Where necessary, reportto the Board on material ensure our employees understand incertain of our assets, weappoint investigations and reports into the behaviour expected of them compliance coordinators on a ourRaising Concerns programme.
andprovide guidance on how full-time basis.
To ensure the theycan identify and practically effective implementation of our approach legal and ethical compliance programme worldwide, dilemmasin their daily work lives.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 49 Sustainability continued we nominate and appoint qualified computer and the training on inhis or her official capacity for the and appropriate individuals for anti-corruption targets those purpose of obtaining an advantage.
compliance coordinator roles, given whosefunction may require them As per our Global Anti-Corruption the nature and risks identified at our tointeract with third parties.
Policy, facilitation payments should operations and offices following a Forthose employees who do not be made.
We also do not permit formal nomination and appointment nothave regular access to a work the use of any of our funds or procedure.
These compliance computer, we provide training resources as contributions to any coordinators support our employees inother waysincluding induction political campaign, political party, in day-to-day business considerations, sessions, pre-shift general training political candidate or any such particularly those seeking advice and toolboxtalks.
Although onethical, lawful behaviour or policy compliance officersand compliance wedo not directly participate in implementation.
Employees may coordinators conduct face-to-face party politics, we do on occasion access the contact details of our training forrelevant employees to engage in policy debate on subjects compliance officers and coordinators raise awareness about compliance of legitimate concern to our via the Group intranet and their risks related to their functions and to business, employees, customers, localintranet.
train them on Glencores compliance endusers and the communities policies, procedures and guidelines.
Any of our Risk Assessments officers, employees or associated We conduct local office asset Monitoring persons who lobby on our behalf compliance risk assessments at As part of the Group compliance must comply with all applicable appropriate intervals to understand programme, we conduct monitoring lawsand regulations including and record compliance risks faced by on a risk-based basis to test and butnot limited to complying with the business as well as the controls verify compliance with the Group the laws and regulations relating necessary to mitigate them.
We policies, procedures and guidelines toregistration and reporting.
account for changes and external and with the laws and regulations factors affecting the business applicable to Glencores marketing We may only give and receive whichmay create compliance risk.
This entails appropriate, lawful business gifts Agroup compliance risk register is performing periodic and ad hoc andentertainment in connection with maintained to identify, assess and testing reviews in accordance with ourwork, provided that such gifts evaluate compliance risks.
These risks the corporate testing and monitoring andentertainment satisfy the general are considered when drafting policies plans, analysing documents and principles set out in the Global and procedures applicable tothe procedures and, in the case of Anti-Corruption Policy and are not business.
In the performance of local findings, collaborating with the given or received with the intent or office asset risk assessments, regional relevant marketing office or industrial prospect of influencing the recipients compliance officers must review operation to determine the most decision-making or other conduct.
relevant documents and conduct appropriate course of action, including Furthermore, we have approval risk interviews as part of sitevisits.
procedures in place which provide specific requirements for certain Training and Awareness Bribery and corruption types of gifts and entertainment Our employees receive induction Glencores Global Anti-Corruption andcertain operations, including sessions and ongoing training on Policy is available on the Group ourprocedure for gifts and arange of compliance issues.
It contains our clear position entertainment for public officials 33,944 employees and contractors on bribery and corruption: the offering, which applies whenever anemployee 2017: 31,737 completed our Code of paying, authorising, soliciting or of our marketing operations intends Conduct e-learning which includes accepting of bribes is unacceptable.
to arrange entertainment, travel, guidance on raising concerns.
We conduct analysis for corruption accommodation or a gift for a public Inaddition, 27,510 2017: 22,872 risks within our businesses and official and the value of the courtesy completed e-learning training our worktowards addressing these exceeds a specific threshold.
global anti-corruption policy, which risksthrough policies, procedures, In addition to our standard Know includes guidance on important guidelines, training and awareness, Your Counterparty programme, topics such as facilitation payments, monitoring and controls.
theGroup has implemented the the giving and receiving of gifts and Certain of our operations screen Third Party Due Diligence Procedure entertainment and dealings with potential new employees before which seeks to ensure that our third public officials.
party relationships which present We tailor our trainings and make Recruitment is required to take place thehighest corruption risk are them relevant for our employees in line with the Corporate Recruiting conducted in accordance with andcontractors by including real-life Policy and guidance for avoiding applicable laws and regulations and hypothetical scenarios which illustrate corruption risks in the hiring process, our Global Anti-Corruption Policy.
how legal and ethical dilemmas including guidance in relation to the The procedure sets out a detailed might manifest themselves in their hiring of relatives of public officials.
process whereby circumstances daily workactivities.
Itis prohibited to recruit or employ thatmay pose a corruption risk are, current or former public officials on a risk basis, reviewed, addressed The target audience of the Code ortheir relatives in consulting roles, and taken into consideration when ofConduct e-Learning is employees secondments or employment in deciding whether and on which with regular access to awork order to influence a public official conditions to proceed with a 50 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information thirdparty relationship, particularly sets forth our approach to sanctions The website allows any stakeholder intermediaries, joint-ventures and and how we work toward complying to raise concerns on an anonymous service providers.
The procedure with applicable sanctions and basis.
Additionally, there are alsorequires, where necessary, appropriately manage sanctions risk.
telephone numbers for raising forongoing monitoring and review The Glencore Sanctions Procedure concerns, whichare published ofthe relationships to ensure outlines the steps and procedures onthe RaisingConcerns website.
compliance with our Global we take to ensure compliance In 2018, we received a total of 215 Anti-Corruption Policy.
2017: 183 and 2016: 153 reports We report on an annual basis regarding situations in which Group Reporting Misconduct inrespect of our total payments to policies appeared to be breached and Everybody working for Glencore governments, and provide countrywhich were brought to the attention including suppliers must promptly by-country and project-by-project of the Raising Concerns Programme.
raise any situations in which the information in this regard.
Additionally, Glencore Code of Conduct, its and where applicable, we have aligned Discipline underlying policies or the law appear our reporting on such payments In accordance with our Code to be breached with a supervisor with the requirements of Chapter 10 ofConduct, anybody working for ormanager locally.
of the EU accounting directive.
Glencore who breaches the law, Where a concern remains theCode of Conduct, or other policies Sanctions unresolved through these local or procedures may face disciplinary Glencore is committed to respecting, channels, or should an employee, action including dismissal.
In 2018, upholding and complying with all contractor, supplier or other Glencore dismissed 399 employees sanctions applicable to our business stakeholder, for whatever reason 2017: 284 and 2016: 318 for breaching and to all transactions in which we andat any time, feel uncomfortable the Code of Conduct.
Thedismissals engage, regardless of our role or utilising the local channels in predominantly related to failures location.
The applicability and scope resolution of their concerns, the tofollow safety instructions or of the applicable sanctions can differ concern can be raised via Glencores policies, or misappropriation of per transaction, jurisdiction and other Raising Concerns web platform at company property.
Our Global Sanctions Policy glencore.
Non-Financial Information Statement We aim to comply with the Non-Financial Reporting Directive requirements.
The table below sets out were relevant information is located in this report: Reporting requirement Policies Reference in 2018 annual report 1.
Environmental Matters Sustainability Policy Climate change, page 20 Code of Conduct Climate change risk, page 33 Health, safety, environment risk, page 35 Sustainability report, page 36 2.
Employees SafeWork program Operating risk, page 31 Conflict of Interest Program Our people, page 47 Sustainability Policy Diversity Policy Corporate Anti-Discrimination andHarassment Policy Corporate Recruiting Policy Code of Conduct 3.
Human Rights Human Rights Policy Community relations and human rights risk Annual Modern Slavery Statement page 34 Sustainability Policy Sustainability report, page 36 Code of Conduct 4.
Social Matters Sustainability Policy Community relations and human rights risk, Code of Conduct page 34 Sustainability report, page 36 Our people, page 47 5.
A nti-corruption and anti-bribery Global Anti-Corruption Policy Laws and enforcement risk, page 29 Third Party Due Diligence Procedure Ethics and Compliance, page 49 Code of Conduct 6. Business model Business model, page 12 7.
P rincipal Risk and Uncertainties Principal risk and uncertainties, page 24 8.
Non-financial key performance indicators Non-financial key performance indicators, page23 Glencore Annual Report 2018 51
