STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR STAKEHOLDERS Working in partnership With value for money being an important customer consideration We play an important role providing a vital service for our communities through the when travelling, we are always looking to develop attractive people we employ and the taxes we pay.
Weplace great importance on partnership, ticketing options.
Examples include Go North Easts 10 family ticket, providing unlimited daily travel on our network for a family Our people adopting a collaborative approach with governments, local communities and strategic of five.
Plymouth Citybus offers a 5 Weekend Wonder ticket for partners: developing and running services that create long term value for all ofus.
unlimited travel from Friday evening to Sunday night.
Both of these operators have also overhauled child and student fares with the introduction of an anytime, any zone 1 fare for customers under Our stakeholders are the groups of people and individuals who the age of 19.
The United Nations vision for a more sustainable planet have an interest in what we do, how we do it, and the impact Our business is built by colleagues has17 Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
We recognise that we have as a business.
By engaging our key stakeholders thatwe play an important role in society and can contribute meaningfully, we gain insights into their expectations, needs whosededication, innovation and ambition positively to this vision.
Of these goals, we have identified five and identify the material issues that are of high concern.
This help deliver the best transport service to where we believe we can make a positive social impact: these feedback forms part of our decision making process and helps will be delivered through our continual improvements, ourcustomers.
uscontinuously improve, and progress towards our vision and delivered for all our stakeholders.
We are committed to creating an environment which issafe and where colleagues feel they belong, that is inclusive and diverse, focuses on learning and development and promotes high levels ofengagement.
Customers The best talent We offer our customers a range of flexible and easy payment We continuously aim to attract and retain the best talent options to make travelling with us simple.
Our bus smartcard withtheknowledge, skills, values and behaviours required to scheme, the key, is now the largest commercial scheme deliverGo-Ahead objectives and establish a culture which gives outsideLondon with over one million users.
We were also allcolleagues the opportunity and support to reach their Customers are at the heart of Go-Ahead oneofthe first in the sector to introduce mobile ticketing and fullpotential.
haveinvested in a new mobile ticketing app enabling our bus Transport for everyone and it is our mission toprovide them with Our Graduate Programme, now in its seventh year, hasa higher passengers to plan and buy their tickets more quickly and easily We are also committed to providing an inclusive service.
All our level of success in retaining graduates during the programme a consistent and reliable service.
and track the exact location of their bus.
bus and rail operators strive to make their services as accessible compared with the industry average, with 93% of graduate We build relationships with our customers through our front line as possible to everyone.
This year, we launched our Helping Hand entrants choosing to stay with the Group.
Everygraduate within staff, customer ambassadors and social media.
These interactions card across our UK bus network which helps passengers with the bus division, regardless of future careeroptions, learns allowus to better understand the needs of our passengers and accessibility needs, specifically hidden disabilities, communicate todrive a bus and works as a driver forseveral weeks.
In rail, where to focus improvements, which allows us to provide a better with bus drivers.
All of our customer facing colleagues have graduates will spend a period as anon-board supervisor.
training in assisting people living with dementia and those who Thisexperience is seen as critically important to Go-Ahead, areblind or partially sighted.
Our buses and trains are accessible understanding the responsibility of the workforce that they will be to wheelchair users and we continue to increase audible managing and acquiring the knowledge to improve the customer announcements and information screens across our services.
Being mindful that the majority of passenger journeys dont start and end with a bus or train journey, we are committed to investing in innovative solutions to drive the future of transport growth and provide the best customer experience from door to door.
In rail, we have introduced a new smartcard, KeyGo, across GTR Read more on how we are developing for the future services enabling fare capping and Pay As You Go.
Customers of transport on page 18. using KeyGo can continue their journey with the same smartcard, on all Go-Ahead local bus operations, giving customers one easysolution for multiple modes of travel.
During the year, weintroduced delay repay across the network and we were the first train operator to introduce DelayRepay15, compensating anypassenger using the KeyGo smartcard who is delayed by 30% 15minutes or more.
Our effort to improve our customer service Making travelling with us the simple and easy choice offering was recognised through winning the Passenger Innovation of all graduates hired at Go-Ahead of the Year Award at SmartRail Awards 2018.
We also launched are female and in 2017, 30% of During the year, we invested 87.3m on new buses and our Gatwick Express app to provide specific information for those graduates hired were from refurbishments, 12.3m improving our bus services and a travelling to and from the airport, including flight updates and even ethnically diverse backgrounds further27.1m making improvements to our rail services gate information, making it easier for our passengers to plan their including upgrading stationfacilities and improving our onward journeys.
22 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 23 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED We undertake a number of initiatives to attract talent.
GTR Colleague engagement andthePrinces Trust have a seven-year partnership, which We use a range of channels across the Group to ensure that the isunderpinned by the Get into Railways programme.
It aims voice of our colleagues is heard.
We keep our people informed atsupporting young people who are facing barriers to move Investors about company results, major business decisions and the Strategic partners intoemployment.
Through the successful programme 115 young thingsthat really matter to them through internal media, people have secured permanent employment in GTR.
This year and suppliers newsletters and functional and business updates.
We hold wealso became the first bus and rail provider to be accredited anannual survey across our whole organisation, conducted with the Employer Provider of Apprenticeships and we plan to independently by ORC.
The results provide a measure of colleague further develop talent in engineering, maintenance and driver engagement andhelp us identify areas where we can improve We run our business with strong financial positions.
We are also on target to attain the DfTs industry asan employer.
A considerable proportion of our workforce is discipline and aim to provide attractive requirement to have 2.5% of the rail workforce in apprenticeships, represented by trade unions and employee representatives, and Our strategic partners include local which means 286 apprentices across our railbusinesses.
So far, we strive to foster positive working relationships with them.
We returns to our investors.
authorities, TfL, Keolis and Network Rail, we have achieved 82% of this target.
also have a responsibility to ensure nophysical harm comes to our We place great importance on our relationships with our people while they are at work and safety is a fundamental part of aswell as a broad range of other suppliers.
shareholders and have a long tradition of engaging with our our strategy.
We take preventive actions and invest in training and investors to maintain high levels of transparency and to build trust.
They provide the public sector infrastructure such as railway awareness activities to ensure the safety of our colleagues.
We are pleased to have received recognition for our commitment tracks and local authority bus stations and lease trains and buses, to openness and effective communication by winning the Best all of which we rely upon to deliver an efficient service.
Inclusive and equal employer Financial Reporting award at this years IR Magazine Awards.
Go-Ahead is a progressive organisation and our commitment Working in partnership toinclusion and diversity starts at the top of our organisation.
Both of our rail franchises have either a partnership plan or a Ourdesire is to have a workforce that reflects the diversity of FTSE4Good BS11000 Collaborative Business Relationship accreditation with thecommunities in which we operate.
This year we developed an Go-Ahead was the first Network Rail and TfL.
We also participate in a number of technical Inclusion and Diversity Steering Group to improve our policies and FTSE250 company to be committees with the Confederation of Passenger Transport such procedures to reflect our commitment to this.
We believe in equal certified with FTSE4Good as the Engineering Committee, Road Operations Committee, opportunities regardless of gender, age, religion or belief, sexual accreditation and have Skillsand Training Committee, Insurance and Risk Committee to orientation, race and, where practicable, disability.
We give full and been recertified for seven name afew.
fair consideration to job applications from people with disabilities, consecutive years considering their skills and abilities.
In respect of existing When working with suppliers, we engage with them regularly colleagues who may become disabled, the Groups policy is to toeffectively monitor, manage and mitigate risks in our supply provide continuing employment, training and career development.
We also conduct periodic surveys of our current suppliers Maintaining high levels of engagement tomonitor how we are perceived and use that feedback to enhance Strengthening capabilities and building Feedback from the investment community forms part of strategic our working relationships.
For significant suppliers, contract  Board discussions.
The Investor Relations team advises the managers are assigned to manage the relationship with meetings Board on communications with the financial market.
This includes In order to be seen as an employer of choice and maintain a Go-Ahead has set a taking place on a monthly basis.
We also hold regular meetings to a monthly Board report on market views and expectations, sector highlevel of employee retention, we aim to provide market target to encourage discuss contract performance and opportunities for improvement.
updates and changes in our shareholder register.
In addition, competitive remuneration and a comprehensive benefits package.
more women to we engage in a programme of investor and analyst meetings and We ensurethat all colleagues are recognised and rewarded for become train drivers Working sustainably roadshows through the year.
We recognise the importance Earlier this year Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA of learning and development and havea policy of continuous In January, we conducted an investor perception survey.
Participants conducted an in-depth study and produced an executive report improvement to support ongoing development.
We invested comprised of investment institutions, both current shareholders and which confirmed that we operate in accordance with the ISO 21.1m in  development thisyear.
non-holders, as well as sell-side analysts.
Our aim was to gain a We are also on a journey to improve our gender balance, 20400:2017 standard on sustainable procurement including Wehold reviews twice a year andencourage regular discussions greater insight into market views on theGroup and sector, to seek inaninherently male dominated sector.
This year, we accountability, transparency, respect for human rights and with line managers to highlightany training requirements, future further perspectives on our performance and strategy, and to help publishedour first Gender Pay Gap Report in April 2018 see ethicalbehaviour.
Our High Potential ensure our investment proposition was understood.
com, which promoted our desire to encourage Programme provides the tools to enable participating colleagues We also ran our first ever Sustainable Supplier Awards which of these opinions, views and expectations has supported us in more women intothe transport sector.
As a result, we have to become the future leaders of our business.
Wehave further highlighted the best practice amongst our suppliers with a focus clarifying and reinforcing ourmessage and has enabled management launched a varietyofinitiatives designed to inspire women to improved our online platform, the Learning Hub, which provides on the ISO 20400:2017 principles.
The event, which we will hold to respond to any concerns in the investment community.
These include organising special awealth of information and training.
Wehavealsointroduced annually, aims to encourage our suppliers to develop and improve bus events at depots, encouraging women to visit and get behind Personal Development Hours to supportourcolleagues to invest This year we also held our first Institutional Investor and Analyst their sustainability impact.
Alongside other industry partners, we support networking event in London.
Set up as a knowledge sharing more time into their personal andprofessional development.
We women to become train drivers through the Women with Drive were pleased to receive twoInvestors in People Gold accreditations event, itgave attendees the opportunity to speak directly with project.
Wealso held our first Inclusion and Diversity Conference bothexecutive and divisional management of the Go-Ahead team.
during the year asrecognition for the way we lead, support and in June where subject matter experts offered valuable insight into manage our colleagues to promote a culture of high performance.
Thisopportunity to speak face-to-face with so many of our key areas of gender intelligence, cultural awareness and becoming a Go-Ahead are signed personnel in an open and engaging way proved to be a success disability confident employer.
up to the Prompt and we plan to build on this with similar events in the future.
Payment Code Read more on page 75.
24 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 25 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED Economic Contribution Total Revenue 3,461.5m In addition to our commitment to generating shareholder value, Communities we also create wider economic value.
Around 90% of Group revenue is spent paying our people and suppliers, enabling further economic activity.
Over 3% is paid directly to the Government.
As an operator of public transport, we provide a vital service to communities.
Our services have continued to ensure that millions of people are afield, Go-Ahead Singapore has introduced a system called able to get to work, education and access services.
Over the past SwitchOff to its buses which automatically turns off an engine year, we have made a significant contribution to the local economy which has been idle for more than 10 minutes, helping reduce through the 28,000 people we employ, the 1.9b payments to exhaust fumes and fuel wastage.
suppliers, 50.9m generated by our rail operations for the government, and 28.7m paid in corporation tax.
Improving on our environmental impact Go-Ahead was the first passenger transport company to be Our local approach awarded triple accreditation by the Carbon Trust Standard for Being part of the local community underpins Go-Aheads carbon, waste and water reduction.
We are now working towards Payments to suppliers: 1,927.6m devolvedmanagement approach and enables our bus and rail anew standard and throughout year have made great progress in Government Staff costs inclusive of PAYE: 1,119.3m companies tobe more responsive to the different needs that achieving the ISO 50,001 international standard for energy across different passengers have.
Our operating companies make a big National insurance costs: 105.1m the whole Group, demonstrating our commitment to continual contribution to their local communities.
Our businesses regularly Net rail contributions to DfT: 50.9m improvement in energy management.
We are also the highest join in national fundraising events and work to raise awareness rated transport company within the Business in the Community Dividends paid to shareholders: 43.8m ofimportant causes.
Many of our colleagues also carry out their corporate responsibility index, at 95%.
Capital expenditure: 126.7m Policy and regulatory change affect our own fundraising activities in their spare time, and we aim to Corporation tax payments to government: 28.7m We are looking at ways of how we can improve our environmental matchthose fund raising efforts wherever possible.
We have busand rail businesses and create the Finance costs: 14.2m impact and how we measure this.
To improve onour most recent implemented the London Benchmarking Group model to Retained in equity: 45.2m score within the global Carbon Disclosure Project, we are framework in which we operate.
measureand evaluate our community investment.
Since currently conducting an extensive risk and opportunities incorporating this measurement in 2015, our community Working closely with both central and local governments enables assessment on climate change and are exploring how we can investment has more than doubled to over 1m.
At a corporate us to add our private sector experience and expertise to the public improve our transparency on greenhouse gas emissions.
We are level, Go-Ahead supports twoUK-based charities which have agenda and produce better policy outcomes and service delivery.
committed to doing the appropriate assessments and are working atransport focus, RailwayChildren and Transaid.
on incorporating the financial implications of climate change in Active approach our reporting going forward incompliance with the Taskforce on Go-Ahead was the first We respond to DfTs consultations on various issues, both Climate-Related Financial Disclosures.
As part of our long term Go-Ahead London, TfL and manufacturer FTSE 350 company to be informally through contacts with civil servants and formally commitment for a cleaner environment, we are working with BYD jointly won the Grand Prix award at this awarded the Fair Tax Mark through the official consultation processes.
We have an active government institutions to tackle climate change, airquality and years Low Carbon Champions gala dinner rolein the DfTs Open Data Initiative for the bus industry and are pollution and we are exploring setting appropriate Science for their effective partnership in delivering currently responding to a consultation on audio visual equipment BasedTargets.
the vehicles, operational capacity and on buses.
infrastructure to begin running Londons first two all-electric bus routes.
In rail, we are part of the DfTs Strategic Industry Vision.
Our Head of Rail Development acts as a representative for the operators within this steering group, and also chairs the Passenger Services Responsible operations and Strategy working group within the Rail Delivery Group.
By managing our businesses in a responsible and sustainable Being part of the local community underpins Go-Aheads devolved way, we help create a thriving economy whilst limiting our impact management approach and we adopt a collaborative approach on the environment.
We are a founding member of Greener with local authorities.
We have developed a consultation and Journeys, a national alliance of bus companies encouraging engagement approach with councils to develop better partnerships themodal shift from car to bus and coach to reduce emissions.
and improve outcomes, and three of our regional bus managing In the UK, we are the largest operator of electric buses, with directors sit on the boards of their Local Economic Partnerships.
thefirst fully dedicated electric depot in Waterloo, and almost a quarter of our entire fleet conforms to Euro 6 standard, meaning the engines are some of the cleanest in the industry.
Further 26 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
