Strategic report OUR PEOPLE, ASSETS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT DELIVERING STRONG PERFORMANCE THROUGH OUR REVISED SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Our strategy OUR SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR COMMITTEE Following the review of the businesss sustainability strategy last Graingers Sustainability and CSR Committee is made up of year, the focus this year was on embedding the revised strategy into senior representatives from key areas of our business.
It meets business operations and decision making.
monthly to monitor progress of key activities.
We have responded to the risks and opportunities identified in the Highlights of the year materiality review that informed our sustainability strategy: The Committees priorities for the year were increasing employee engagement on sustainability and reviewing our People approach to community engagement.
Wellbeing: developed an approach to employee wellbeing, and reviewed how we assess the impact of Key projects and outputs included: our assets on customers wellbeing.
Diversity: carried out internal review of workforce updating our charity and volunteering policy: diversity and inclusion.
monitoring progress towards compliance with Minimum Assets Energy Efficiency Standards: Health and safety: undertaking portfolio-wide review reviewing asset-level sustainability risks and key performance of the integrity of apartment front doors.
indicators: and Affordability: conducted research into assessing preparing for compliance with the Energy Savings affordability.
Environment Carbon: comprehensively reviewed environmental Sustainability governance performance data to improve its coverage.
See our greenhouse gas statement on page 78.
Board of Directors Governance and strategic oversight Our performance Grainger has successfully maintained its listing in the FTSE4Good Index for the eighth consecutive year.
On the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Executive Committee GRESB, GRIP REIT maintained its position as sector Oversight of strategy implementation and objectives leader of the European listed residential group, with Grainger maintaining third place.
Both entities named health and wellbeing leaders.
Successfully maintained our Gold EPRA Sustainability Award for the fifth consecutive year.
Grainger was one Sustainability and CSR Committee of the first organisations to comply with the new EPRA Management of performance and reporting Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations sBPR into Executive Committee to report environmental, social and governance criteria.
Our EPRA sBPR Report is available on our website at www.
On the Best Companies Index, Grainger is rated as One Charity and to Watch reflecting organisations with good levels of Operational teams Social Committee workplace engagement.
This year was the second Responsibility for delivery Responsibility for delivery consecutive year Grainger participated, with improvements in our overall employee engagement score and in all eight categories of engagement.
26 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information Strategic report OUR PEOPLE, ASSETS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CONTINUED Delivering excellent customer service What we have achieved Following the launch of a portfolio-wide satisfaction Improvement in Best Companies employee survey for our PRS customers in 2017, this year we engagement scores for giving something back and implemented a comprehensive action plan to respond PEOPLE wellbeing both increased by 4%.
Key activity included delivering a 1,100 hours of customer service training provided to PEOPLE customer service training programme for our 70 front-line employees.
POSITIVELY operations team, covering topics including personal Four schools engaged through employment and planning, organisation skills and emotional intelligence.
This years survey demonstrated improvements in Maintained average customer retention at customer satisfaction levels for both accommodation 27 months.
and the service provided by Grainger.
Achieved 12% of staff volunteering and 200% increase in employee fundraising.
Charity partnerships 95% of eligible employees are Company We continued working with our charity partner, shareholders.
LandAid, to raise funds towards ending youth homelessness.
Nine Grainger employees took part in What we are going to do the first LandAid SleepOut, raising over 15,000 5% of Develop an approach to enhance diversity and the total raised from the event and, overall, our inclusion within our workforce.
We also partnered with Age UK London, who delivered training to customer-facing staff on communicating effectively with older and vulnerable residents in our regulated portfolio.
Our customer We also work with local partners in the areas around service training our assets and developments.
At Wellesley, Aldershot programme Enterprise Centre was established in 2015 through a delivered over partnership between Grainger, Hampshire County 1,100 hours of Council and WSX Enterprise to provide local people training to 70 with support and affordable space to set up their own employees business.
Over 70 new businesses have started to date, creating over 300 jobs over the last three years.
The Annual tea party on the lawn community Centre is home to various charities and voluntary sector event at Aldershot Enterprise Centre organisations, and has become a focal point for people who live and work in the area.
Engaging communities throughout the development cycle Our commitment to community engagement continues throughout the development cycle to ensure our buildings and our residents are integrated into the local community for the long term.
Pre-planning Planning and design Construction Operation Stakeholder mapping Community forums, Construction impact Dedicated property and research into events and focus monitoring manager local needs groups to inform Employment and skills Residents events Engagement with design programmes Support local businesses existing residents Online engagement Engagement with local and community initiatives Develop community platform schools engagement plan Consultation on initial Space provided to local and revised designs charities Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 Strategic report OUR PEOPLE, ASSETS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CONTINED Ongoing employee engagement Looking after employee wellbeing This year was the second consecutive year we The wellbeing of our workforce was identified as a participated in the Best Companies Index, conducting priority and a survey of employees wellbeing goals has an annual employee engagement survey.
In response to helped focus our approach.
This year, we updated our PEOPLE TREATING feedback provided in the 2017 survey, we introduced a procedures for lone working and delivered new personal PEOPLE health and wellbeing cashback plan, increased safety training to staff in collaboration with the Suzy POSITIVELY opportunities for employees to participate in charity Lamplugh Trust.
Stress awareness training was rolled activity and updated our performance appraisal out to all line managers.
We also delivered a series of documentation.
This years results demonstrated an learning hours designed to help our employees make improvement in all categories of engagement, and in all the most of our benefits programme.
Topics included areas of our business.
Our plans to continue this our health and wellbeing cashback plan, pensions and improvement include introducing a training and the Company share schemes.
development academy and delivering a programme of wellbeing activities.
We continue to monitor the effectiveness of our actions against modern slavery and human trafficking.
We are A key engagement event held in October 2018 was our improving our procurement processes, which include all-staff conference, which included a business update measures to ensure that the obligations under the and site tour giving all employees an opportunity to Modern Slavery Act 2015 are also adhered to in our experience Clippers Quay.
It also launched our annual supply chain, and continue with our supplier review and employee awards, recognising employees who audit programme.
43% of Grainger demonstrate exceptional performance aligned to employees have Graingers values.
five or more years service Winners at the inaugural Grainger employee awards 28 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information Developing and retaining a diverse workforce Retaining our workforce is critical to maintaining our knowledge and providing a great service to our customers.
We continue to focus on talent retention, PEOPLE TREATING through our learning and development programme and PEOPLE our talent forum.
99.6% of employees participated in POSITIVELY training in 2018, with topics including the GDPR, anti-bribery, stress awareness and employee benefits.
Turnover remained low at 10% and currently 43% of employees have five or more years service.
We believe widening the pool of people entering our industry is key to ensuring diversity of perspectives and representing our customer base.
This year, three graduates completed our two-year scheme and have been placed in new roles across our business, and we have two new graduates who commenced their employment in September.
We continue to support apprenticeships directly and through our supply chain, with 55 apprenticeships supported across our operations and our developments.
We work with a number of schools and colleges in proximity to our developments, helping give young people insight into working in real estate.
Examples include partnering with Gladesmore Community School in Tottenham to deliver a design project for technology students, and providing site tours to construction students leaving the armed forces at Wellesley.
Hampton-Alexander Review Headcount by gender Grainger submits data annually to the Hampton- 00 113 Alexander Review and is committed to achieving Male 113 the targets for FTSE 250 boards and leadership Female 137 teams to have 33% female representation by 2020.
Due to changes during the year, Graingers 00 Board now comprises 29% female representation.
We are targeting re-establishing at least 33% 137 representation in 2019.
We have increased female representation in our leadership team consisting Gender by job level headcount of members of our Executive Committee and 100 their direct reports to 45%.
80 We are committed to change and are working 60 with the British Property Federation BPF 40 on the development of an industry-wide plan for greater diversity and inclusion.
20 0 Executive Senior Management Associate Support Graduate O-site Director Management Male Female Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 Strategic report OUR PEOPLE, ASSETS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CONTINED Ensuring our homes are accessible to local people Delivering a healthy community at Wellesley We want to invest where our homes will be accessible to On our masterplan site at Wellesley, we introduced a the widest range of local residents and local workers.
bespoke health, safety and environmental This year, we expanded on the market research ASSETS management system based on ISO 45001 health undertaken for our target cities by researching local CREATING and ISO 14001 environmental management DESIRABLE affluence and thresholds of affordability.
The system is for all major stakeholders AND HEALTHY influence the rents we set and where we invest, ensuring involved in the development.
It will ensure legal HOMES our products are attractive to the local population.
compliance, reduce workplace risks and improve employee health as well as promote efficiencies and Customer health, safety and wellbeing best practice through experience, acquired Following the Grenfell Tower fire, Grainger reacted knowledge and continual improvement.
quickly to ensure our portfolio was not at risk from The new Cambridge Primary School cladding.
We have since comprehensively reviewed opened at Wellesley in October 2018 apartment front door integrity across the portfolio and implemented a health and safety management system at Wellesley, Aldershot.
A full best in class review of health and safety throughout our business has resulted in the launch of our Live Safe commitment, a key focus area for the coming year.
We have integrated wellbeing into our PRS specification and have evaluated ways to assess the impact of our properties on residents wellbeing.
Connecting our customers Through our Connect business transformation programme, we are investing in technology to enhance customer service.
This year, we launched a new customer website and the first phase of a digital leasing What we have achieved platform to enhance our customers online experience.
Maintained excellent performance on the Considerate Constructors Scheme with an average We have considered how well connected our buildings score of 39 50. are, assessing the walkability of all developments and Graingers affordable homes portfolio has 289 acquisitions using Walk Score.
Argo Apartments, homes in operation and 623 in the pipeline.
Canning Town saw the first partnership between Virgin Average Walk Score of completed developments Media and a build-to-rent landlord to deliver ultra-fast 77 or Very Walkable.
Head of Sustainability and CSR became an To further develop the design of our buildings, we approved Fitwel a healthier building rating gathered data and feedback from our existing build-tosystem assessor.
rent customers on their experiences and use of building amenities.
We are conducting focus groups in key What we are going to do regional cities to ascertain renters expectations Achieved Review the portfolios capability for electric vehicle and concerns.
of 39 50 on Pilot Fitwel health and wellbeing certification on a Considerate new development.
Constructors Explore strengthening environmental Scheme requirements through our supply chain, including audits of our within development agreements.
developments 30 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information Assessing and monitoring risk design in creating long-term communities within We are conscious that climate change presents an buildings.
Helens contribution to the industry was emerging risk to our property portfolios and have recognised at the RESI Awards 2018, where she was commenced a project to better understand and assess awarded property Personality of the Year.
In addition to considering property-level risks in OUR FUTURE our asset acquisition and disposal strategies, we Piloting modern methods of construction undertook a flood risk review for our regulated portfolio.
We have successfully trialled off-site construction on our recent developments at Argo Apartments and We are developing key performance indicators for a Clippers Quay see pages 14 and 16.
In 2018, a range of environmental and socio-economic risks across comprehensive research project evaluated the potential our existing portfolios.
Material climate related risks are for applying fully modular homes across our portfolio.
reported in our annual submission to CDPs climate change programme formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project.
What we have achieved 71% of PRS properties have EPC ratings A to C and Reducing our environmental impact 73% of regulated properties have EPC ratings A to E. To better understand our direct environmental impacts, Reduction of 30% in office carbon emissions per we undertook a comprehensive environmental data employee.
review and gap analysis across our portfolio, the results Reduction of 2% in our location-based carbon of which are reported in our greenhouse gas statement emissions with market-based emissions increasing on page 78 and online EPRA Sustainability Report.
by 6% due to acquisitions see page 78.
Expanded coverage of environmental data and Our work to ensure compliance with Minimum Energy purchased renewable energy for 78% of buildings.
Efficiency Standards regulations applying from 2020 Over 30 interactions with industry bodies and 71% of PRS continues on our regulated portfolio.
We began government policymakers, and over 30 property units have engaging with industry bodies and government on the tours delivered.
energy potential standards to apply from 2030. efficiency What we are going to do ratings A to C Other areas of engagement focused on the updated Ensure compliance with Phase 2 of the Energy NPPF, Governments Integrated Communities Strategy Savings Opportunity Scheme.
and the Draft New London Plan.
Helen Gordon spoke Integrate sustainability into the facilities on the panel at the Governments first housing design management system being developed as part of quality conference, highlighting the importance of good the Grainger Connect programme.
Engaging with our industry Grainger employees collaborate with peers in a range of industry associations to improve the collective performance of the residential and property sectors.
Graingers CEO chairs the BPFs Policy Committee and the Director of Corporate Affairs chairs the Communications Committee.
Our CEO is also a member of the Bank of Englands Residential Property Forum, advising on build-to-rent.
A number of Grainger employees are members of the BPF Futures network and we hosted the first members site tour at Argo Apartments, with 40 young real estate professionals gaining insight into PRS.
This was one of more than 30 tours of Grainger buildings delivered throughout the year to a range of audiences, from investors to government and the media, aimed at Helen Gordon discussing the future of living at panel event hosted by Aon increasing build-to-rents profile.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31
