Strategic report OUR STAKEHOLDERS UNDERSTANDING AND RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS CUSTOMERS SHAREHOLDERS LOCAL COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS GOVERNMENT Stakeholder expectations Stakeholder expectations A safe and enjoyable home and for For Grainger to generate long-term, For Grainger to act responsibly and make a For work to be fulfilling and rewarding.
For us to act with integrity and For us to act responsibly as an employer and Grainger to provide a good service, sustainable attractive total returns positive impact to the local area while To be fairly treated, recognised and professionalism, pay promptly and as a housing provider.
responding to their needs promptly.
and to meet Environmental, Social listening to and taking on board local views, remunerated.
To operate in a safe and ensure that we are protecting the and Governance ESG preferences and concerns.
comfortable environment, with rights of all those employed through expectations.
How we engage How we engage We offer a wide range of customer We run a comprehensive investor Extensive local engagement and Regular two-way engagement Regular supply chain reviews and Regular contributions to government communication channels.
Activities consultation concerning assets and includes biannual employee customer satisfaction surveys to consultations, including the NPPF and resident has a dedicated point of include investor roadshows, developments including via events, residents engagement surveys, monthly ensure regulatory compliance and London Plan, and regular feedback on contact and we encourage our team conferences, trading updates and meetings, direct communications and cascade meetings from senior service levels, including matters government policies.
Numerous meetings members to build long-lasting property tours.
We support local businesses management, biannual all-staff related to GDPR, health and safety, with government and shadow government relationships with them.
Additionally, events are reported on page 56.
We and charities, sponsor local sports and update calls with the CEO, our and modern slavery.
customer touch points include a ensure that we are available and cultural activities and engage with local newsletter and our intranet.
Feedback customer care line and an updated, accessible to the investment authorities.
is gathered following specific activities Strategic partnership board with our City engagement strategy designed to transparent complaints procedure.
We respond annually to such as training and through a largest repairs and maintenance engage with key stakeholders and map local regularly survey our customers to a range of ESG benchmarks, as biannual performance review process.
We encourage communities to develop partner which meets quarterly.
Set issues in areas targeted for investment.
learn how we can better serve them.
We organise a range of employee within our buildings, through organising standards for suppliers on framework We run customer focus groups to events, including a Christmas family residents events examples include a agreements, requiring registration Partnerships with local authorities in our tailor the design of our buildings to day and volunteering activities.
homework club at Abbeville Apartments.
targeted investment locations and local our customers needs and feedback.
authority outreach in collaboration with industry bodies.
Outcomes & examples Outcomes & examples High levels of occupancy 97%.
During the year in review, we had 239 At Wellesley, 305 local residents participated High response rate of 81% to Best 89% of customers surveyed were Positive changes to the UK planning system interactions with investors.
in community activity classes and 15 young Companies Index and improved score satisfied with repairs and through the NPPF in support of investment people were supported through an to 619 One to watch, which reflects maintenance service.
in the PRS and build-to-rent.
Maintained customer retention levels employment skills initiative.
A green travel organisations with good levels of 27 months.
plan was developed through consultation workplace engagement.
Scores have Conducted nine health and safety Responded to the Hampton-Alexander and a residents survey found 92% are proud improved in all categories of audits of our suppliers managing Review providing data on females in senior 84% improvement in average time Diversified shareholder base.
engagement and across all business agents and contractors, with all roles as reported on page 29. taken to resolve customer complaints.
meeting or exceeding our Increased geographic spread among In Haringey, we signed up to the Tottenham requirements.
Operational changes to improve our shareholders.
Charter and partnered with a local school In response to employee feedback, we responsiveness and service.
near Apex House to deliver reading support held a Company-wide staff conference Largest repairs and maintenance sessions and a design project for technology and employee awards ceremony in partner completed full year without Investment in technology to enhance students.
October 2018. lost time injury in the delivery of customer service and enable fully services to Grainger.
Outputs include Four residents events held since launch of Customer service training programme new website, digital leasing platform Argo Apartments.
and online portal in development.
24 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information CUSTOMERS SHAREHOLDERS LOCAL COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS GOVERNMENT Stakeholder expectations Stakeholder expectations A safe and enjoyable home and for For Grainger to generate long-term, For Grainger to act responsibly and make a For work to be fulfilling and rewarding.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25
