60 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our culture and people encouraging employee engagement and continual This year our focus has been on growing the innovation in how we work through multi-disciplined depthand breadth of our talent within the working groups including individuals at all levels: business, providing bespoke development providing well-constructed and fair reward support and restructuring our teams to reinforce systems designed to incentivise superior individual our approach to driving occupier satisfaction andteamperformance and align employees and andunlocking the potential of our assets.
shareholders interests: providing an attractive pipeline of high-quality projects I n 2018, we were delighted to win and assets to manage: Management Todays Britains recruiting high quality individuals with a constructive Most Admired Company mindset and valuable experience: inthe property sector for the second year running.
This is a formal and extensive induction process for new joiners: testament to the efforts of each ensuring continual improvement of the skills and and everyone ofour talented competency of our employees at all levels and across team who strive to deliver great alldisciplines through appropriate training and personal results day-in-day-out.
development opportunities including new responsibilities, Toby Courtauld Chief Executive undertaking different projects, mentoring and coaching: and fostering a friendly environment which engenders a strong camaraderie.
Operational measures For more on our people and culture see www.
co. uk life-at-gpe Employee retention Employees 87% 70% participating in 2017: 89% 2017: 75% Our integrated team Share IncentivePlan Days training provided Lateral moves GPE combines the very best of a disciplined approach 4.8 17 1 per employee andpromotions 2017: 3.6 2017: 4 towork, high standards in everything we do and also high expectations of our people, but with a collegiate approach 1.
to projects, a friendly environment and strong camaraderie.
Our culture As a small organisation in people terms just over 100 every single persons contribution counts.
When we Our entrepreneurial and pragmatic culture is hire, we look for individuals who are comfortable taking fundamental to our ability to attract, develop, motivate responsibility and working constructively and flexibly with and retain our talented people, with a high level of colleagues.
We then invest time in giving new starters an involvement from senior and executive management extensive induction to the organisation so they can feel andan emphasis on cross-disciplinary teamwork.
athome right away and able to give their best.
Our culture and people lie at the heart of our ability toachieve our strategic priorities, unlocking potential Our talented team brings together specialist skills which across our portfolio.
are used to manage our portfolio rigorously, on an assetby-asset basis, and ensure the achievement of our strategic priorities.
Each of our department heads, collectively our Our process Senior Management Team, interact daily with the Executive We recognise the benefits of our positive culture and work Directors and report regularly to the Companys Executive hard to maintain it through: Committee, the principal decision making body for regular and effective engagement through two way management and operational matters.
communication, an open door policy and communal As our business has grown in size and complexity, working space specially designed for informal meetings we keep our organisational structure under review to and discussions: ensure itevolves to meet the changing environment.
meetings held weekly, monthly and quarterly across Following anin-depth review, we undertook a number thevarious teams on different aspects of the business: of structural changes in the autumn of 2017 to enhance encouraging our people to be innovative, whilst still our speed and quality of decision making, resulting in maintaining a disciplined approach: promotions and the expansion of our Senior Management Team.
We also made changes to the way we manage providing clear policies and procedures and buildings in our portfolio, combining activities previously instilling a strong sense of responsibility for active split across investment management and asset risk management: management roles and teams to create a single team a collegiate style, with recognition of a projects success of Portfolio Managers.
This is providing an even greater being based upon the contribution and timely interaction focus on delivery on opportunities to drive value and the of every member of the team: maximisation of each propertys total return.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 61 To strengthen our focus on service delivery to our occupiers O ur GPE bike ride represents and enhance levels of satisfaction and retention, we also what GPE is all about, individuals created a new Head of Occupier Services role during the being able to take the initiative, year to lead our Building and Facilities management teams.
and the involvement of the wider To ensure that we remain at the forefront of creating spaces team working together to do which meet evolving workplace requirements, we also something special.
created a new role of Director of Workplace and Innovation, James Shipton Development Manager which we filled internally, to take account of howpeople useoffices may change over time together with the impact of changing technologies and climate change.
All of these changes have resulted in expanded roles contributing to the development of individuals, twelve internal promotions and recruitment of new talent into Working together for the business.
agoodcause See more on pages 66 and 67 Number of employees 2018 at 31 March 2018 Organised by members of the GPE development team, inSeptember 2017, a group of 60 riders comprising 16 GPE Executive Directors 2 employees across all of GPE property and finance teams Portfolio Management together with 44 of our consultants including architects, Investment Management 30 lawyers, engineers and contractors cycled 150 miles from Development Management 35 Bournemouth to London in two days through the New Forest Financial Management National Park and the challenging terrain of the Chiltern Hills.
104 employees In support of the riders taking to the roads, organised by ourHead of Sustainability, another 42 GPE employees back 5 at33 Cavendish Square also powered their way through nearly 200 miles on exercise bikes in the office whilst tracking live progress of the road riders on screen.
32 The result of this team effort involving nearly 60% of all employees working together with our suppliers was to raise Supporting equality, diversity and inclusion over 85,000 for The Willow Foundation and The Evelina Our culture is grounded in mutual respect and nonLondon Childrens Hospital at Guys and St Thomas Hospital discrimination in respect of age, disability, gender, race, NHS Trust.
religion, sexual orientation or educational background.
Our aim is to foster a culture of respect and fairness where individual success depends solely on ability, behaviour, workperformance, demonstrated potential and perhaps most importantly, the ability to work as part of a team.
Our policy remains that selection should be based on the best person for the role, although we also recognise the benefits to the business of having a gender diverse workforce.
When recruiting, our aim is that at least 30% of potential candidates should be women.
As at 31 March 2018, we now have more women than men in our business as a whole with women representing 33% at senior 60 riders from across the industry were delighted to raise management level, up from 23% a year ago.
As part of our commitment to improving equality, diversityand inclusion more broadly, we have committed to undertaking the National Equality Standard assessment in 2018 and the results of this assessment report will help shape our diversity strategy going forward.
To help improve diversity in the real estate sector at a grass roots level, we have also committed to sponsor Pathways to Property which encourages Year 12 students from a wide range of backgrounds to consider careers in real estate which is expected to involve us in providing work placements at GPE.
89% of employees would recommend GPE as a great place to work Strategic Report Annual Review 62 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our culture and people continued We were pleased that these efforts were positively I n November 2017, I was reflected in our 2017 employee engagement survey delighted to take on an relating to whether our working practices has improved, expanded role as Head of asoutlined below.
Investment Analysis and Management Information Flexible working working closely with the Employee engagement survey 2017 2016 development accounting team Percentage of employees who believe 84% 63% looking at our projects.
that our technology helped them in Kirsty Davie getting their work done Head of Investment Analysis Percentage of employees who feel they 74% 51% andManagement Information were able to work flexibly Employee prole age number of people Following our most recent engagement survey, we are focusing on how we can improve our formal and informal 1930 two-way dialogue between employees and management, 3140 18 20 4150 and improving efficiency.
This will include small group 50 informal lunches hosted by Executive Committee members which all employees are invited to attend.
It also includes 104 a Bright ideas programme where everyone is able to employees make anonymous suggestions for improvement which are then considered by a panel of employees from across 34 the Group with the best of these brought forward to the 32 Executive Committee for review.
To improve our efficiency, we have formed working groups from volunteers across the business to look at how we can improve some of our Employee profile gender diversity number of people internal processes.
56 60 H aving joined in February, GPEs 48 50 induction process and strong team ethos has allowed me 40 to quickly understand what is 30 23 both important and unique to the way GPE operates and has 20 12 10 enabled me to be more effective 7 5 10 in myrole.
1 Kate Mensforth 0 Gender Board Senior Middle Commercial Marketing Manager diversity management management Women Men Unlocking our people potential Promoting engagement During the year ended 31 March 2018, 267,699 was invested We believe that in order to deliver our strategy it is in employee and Non-Executive Director training, providing important that every member of our team is fully engaged.
3,799 hours of training averaging 4.8 days per employee.
In 2017, we undertook our second employee engagement survey which was completed by 93% of our employees and We encourage opportunities for people to develop in their was designed to identify both the areas that mattered to our careers, providing both opportunities for development of employees most and to gain feedback on actions we had professional experience as well as funding and support instigated following our inaugural survey the previous year.
Every individual at GPE has a Personal In 2016, one area identified for improvement across Development Plan PDP which is developed from their the Company was our policy towards flexible working, annual personal development review.
From the PDPs we including helping people improve their work-life balance.
design our training and development programme including Following the survey results, we set up a working group to bespoke courses to meet specific training needs.
In the look at this in more detail with representatives from across year ended 31 March 2018, 62% of people attended a GPE all teams and levels.
The group identified that people personal development course.
were mainly looking for informal flexible working options.
Building on this input, a Company-wide approach was developed including flexible start finish times and the ability to work from home on an ad hoc basis.
In addition, we upgraded our IT systems to enable more flexible and effective working processes both within the office, working from home or when travelling.
83% of our employees feel their work gives them a feeling of personal accomplishment Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 63 Line managers and their team members also identify ways in Rewarding performance which individuals could grow personally through expanding The Board is responsible for setting our strategic priorities or changing their responsibilities, taking on different and monitoring performance against them see pages 12 projects, identifying areas where they could benefit from and 13.
Our senior managers are accountable for working coaching or undertaking some training tailored specifically with their team members to develop appropriate annual to their needs.
personal objectives based on the nature of their role, and for ensuring that everyone understands how they contribute to Following the launch of a new Leadership Development overall business objectives.
programme in 2016, this year we held two refresher sessions for our 27 line managers.
Recognising that leadership All employees have mid-year and annual performance skills are not just relevant to the success of our teams reviews.
In addition, all employees participate in the internally, we also ran team leadership courses this year for Companys annual employee bonus plan, with a portion 33 of our employees who have responsibility for leading of their reward driven by performance against personal external teams.
objectives and the balance triggered by GPEs corporate performance against key financial targets.
In line with our focus on developing talent, we also introduced a mentoring programme where senior managers As part of the year-end remuneration process, the provide selected individuals with a broader insight and Executive Committee and the Senior Management Team understanding of the business.
review salary benchmarking against market competitors, individual performance against personal objectives, As part of our commitment to improving employee proposed discretionary bonuses and planned Long-Term wellbeing and supporting mental heath at work this year, we Incentive Plan awards.
The outcome of this process is then ran resilience workshops attended by 89 of our employees.
provided to the Remuneration Committee, which reviews Following positive feedback from attendees, follow up remuneration levels proposed for all employees, and training and a wellbeing programme is planned for the decides upon the recommendations for senior manager and forthcoming year.
Executive Director salaries, bonus awards for achievement of Total number of training hours by type personal objectives and proposed Long-Term Incentive Plan awards.
In response to feedback from our 2017 employee 900 830 engagement survey, to increase understanding company 811 787 800 wide of our approach to employee remuneration including 699 the detailed and robust performance review process, an 700 overview of our approach and process will be provided to 600 employees this summer and included on our intranet.
500 360 400 The base salary increase for employees for the year ending 313 300 31 March 2019 is 2.5%.
Increases of more than 2.5% were given to some employees due to market realignment and 200 or increases in responsibility and contribution, such that the 100 average increase in base salary for the year ending 31 March 0 2018 2019 will be 5.7%.
Professional development IT Governance and environmental Leadership development All employees have the opportunity to participate in the Health and safety and wellbeing Personal development Companys two for one Share Incentive Plan SIP which encourages people to become investors in GPE and to U nlocking potential from share in the Companys financial success.
70% of employees ourtalented people continues participate in the SIP scheme.
tobe a key focus and over the last 12 months our actions have included twelve internal promotions, targeted and bespoke personal development initiatives and revisiting the way we work both internally and with our external stakeholders.
Sally Learoyd Head of Human Resources 4.8 days training per employee Strategic Report Annual Review
