STRATEGIC REPORT Our people DEVELOPING PEOPLE WHO EXCEED EXPECTATIONS As an employer of 39,000 people we are focused onand committed to making Greene King a great place to work.
Recruitment, training and development It is our policy to ensure that employees are recruited, selected, developed, remunerated and promoted on the basis of their skills and suitability for the work performed.
The company is committed to treating all employees fairly and equally and will endeavour to provide workplace adaptations and training for employees or candidates who have a disability and colleagues who become disabled during their employment.
Managing talent, succession planning and investing in our people are Engagement priorities for us and this year we spent over 3m on training and Improving engagement has been a significant focus of development, including our new online training platform, available activity, especially in the second half of the year.
engagement survey completed in April 2018 showed overallengagement at 63%.
This is an encouraging result Our focus in the last 12 months has been the quality of induction we and more activity will be planned in the coming year to provide to colleagues joining the business and we have seen an improvement drive further improvement.
Another focus for this year has in both the take-up and quality of our induction programmes.
been recognition and communications and significant progress has been seen in his area.
We have also made With our new online training platform we have launched a range of online improvements in our staff discount benefit and usage courses which are available to all colleagues.
It is also the platform which hasincreased significantly.
we now use to support the introduction of new initiatives and changes, for example, the introduction of the new GDPR provisions.
The company values employee engagement across the business and produces a monthly publication that is circulated As a leader in the hospitality industry, we want to support young people to all employees containing company news and articles.
into work by offering opportunities to learn a skill and a trade and helping Inaddition, the company provides regular briefings and them start their career journeys.
presentations to staff on the companys performance and strategy as well as annual and interim results.
The company We are proud that we have supported more than 10,000 of our team operates an HMRC-approved share save scheme open to members through our apprenticeship programme since 2011, which has all employees which helps to align employees with the been repeatedly recognised externally for its dedication to high quality performance of the company.
The scheme expanded this year to offer roles for leadership and management, brewing, chefs, bar and front of house staff, and helped team members achieve industry-leading qualifications and build a long-term career in Wellbeing hospitality.
We have seen an 89% increase in externally recruited apprentices, We held our second Wellbeing Week at Greene King head compared to 2016 17, thanks to promotion at over 250 events with schools, offices this year, building on the success of the previous colleges, career fairs and MPs.
year, which raised awareness about physical and mental health in the workplace.
We will seek to roll this out to We also support young people into work through our Get into Hospitality therest of the company going forward.
There is more programme with The Princes Trust.
For more information on this, please information in our best for team section on page 5. see our corporate responsibility section on page 40.
38 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS Diversity We promote an environment in our pubs, restaurants, hotels, headquarters, pub company support centre and breweries that is free from discrimination.
14% female We work to a policy in which no employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of their colour, nationality, race, religion belief, ethnic or Male 6 national origin, sex, marital or civil partnership status, gender reassignment Female 1 whether proposed, started or completed and under or not under medical supervision, disability or past disability, part-time or fixed-term status, pregnancy or maternity, parental responsibilities, sexual orientation or age 86 14 M aprotected characteristic.
To further build an inclusive and accepting workplace for everyone, this year SENIOR we have introduced new networking groups.
The LGBT network is open MANAGEMENT to team members from across the business whether part of the LGBT excluding directors community or allies and is a forum where they can share ideas, offer support and provide input on topics that can be fed back to the business.
25% female Gender pay gap Male 153 We strive to build a business which is fair and equal and we are committed Female 52 to working towards closing the gender pay gap.
We have made good progress 75 25 M with our pub general manager roles with 40% now being held by women and we are working to make further progress to increase the number of women in more senior roles through improved flexible working and ALL EMPLOYEES cleardevelopment plans.
We recognise that we have more to do to increase the number of women 53% female in more senior roles.
One of the things we are doing is creating a network to help women within the business to flourish and develop into more senior Male 18,371 positions and ensure we are as effective as we can be with assisting womens Female 20,709 career development.
47 53 M Human rights, anticorruption and antibribery policies While we do not have a formal human rights policy, we are absolutely committed to conducting business with integrity and fairness.
Our code of conduct provides that all employees are to be treated with respect, and their health, safety and basic human rights protected and promoted.
It covers a range of topics including modern slavery, working conditions, child labour, discrimination and anti-corruption and anti-bribery measures, including a specific anti-bribery policy.
We expect our suppliers and sub-contractors to comply with the provisions of our code or meet the same standard through their own code.
Our whistle blowing policy for our employees encourages staff to report any wrongdoing, including human rights violations such as modern slavery or human trafficking and any concerns with bribery.
Our teams are able toreport via a confidential email or hotline and no significant issues were raised through these during the year.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 39
