Corporate responsibility COMMUNITY AND SUSTAINABILITY As a company with a 219-year history, community and sustainability are at the heart of Greene King aswe we strive to make a strive to make a positive contribution tosocietyin everything we do.
positive contribution Our corporate responsibility strategy is a core part of this commitment andthe key areas of focus are to: to society in make a difference to the local communities we serve: everything we do.
drive the responsible retailing agenda: support young people into work: and operate in a more sustainable way.
We are continuing to make robust developments in these important areas, for example with our flagship partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support and our zero waste to landfill pledge.
40 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SERVING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Our pubs are in the privileged position of being at the heart of their local communities.
While Macmillan Cancer Support is our national charity partner, our fundraising by pubs takes place locally and this year we have communicated to our employees and customers in local areas the positive impact they have made in their region.
In addition to supporting Macmillan, our pubs and offices also champion local causes which are important to their teams and customers.
2017 marked six years of our partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support, with record fundraising results in the year of 1.1m and seeing us reach an incredible 4.1 million raised since 2012.
To achieve these amazing results, our pubs threw themselves into an array of activities including Macmillan May, which has become Greene Kings biggest annual fundraising event, Pub Aids Worlds Biggest Pub Quiz, and Macmillans Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning.
Our Miles for Macmillan campaign, which encourages our team members to walk, run, bike or swim, stepped up a gear this year, as they took on aLondon to Paris bike ride and climbed Mount Kilimanjaro.
Beyond our fundraising activity, we also launched Macmillan at Work, which is a training programme designed to give line managers and HR teams the tools and information to effectively support employees affected by cancer.
By 2020, one in two people will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime, so we have an important role to support our people if they or their families face a cancer diagnosis.
1.1m We think it is important for our people and our customers RAISED FOR MACMILLAN THIS YEAR, to understand the difference their fundraising makes locally BRINGING THE TOTAL TO 4.1M SO FAR to people living with cancer.
This year, each pub received information on local cancer statistics and the nursing hours they had funded and how this is positively supporting people living with cancer in their area.
34 EMPLOYEES CYCLED FROM LONDONTOPARIS 24 EMPLOYEES CLIMBED MOUNT KILIMANJARO 100 LOCAL CAUSES SUPPORTED 15,000 DONATED TO PUB IS THE HUB, BRINGING THE TOTAL TO 75,000 Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued Keeping it local We continue to support Pub is the Hub, and this year donated 15,000 towards its Community Services Fund, supporting rural pubs who want to diversify their services for the benefit of their communities.
This is the fifth year Greene King has given to the fund, bringing the total donated to 75,000.
We are passionate about supporting local communities and this year supported more than 100 local causes close to our head office in Bury St Edmunds and our Pub Company support centre in Burton upon Trent, through raffle prize donations and event sponsorship.
To manage social matters in areas in which we operate, we have a dedicated corporate responsibility email address promoted on our website, where people can contact us to raise concerns about local issues.
We also receive and respond to local questions or concerns via telephone.
Celebrating the completion of the London to Paris We have a positive relationship with local residents close to our brewery charitybikeride, in Bury St Edmunds.
We actively communicate any relevant news or events to them and attend local meetings as required to ensure we continue a constructive and engaging association.
Our site in Bury St Edmunds is situated in a sensitive location with the River Linnet, a tributary of the River Lark, running through it.
As such we are active members of the River Lark Catchment Partnership, a group which aims to pool resources, expertise and knowledge to help sustain avibrant and healthy waterway.
Looking forward The whole business will continue to fundraise for our national charity partner, Macmillan Cancer Support, with the aim of raising 1.2m in 2018 19.
We will continue to roll out the Macmillan at Work programme across the business.
We will sponsor Macmillans Mighty Hikes programme as part of our Miles for Macmillan campaign, which promotes fundraising, health and fitness, encouraging our team members to get involved.
reaching the top of Mount Kilimanjaro, and raising money at the Big Sing for Macmillan May 42 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DRIVING RESPONSIBLE RETAILING As the countrys leading pub retailer, we recognise our responsibility toprovide our customers with a wide choice of food, including healthieroptions.
In order to improve nutritional choice, we constantly review all of the products on our menus.
We continue to work towards full compliance withthe 2017 salt targets issued by the Food Standards Agency, regulating the salt content of the products which are supplied to us.
We are also working to reduce sugar on our menus, in line with Public Health Englands sugar targets.
During the year we briefed our suppliers on our expectations of sugar content in the food we source and are prioritising reducing sugar in a number of items, such as ice creams and sweet sauces.
Providing choice and information A vital part of our menu development process this year has been to review and develop our menus in order to continue to expand our dish range and nutritional expertise and provide more information.
We continue to show calorie-counted labelling on our lighter choices on some of our menus and we highlight where swaps can be made such as swap your sides to a large side salad to help our customers looking for Childrens menus ahealthier option.
Our nutrition team has created some guidelines for childrens menus as we continue to improve the dishes The full allergen information of all of our meals is accessible from a weprovide.
We follow the below principles: member of the team at pub level, as well as on our branded websites.
remain compliant with any nutritional guidelines andlegislation: Gluten continue to improve the nutritional profile of our dishes We continue to respond to growing demands for more choice from to ensure that we are actively reducing the levels of salt, customers wishing to avoid gluten.
As part of our autumn winter 2017 sugar and fat: and and spring summer 2018 menu cycle, over ten of our menus now have no-gluten options.
encourage healthier meal choices for our younger customers.
In line with the publication of the governments Childhood Gluten-free versions of two of our most popular beers, Old Speckled Obesity: A Plan for Action report in 2016, we are reviewing Hen and Greene King IPA, saw increased demand this year, selling the the sugar content in a number of our product ranges, as well equivalent of almost 650,000 bottles.
as working closely with our suppliers, in order to nutritionally improve the dishes on our menus.
We have replaced high Vegan dishes sugar dishes, such as the candy wafer boat, with a In order to cater to the rising popularity of vegan diets, we challenged our strawberry delight sundae, which has 46% less sugar.
suppliers to provide new innovative products, which could progress onto our menus as vegan dishes.
Another important area we have focused on is how to improve childrens meals across all of our menus, ensuring We have now added vegan dish choices to seven of our menus and we will that as many of our starter and main dishes have at least endeavour to increase this range in the future across more of our menus.
one portion of the recommended five-a-day.
For a number Chef & Brewer, for example, offers courgette and harissa flavoured rice of our Hungry Horse dishes, such as our macand cheese, skewers as well as the ultimate vegan burger a delicious meat-free burger, DIY wrapper and build your own pasta, we have increased topped with fried onions and a melting vegan slice served in a vegan the vegetable portion size so that these deliver one of the poppy seed bun.
For our pick and mix section, we have also increased the portion size of our vegetable choice in order to support our diners in meeting the daily recommendations for fruit and vegetable intake.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 43 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued Food standards We are proud that, out of the 1,598 Greene King managed pubs in England and Wales, 1,536 96.1% were awarded a four or five-star rating.
Scotland operates a simple pass improvement required scheme.
99% of our managed pubs in Scotland have achieved a pass rating.
It is paramount that we provide our customers with consistently high quality food and so we actively promote excellent kitchen standards.
In Pub Company this is achieved through training, internal and external audits and operational incentive schemes.
Promoting responsible drinking We recognise our important role in promoting responsible drinking to our customers.
In addition to the mandatory age verification policy condition under the Licensing Act 2003 we operate as a minimum Challenge 21 across the whole of our Pub Company, and in accordance with the Licensing Act Scotland 2005 our Scottish premises operate Challenge 25.
In addition all team members must pass an online training course before they can serve alcohol.
Our Enjoy Responsibly website provides information and advice on enjoying alcohol responsibly.
All of our brands promote this website ontheir marketing materials www.
co. uk The ultimate vegan burger, on sale in our Chef & Brewer pubs As part of a Christmas 2017 anti-drink drive campaign, we ran a buy-one-get-one-free soft drink offer in 717 of our pubs and gave away over 33,000 soft drinks.
We are planning to make it bigger this year with over 1,000 pubs participating, increased digital and PR communication and a broader range of drinks.
We are proud that a number of our venues across the UK achieved BestBar None accreditations this year.
Our pubs belong to Pub Watch, Best Bar None, Purple Flag and Safety Thirst, where access to these schemes is available.
Quality standards for our beers Our Westgate Brewery in Bury St Edmunds has once again achieved anA-grade rating with the British Retail Consortium, and additionally our Belhaven Brewery in Dunbar achieved the highest AA grading confirming that our beers are always brewed to the very highest of quality and food safety standards.
Courgette and harissa flavoured rice skewers, also from Chef & Brewer Looking forward We are reviewing how to increase five-a-day menu choices for children across all of our menu brands.
We plan to further increase the vegan dishes we offer next year.
1,660 PUBS WERE AWARDED A FOUR ORFIVESTARRATING 44 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SUPPORTING YOUNG PEOPLE As a leader in the hospitality industry, we want to support young people into work by offering opportunities to learn a skill and a trade and helping them start their career journeys.
Our Get into Hospitality programme with youth charity The Princes Trust is now in its second year.
This year, we ran eight programmes across the UK, reaching out to 110 young people in difficult personal circumstances.
For the first time we also piloted a Ready to Work programme enabling us to offer roles to young people who are ready to take on a role at Greene King.
Many of the young people supported by our partnership go on to make a positive impact on the local community and deliver important social value.
The Princes Trust calculates that supporting each unemployed young person for a year costs society 4,250 and our partnership has generated over 450,000 in social value so far.
We were proud that four of our first Princes Trust recruits went on to complete our award-winning Greene King apprenticeship programme and a further 20 Princes Trust recruits are now enrolled on the programme.
To find out more about our apprenticeship programme, see page 38.
Rachael McAtee was one of our original Princes Trust candidates in Glasgow who went on to complete a Achievements GreeneKing apprenticeship this year.
She said: The Get Delivered eight Get into Hospitality programmes with The Princes Trust.
Into Hospitality programme really gave me the confidence to explore a career in hospitality, and it was fantastic to be Supported 110 young people through our programme.
offered a front of house role with Greene King at the end of it.
450,000 of social value generated by our Princes Trust partnership so far.
I settled into that role quickly and it did not take long before Iwas recommended to apply for the Greene King apprenticeship Supported 10,000 people through our apprenticeship programme.
I have not only achieved aLevel 2 in Food and 23% of our apprenticeship learners have additional learning support needs.
Beverage Services, an industry-recognised qualification, but I am working my way up the ranks and exploring further 79% of our apprenticeship achievers are still with us underlining the opportunities available to me.
For those wondering what a importance of investing in our peoples careers.
career in the hospitality industry would be like, I encourage We won five awards for our apprenticeships this year.
Looking forward We are aiming to deliver ten more programmes with The Princes Trust to support more young people into work.
We plan to introduce a new Ready to Work programme with ThePrinces Trust, expanding our offer to young people and making abigger impact with our resources.
110 YOUNG PEOPLE SUPPORTED THROUGHGETINTO HOSPITALITY Some Princes Trust participants visiting the Bury St Edmunds brewhouse 450k IN SOCIAL VALUE GENERATED Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 45 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued OPERATING SUSTAINABLY Zero waste to landfill by 2020 Following our partnership with waste management company We are constantly looking to lead by operating in a sustainable way and in SWRin April 2016 and our continued partnership with 2016 we became the first major pub company to pledge that by 2020 we K N weextended our unique recycling solutions which will send zero waste to landfill.
We are proud to report that our landfill have not only reduced our waste collections by 4,433 bins diversion has increased again, from 95% in 2016 to 98% in 2017. this year, but also created some dramatic recycling results: Our ongoing supplier consolidation programme has removed 50,000 deliveries, saving 62 tonnes in CO per annum.
We have also worked with 2 FOOD WASTE: our suppliers and distributors to move more pubs to returnable assets to deliver their meat: this has reduced cardboard box usage by over 100,000 boxes per annum.
10,933 TONNES In the drive to reduce plastic straw usage we have moved straws to the back of the bar areas, and only offer them to customers when requested.
of food waste recycled, reducing 5,466,560 kg of CO 2 We have seen a reduction of around 60% so far.
In addition, all of our emissions in the above time frame.
This amount of food waste straws are then recycled via our supply-chain process.
Greene King recycled has produced enough electricity topower 9,840 UK homes for an entire month based A Greener Thinking forum was set up at our head onanaverage consumption of 4,000kWh per year office this year, involving office, production, packaging and distribution teams to discuss environmental improvements within our Bury St Edmunds sites, COOKING OIL: where 1,000 of our people are based.
This forum has implemented a new waste and recycling system to support our business aim to achieve zero waste to landfill by 2020.
We are already seeing reduction 3,275,446 LITRES in general waste, which will reduce general waste by up to 10 tonnes per year from this office alone.
of oil have been recycled.
The energy created could be used to boil a 3kWh kettle non-stop for 5,877 months Energy and carbon In 2017 we tested new technologies to attempt to further reduce energy use in our pubs.
We have successfully trialled a system that will reduce the PLASTICS: energy used by our main cellar chillers by up to 30% and plan to roll this out in 2018.
Our Brewing & Brands division is continually seeking to reduce energy 440 TONNES consumption and carbon emissions.
Initiatives this year included modifying a of plastic that are given a second life as recycled material main refrigeration plant compressor to reduce electricity, water and chemical usage, as well as introducing a system to reduce compressed airusage during filling of casks, saving over 50,000kWh per annum.
CARDBOARD: We have seen reductions in fuel consumption as a result of a telematics system in our depots which monitors the driving behaviours and identifies training needs.
As a result our Bury St Edmunds depot has emitted 3.6 tonnes less carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, which is equivalent to more than 4,300 TONNES the energy used by an average person for the whole year.
of card recycled which goes to a UK paper mill Other Our Brewing & Brands Bury St Edmunds site has successfully transitioned to the new ISO 14001, a benchmark for best environmental practice that is recognised worldwide.
The new standard, which was reached five months ahead of the required deadline, reflects a comprehensive update of our commitments to ensure we remain relevant in todays business environment and has led to operational improvements.
It places greater emphasis on risk-based thinking, integration with business systems and strategy and requires demonstrable senior management leadership.
46 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Electricity and gas figures in the table below cover the CRC reporting period from 1 April to 31 March each year, whilst all other figures cover our respective financial years.
The intensity ratio refers to turnover in our Pub Company and Brewing & Brands businesses as the vast majority of our CO emissions 2 relate to those businesses.
Looking forward We will be rolling out a technology in the next year which will reduce theenergy used by our main cellar chillers by up to 30%.
We have a programme to roll out further energy saving measures inour breweries next year.
CO emissions by type 2 2017 18 2016 17 Water Source of tonnes of tonnes of We were the first to apply for and obtain a Water Supply and emissions CO e CO e 2 2 Sewerage Licence WSSL and switched all of our 3,000 supply Direct emissions points on 1 April 2017 and were the first to switch in the new open Scope 1 Natural gas 65,247 69,855 water market.
Gas oil 760 666 3 Since commencing self-supply, we have saved in excess of 140,000m Kerosene 367 338 3 of water.
This equates to 384.32m per day in consumption savings: LPG 3,943 4,146 the equivalent of 676,313 pints.
Further benefits being realised are site level engagement which is driving efficiency, improved savings Red diesel 58 84 andgreater control over supply.
Refrigerants 3,979 5,273 Further initiatives in our brewery included continual recycling of the Owned water we use to lubricate seals within the brewing process and the vehicles 8,942 8,613 3 introduction ofan ECO mode on our blender, saving 2,325m per year.
Total direct emissions Scope 1 83,296 88,975 Indirect emissions Scope 2 Electricity 116,912 164,166 Mandatory greenhouse gases Gross emissions 200,208 253,141 The table below, which has been produced in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Turnover in Retail Report Regulations 2013, shows the main greenhouse gas emissions in andBrewing & Brands tonnes of CO equivalent CO e for our scope 1 direct and scope 2 000 21,770 20,177 2 2 indirect CO emissions.
2 Tonnes CO e per 2 100kturnover 9.197 12.546 Scope 1 relates to the direct emissions from the fuels we use in our breweries, pubs, restaurants, hotels and offices such as natural gas and liquid petroleum gas.
It also includes emissions from owned vehicles including company cars but excludes logistics where we outsource this to third parties.
Refrigerant gas and F-gas emissions in respect of our breweries, pubs and restaurants are also included.
We have used the UK governments Greenhouse Gas GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting for all scope 1 emissions 2016 for 2016 17 and 2017 for 2017 18.
GHG emissions from refrigeration and air conditioning units have been determined using the simplified material balance method as described in the Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013.
Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions associated with the generation of electricity consumed in our sites.
Emissions have been calculated using the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme factor 2016 for 2016 17 and 2017 for 2017 18.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 47
