42 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE GAMING GVC CSR STRATEGY FAIR PLAY growing a global socially responsible and sustainable betting and gaming business RESPONSIBLE SAFER RESPONSIBLE COMMUNITIES GAMBLING EMPLOYER & MARKETS P44 P46 P48 UNDERSTANDING RESPONDING TO RESPONDING TO OUR IMPACT IMBALANCE SOCIETAL NEEDS AND MINIMISING HARM REWARDING PROVIDING POSITIVE LEISURE EXPERIENCE QUALITY EMPLOYMENT ECONOMIC FOOTPRINT BUILT ON RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS DATA ETHICS COMPLIANCE H & S SECURITY ENVIRONMENT AML FRAUD SUPPLIERS PROTECTION GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 43 LONG-TERM RETURNS FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS ARE FOUNDED ON PRINCIPLES OF INTEGRITY AND FAIR PLAY.
UK Government and the UK Gambling Our approach AS ONE OF THE WORLDS Commission expect the industry to step up Some of those standards are legal its game in this area.
We have embraced that requirements, but others simply depend on LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL challenge, launching our new global safer acting honestly, openly and with integrity.
gambling strategy Changing for the Bettor Ultimately, our success and our reputation BETTING AND GAMING in early 2019.
The strategy comprises of seven depend on how we conduct ourselves both pillars with tangible initiatives associated with as individuals and as a business.
We can only COMPANIES, WE AIM TO MEET each see pages 18 to 19 for more details.
deliver short and long-term returns for our shareholders if our business is founded on Our new CSR Governance structure has been THE HIGHEST STANDARDS IN principles of integrity and fair play.
developed and we have established the Board Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
EVERYTHING WE DO, FROM Last year we developed a group-wide CSR This Committee provides guidance for strategy based on three important pillars for the business on our CSR strategy, agrees THE WAY WE RUN OUR BUSINESS our business: providing a Safer Gambling targets and monitors our performance across environment, being a Responsible the company.
A Steering Group oversees AND MANAGE OUR FINANCIAL Employer, and enabling a positive impact on implementation of the CSR strategy and will our communities and in the markets we serve co-ordinate delivery across all operating units AFFAIRS, TO HOW WE SUPPORT Responsible Communities & Markets.
These three pillars are supported by our OUR PEOPLE, OUR CUSTOMERS As part of our CSR programme, we keep Responsible Business Operations, providing abreast of developments in the responsible the day-to-day foundation on which we run AND THE COMMUNITIES WE investment market and monitor the our business.
environmental, social and governance The last few years have been extremely busy WORK IN.
policies ESG and standards of our largest for GVC as the Company has transformed in investors.
We review their reports on GVC size and scale.
Our strategic M&A activity and with interest and work hard to ensure that exceptional financial performance have taken our CSR priorities and reporting reect us from an AIM-listed company in 2014, with their expectations.
a market capitalisation of less than 285m and employee numbers in the low-hundreds, In line with this process we have actively to FTSE 250 company valued at over 5bn, engaged with key ESG indices and are employing a workforce of more than 25,000 pleased to report that following respective at the end of 2018. annual reviews, GVC has been admitted to both the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones In Ladbrokes Coral, GVC acquired two of Sustainability Indices DJSI.
We are proud to the most well established brands in the have been awarded a Bronze Class distinction gaming industry.
We have been working on by RobecoSAM in recognition of our excellent uniting the group functions, exploring where sustainability performance.
We will continue best-practice can be shared between our to engage with these and other ESG indices brands and teams, and have made significant going forward.
progress in the integration of the businesses In June 2018 we launched our new GVC Code see pages 22 to 23. of Conduct, summarising the standards, The betting and gaming industry continues principles and policies that underpin GVC and to face intense political and media pressure, what we expect from everyone who works particularly in the UK.
The UK Governments for us or does business with us.
The code Triennial review has seen a cut to the outlines the Ten Guiding Principles on which maximum stake on B2 gaming machines from we operate.
The Code of Conduct is now 100 to 2, while remote gaming duty has being built into our employee induction and increased to 21%.
As detailed on pages 20 training processes to ensure all employees to 21 this will have a significant impact on the are fully aware of what is expected of them shape of our retail estate and will inevitably and what they, in return, can expect from lead to significant shop closures.
Following the outcome of the Triennial review, there have been increasing calls for additional responsible gambling measures to be implemented online, and both the 44 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED RESPONSIBLE GAMING CONTINUED SAFER GAMBLING Our approach to safer gambling ensures that In Q4 2018, we announced a multi-year AT GVC, WE ARE COMMITTED we maintain best practice standards across agreement with EPIC Risk Management the business and, where possible, the industry EPIC, an independent gambling harm TO BEING LEADERS IN SAFER as a whole.
GVC is fully aligned with the UK minimisation consultancy.
In addition to Gambling Commissions principal objectives extensive safer gambling training activities GAMBLING PRACTICES.
to ensure that gambling is: internally, the agreement includes the delivery of face-to-face gambling awareness and crime free: MAINTAINING A REPUTATION FOR education programme for school children.
fair and open: and Courses will be delivered to school children, FAIRNESS AND INTEGRITY AND across UK state schools, with the aim of children and vulnerable people enabling them to make more informed are protected.
STRENGTHENING OUR CUSTOMER decisions around gambling upon reaching the As outlined on pages 18 to 19 we launched age of 18.
The two-year programme will be FOCUS ARE ALL VITAL TO GROWING our Changing for the Bettor strategy independently evaluated by academic experts.
in February 2019 to help us raise our 2018 saw the number of self-exclusions more OUR BUSINESS.
We see this as an indicator that our systems are working and that Providing an exciting and fair awareness-levels around safer gambling are leisureexperience on the increase.
The launch of GamStop, the Gambling is an exciting adult leisure pursuit UK national online self-exclusion scheme, and we want our customers to enjoy betting also played a part in increasing the numbers.
We have a globally The number of customer interactions diverse customer base, from all economic regarding problem gambling also increased groups.
At GVC, we are committed to offering signicantly, as we unied our approach the best customer experience, so we put across the Group.
GVC employees will customers at the heart of our business, always encourage individuals with a potential providing them with an enjoyable, efficient, gambling problem to seek advice and further secure, fair and socially responsible service.
help from the various national gambling Our employees are trained to support this helplines, including GamCare in the UK, commitment, and to check our performance, which we support we continually seek the views of our customers and encourage feedback We continue to fund research into responsible on our employees and services.
gambling behaviours, doubling our donation to research, education and treatment on problem In our UK retail business, for example, gambling to 0.2% of gross gaming revenue we monitor customer satisfaction through from 2019.
As part of Changing for the Bettor To nd out more about our approach feedback, complaints and independent audit strategy outlined above, we will be investing to safer gambling visit our website: as an integral part of our employee incentive gvc-plc.
com $5m into a new partnership with Harvard and reward programmes.
This has huge Medical Schools Division on Addiction benets for the business since we know over a five-year period.
GVC will provide that the higher scoring shops in terms of Harvard faculty at the Division with access to customer satisfaction also perform better anonymised player data across a range of its innancial terms.
brands, sports betting and gaming products Promoting responsible The research will be broad ranging, focusing gamblingbehaviours on a number of areas including, but not We strive to keep our customers informed limited to: and able to control their gambling behaviour, Patterns of normal internet gambling by providing adequate information on how behaviour to gamble responsibly, regular messages about their spending history, and tools to Behavioural markers of gambling problems helpcustomers better control their activity, among internet players generally and on e. g. by setting limits on spend.
specic betting and game types All of our customer facing colleagues are Cross-product analyses trained to promote responsible gambling Cross-brand analyses behaviours, to intervene when they spot the signs of problem gambling and to support The effects of the expansion of gambling our customers when they run into difficulties.
in new markets We undertake a central analysis of customer Within this approach, researchers will seek spending to spot signs of abnormal activity, to evaluate the effectiveness of algorithms and our digital algorithms and alerting systems used by GVC and other operators to detect help our teams to identify at risk behaviour.
at-risk behaviours, assess the effectiveness of intervention messaging and the impact GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 45 ofoperators safer gambling tools.
This was also widely supported by our The research findings will be publicly available employees in all of our retail stores and ofces.
and, importantly, subject to academic We also promote multiple harm minimisation peer review.
initiatives through spending more than Where possible, we work with the rest of our 2.5m in support of responsible gambling industry on responsible gambling issues and and gaming charities.
These include in the 100% are active participants of the Association of UK, the Responsible Gambling Trust now British Bookmakers ABB, the European operating as GambleAware, GamCare, Young The Dow Jones Sustainability Index gave GVC Gaming and Betting Association EGBA and Gamblers Education Trust YGAM, the UK a maximum rating for our anti-crime policy the Remote Gambling Association RGA.
National Problem Gambling Clinic, the Gordon and measures Moody Association and other national gaming In 2018 we also joined the US National addiction and support charities in Austria, the Council on Problem Gamblings NCPG Spielsuchthilfe Gemeinnuetziger Verein, and Presidents Circle.
GVC has made a inSpain, FEREJ.
long-term commitment to NPGC, which is the worlds longest established NGO Keeping crime out of gambling dedicated to addressing issues surrounding One of the important risks to the health of our problem gambling.
employees and our customers are breaches of security on our premises, such as robbery Through its membership of the Presidents and theft.
We have invested heavily in CCTV Circle, GVC will support NCPGs ability to across all of our estate, both to help reduce promote responsible gaming behaviours the number of incidents and to help protect and address areas of problem gambling.
Reducing crime In addition, GVC will help to fund The National and anti-social behaviour across our Survey of Gambling in America, a major new businesses remains a key priority for us.
study which aims to identify the prevalence of gambling within the US and establish a Our efforts across our retail estate have, to baseline for the levels of problem gambling date, been focused on monitoring customer behaviour.
Through the research it is hoped conduct, defusing anti-social behaviour that all stakeholders will be able to gain a and avoiding potential machine damage.
-31% better understanding of the issue.
During 2018 we were pleased to see the number of robberies and robbery attempts Ladbrokes and Coral were founding members Customer complaints for the combined Group decrease by a quarter across our UK of the UK industry self-regulatory body The fell by 31% in 2018 retail estate.
Senet Group, to which GVC now belongs.
This is an independent body set up to GVC Group is committed to ensuring that promote responsible gambling standards money laundering is and what incidents they money launderers, terrorists, those nancing across the industry and share best practice may detect that could constitute money terrorism and other criminals, cannot launder laundering within the GVC Group, to whom the proceeds of crime through its products We support the Senet Groups responsible suspicious cases should be reported, the or services.
We have scrutinised abnormal gambling advertising campaigns and provided roles of Money Laundering Reporting Ofcers customer betting and gaming activities both a further 735,000 in 2018 to support this.
Where possible, we in our shops and online in order to spot More than 80% of regular gamblers are aware work in partnership with local authorities and gambling related crime such as fraud and of the When the Fun Stops, Stop campaign other bodies to ensure gambling remains money laundering.
We have also continued and more than 75% of players and the public crime free.
tobe vigilant and active on all matters relating at large are familiar with the key tips used in to sporting integrity.
the campaign: to only gamble what you can Our UK partners include Crimestoppers, the afford, to set limits and not to chase losses.
Our dedicated Anti-Money Laundering Association of Business Crime Partnerships AML teams ensure compliance with AML and the Safe Bet Alliance SBA.
We also In October 2018, we were a major supporter and anti-terrorism nancing legislation continue to support the SBAs National of the Industry Group of Responsible wherever we operate.
We have established Standards for Bookmakers.
Gamblings IGRG Responsible Gambling a comprehensive compliance programme, week, raising awareness amongst customers including detection and monitoring systems and the wider public about how to gamble across all our business activities.
All relevant responsibly, the tools that are available to keep staff are trained regularly in the GVC AML gambling safe and fun, and where help and processes and procedures covering: what support are available for those who need it.
Key performance indicators measuring our performance in responsible gambling 2018 2017 2016 1 Group total Group total Group total Cash and in-kind contributions towards responsible gambling charities 2,506,000 2,334,777 1,792,500 Customer interactions regarding problem gambling 1,124,079 302,609 357,144 Customer complaints 13,503 19,690 24,323 Customer complaints which specically relate to a gambling transaction 2,771 4,668 5,121 Self-exclusions made 334,765 164,178 141,087 Burglaries and burglary attempts 127 95 87 Shop robberies and robbery attempts 163 222 n a Street robberies 9 14 12 DJSI rating of our anti-crime policy and measures 100% 100% 100% 1.
Proforma gures for both GVC and Ladbrokes Coral combined business for the relevant calendar year.
Shop robberies and robbery attempts restated to reect updated methodology that includes robbery attempts in addition to shop robberies.
46 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED RESPONSIBLE GAMING CONTINUED RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER REWARD & OPERATING MODEL RECOGNITION PERFORMANCE OUR RESOURCING DEVELOPMENT ENGAGED COLLEAGUES PEOPLE COMMUNICATIONS INDUCTION PLAN NEXT ROLE TRAINING CURRENT ROLE & DEVELOPMENT TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT We are an international business with more throughout their employee journey and help OUR PEOPLE ARE OUR GREATEST than 25,000 colleagues in 20 countries them develop and progress their careers: worldwide, 77% of whom are employed in The first part of the plan is to ensure ASSET.
WE AIM TO BE A Great Britain.
We generate employment and we have the right operating model, with tax revenue wherever we do business and in everyone clear on roles and responsibilities.
DESTINATION EMPLOYER FOR 2018, GVC group paid a total of over 627m in wages, salaries and pension contributions.
We will then focus on recruiting the right TALENTED AND PASSIONATE people into the business and ensure that all Best practice employment standards new starters get the right induction into the INDIVIDUALS.
AT GVC, WE NEED A andframeworks business and feel supported as they start The acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral, and the their journey with us.
HIGH LEVEL OF COMPETENCE consequent 890% increase in employee We are concluding the roll-out of a two-day numbers, has prompted us to review our face to face induction programme to train all ACROSS THE BUSINESS TO workplace standards and policies across our new shop colleagues on aspects of running global businesses.
This work is ongoing, and our shops, serving our customers, important MEET OUR BUSINESS GOALS we will be able to report further next year.
aspects of Health and Safety and their role Our new GVC Code of Conduct https: in promoting responsible gambling.
AND TO RESPOND TO THE EVER gvc-plc.
com wp-content uploads 2018 07 Our structured training programme, CodeofConduct.
pdf, summarises the CHANGING MARKETS WE Foundations, will support our colleagues to standards, principles and policies that be great in their roles, and our development underpin the way we operate at GVC and OPERATE IN.
programme, Advance, will help those that what we expect from everyone who works for want to grow in their careers and move to us or does business with us.
This forms the their careers upwards.
backbone of our global employee framework and is consistent with the International Communication is an important part of our Labour Organisation core labour standards plan, ensuring that the key messages reach and supports the Universal Declaration on our colleagues, so they are clear about their Human Rights.
objectives and feel a part of GVC.
Throughout the past year we have begun the We then focus on Performance integration of the new people plan Ladbrokes Development, and creating a highly Coral initiated as part of the Fit for the Future supportive, highly challenging environment campaign see pages 20 to 21.
The people where colleagues can shine.
plan was designed to support our colleagues GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 47 And nally, recognising and rewarding great unconscious bias and inclusive leadership and performance.
in July we launched Horizon, our group-wide females in leadership programme.
This will Enabling a rewarding be supported in 2019 by a new mentoring and inclusiveenvironment programme, return to work initiatives, and a GVC is an inclusive, people-driven business.
focus on encouraging more women into digital As our international operations grow, we 25,000 and technology roles.
recognise the need to identify, retain and This year we will also broaden the programme promote talent from a variety of backgrounds.
employees, our people are our greatest to address wider diversity characteristics such Whilst 49% of our employees across the asset.
We aim to be a destination employer as ethnicity, sexual orientation and disability.
business are female, only 22% are currently for talented and passionate people.
At We have also engaged our Ladbrokes Coral represented at the most senior levels.
GVC, we need a high level of competence colleagues on HR policies and practices This represents an improvement of 13% since across the business to meet our business through a recent staff survey and held 2016, but we recognise we still have work goals andtorespond to the ever changing dedicated focus groups across ofces in to do.
Gibraltar, Ireland and the UK.
In 2019 we In 2018 we launched our international Diversity will be conducting a global all employee and Inclusion D&I strategy, which outlines engagement survey.
At the start of 2019 a 3-year roadmap towards a more inclusive we began the roll-out of enhanced maternity GVC is a exible employer that enables people business.
We are initially focusing on gender and parental leave provisions.
We will also be to work around their existing commitments.
equality and in March we established an re-launching a programme of exible working During 2018, over 42% of our UK colleagues internal global womens network through and encouraging new models of working in chose to work part time, to accommodate our GVC intranet site.
We have trained over both our retail and digital businesses.
childcare arrangements, studying or other 250 of our senior leaders in understanding Key performance indicators measuring our performance in responsible employment 2018 2017 2016 Group total Group total Group total Employees worldwide 25,541 26,413 28,556 Female employees 12,422 12,883 12,946 Proportion of female employees 49% 49% 45% Part-time employees GB only 10,497 10,657 15,525 Proportion of part-time employees 42% 46% n a 2 3 Median Hourly pay difference between male and female colleagues Gender Pay Gap 2.9% 2.5% n a 2 3 Mean Hourly pay difference between male and female colleagues Gender Pay Gap 17.0% 15.5% n a 2 3 Median bonus pay difference between male and female colleagues 25.0% 25.0% n a 2 3 Mean bonus pay difference between male and female colleagues 84.5% 75.0% n a 1.
Proforma gures for both GVC and Ladbrokes Coral combined businesses for the relevant calendar year.
Disclosure includes all colleagues based in Great Britain employed as at 5 April 2018 by GVC Holdings PLC or its subsidiary employing entities.
Disclosure includes all colleagues based in Great Britain employed in April 2017 by Coral Group Trading Ltd, Coral Racing Ltd CRL, Ladbrokes Betting & Gaming Ltd LBGL andLadbrokes Coral Group plc.
Gender Diversity females as % of employees GROUP BOARD SENIOR MANAGERS ALL EMPLOYEES 8 8 8 107 127 130 28,556 26,413 25,541 Male 0 1 2 9.7 21.0 28.0 12,946 12,883 12,422 out of out of out of out of out of out of out of out of out of 8 8 8 107 127 130 28,556 26,413 25,541 Female 0% 13% 25% 9% 17% 22% 45% 49% 49% 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 48 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED RESPONSIBLE GAMING CONTINUED RESPONSIBLE COMMUNITIES & MARKETS We contribute to the local economy through Engaging with and investing OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOES employment and taxes, and by directly in our localcommunities supporting the communities in which we By making both financial and pro bono BEYOND OUR COMMERCIAL are located.
In the UK, Ladbrokes Coral is contributions through employee involvement, present in nearly every town and major city, our principal aim is to support the immediate OPERATIONS AND DEMONSTRATES representing 76% of our employment base.
and future needs of people around the world.
Although our markets are global, 90% of OUR INTENTION TO BE A During 2018, more than 3.1m was donated our employees are located across Europe, by the GVC Group to numerous international and it is there where we have the greatest POWERFUL FORCE FOR GOOD IN charitable causes, including responsible economic impact.
As a part of this, over THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE Contributing to the economy by paying 119,000 was spent to help prevent crime and taxes and levies anti-social behaviour and support victims of OPERATE AND SERVE.
GVC GROUP crime in our communities.
During 2018 we paid around 949m in taxes and levies in 20 countries.
Within our retail Our GVC pro bono volunteering programme HAS OFFICES IN 20 COUNTRIES, estate, the presence of bookmakers also was originally set up in 2008 by bwin.
has a positive economic impact on local high All ofce-based employees are able to SERVING CUSTOMERS AROUND streets.
For example, a survey by ESA Retail spend up to two full working days annually found that 89% of betting shop customers helping with projects in their local community.
in the UK combine their trip with visits to The programme has now become an integral other local businesses, and more than half part of staff development and employee of the respondents said they usually spend engagement, with increasing employee more than 10 in other local shops during participation rates year-on-year.
Having said that, with millions In addition the Ladbrokes Coral Trust of customers located around the world, continues to grow and develop, having raised our social responsibilities extend beyond almost 10m for charities across the UK since the local communities where we have a its first inception in 2003. physical presence.
Key performance indicators measuring our performance in communities and markets 2018 2017 2016 Group total Group total Group total Proforma Net gaming revenue NGR 3,571.4m 3,288m 2,999m Proforma Underlying EBITDA 755.3m 666.5m 523.4m 2 Taxes paid 949m 797m n a 3 Wages and salaries 627.1m 678.5m n a Cash and in-kind contributions towards responsible gambling charities 2.5m 2.3m 1.6m 1.
Includes corporation tax, business rates, foreign tax, Machine Games Duty MGD, Amusement Machine Licence Duty AMLD, employers, National Insurance Contributions NIC, VAT, and other duties and levies.
Including pension contributions and share based payment costs.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 49 During 2018 we reviewed the impact of our operations in some of the key markets we serve, for example the UK and Germany, and have developed a new community investment strategy.
The community investment strategy is backed by the launch of our GVC Community Fund, with 2m of seed funding to support charitable causes.
Run and administered by the UK Community Foundation, the Fund will focus its financial support around the key themes of mens health, grass roots sport and womens sports.
In addition, during 2018, GVC launched an ambitious three-year partnership with SportsAid to support the next generation of British athletes.
The partnership will see 50 of the countrys brightest sporting prospects receive direct funding, recognition and personal development opportunities annually.
We have also made a commitment to support the German Athletes Association with an annual donation of 200,000.
A strategic partnership with SportsAid which will support both talented individuals and national sporting excellence At GVC we are committed to offering the programmes in the lead up best customer experience and so we put to the next Olympics.
customers at the heart of our business.
10M raised for the Ladbrokes Coral Trust over 15years.
This was originally founded in 2003 We donated 240,000 to GamStop, and over the past 15 years has raised and the national online self-exclusion scheme distributed over 10 million to registered for UK gamblers.
We engage with and invest in our local communities and respond to local and national societal needs.
2M pledged for the new GVC Community Fund to support charitable causes.
At GVC we are committed to contributing to the economy, the industry and the society in which we operate and where our customers are located.
50 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED RESPONSIBLE GAMING CONTINUED RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS Integrating our businesses will be an ongoing effort on our part with our BEHAVING RESPONSIBLY IS A Technology Governance team continuously Since the acquisition, we have been working to assessing the risks and controls around integrate GVCs responsible business approach PRIORITY FOR GVC AND A RANGE security and IT operations alongside the with Ladbrokes Corals.
Capitalising on the Internal Audit function.
Training on GDPR and opportunity to take learnings from both OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS cyber risks was a big theme in 2018 and will operations and create policies, processes continue to be so in 2019. andcommitments to responsible business OPERATIONS UNDERPIN OUR CSR thatwork well across the new Group.
THESE ACTIVITIES The first step was to develop a new Code of GVC aims to create the highest standards Conduct, released in June 2018.
The Code ofnancial conduct across the business, RANGE FROM REDUCING OUR lays out GVCs commitments across key both through robust policies and systems responsible business topics, like financial andworking to create a culture of responsibility.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT TO conduct and bribery and corruption, and We run a suite of targeted training courses articulating what actions employees need to tohelp our employees spot money laundering SAFEGUARDING DATA PRIVACY.
We will continue to build a and fraud in their day-to-day work, particularly transparent approach to responsible business for the UK retail business.
EACH OF THESE ACTIVITIES as we develop an integrated whistleblowing Through the Ladbrokes Coral business code and supplier code during 2019. we have also taken a proactive approach IS A FUNDAMENTAL BUILDING Protecting our customers and keeping to financial conduct.
Working with the UK our data safe Government as part of a large multi-agency BLOCK OF A WELL-RUN BUSINESS intelligence network, of partners sharing Having effective data and information intelligence on organised crime GAIN.
security systems in place is only a first step AND SUPPORTS OUR LICENCE Ladbrokes Coral was also a founding to protecting our customer and corporate member of the Gambling Anti-Money information.
Human behaviour can be the TO OPERATE.
Laundering Group GAMLG, a UK industry biggest threat to maintaining cyber security.
collaboration in response to the 4th EU The new EU-wide General Data Protection moneylaundering directive.
Regulation GDPR came into force in May 2018.
In the run-up to this date, we established a GDPR steering committee, led by the Group Director of Legal, Regulatory & Company Secretariat to focus our work and ensure compliance.
Adhering to the new rules Key performance indicators measuring our performance in our business operations 2018 2017 2016 Group total Group total Group total Whistle-blowing incidents reported and investigated 2 25 13 2 Employee accidents 297 140 n a 2 Employee reportable incidents 12 0n a Public accidents 287 235 n a Public reportable incidents 3 0n a 3 Energy kWh 155,771,722 184,901,000 196,796,108 3 4 GHG emissions tonnes CO2e 46,572 64,628 80,589 GGHG efficiency tonnes CO e per employee 1.8 2.4 2.8 2 5 Water use cubic metres 434,475 569,980 294,791 5 Waste tonnes 13,811 8,587 161 1.
Employee health and safety data is for ofces based in UK, Gibraltar and Vienna.
Emissions from our global operations include those arising from our businesses in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Gibraltar, India, Ireland, Italy, Spain, UK, Ukraine.
This makes up 95% ofouroverall headcount.
Based on UK Defra BEIS greenhouse gas reporting: conversion factors 2017: except for overseas electricity conversion factors which are based on IEA OECD CO2 emissions from fuel Combustion 2017.
Includes Scope 1: Direct emissions from the combustion of fuel, and Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the purchase of electricity.
Excluding fugitive emissions from refrigerants, which represent less than 2% of GHG emissions from our business operations.
Waste and water data is sourced from our operations in Austria, Bulgaria, Gibraltar, India, UK, Ukraine.
This makes up 85% of our overall headcount.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 51 Health, Safety, Security and Environment Environmental management GVC and Ladbrokes Coral have been monitoring Health, Safety, Security and Environmental and reducing our environmental impact over the management HSSE are important priorities for long term.
Historically the primary focus for both us.
We are taking steps to encourage a positive companies has been reducing their carbon health and safety culture throughout the footprint, which continues to be the most -15% business and to maintain a safe environment significant environmental impact across the for our customers and colleagues.
We also look at the wider environmental reduction in the Groups greenhouse picture, monitoring and reducing water use and Created in 2017, our HSSE policy and gas emissions on a per capita basis.
waste across our major ofces and retail estate.
management framework is now integrated fully across GVCs operations, supported by Group Going forward GVC, will continue to adopt low HSSE standards and performance targets.
carbon technology, capture energy savings and reduce our emissions.
We particularly focus on The management system is based on a electricity and gas used on our premises and in proactive and predictive risk approach where our data centres, which together make up the we can identify risks early, allowing us to make bulk of our carbon footprint.
Having established changes to our management system controls the baseline, we have a three-year target as needed.
of reducing the Groups greenhouse gas The system enables us to: emissions on a per capita basis by 15%.
Protect the health, safety, well-being We have used the integration of Ladbrokes Coral andsecurity of our colleagues, suppliers businesses into GVC to identify opportunities and other persons who can be affected for reducing our carbon footprint.
Carbon byouroperations: reduction has been a long-term strategy for Ladbrokes Coral, having had emissions targets Reduce our environmental impacts in place since 2008.
At GVC we maintain the Sourcing responsibly and engaging Ensure that the GVC Group is compliant focus and have adopted a strategic approach with our suppliers with legal and other requirements: to our scope 3 carbon emissions from external data centres.
As part of the acquisition, we Modern slavery and human trafcking are Set and monitor performance targets related have started work on merging data centres, on the increase, and slavery has become to HSSE performance: and tounlock cost and carbon savings.
an important issue in several countries in Establish long-term partnerships with suppliers which GVC operates.
At GVC, we take this who share our commitment to HSSE.
issue very seriously and prohibit all forms of slavery, both in our own organisation and in our supply chains.
This is reinforced by our Codes of Conduct, our Environmental, Social, and Ethical Purchasing Policy, and will soon be explicitly referenced in all our terms of engagement for suppliers and business Scope 1 and 2 emissions chart partners.
We will publish our second Modern Tonnes CO e Slavery Statement in 2019, offering a more 2 comprehensive report on progress than 100,000 in 2018.
Although we have put in place steps to 80,589 prevent modern slavery within our own 80,000 78,122 business and supply chain, we believe that we are at a low risk due to the nature of our 64,628 business and the skill levels required from our 61,875 60,000 employees and business partners.
GVC is an 46,572 entertainment business, selling experiences rather than physical products.
Our workforce 43,268 40,000 is highly skilled, due to the technical and highly regulated nature of our offering, and we have a relatively small supply chain compared to 20,000 other high street retail businesses.
We do not use temporary labour in our shops or ofces, 3,304 2,467 2,753 and any temporary contractors at our head 0 ofces are highly skilled and vetted before 2016 2017 2018 being appointed.
Scope 1 Scope 2 52 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED RESPONSIBLE GAMING CONTINUED OBJECTIVES FOR 2019 OUR OBJECTIVES FOR Safer gambling Doubling the amount we donate to problem gambling research, education and THE YEAR AHEAD ARE ALL treatment bodies to 0.2% of UK gross gaming revenue: ABOUT BUILDING A FIRM Bedding-in our CSR governance and delivery structure, from the Board CSR Committee to operational teams: FOUNDATION FOR Starting the provision of safer gambling awareness and education programmes for school children through our partnership with EPIC: MAXIMISING OUR POSITIVE Establishing a unied, company-wide approach to responsible gaming and betting, IMPACTS AND MAKING including policies and standards, monitoring systems and training programmes: Building relationships with partner organisations across our markets of operation QUANTITATIVE to jointly tackle key responsible gaming and betting issues, and understanding where further research is needed: COMMITMENTS IN Pioneering new approaches to transparent reporting on responsible gaming FUTURE YEARS.
and betting, developing robust metrics in partnership with our peers: and Developing our partnership with Harvard Medical School to better understand and reduce the potential for problem gambling behaviour through rigorous research.
Responsible employer Creating a one GVC culture across the company, harmonising policies and developing our employer proposition around a shared set of values and opportunities: Embedding and broadening our initiatives to continuously strive to make GVC an inclusive employer of choice where people can succeed and progress in a meritocracy: A company where everyone is in the game: Rolling out best practice benets schemes to support employee wellbeing and achieve 0.2% high levels of retention: and From April 2019, we will implement the UK Government legislation relating to FOBT of UK GGR pledged to problem gambling limits.
We are determined to implement these difficult and unprecedented changes research, education and treatment bodies.
by treating our colleagues with integrity.
We also aim to retain our best people in the business.
To do this we are actively involving our people through frequent employee forums, nationally and regionally, across our retail business.
Responsible communities and markets Launching the GVC Community Fund with 2m of seed funding, which will be used to invest in our communities and support local initiatives that matter to our customers and employees: 2M Implementing the strategic partnership with SportsAid which will support both talented individuals and national sporting excellence programmes in the lead up to the next funding for the GVC Community Fund.
Olympics: and Naming two multi-year strategic partners for the Ladbrokes Coral Charitable Trust, who we will support through fundraising across our estate of UK bookmaking shops.
Responsible business operations Identifying further key actions to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions footprint: Launching company-wide policies and systems around core compliance issues, including codes of conduct, whistleblowing, AML, data protection and security: and Streamlining our approach to supplier management, ensuring our value chain partners share our high social and environmental standards.
strategic partnership supporting both talented individuals and national sporting excellence programmes.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018
