53 RESPONSIBLE GAMING CONTINUED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR COMMITTEE REPORT In June 2018 the Board appointed the 2018 was a huge year for data privacy and Membership and attendance CSR Committee.
In recognition of the protection with the introduction in May of the The following Directors are members of the increased scale and complexity of General Data Protection Regulation in the CSR Committee and they each attended the the Group, with licenses in more than European Union.
We recruited a new Chief following number of meetings in 2018: 20 jurisdictions and the number of Privacy officer and have built up a privacy employees increasing from 3,000 to legal team to support the Groups effective Number of more than 25,000 the Board considered management of the information we hold.
meetings Number of it appropriate to delegate oversight The Chief Privacy officer is invited to attend entitled to meetings of matters relating to regulatory committee meetings to update the Directors Member attend attended compliance, AML, responsible gaming, on developments in this critical area.
health and safety, environmental Virginia McDowell 44 With the number of Group employees climbing impact, data protection and diversity Chair from 3,000 to more than 25,000 in 2018 with inthe workplace to this new committee.
Jane Anscombe 4 4 the combination with Ladbrokes Coral, there The terms of reference for the CSR has been a greater focus on our strategy Kenneth Alexander 4 4 Committee are available on GVCs for fostering greater diversity and inclusion corporate website at: Lee Feldman 4 4 practices into the business.
The Group HR Director supported by the CEO has been Stephen Morana 4 4 managing this project and been attending our committee meetings to discuss the strategy https: gvc-plc.
com wp-content uploads 2018 06 Peter Isola succeeded Lee Feldman as .
pdf and implementation to ensure the Group a member of the CSR Committee on remains focused on this matter.
Given the huge increase in employees and a The terms of reference require a majority much larger footprint, particularly in the UK of the committee members to be following the acquisition of the Ladbrokes and independent directors.
Coral retail businesses, the Committee has The Company Secretary attends all CSR been engaging with the Group HSSE Director Committee meetings to record the minutes to understand the health and safety, security and provide advice to the Directors.
The Head and environmental risks attaching to our of CSR and Directors of Responsible Gaming, complex business and the plans to effectively AML, International and UK Compliance along mitigate these risks.
The Group HSSE Director with the Group HR Director are normally provides update reports to the committee and invited to attend each meeting and the Chief attends meetings to discuss these areas with Privacy officer and Group Health, Safety, the Directors.
Security and Environment HSSE Director may be invited to attend from time to time Going into 2019, we are at an exciting time to participate in discussions about data for this young committee as we roll-out and protection and HSSE matters respectively.
develop our responsible gaming strategy, Changing for the Bettor and seek to Business during the year be the worlds most trusted betting and gaming operator.
As can be seen from the CSR report pages 42 to 52 2018 was an exceptionally busy year Virginia McDowell for the Group.
Despite only being established CSR Committee Chair in June, the committee still met four times 5 March 2019 last year.
Following the acquisition of the Ladbrokes Coral business, the Group became the largest licensed operator in the UK market and is licensed in more than 20 jurisdictions.
As a result the Committee has spent a considerable amount of time reviewing the compliance governance arrangements of the combined Group and the changes made to the Compliance, AML and Responsible Gaming teams.
At each meeting the Committee members receive AML, compliance and regulatory assurance reports from the executive responsible for managing these areas to discuss integration plans and issues with the Directors.
