Strategic Report Sustainability Sustainability best practice.
More than 15% of the Groups Being a responsible and sustainable company revenue is derived from companies who have is fundamental to our Purpose and this been credited with this standard.
section of the Report sets out our progress and performance in areas such as health, The Board sets the tone and minimum safety and wellbeing, environmental issues, standards expected of companies and has human rights and ethics.
The Groups nonemphasised the importance of health and financial KPIs set out on pages 50 and 51 safety across the Group by including the reflect the importance that the Group places Groups Accident Frequency Rate AFR as on sustainability and enables the Board to one of our non-financial KPIs see pages 50 monitor the Groups progress in meeting its and 51.
Kevin Thompson, Finance Director, objectives and responsibilities in these areas.
is the director responsible for Halmas health and safety compliance.
We routinely monitor We place considerable value on involving health and safety performance across ouremployees and keeping them informed theGroup.
on matters affecting them and the performance of the Group.
This is achieved In line with Halmas autonomous structure, Diba Earns through formal and informal meetings, operational responsibility for compliance with internal communications, the HalmaHub local health and safety regulations resides GoldAgain!
Employees and with the board of each operating company their representatives are consulted on but is frequently monitored at a sector level.
Diba Industries Limited, our specialised a widerange ofmatters affecting their Our Policy requires businesses to carry out fluid transfer sub-assemblies business, currentand futureinterests.
an independent health and safety review received its fourth consecutive gold every three years to assess compliance award in the annual Royal Society Health, safety and wellbeing and to ensure that there is a consistent and forthe Prevention of Accidents Health and safety is critical to the Group adequate level of reporting and investigation RoSPA programme.
andatop priority for company management.
of health and safety incidents.
Halma collects details of its worldwide The award was presented to Diba based on reported health and safety incidents and Our health and safety performance over the its demonstrated commitment to accident encourages all Group companies to seek prior year improved significantly to our lowest and illness prevention at its Cambridge, continuous improvement and promote a ever recorded Accident Frequency Rate of UK manufacturing facility.
Dibas UK strong health and safety culture.
As our target rate is set at the lowest site is certified to OHSAS 18001 for an excellent health and safety record, driven that Halma has achieved, our target is now occupational health and safety, ISO 14001 by a deeply embedded culture of safety.
set at 0.04, although we strive to have zero for environmental management standards, accidents.
We thoroughly review the root ISO 9001 for quality management systems We recognise the necessity of safeguarding cause of any accidents to ensure that we and ISO 13485 for medical device quality the physical and mental health and safety of take preventative measures, including further management systems.
In April 2017, Diba our own employees while at work and operate training and education of our employees.
was also informed that they had won the so as to provide a safe and comfortable RoSPA Gold Medal award for health and working environment for employees, visitors During the year, we implemented a new safety performance during the period of and the public.
Our Health & Safety Policy programme of online health & safety training January 01, 2017 to December 31, 2017.
This requires businesses to manage their activities in the UK, in which over 700 employees have is Dibas fifth consecutive Gold achievement in a way which avoids causing unnecessary been enrolled.
award, earning Diba the Gold Medal which orunacceptable risks to health and safety.
will be presented later in 2018.
This is a great There were no work-related fatalities in achievement and recognises the continued Implementing an appropriate framework for 2017 18 or in prior years.
Details of recorded commitment by Diba on this issue.
an occupational health and safety system is injuries during the year and the prior four a key way to manage this issue.
BSOHSAS years is set out below: 18001 sets a minimum standard for occupational health and safety management 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Days lost due to reportable work-related injuries 85 236 464 546 118 Total recorded injuries to all employees 252 314 342 298 323 Specified major injury incidents are reportable incidents which result in more than three working days lost.
44 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Protecting our environment Environmental Management System Our car policy, which is subject to regular Environmental issues, including climate We are committed to developing review, directly supports the Groups change, are a challenge affecting all and implementing an Environmental commitment to sustainability by setting a businesses globally and an issue everyone Management System EMS throughout the general cap on permissible CO emissions 2 must address collectively to preserve Group to measure, control and reduce our for all company-owned vehicles and vehicles our planet for future generations.
We have developed used by employees who have taken a recognises that, in common with other performance indicators that assist local cashallowancein lieu of a company car.
businesses, all of our activities have an management in implementing the policy environmental impact.
Our approach is to and ultimately developing an EMS.
All We are committed to reducing our carbon not have capital-intensive manufacturing Group companies are encouraged to footprint.
The Board recognises that a processes and also aim to limit our impact undertake ISO 14001 accreditation, where growing international business such as by operating geographically close to our end warranted, and more than 22% of the Groups Halma cannot continue to reduce energy markets.
Operating in this way helps ensure revenue isderived from companies with consumption and absolute CO emissions 2 that our environmental impact is relatively .
year-on-year as it acquires and grows its lowwhen compared to other manufacturers.
Therefore we have As a global group of life-saving companies, Group companies are encouraged to set a target of reducing our total carbon we also have an excellent long-term record improve energy efficiency, reduce waste and emissions relative to revenues by 10% over the for addressing environmental issues that emissions and reduce their use, or make more three years from March 2016 to March 2019. affect our businesses and for developing efficient use, of materials.
The same intensity target was set in 2010 products that monitor and protect and 2013, and was achieved in 2013 and 2016 theenvironment.
Key environmental impacts in the Group have respectively.
Our CO emissions reduced 2 been identified as emissions to air and water, between 2017 and 2018 on an intensity basis Products promoting a cleaner tomorrow water and energy consumption, and waste by 10%.
We have been consistent in reducing Our businesses have a range of innovative production.
In addition to the information set our CO on an intensity basis over recent 2 products which play a very positive role in out in this section of the Report, we publish years, as illustrated in the chart below.
We monitoring and improving the environment.
data annually on our website on energy will report on our performance against the Halma brands are world leaders in a number consumption, waste and transportation.
three-year intensity target to 2019 next year of technologies which help to minimise and consider setting a new target for the environmental damage.
Our principal Our carbon footprint periodthereafter.
environmental technologies are water The Group has a clear policy on carbon leakage detection and wireless monitoring, which is published on our website.
The Halma recognises that sound carbon gas emissions monitoring, water and effluent Carbon Policy has been set by the Board management is vital to the continued success analysis, UV water treatment and optical and our Finance Director, Kevin Thompson, of our business and that of our customers sensing.
We promote the use of UV water has principal responsibility for co-ordinating and stakeholders.
As such, it must be fully sterilisation which eliminates the need and monitoring the Policy.
In line with our integrated into our business so that it is to use dangerous chemicals, as well as autonomous structure, a senior executive aneveryday part of what we all do.
makingproducts that minimise the waste in each of our higher impact businesses ofclean water.
has been allocated with responsibility for implementing the Carbon Policy at local level.
We are committed to the development of equipment for measuring and monitoring environmental changes and controlling theimpact of industrial activities over thelong term.
GHG emissions data for the period 2 April 2017 to 31 March 2018 CO e emissions 2 2017 18 2016 17 tonnes m of revenue CO e CO e 2 2 emissions emissions 60 global tonnes global tonnes 51 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 4,771 4,658 48 50 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased 41 forown use 14,043 14,458 37 40 33 Scope 3: Business air travel, WTT Well to Tank 17,281 16,512 30 Total gross emissions 36,095 35,628 20 Intensity measure of tonnes of CO e gross emissions 2 per m revenue 33.5 37.0 10 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 45 Strategic Report Sustainability continued Carbon reporting surveys were shared with local management will be times when it is not appropriate, We comply with the mandatory carbon and reviewed centrally at Group level.
ora person will not be comfortable raising reporting requirements and have reported on The next four-year compliance period to a concern through line management.
all of the emission sources required under the 5 December 2019 has commenced and An independent third-party provider, Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and the exercise of identifying energy saving Expolink, has been appointed to operate a Directors Report Regulations 2013. opportunities over this period is underway.
confidential reporting service which enables employees to raise any concerns they may We have employed the Operation Control The United Nations Sustainable Development have in confidence via the telephone or by definition to outline our carbon footprint Goals SDGs, are a universal call to action to web-reporting and employees may report boundary: included within that boundary are end poverty, protect the planet and ensure anonymously if they wish.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from manufacturing that all people enjoy peace and prosperity.
sites and offices which we own and operate.
As a global group of life-saving companies, All reports are treated confidentially and Excluded from our footprint boundary are Halma is proud to identify with all 17 of the are provided to the Company Secretary for emissions from manufacturing sites and SDGs.
Halmas contribution across these review to ensure that they are appropriately offices which we do not own and control, multiple goals takes us all a step closer investigated and concluded.
Halma is and emissions considered non-material by toreaching the SDG targets together.
committed to ensuring that anyone raising the business.
We have reported on emissions a concern in good faith is not subject to from Scope 1 and 2 emissions sources with The Groups environmental performance will any victimisation or detrimental treatment, some Scope 3 emissions sources included continue to be reported both in our Annual although a malicious allegation may result business air travel for all years, and Well Report and Accounts and on our website.
Our ethos Anti-bribery and anti-corruption We have also used the GHG Protocol Our culture is one of openness, integrity and Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery Corporate Accounting and Reporting accountability.
Halma requires its employees and corruption which extends to all business Standard revised edition and guidance to act fairly in their dealings withfellow dealings and transactions in which the provided by the UKs Department for employees, customers, suppliers and business Group is involved.
This includes a prohibition Environment, Food & Rural Affairs Defra on partners.
Halma has a Code of Conduct which on making political donations, offering or voluntary and mandatory carbon reporting.
applies to all Group company employees and receiving inappropriate gifts or making Emission factors were used from the UK our external business partners.
The Code of undue payments to influence the outcome Governments GHG Conversion Factors Conduct aims to ensure that Halma maintains of business dealings.
Every business records forCompany Reporting 2017.
In addition, consistently high ethical standards across the and reports on any gift or hospitality or IEA2017 factors were used for electricity.
globe, while recognising that our businesses charitable donation which exceeds the Group operate in markets and countries with cultural policy, or where there has been any breach of Halma has worked with external providers differences and practices.
It was updated in the policy.
Our robust policy and guidance in of energy efficiency and carbon reduction 2018, has been translated into nine languages this area is routinely reviewed and compliance solutions since 2010 to ensure compliance and is issued to all Halma employees via our with the policy is checked as part of the halfwith the Carbon Reduction Commitment businesses and is published on our website.
year and year-end review processes.
We also Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC.
CRC is require customers and suppliers who contract the UKs mandatory energy savings scheme Whistleblowing on our standard business terms to comply administered by the Environment Agency.
We value our diverse workforce and are with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws.
We are in full compliance with the CRC committed to protect their rights.
We require requirements and will continue to purchase our employees and business partners to During 2017, we introduced online antiallowances to meet our compliance maintain the highest standards of integrity briberyand anti-corruption compliance obligation until the scheme comes and act in good faith.
Halma has a Grouptraining to senior management, all subsidiary toanendin 2019. wide whistleblowing policy which applies board directors and other relevant employees.
to all employees and Halma operations Over 1,800 employees from across the Group Halma has complied with the Energy Savings including newly acquired businesses as well have been enrolled.
Opportunity Scheme ESOS regulations as joint venture partners, suppliers, customers and submitted its first compliance report to and distributors relating to our businesses.
the Environment Agency in November 2015.
Whilstwe encourage an open culture where Observations made following site energy any issues can be raised and handled locally at business level, we recognise that there 46 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Equal opportunities Our Group Chief Executive, Andrew Williams, Responsible investment We are committed to promoting equality has overall responsibility for ensuring that As a world leader in several key environmental ofopportunity for all staff and job applicants.
human rights considerations are integral technologies Halma has a reputation for We aim to create a working environment in to the way in which existing operations honesty and integrity in its relationships with which all individuals are able to make best and new opportunities are developed and employees, customers, business partners use of their skills, free from discrimination or managed.
Compliance with, and respect for, andshareholders.
harassment, and in which all decisions are these fundamental principles are integrated based on merit.
Everyone Halma understands that one criterion for working for Halma is responsible for having many professional and private investors In the event of members of staff becoming due regard for human rights.
Managers and is environmental, social and governance disabled, every effort will be made to ensure supervisors must provide leadership that considerations.
The FTSE4Good UK index was that their employment with the Group promotes human rights as an equal priority established in July 2001 and Halma has been continues and that appropriate support is to other business issues.
All employees a proud member since its inception.
It is the policy of the Group that the are responsible for ensuring that their own responsible investment index assists investors training, career development and promotion actions do not impair the human rights of in identifying companies that meet globally of disabled people should be identical to others, and are encouraged to bring forward, recognised corporate responsibility standards thatof other employees.
in confidence, any concerns they may have and Halma is proud to be a member.
It is a Group policy to not discriminate Halma voluntarily participates in the againststaff or candidates on the basis ofage, Modern Slavery Act CarbonDisclosure Projects Climate Change disability, gender reassignment, marital or civil Halma is committed to conducting its Questionnaire.
This global disclosure system partner status, pregnancy ormaternity, race, business ethically and in line with all relevant assesses how companies are incorporating colour, nationality, ethnicor national origin, legislation including human rights laws.
sustainability into their business strategy religion or belief, orsex orsexualorientation.
Halma has published two Modern Slavery and practices and are managing their Act Statements since September 2016 environmental impact.
In 2017 Halma Human rights which detail the progressive steps taken achieved a score of Awareness C and Halmas Human Rights and Labour Conditions annually to tackle modern slavery and human itisourintention to participate in 2018.
Policy reflects the core requirements of the trafficking.
Since the introduction of the Act, Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we have worked to raise awareness of this Community the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles importantagenda.
We have a duty as corporate citizens to and Rights at Work, including the conventions understand how the work we do affects the relating to forced labour, child labour, nonA detailed guidance note is available to all communities in which we are based and in discrimination, freedom of association and businesses raising awareness of the Act and which our solutions are used.
Our business is right to collective bargaining.
the issue of modern slavery in business and located in over 20 countries and our products supply chains.
Each business is requested supply global markets.
Our companies around Regulatory demands upon us vary to consider the potential issue of modern the world proactively support community considerably around the world, so Halma slavery and human trafficking within their engagement.
For example, Oseco employees establishes the core structure to ensure that business and supply chain.
In addition online partnered with Habitat for Humanity in Group companies comply with legislative compliance training on the Modern Slavery Tulsa, USA to work with the local community and regulatory requirements while permitting Act was rolled out to senior management, all tobuild homes for vulnerable families them to tailor their approach to their particular subsidiary board members and other relevant inneedofimproved housing.
We do not tolerate practices which employees across the Group.
Currently over contravene international standards.
1,800 employees have been enrolled on this training and this is an important tool to assist that our business management understand their responsibilities and consider the Act intheiroperations.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 47
