Stakeholder Engagement We have set out over the next two pages the nature and quality of our key stakeholder relationships.
We have provided details of: how we engage with these groups: how we address the issues that affect them: and how each contributes to deliver value.
Customers Suppliers Colleagues Investors Communities Media Government 16 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 Why it is Stakeholder important to engage Ways we engage Stakeholders key interests Understanding our customers Satisfaction surveys Availability of services Customers needs and behaviours allows us Rewards Customer service to deliver relevant products and services, retain customers and also Commercial website Convenience attract new ones.
It also identifies opportunities for growth.
Social media engagement Ranges Interactions with our colleagues 3-Gears training programme Career opportunities Colleagues are the main ways that customers Listening: surveys and colleague Wellbeing experience the brand of the groups Company.
Our colleagues are Training and development fundamental to the achievement of Aspire store management our customer experience ambitions Pay and conditions development courses and are the cornerstone of our Colleague engagement service and services proposition.
Recognition and reward Apprenticeship programme Engaging with our supply chain Far East trading office developing Quality management Suppliers means that we can ensure security mutually beneficial relationships Cost efficiency of supply and speed to market.
Our Logistics efficiencies and brand relies heavily on the high Ethical Trading policy environmental management standards of our carefully selected suppliers, in order for us to deliver Long-term relationships Supplier conferences market-leading products and services.
Infrastructure As a publicly listed company we Annual reports Future-oriented information Investors need to provide fair, balanced and RNS announcements Risk information understandable information to instil trust and confidence and allow Annual General Meetings Operating and financial informed investment decisions to performance be made.
Investor presentations Dividend Corporate website Access to Management One-on-one meetings Ensures continued viability of the Community investment initiatives Impact of Group activities on the Communities business into the long-term.
We wider community Media channels aim to contribute positively to the CSR agenda communities and environment in Re-cycle initiatives which we operate.
Prison initiatives Ensures transparency of Product videos and peer reviews Reliable range, product and Media information on the business.
pricing information TV and radio advertising campaign As a business-to-consumer Transparency of reliable and company, we need strong multiEmail and PR customer timely Group information channel exposure to connect engagement with customers and our wider stakeholder audience.
Improving Twitter, Facebook and Youtube content Policies and regulatory changes Cycle to Work policy campaigning Transport policies and schemes Government may provide opportunities and DAB Radio working groups CO reduction strategies pose risk to our operations.
2 Working closely with the Driver training and vehicle safety Government ensures that our enhancements products and services evolve.
Engaging with VOSA, DVLA, TSI, ASA and HSE STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 17 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
