Strategic Report Our Stakeholders The Stakeholder Voice in Halma Decision Making The Board recognises that it has a duty toact in the best interests of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders, as well asconsidering other stakeholder interests.
Maintaining strong stakeholder relationships isthe key to building a sustainable business.
Shareholders Operating Customers companies Our key Acquisition Stakeholders prospects Community & business partners Our people Suppliers 40 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Shareholders Acquisition prospects &businesspartners Community Our shareholders are a key beneficiary Our companies and sector M&A teams We have a duty as corporate citizens to inthe value that we create, so transparent continue to build relationships with understand how the work we do affects and open engagement with our investors businesses that could become acquisition the communities in which we are based is essential.
We communicate and engage prospects or strategic business partners.
and in which our solutions are used.
Our with our shareholders through our: online Our Convergence growth strategy relies on businesses are located in over 20 countries communication channels, such as our us to excel at identifying and collaborating and our products supply global markets.
website, blog and YouTube channel: Annual with partners to develop new products, Being located close to our end markets, our General Meeting: Annual Report and services or business models by combining companies are well placed to monitor the Accounts: Investor roadshows and events: our technologies with new expertise or impact that they have locally and to support and individual investor meetings.
partnerships inside or outside Halma.
the needs of their communities.
Our solutions serve to meet our purpose of growing a Operating companies Our people safer, cleaner, healthier future for everyone, Our decentralised model places our Developing and attracting high-quality everyday.
operating companies close to their end talentis a key driver of our financial success.
markets and under the management of We strive to build leadership teams which Customers its own board of directors, empowering are diverse, effective and engaged.
We run Our businesses understand the needs of their entrepreneurial action.
Our operating management courses throughout the year customers.
They work closely with customers subsidiaries are key stakeholders which toprovide targeted development and the to offer and develop solutions using our collectively deliver our organic growth and tools needed to deliver enhanced operational technology and deep application knowledge.
are vital to the success of our Convergence and financial performance in line with our Great business relationships are essential to and Edge growth strategies.
ensure that ourcompanies are the supplier management are in regular communication ofchoice forour customers.
with our companies and through frequent site Suppliers visits and the annual Leadership conference.
Developing strong relationships with our This ensures that all parties are familiar suppliers is key to the operational success with the development and performance of our businesses and ensures that we of the companies and of Halmas strategic have agility to develop new and market prioritiesand direction.
competitive solutions to meet our customers needs.
Our businesses work with suppliers to ensure that we can deliver the best product and services for our customers and have the infrastructure in place to respond to market changes quickly.
How our Board takesdecisions Factors that the Board consider include: How the decision fits with our purpose The impact on our people, processes The effect on communities and ofgrowing a safer, cleaner, healthier, andperformance theenvironment future for everyone, every day The importance of fostering The need to maintain high standards The likely consequences of the decision  with customers ofbusiness conduct long term, both risk and reward andsuppliers The value created for our shareholders Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 41
