Strategic Report Our People Enabling growth through Talent,  Our people our culture Diversity and inclusion Total number of employees Halmas culture reflects the collective Diversity is one of our biggest competitive capabilities of our people, and is one of advantages.
The diversity of our portfolio of our unique strategic assets.
It attracts high companies provides stability and broadens 6, 341 achievers with low egos, striving to make the scope for growth.
The diversity of our a positive difference in the world.
It avoids people helps us stay agile as the needs of as at 31 March 2018 unnecessary bureaucracy and protocol our customers change and as business in preference for acting with speed and adapts.
We have taken positive steps Gender diversity precision to maximise impact.
It encourages this year to increase the diversity of our 1 Board of Directors us to imagine the future and then create it, organisation, from the company level to working seamlessly with partners internal and the Group level.
This was in evidence at our external to ensure our purpose is fulfilled.
Accelerator Convergence programme, which brought together a whole range of different We view talent, culture and communications as perspectives from Managing Directors to 4 strategic growth enablers.
We have redesigned Graduates, and from cultures and countries our Group-wide talent initiatives to build new all over the world.
skills and create new mindsets that will help us tackle our newly articulated Halma 4.0 Growth From a gender perspective, the representation 6 Strategy on page 6.
We have launched new of women is strong in executive management communications efforts internally to foster and production roles, and weakest in the more awareness of the capabilities and assets middle management roles.
We are committed across the Group, confident that this will lead to gender pay equality and, while we to identifying opportunities for convergence have parity by role, we must address the and edge growth on page 6, as well as sharing representation gap inoperating company 2 Executive Board best practices and knowhow to growour management and haveset ourselves goals 2 corebusiness.
4 3 Senior management 27 191 Other employees 2,627 3,490 1 Includes non-executive Directors of theCompany 2 Includes the four executive Directors who arealso shown in the Board of Directors chart Female 3 Defined as subsidiary company directors andabove Male 36 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Developing a new mindset to drive growth Opportunity identification New financing options We launched our first ever Accelerator We want our people to see market We want to understand all the financial programme in December 2017 to show opportunities differently, unconstrained by possibilities related to how we might work what could be done to drive our new Halma existing technologies and business models.
with others to achieve our goals.
This includes Growth Strategy and put the theory behind becoming more expert at financing options our Innovating the organisation programme Empowerment such as licensing, partnerships andminority into practice.
We want teams to come together from all equitystakes.
levels of our organisation, across multiple The Convergence Accelerator was entities, geographies, and seniority levels.
The Convergence Accelerator was run from designed to rapidly find and evolve new start to finish in four short months.
Narrowing business models that took advantage of Innovation practices down the applications from 24 to six teams to Halmas unique strengths as an ecosystem We want our organisation to develop new go through the accelerator was the toughest of passionate people, agilecompanies mindsets andmethods.
Those six teams pitched their business andgreat technology.
about how to move fast, using MVP and test model and opportunity to the top 100 Halma and learn concepts, knowing when to pivot Leaders in Boston at our annual leadership As the name suggests, we wanted to their original ideas and embracing failure as conference, and this resulted in four rapidly improve our capabilities in the part of a rapid learning process.
teams being funded for the next phase of following areas, demonstrate to the rest of development.
The next round ofsubmissions the organisation whats possible and drive Commercial assessment is approaching fast and our aim is to run anewway of growing our business: We want to improve how we make as many accelerators as we can until the commercial decisions about new kinds of practices and mindsets become business business opportunities, including startups asusual across Halma.
and partnerships, particularly as we move more quickly and see more opportunities.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 37 Strategic Report Our People continued Strategic Brand and Communications Employee Engagement Engagement survey We know that collectively our companies Halmas purpose helps to motivate and add huge value to the world, and help Halma engage all our employees globally.
It is proven tackle some of the most pressing problems that an engaged workforce outperforms 7 5% on the planet, from water scarcity to a less engaged one and we continuously preventable blindness.
monitor and seek to improve areas that are of Halma people are highly engaged important to our employees engagement.
Halma Employee Engagement Survey 2018 Our new brand and communications We conduct an annual survey each February, approach is designed to support Halmas which provides us insight for the next years Growth Strategy by showcasing this story actions.
Each operating company, sector and toattract people and partners who are function receive individual reports.
Thisyear, aligned with our values.
we saw continued improvement in overall employee engagement, even though the This year we articulated a massive Group was in the process of undergoing transformative purpose MTP for Halma sector management changes.
toact as a North Star for people inside andoutside the organisation.
Our MTP is We have launched a new collaboration to grow a safer, cleaner, healthier future for andcommunications portal HalmaHub everyone, every day.
It helps us achieve better to provide an engagement platform for all alignment internally, as well as signalling to employees in the Group to connect with the world the kind of people were looking eachother, build new networks and share for, andthefuture we want to make.
Our companies each have their own unique This new platform has proved successful, story to tell.
The new communications with over 2,200 employees signing up and function will be a strategic growth enabler working together to solve business problems to each business, helping them to raise their and join up to new programmes.
It is a critical profile, attract new customers, and build enabler of our growth strategy, allowing astronger platform for future growth.
everyone to engage with new cross-company initiatives like the Digital Growth Sprints and the Convergence Accelerator see page 37.
CASE STUDY Innovating the Organisation The Innovating the Organisation ITO programme launched in2016has been a catalyst for business leaders acrossHalma.
It helps our leaders confront the challenges and opportunities of the 4th Industrial Revolution, and to gain abigger vision for how they could help their companies grow.
The programme equipped them with new tools, skills and practices to employ as well as personal energy and capacity-building techniques for sustaining high performance in a fast-moving world.
With the exception of some recently hired leaders, all company presidents, sector leaders, and Executive Board members have completed thisprogramme.
38 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report CASE STUDY HalmaHub Graduates 2,241 We select top students who are motivated Our graduate employees have signed up to by our purpose and belong in our culture, the HalmaHub since Dec 2017 and provide them four six-month jobs development across multiple companies, sectors, geographies and functions.
programme was launched in 2012 They are expected to justify their cost throughthe significant contributions that andislike noother.
they make at each placement.
We provide them with assessments to broaden their Wedont believe that self-awareness, training to expand their one development path effectiveness as leaders, and exposure toallof the innovation and growth is right for all and so we contentthat our top leadersreceive.
tailor the programme Our ambition for them is that they can to each individual.
rapidly become a board member of a Halma operating company.
Two alumni of the early Halma Graduate Development Programmes have achieved this goal already.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 39
