Strategic Report Business Review Environmental & Analysis We create products that monitor and protect life-critical resources.
The areas in which we operate Spectroscopy and Photonics Environmental monitoring World-class optical, opto-electronic, Technologies used to monitor air and spectral imaging systems, and water pollution, analyse gases, that transport and characterise and ensure that water networks light, and use light to analyse operate efficiently.
materials in applications including healthcare, research, and industrial processcontrol.
Water analysis and treatment Systems that help the world monitor and improve the quality of water used for drinking, industrial process and recreation.
30 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Highlights Revenue % of Group Performance KPIs 2018 Group target 1 Revenue growth 18.4% 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 15.3% 5% 1 Profit growth 32% 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 27.5% 5% 24% 2 Return on Sales 21.2% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 6.9% 4% Contribution to Group m 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 5 % of Adjusted operating profit Revenue 259 219 189 164 167 5 Profit 55 42 34 27 32 4 5 1 Revenue and adjusted operating profit are compared to the equivalent prioryearfigures.
4 5 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted operating profit expressed asapercentage of revenue.
3 R&D expenditure expressed as a percentage of revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items andrestructuring costs see note 1 to theAccounts.
4 23% 5 Adjusted operating profit before central administration costs after share of associate.
4 5 6 Adjusted operating profit and organic growth rates are alternative performance measures used bymanagement.
See notes 1 and 3 to theAccounts.
Sector progress summary Market trends and growth drivers Environmental & Analysis Sector The sector achieved record results with very The sectors long-term growth is sustained strong organic revenue and profit growth, bythree key drivers: both exceeding Group targets.
This continues 259m progress made over recent years.
Growth in rising demand for life-critical resources 2017 18 was achieved across multiple areas such as energy, water and food Revenue and benefited from the Pixelteq Ocean increasing environmental monitoring Optics consolidation completed in 2016 17 andregulations and an acquisition completed mid-year.
worldwide population growth, urbanisation and rising standards of living 55m Growth was achieved in all major geographies 5 with particular strength in Asia Pacific driven Our businesses contribute to the growing Adjusted operating profit by the Spectroscopy & Photonics and worldwide efforts to provide clean drinking Environmental Monitoring businesses.
water, treated water for agricultural and recreational irrigation, ensure safe sanitary The mid-year acquisition of Mini-Cam wastewater removal and monitor air and added to our water network capabilities and water for pollution and industrial emissions.
continues to integrate well into the sector.
Our equipment, technology and services enable our customers to tackle these R&D investment continues to grow, up2.6m, globallyimportant challenges.
We continue to focus our innovation efforts on markets The need for clean water will continue that benefit from resilient long-term toincrease to provide enough safe water to growthdrivers.
drink and to support increasing agricultural development needs.
Demand for both food and water continues to be driven by Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 31 Strategic Report Business Review continued Environmental & Analysis continued a growing global population.
This growth remains dependent Performance abillion people live in regions that cannot on new regulations and the enforcement of The sector grew revenue by 18.4% to 259m provide even half the water needs through existing regulations in both developed and 2017: 219m and profit by 32% to 55m renewable resources.
Our businesses developing markets, along with increased 2017: 42m.
Organic revenue growth at provide water disinfection technologies to government funding in developing markets.
constant currency was 15.3% and profit make safe drinking water and agricultural It is likely that developing markets will see growth was 27.5%, both well above Group orindustrial-use water more available.
the largest increase in the use of sensors targets.
Return on Sales continued to improve for pollution monitoring and general air and to 21.2% 2017: 19.0% and Return on Capital Since 1990, although 2.1 billion people have water monitoring.
North America will remain Employed also increased.
We achieved these gained access to improved sanitation, 2.4 the largest region in this market by volume, improved returns while continuing to increase billion people still remain without access to followed by Europe.
However, Asia Pacific, R&D spending, which rose by 17% and was proper sanitation systems.
Lack of access led by China and India, will see the strongest maintained at 6.9% of revenue.
to safe water and sanitation systems are levels of growth.
among the leading causes of child mortality We achieved the projected benefits associated and morbidity.
Only 26% of urban sanitation We achieved good revenue growth across with the 2016 17 Pixelteq restructuring and wastewater services effectively prevent allmajor regions.
Sales to Asia Pacific and have successfully transferred its core human contact with contaminants along increased by 29% and sales to developed technology and assetsinto Ocean Optics.
Our water testing markets in the UK, USA, and Europe increased systems help identify the contaminants in by18%.
Mini-Cam was acquired during the year these water networks and our inspection and added new capabilities in monitoring solutions monitor them to create standardsStrategy and inspecting of sewage and waste water compliant inspection data to ensure Our products improve the quality of air, water networks to ensure both proper sanitation and integrityof the network.
and food for everyone, every day.
They also compliance with environmental regulations.
enable the development and manufacture More than 90% of the worlds population ofproducts that improve our health Outlook breathe air that exceeds safe limits as andwellbeing.
Global population growth, population established by the World Health Organization ageing and increasing standards of living WHO.
The health risks of breathing dirty air Our growth strategy encompasses the will continue to drive demand for energy include respiratory infections, cardiovascular development of market-led new products resources, cleaner air, safer food and water.
disease, stroke, chronic lung disease and andservices, acquisitions building on Our products, technologies and companies lung cancer and air pollution is the fourth our existing technologies and or market continue to build on these long-term largest threat to human health behind high knowledge, geographic expansion and growth drivers to deliver growth throughout blood pressure, dietary risks and smoking.
collaboration to extend market reach.
Our gas conditioning systems aid in the monitoring of industrial emissions and our R&D is focused on applications addressing We will continue to invest in our businesses to spectral imaging technologies are used these long-term growth drivers.
We continue drive collaboration, technology development, .
to seek, foster and invest for growth business model evolution and development inemerging markets.
of digital and data management capabilities.
Geographic trends We continue to operate in a variety of diverse Most of our companies provide sensors Our acquisition pipeline is growing and we regional and end-market niches.
While that collect data and our companies are continue to actively search for businesses the near-term market dynamics in each of increasing their efforts to explore innovative complimentary to our existing portfolio these region market segments can be quite ways to use digital technologies to capture, alongwith those in adjacent areas.
different, over the medium term, certain manage, analyse and utilise data.
We expect to continue to deliver good We continually seek to attract, develop and revenue and profit growth while maintaining For example, the global environmental promote high-quality talent and ensure our our existing high level of returns.
monitoring market will grow between 7% talent is representative of our diverse end and 8% annually through to 2021 to reach markets and matched to our strategic needs.
32 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Global water scarcity Little or no water scarcity Physical water scarcity Approaching physical water scarcity Economic water scarcity Not estimated CASE STUDY HWM been addressed.
Each unit is fully A new generation waterproof and is battery operated, ofleakdetection requiring no mains power.
The device Current methods of water leak is installed entirely below ground, detection often involve labour making it unobtrusive and practical intensive methods that survey for large scale deployment.
onlya small amount of the network at any time.
In response to this, Fixed telemetry allows the user HWM developed PermaNET, tocontinuously scan for leaks.
anext generation leak detector ThePermaNET transmits sensor that continually scans the network, data via GPRS.
Two-way connectivity identifying and communicating allows the unit to be reprogrammed all leaks within acustomers remotely, without the need for site waternetwork.
Multiple alarm conditions canalso be set, triggering as PermaNET listens for the sound manyalerts as required.
created by a leak high pressure leaks create small, high pitched PermaNET has been used in the sounds while larger leaks create worlds largest ever deployment deeper, quieter sounds.
Historically, ofacoustic noise loggers at Affinity portable sensors will usually detect Water, where 20,000 systems small leaks, whilst larger leaks remain wereinstalled.
Permanent monitoring allows for detection oflarger leaks once smaller leaks have Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 33
