Corporate Social Responsibility Our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR strategy centres on four key areas: Colleagues:finding, supporting and developing great people throughout their Halfords journey Community:helping to keep families safer on their journeys and encouraging an active lifestyle Environmental Management:managing our impact on the environment in a responsible and ethical manner Responsible Trading:building and maintaining the highest standards amongst our suppliers The CSR Policy is available atwww.
com investors governance Colleagues Developing, rewarding and retaining our colleagues, 10,000 ensuring they are fully engaged to drive our long Number of colleagues term sustainable growth ambitions A great and improving place to work Last year, we celebrated our position at number 13 in The Sunday 85% Times 25 Best Big Companies To Work For.
This year, we were absolutely delighted to improve further and to take 9th place as one Colleague engagement score of three retailers in the Top 10.
2017: 80% In addition, we were delighted to win the Developing Potential award presented by Department for Work and Pensions for a second time.
The award recognises the work Halfords provides to support Prisoner Rehabilitation, the Gears Apprenticeship programme, the Traineeship scheme and the Aspire programmes to accelerate 33% career progression into management roles.
Halfords Retail Turnover Finding, supporting and developing great people throughout their Halfords journey As indicated last year, we aim to be an inclusive employer of choice, giving colleagues equal opportunities to prosper within rewarding Awards and inspiring teams.
We strive to ensure all colleagues enjoy their work and have opportunities to consistently amaze our customers Sunday Times #9 through their friendly expertise.
To achieve this, we continue to invest heavily in our Gears in Retail, apprenticeship and leadership Developing Potential Award development programmes and actively look for ways in which we can promote and increase the diversity of our workforce.
We aim to meet business objectives by motivating and encouraging FTSE4GOOD Index all colleagues to be responsive to the needs of our customers and continually improve operational performance.
This aim is delivered through a range of structured training and development programmes, such as Gears in Retail, where Retail colleagues progress through a structured series of e-learning, technical workshops, one-on-one coaching and shop floor experience modules and are then recognised for their success through certification, career progression and increased pay awards.
Our Performance Cycling division, which trades as Tredz and Wheelies, is undertaking a series of colleague training and development programmes.
These include: customer focused training for retail and call centre colleagues: offering apprenticeships for colleagues in business, administration, customer service, management and team leading.
Those colleagues who complete these programmes achieve 24 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 nationally recognised qualifications.
In addition, those colleagues Friendly expertise who work in our Cycle Republic stores also undertake store supplier As a business, one of our central strategies is to offer great products training which is provided by various major cycling brands.
that are delivered with great service.
This is one of the five key strategic pillars of our business.
We refer to it as Service in Our Halfords Autocentres runs, in conjunction with the Institute of DNA.
To achieve the highest possible levels of service we invest Motor Industry IMI, a number of Technical Training Courses that heavily in training our colleagues.
As part of this investment we have are designed to develop colleagues skills.
Similar to Retail, it has developed a qualification programme called Gears in Retail.
This its own version of the Gears in Retail programme which supports plays a key role in enabling retail colleagues to achieve industry colleagues development and rewards via a pay matrix.
They are rewarded as they progress has become the first organisation in 50 years to be authorised by through the gears by gaining experience and qualifications.
the DVSA to train MOT Testers in-house.
Autocentres has embarked on training its technicians in the latest Hybrid technology and has All colleagues complete Gear 1 within three months of starting.
Gear worked with the IMI to train 392 technicians in the IMI Hybrid Level 2 2 involves a nine-month programme leading to an expert level of in Servicing.
knowledge with a specialism in either Auto & Leisure or Cycling.
By the end of FY18, over 70% of the eligible headcount were trained We also run a series of Leadership Development programmes, called to Gear 2 level.
Colleagues can also complete Gear 3 if nominated Aspire, to identify, nurture and develop colleagues across the Group.
which gives them technician status in either Auto or Cycling and This continues our drive to develop and therefore promote, from enables them to complete complex fits and repairs.
around 10% of eligible colleagues trained to Gear 3 level.
We continue to invest in our apprenticeship programme in both We continually enhance and update our training programmes.
our Retail and Autocentres businesses.
In our Retail business, this This year we delivered additional training following new car seat continued investment has meant that since June 2017 all new legislation and the colleagues who work in our in-store Bikehuts starters in our shops are enrolled onto our Retail Level 2 Gears benefited from specialist training on electric bikes e-bikes.
And at Halfords Autocentres we have one of the largest apprenticeship schemes in light vehicle In accordance with our aim to lead the way in the repair of electric maintenance in the UK.
We currently have 193 apprentices at and hybrid cars, we also began a programme to have a trained differing stages of our three-year programme, and expect a further mechanic at each of our Autocentres in 2018.
As mentioned above 100 to join in 2018. we were one of the first to deliver a new Institute of Motor Industry IMI Level 2 Award and our aim is to train more than 300 colleagues We are committed to providing equality of opportunity to colleagues to become MOT testers every year.
This applies to recruitment, training, career development and promotion for all colleagues, regardless of physical We have a policy of continuous improvement to support ongoing ability, gender, sexual orientation or gender reassignment, pregnancy development.
We use a blended learning approach which and maternity, race, religious beliefs, age, nationality or ethnic origin.
encourages colleagues to attain more skills and progress their Full and fair consideration is given to employment applications by career throughout their Halfords journey.
In 2017, thousands people with disabilities wherever suitable opportunities exist, having of colleagues took advantage of our ongoing development regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
We operate a programme named Aspire, which is Diversity Policy which is reviewed annually by the Board and training a guided learning suite that offers individuals the opportunity to and career development support is provided where appropriate.
Should a colleague become disabled, efforts are made to ensure their continued employment with the Group, with retraining being provided if necessary.
We have an established framework of communications, which provides colleagues with information on matters of concern to them and on overall business performance.
We seek to encourage the engagement of every colleague to ensure the delivery of the Boards commitment to high standards of customer care and service provision.
This includes a programme of regular conferences to share progress, strategy and direction, a monthly magazine for all Group colleagues, team meetings known as huddles, a weekly blog from the Chief Executive Officer, as well as channels to share operational information.
A Whistleblowing Policy and supporting procedures enable colleagues to report concerns on matters affecting the Group or their employment, without fear of recrimination.
In addition, we do not tolerate discrimination, harassment or bullying in any aspects of our business operations.
Appropriate and robust policies and procedures are in place for reporting and dealing with such matters.
com 25 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Corporate Social Responsibility take their careers further and become leaders.
Since it began, 420 Diversity colleagues have benefited from the Aspire programme to graduate Total Women to new roles as an Assistant Manager or a Store Manager.
One of the additional benefits of Aspire is that over 80% of store manager Female 27% vacancies are filled internally.
2017: 23% Male 73% Right job, right person, right time We recognise the value that diversity brings and we continue on our journey to address the balance in some inherently male-dominated areas.
We understand that this will take time but in recent years we have made great progress on our gender strategy.
As an example, 27% of our total population of employees are female which is an increase from 23% in 2017.
We have also introduced development resources aimed specifically at supporting women.
Women on the Board In our Retail business, we continue to invest in our apprenticeship Female 33% programme and will be launching the new apprenticeship standards 2017: 50% this academic year.
In addition, our traineeship programme for Male 67% NEETS not in education, employment or training has resulted in the placing of 159 trainees to date.
Our work at Onley Prison where we train inmates to build and repair bikes, with a view to offering future employment for those who successfully pass our qualifying criteria, has been a great success.
We are very proud that this programme won Retail Weeks 2017 CSR Initiative of the Year.
We have built on this success and during the year opened a second Cycle Academy at Drake Hall Womens Prison.
Women in Senior Management Team Upon release, one of the graduates of our Cycle Academy started as a bike technician at one of our stores and is now training to be an Female 26% Assistant Manager.
2017: 40% Male 74% A commitment to reducing our Gender Pay Gap The Gender Pay Gap Report highlighted that across the Halfords Group of companies, our mean and median hourly pay gap is less than the national average, with a womens mean hourly rate being 6.12% lower than mens and the median hourly rate 2.83% lower than mens.
But our focus remains on two areas, firstly increasing the overall number of women at Halfords and secondly increasing the number of women appointed into and promoted into more senior roles, with the number of women in senior management roles continuing to grow.
This has seen us enhance our recruitment process to ensure more females are appointed, and managers have been retrained to support this.
Our internal progression programmes are reviewed and monitored to ensure increasing levels of female applicants and we have also enhanced our maternity pay package, whilst additionally providing flexible work patterns to match the needs of a broad range of colleagues.
Our Gender Pay Metrics can be found online at www.
pdf 26 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 Case Study Halfords helps women offenders get their lives back on track Halfords now works across two locations at Onley Prison near Fully supported by Halfords colleagues, participants are Rugby and Drake Hall, Staffordshire.
As the UK continues to subject to the same high standards of training as colleagues battle high reoffending rates, with 83% of former prisoners in Halfords shops.
The training programme is thorough and remaining jobless a year after release, the UKs biggest cycling comprehensive.
It is designed to challenge participants and retailer is encouraging other businesses to follow suit and open raise their aspirations.
The programme provides offenders with up to the possibilities of an increase in the talent pool, lowering the opportunity to be trained and work on bicycles that are the cost of reoffending and contributing to safer communities being reconditioned.
The majority of these fully refurbished for all.
bikes are then donated to primary schools in disadvantaged areas which helps children access cycling through the Halfords The Halfords Academy at HMP Drake Hall was launched one school bike donation scheme.
year ago with the support of Justice Minister Phillip Lee.
The Halfords Academy offers participants the opportunity to Even though women only constitute approximately 5% of the train as Cycle Mechanics, creating the prospect of steady total prison population, research has shown that a genderemployment and a chance to put their past firmly behind them.
sensitive approach with a focused and targeted effort can lead The programme can be tailored for each participant with an to a significant reduction in their reoffending rates.
At Halfords added focus on mechanics, customer services or retail.
we were delighted to be involved with this project which offers potentially life transforming opportunities to participants.
Within a year of launch, the Halfords Academy has been a huge success and is currently training nine female offenders.
Two graduates have already joined Halfords as full-time Cycle Mechanics following their release, and another two graduates are due to start employment soon following their release from HMP Drake Hall on temporary licence.
com 27 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Corporate Social Responsibility Community 30,000 Using our knowledge and expertise to benefit the communities around us People benefited from free workshops Helping to keep families safer on their journeys and encouraging an active lifestyle We continue to believe that we have a key role to play in encouraging people to cycle more as part of an active lifestyle.
To this end, we have continued with our school bike workshops, focused on primary school children.
We have increased our investment by 44% and added an additional 715 schools to our database to help drive attendance.
Pleasingly, Customer feedback has improved 5% Year on Year.
In June, we supported Bike Week 2017 with Cycling UK and continue to grow our relationship with Bikeability.
We are currently looking at how we can increase our focus in this area next year.
Case Study Journey of a Lifetime Last year we created our Journey of a Lifetime competition.
This enables the winners to undertake an epic journey with their fellow colleagues.
It not only provides a great experience for them but is also used to raise funds for the NSPCC which is our nominated charity as it was selected by a vote of our colleagues.
Following the success of the first trip in February 2017, when a team of colleagues raised funds, collected bikes, loaded a container and followed it over to Gambia, where they met with partners on the ground and delivered bike workshops to local children, we have repeated this competition this year.
The 2018 winners trekked to Everest Base Camp where they built a bike and hung pennants which had been created specially by children who have benefited from holidays provided by NSPCC.
The team raised 25,233.94 for NSPCC.
It was a tough but hugely beneficial trip and the winning colleagues really did experience a Journey of Lifetime.
28 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 Halfords AR2018 Strategic.
indd 28 11 06 2018 12:54:34 25675 11 June 2018 12:50 PM Proof 10 Case Study 3-Gears training In 2013 we launched 3-Gears, a qualification programme GEAR 3 Gear 3 colleagues are our Technicians.
They are that trains and rewards colleagues for gaining expertise.
product experts who are qualified to perform more advanced services.
They keep their skills and knowledge current and The programme is now well embedded and is absolutely core to market leading - through workshops, attending product and our customer-centric, service-led proposition.
trade shows and by linking with and visiting suppliers.
Our 80% of our customers want some form of assistance with Technicians also receive industry recognised qualifications, their purchases and so it is imperative that we have a team of continuous professional development and a pay award.
At the end of FY18, over 70% of our colleagues had qualified for Gear 2 and we had over 700 Gear 3 level colleagues.
There The three Gears represent the different stages of qualification: are many benefits of this investment in training.
We have more GEAR 1 Gear 1 applies to all colleagues and is completed over multi-skilled colleagues: an average of eight Gear 2 trained their first three-month period with Halfords.
We use structured fitters per store, up from only a handful three years ago.
The e-learning modules that cover health & safety, processes & benefits of this training are demonstrated by our improved policies, retail skills and customer service.
The outcome is colleague engagement score and 9th placing in the Sunday that all store colleagues will be qualified to serve customers Times Best Big Companies To Work For.
confidently and receive a pay award.
GEAR 2 Gear 2 involves a nine-month training programme which leads to an expert level of product knowledge, with a specialism in either motoring or cycling.
Learning is through e-learning, in-store practical and face-to-face training programmes.
There are regular refresher courses for Gear 2 colleagues and a pay award for those who attain this level.
com 29 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Corporate Social Responsibility Environment 96% The environmental resources Halfords uses in its operations.
Retail waste diverted from landfill 2017: 94% 94% Autocentres waste diverted from landfill 2017: 91% 226,260 Batteries recycled by Retail and Autocentres 2017: 274,000 Managing our impact on the environment in a responsible and ethical manner We know that our work has an impact on the environment and that we have a duty to manage that impact in a responsible and ethical manner.
We do this through identifying all significant environmental impacts and putting processes into place to prevent, reduce and mitigate them.
To meet our commitment of protecting the environment, we aim to: comply with all relevant environmental legislation: operate our business in a way that protects the environment: promote environmental awareness to colleagues and enlist their support in improving the Companys performance with training and instruction: minimise waste by making sure processes are as efficient as possible: look to reduce energy and water usage: promote recycling internally and with our suppliers and customers: minimise the environmental impact of our logistics activities: and continually develop our environmental management system.
Additionally, we already ensure that our suppliers give preference to the use of recycled materials in the manufacturing and packaging of our goods and to help achieve this we have a clause in our standard terms of business with the suppliers who provide the goods that are sold in our stores which requires them to: i use reasonable endeavours to minimise the packaging use: and ii conduct an annual review of their packaging to make sure they are using recycled or recyclable materials wherever possible.
30 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 Halfords AR2018 Strategic.
indd 30 11 06 2018 12:54:36 25675 11 June 2018 12:50 PM Proof 10 Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2016 2017 2018 Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions tCO2E tCO2E tCO2E Retail inc Cycle Republic Directly Purchased Electricity 28,507.45 18,448.01 19,638.34 Autocentres Directly Purchased Electricity 4,648.26 3,379.41 2,790.05 Tredz and Wheelies Directly Purchased Electricity N A N A 88.27 Halfords Group Directly Purchased Electricity N A N A 22,516.66 Retail inc Cycle Republic Combustion of Gas 6,488.28 7,035.65 6,187.43 Autocentres Combustion of Gas 3,329.25 3,339.91 3,483.44 Tredz and Wheelies Combustion of Gas N A N A 17.84 Halfords Group Combustion of Gas N A N A 9,688.71 Cars on Company Business 889.22 911.45 1,080.00 TOTAL 43,862.46 33,114.43 33,285.37 Companys Chosen Intensity Measurement: tCO2 E per 1m Group Revenue 42.90 33.10 29.32 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 31 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Corporate Social Responsibility Responsible Management 41,965 Building and maintaining the highest standards amongst our suppliers Bikes recycled to date Responsible Trading We are committed to maintaining the highest standards amongst our suppliers.
We are strongly opposed to the exploitation of workers and we will not tolerate forced labour, or labour which involves physical, verbal or psychological harassment, or intimidation of any kind.
We will not accept human trafficking or the exploitation of children and young people in our business and undertake all possible steps to ensure that these high standards are maintained.
We regularly review related policies to ensure that they remain up-to-date and fit-for-purpose.
Our principles are based on International standards, including the International Labour Organisation ILO conventions and recommendations, which in turn are based on the United Nations UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Convention on Rights of the Child.
As required by applicable regulation we have set out our Modern Slavery Statement on our website and are conducting an audit of our supply chain.
While this audit is not yet fully complete the data and response received so far has been extremely positive and no instances of unacceptable conduct have been reported.
com investors governance 32 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10
