Strategic Report UN Sustainable Development Goals Halma is committed to growing asafer, cleaner, healthier future foreveryone, every day.
By setting this common purpose, our businesses have a mandate to make The global challenge a difference in the world.
Every day, Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning.
Halma companies provide solutions Our role through a wide range of products Since 2012, Halma has welcomed 73 graduates onto our two year-long leadership development programme.
that protect and improve the quality Additionally, last year marked the 50th anniversary of Keelers Scholarship Trust, and nearly three decades of of life for people worldwide.
To date, 100 trainees have been supported by Keeler with 16 fellowships awarded.
These vital schemes support the next generation in STEM science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
The global challenge The global challenge End poverty in all its formseverywhere.
Achieve gender equality and empower all women andgirls.
Our role Halma companies provide equal access to paid Our role work, and education and training to our employees At Board level, four of our ten executive and worldwide.
Elfab has a local educational outreach non-executive roles are filled by women.
Halma is programme aimed at helping the most vulnerable committed to promoting diversity and inclusion in the school-aged children understand what career workplace and will continue to encourage and support pathsand opportunities are available to them.
more women into leadership roles.
We are proud to be a member of the 30% Club a campaign group calling for better gender balance through voluntary action.
The global challenge End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture.
The global challenge Ensure access to water and sanitation for all.
Our role Technology produced by Halma companies helps Our role the agriculture industry to maximise crop growth Clean water can be a scarce resource and and cultivation.
HWMs COMLog was installed particularly so in areas that lack water supply through for thePhilippines Sugar Regulatory Authority inadequate infrastructure or in the aftermath of a to help measure unique weather conditions natural disaster.
Water testing company Palintest andcommunicatethisto farmers.
specialises in supplying portable water testing kits to aid agencies, such as Unicef.
The kits have become avital tool for emergency response teams and those The global challenge workingindeveloping countries.
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all atallages.
The global challenge Our role Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and Halmas medical technology helps to diagnose modern energy for all.
and treat disease earlier and more accurately.
For example, eye care companies Volk and Keeler have the Our role technology to eradicate preventable blindness.
Also at Innovative technology produced by Halma companies the cutting edge of medical science, Alicat is working plays a positive role in improving the safety and security with a customer to provide flow measurement for of the energy industry, including fire suppression in artificial heart drivers for transplant patients.
wind turbines and electricity usage monitoring for major commercial users.
42 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report The global challenge The global challenge Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, Take urgent action to combat climate change and employment and decent work for all.
Our role Our role In 2017, we launched our first all employee engagement As a major global supplier of sensor technology to survey to help us ensure that we motivate, engage measure environmental changes and detect harmful and empower employees across Halma and create emissions, we have a long-term commitment to the culture that will enable our success.
The results helping monitor and mitigate the impact of industrial for 2018 were very encouraging, with nearly 8 out of activities.
PermaPure technology captures high-quality 10 Halma employees providing their feedback and emission measurements, reporting real-time data 75%reportingto be highly engaged.
The global challenge The global challenge Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and industrialisation and foster innovation.
Our role Our role Industry 4.0 presents a challenge and enormous Hanovias ballast technology protects marine life by opportunity to Halma.
Fortress Interlocks is helping eliminating harmful bacteria from a ships ballast water customers move from traditional machine guarding before it is pumped back out into the ocean.
Ocean to smart interlocks, helping them transition safely Optics spectrometers embedded into marine emission tonew technologies, such as collaborative robots sensors deployed on ships at sea, help to reduce andautomation.
The global challenge The global challenge Reduce inequality within and among countries.
Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss.
Our role We require our employees to act fairly in their Our role dealingswith fellow employees, customers, Labspheres satellite technology is helping monitor suppliersand business partners.
Our worldwide the planets health from space, including identifying Codeof Conduct sets out ethical standards across desertification and deforestation.
thegroup, and our policies and procedures adhere tothe Modern Slavery Act.
The global challenge Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies.
The global challenge Our role Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
Halma requires its employees to act fairly with Our role fellowemployees, customers, suppliers and business As part of our mission we strive to promote a safer partners.
Our culture is one of openness, integrity and future for everyone, one way in which we do this is accountability.
Halmas Code of Conduct applies to through our fire prevention and detection systems.
all Group company employees and external business Industry-leading fire detector specialists Apollo are partners to ensure that we maintain high ethical helping communities to protect themselves from standards worldwide.
The global challenge The global challenge Revitalise the global partnership for Ensure sustainable consumption and production .
Our role Our role Halma has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK index Sensor technology produced by our companies helps since its establishment in July 2001.
Halma creates promote responsible consumption and production for wealth responsibly allowing our employees, customers, both businesses and consumers.
For example, ASLs business partners and shareholders to determine leading data technology uses smart electricity and wherethis wealth is best distributed.
solar power meters to help energy customers monitor consumption and use data to improve their services.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 43
