Strategic Report Our people Our people Our people Headcount Group UK and Ireland France 533 409 124 2017: 587 2017: 449 2017: 138 Voluntary staff turnover Group UK and Ireland France Mark Duhig Group HR Director 13.4% 1 2.2% 17.1% 2017: 12.0% 2017: 13.2% 2017: 8.7% Firstly, we want to enhance our leasing As in previous years, during the course of the A people strategy to support expertise and sales skills to refresh our tenant year we made a number of other senior our evolving business line-up.
Secondly, we will look to bring in management appointments.
The majority Our people strategy is a key component of our fresh talent and to develop skill within our were filled by internal candidates who had business, enabling us to achieve our objectives current workforce to drive forward our new previously been identified as senior leaders and evolve over time.
We aim to attract, develop City Quarters concept.
And finally, it is ofthe future as part of our succession and retain talent by offering a compelling essential to strengthen our digital and planning activities.
Of particular note was employee proposition to make us an employer marketing skills as we invest more heavily in theappointment of our first Director of of choice for the best and brightest.
technology, customer experience and events.
This These changes will create new roles and new role is already working closely with the We are also committed to fostering an inclusive demand different skillsets, which will provide GEC to monitor and support the delivery culture that supports and inspires our exciting opportunities for existing colleagues ofour strategy and identify future trends workforce.
Furthermore, we remain focused on and new hires.
building diverse teams across the business and redressing the gender balance in our Our success in identifying and nurturing Nurturing our talent traditionally male-dominated industry.
internal talent is an on going success story Aligned with the objectives of our strategy, and our track record in filling senior in 2018 we made a number of significant Opportunities, roles and skills management roles through internal mobility changes to our senior management team.
We aligned with our strategy is something we are proud of.
However, as we broadened our Group Executive Committee execute our strategy we will also be looking to Our strategy has important and far-reaching GEC to ensure we are as well placed as create new roles across the Group and to hire implications for how we manage our people.
possible to face the challenges of an everpeople from a much broader range of Wealready employ and recruit people with an changing retail environment.
excellent understanding of the retail and property industries.
However, to ensure our As a result, all country heads are now future performance, we will need to use a represented on the GEC.
Furthermore, combination of recruitment and training to the inclusion of our Group Marketing and nurture the expertise that exists within Communications Director reflects the thebusiness.
growing importance of brand and customer experience to our business.
Whilst the appointment of our Group Human Resources Director to the GEC further demonstrates the strategic value we place on our people and developing talent.
com 41 Our people continued 2018, we have been working on developing A learning offer to develop Employee survey our employee value proposition which we will our talent be launching, linked to our values, in 2019. highlights In 2018 we launched the Hammerson Learning Management System LMS in the Steady progress towards Employee participation UK and Ireland.
The system hosts e-learning diversity material with modules ranging from personal Developing a more inclusive business is development to management training and important to us.
83% also includes many of our compliance training courses.
Furthermore, it acts as a portal to the 2017: Over 80% In 2017, we increased our target for female huge suite of programmes provided by our representation in senior management roles to external training partner, QA Training.
a third, aligned with the voluntary objective Trust Index Score in UK and set by the Hampton-Alexander review.
As at The LMS includes an induction module that Ireland the end of 2018, we exceeded this target all new starters in the UK and Ireland are within our UK and Ireland business and required to complete within four weeks of female representation now stands at 35%.
It covers policies and 65% real terms this means that 13 of our 37 senior procedures in our Code of Conduct including 2017: 71% management positions are held by women.
In whistleblowing, the EUs General Data France, we have seen a slight improvement in Protection Regulation, that came into force our senior management gender mix and this Trust Index Score in France this year, and anti-bribery and corruption now stands at 22%, a figure we remain training.
We will be rolling this out in France committed to improving over time.
75% In looking more broadly at gender Fostering an inclusive culture representation within the business, we have 2017: 72% We are committed to fostering a culture of also considered the split of our GEC and their inclusion and diversity, driven by a direct reports.
Under this measure, 39% of Employees state Hammerson is programme of workplace events and employees in such roles are female, a figure a great place to work specialised training.
Recently, we have which puts Hammerson in the upper quartile focused on raising awareness of mental health amongst its UK listed peers.
issues through a series of training sessions 71% undertaken by management across the We are also keen to ensure that female colleagues are well represented in the Groups organisation.
Five programmes took place in 2017: 75% 2018 and we are now working with the UK professional level roles.
This enables us to benefit from greater diversity on a day-to-day Mental Health Awareness Board to develop an e-learning module to be made available to basis, create a more gender balanced senior management pipeline and achieve the all employees in 2019 via the LMS.
At the end of 2018, To help managers support their teams we 46% of the Groups professional positions have also delivered a series of workshops for were filled by women.
senior colleagues on change management and equipped them with a suite of tools to Our competency-based selection process for both new recruits and promotions is testing implement this effectively.
We are aware that the coming year will remain a challenging and ensures we attract and promote the best talent and skills for the business.
We welcome one, during which positive management will be crucial to keeping teams focused, engaged and fully consider all applications irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, age, sexual and motivated.
We want to ensure We have recently launched our Group Hammerson is a company where colleagues Employee Forum, which will consist of a can be themselves and thrive both personally diverse cross-section of colleagues from and professionally and all employees are across the business.
The purpose of the encouraged to participate in our career Forum is to facilitate dialogue between development and promotion opportunities.
colleagues and senior management and it will Support also exists for employees who be influential in shaping our people related become disabled to continue in their activities.
In addition, the Forum will be employment or to be retrained for other encouraged to generate and recommend new suitable roles.
and creative ideas in order to help the business improve performance and drive employee engagement.
Our values ambition, respect, collaboration and responsibility continue to play a key role in guiding our behaviours and maintaining our positive culture.
During the latter part of 42 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Our people Chart 16 Gender pay gap reporting All employees Following the legislation that came into force in April 2018, all companies in the UK with over 250 employees are now required to publish their gender pay gap.
As was the case last year, we are not required to report our gender pay gap as neither of our relevant employment entities employs more than 250 people.
However, given our support for gender equality and the 240 importance we place on ensuring that fair pay and reward practices exist within the Group, we choose to do so.
293 Tables 19 and 20 illustrate the gender pay distribution across our UK workforce and compares this years results with those published in our 2017 Annual Report.
Table 19 Gender pay gap Pay element 2018 2017 Variance Difference in mean hourly rate of pay 43.6% 47.1% 3.5% Chart 17 Difference in median hourly rate of pay 27.0% 35.6% 8.6% Senior management Proportion of male employees who 1 excluding Board received bonus pay 87.4% 91.1% 3.7% Proportion of female employees who received bonus pay 90.5% 89.6% 0.9% 29 Difference in mean bonus pay 78.7% 66.6% 12.1% 15 Difference in median bonus pay 56.3% 48.6% 7.7% Whilst we are pleased with the variance reduction in our mean and median hourly rates of pay, we are aware that these figures show a significant pay gap between male and female employees within our UK business.
This is a consequence of male employees occupying a higher proportion of our senior management roles and, as a result of proactive measures being taken to improve the gender balance of this population, we expect that this gap will continue to reduce over time.
In addition to reporting on the proportion of male and female employees in each quartile, Chart 18 Table20 also shows the gender pay gap within each quartile.
This supports our analysis of the root cause of our pay gap and we are pleased by the minimal variances in the lower, lower middle Centre general managers and upper middle quartiles.
The larger gap within the upper quartile is a further demonstration of the impact of male employees occupying a higher proportion of the most senior roles in the business and improving the gender split at these levels is a key people objective for the business.
Data includes Peter Cole and Jean-Philippe Mouton who were executive directors until 31 December 2018.
The Board gender split is included in the Nomination Committee Report on page 78. www.
