Sustainability review Positive Places Destinations that deliver Net Positive impacts economically, socially and environmentally.
This approach delivered strong results again Our 2018 highlights for the business in 2018.
We continued to drive operational excellence, saving cost and carbon through efficiencies and good 19% management alongside investment in Year-on-year improvement in business impactful technologies bringing clear returns.
The 11% year-on-year reduction in carbon carbon intensity, one of our corporate KPIs emissions brings total emissions reduction to 22% since 2015, whilst growing the portfolio.
11% Reviewing our sustainability Year-on-year reduction in carbon emissions priorities across our UK, France and Ireland portfolios Louise Ellison Our overarching sustainability priorities Group Head of Sustainability are climate change and social impact.
These two fundamental challenges drive our 11% 2018 has seen a step-change in the sustainability thinking.
We shape our strategy significance of sustainability for the by focusing on areas that link our business Year-on-year reduction in energy demand for business community and for society more activities with these two priorities.
This keeps the EPRA like-for-like portfolio widely.
The awareness that began with the us focused on those areas where we can have Paris Climate Accord in December 2015 the most significant impact.
has gained momentum with major media 790k events such as Blue Planet 2, increasingly Chart 11 frequent extreme weather events, public Year-onyear energy cost savings concerns over plastics and food waste and Energy demand EPRA LfL the most recent predictions of the portfolio Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 120,000 Gas 100% Change.
There is a clear and growing 20,943 Electricity 100,000 expectation from investors and other 17,198 Renewable electricity contracts across UK 88,722 80,000 stakeholders that businesses understand 79,923 and Ireland assets our exposure to climate risk in particular, 60,000 and have a relevant, meaningful response.
40,000 Positive Places, the sustainability 75% 20,000 programme we began over ten years ago, was designed to deliver on exactly this 0 Operational waste recycled 2017 : 73% 2017 2018 agenda.
It continues to demonstrate leadership, delivered successful outcomes for all our stakeholders in 2018 and will do Chart 12 150 the same in 2019.
Carbon emissions EPRA LfL Business start-ups supported in UK, Ireland portfolio Targets based on robust, and France through Pop-Up Business and 30,000 Scope 2 Initiative France science based data 23,246 Scope 1 25,000 Delivering on this agenda starts with the 18,807 20,000 challenging annual targets we set for each asset.
Based on a robust, science-based 15,000 analysis of our carbon footprint, completed in 10,000 2016, asset level targets are set to support 5,000 achieving our corporate Net Positive target by 5,317 4,755 2030, going significantly beyond that 0 2017 2018 required to achieve a 1.5 degree climate change scenario.
34 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 mTonnes CO e MWh 2 Strategic Report Sustainability review Our assets are not exposed to significant 2018 materiality review Our material issues immediate climate risk.
However, having During 2018 we carried out a materiality completed this study we are now in a position Our 2018 materiality review confirmed review, engaging with key stakeholders to to work with our suppliers to reflect the that our sustainability strategy is focused understand their perspective on results in our planned maintenance work and on the right areas.
It also revealed sustainability and how that may have changed business plans, ensuring the continued changes in stakeholder priorities.
since our last review, four years ago.
resilience of the portfolio in a timely, cost effective and managed way.
Topics moving upwards include: Our discussions identified new and emerging issues for us to focus on within the key themes Increasing ESG reporting Reporting and Governance of climate change and social impact see box requirements and confirmed that our key material Climate Risk sustainability issues remain: Another key insight from our materiality Sustainable product review was the significant increase in Energy security and demand importance our investors are placing on clear Building labels Minimising use of resources environmental, social and governance ESG strategies and robust, detailed reporting.
Local community engagement Place making Our long-term, strategic approach to As we expected there was an increased focus New issues to emerge include: sustainability places us at the forefront of our on climate risk from our investor stakeholders.
sector in being able to respond to this Understanding our exposure to these risks and Air quality expectation in a positive way.
We provide having a clear strategy for managing them is Carbon pricing extensive reporting of our sustainability expected as part of effective businesses performance and outcomes annually along management as set out in the recommendations Accessibility and demographic change with updates on projects and initiatives of the Task Force for Climate-Related Financial UN Sustainable Development Goals through the year via social media and our TCFD Disclosures.
For more on our materiality Related to this is an increasing concern amongst review see our 2018 Positive We are benchmarked by a number of industry our investors with transition risk - how our Places report at www.
and investment benchmarks with assets and performance might be affected by sustainability.
consistently high performance within our regional, national and international policies com.
sector see Table 13. implemented to mitigate climate change and its related impacts.
Generating value for the Responding to the focus on We are already experiencing this in the UK in the business climate risk form of the Climate Change Levy, differential Positive Places delivers both direct and Having established a long term, consistent energy pricing for periods of peak demand and indirect value for the business.
Financial approach to addressing sustainability, we are Clean Air Zone policies.
Bristol is the first UK benefits flow directly to the Group through already looking in detail at climate risk.
We city to have set a target to be Carbon Net Zero by energy cost savings and income from completed a climate risk assessment for our 2030, matching our target.
In Ireland, the EUs renewable power generation.
During 2018 managed assets in 2018 using 2030 and 2050 Nearly Net Zero Energy Buildings requirements energy efficiencies alone saved 790k for the climate scenarios.
This means we understand are being adopted early.
business and our tenants, whilst reducing where those risks lie for our assets.
Two key exposure to energy supply risk and carbon Our focus on energy management specifically areas were identified: emissions.
These benefits are driven by addresses these risks and our development potential over-heating during higher proactive management as well as investment teams are experienced in reflecting tough summer peak temperatures in technology.
All capital investments in targets in our planned schemes.
Our Net environmental improvements are supported Positive approach and thinking is being potential surface water flooding through by a clear business case and return.
embedded into our City Quarters strategy, extreme rainfall.
aligning our approach with these key Indirect benefits include savings to service stakeholder targets and ambitions.
charge, boosting footfall and inspiring visitor loyalty with community engagement Table 13 initiatives, all of which make our centres more ESG benchmarking scores attractive to retailers.
Our strategy helps build 2018 2017 our social capital as a trusted partner supporting our relationships with important Carbon Disclosure Project B Bstakeholders such as our investors, local GRESB Green Star 4, 75 Green Star 4, 77 authorities and community groups.
FTSE 4 Good Percentile 91, ESG Percentile 91, ESG Rating: 3.9 5 Rating: 3.6 5 Achieving positive environmental and social Dow Jones Sustainability Index 66 63 outcomes while lowering costs is an important part of making our venues the first EPRA sBPR Gold Award Gold Award choice for the best brands.
com 35 The energy evolution A constant, reliable supply of affordable energy exposure, and therefore our tenants exposure, significantly in 2019 so are monitoring this is fundamental to the modern economy.
to some of these risks such as peak pricing and market closely.
However, in its traditional, fossil fuel form it is the rising regulatory costs of energy.
This strategy links closely with our thinking also a major threat to the modern economy.
More interestingly, the growing requirement on electrical vehicle charging EV.
The This conundrum is presenting major for grid balancing reducing demand when transition to EV is already happening and in challenges for business including: the grid is under particular stress - is a conjunction with an increase in 'transport as a Securing long-term supply potential opportunity.
Investment in service' is expected to change our relationship smartmetering in eight of our UK assets with the car.
Rising regulatory costs such as climate means we can begin to engage with the grid change levy and carbon pricing Use of EV charging points installed across our balancing market.
Spiking energy prices during periods of venues is rising but is yet to reach capacity.
high demand Our work with GridEdge, an award winning Our focus for 2019 is to raise awareness of the City level policies to improve air quality tech start-up from Aston University, will give availability of these facilities, particularly as us the opportunity to take grid balancing to dwell times are increased by up to 60 minutes Development control requirements for another level.
Using machine learning when visitors are charging cars.
We will clean energy strategies and wider GridEdge can predict the daily energy continue to monitor patterns of charging environmental improvements requirements of the Bullring, allowing us to behaviour and have ensured our venues have Climate risk real estate assets in some reduce energy demand without impacting infrastructure in place to support the geographies are already affected by this customer experience.
This new application of expansion of charging facilities.
Rising shareholder expectations of machine learning or AI fundamentally reducing carbon emissions We are also exploring what charging changes our relationship with the energy infrastructure delivery vehicles may need in Increased risk of future policy market by allowing us to use the intrinsic the future as retailer logistics transitions to interventions to reduce emissions inertia of the building as an energy store.
Combining on-site power generation with are extending our work with GridEdge to a However, with these challenges come demand management, battery storage and EV second asset in 2019. interesting opportunities including: charging will present interesting new opportunities for the business.
Looking to the future On-site power generation On-site renewable power is an important We have had clean electricity contracts in Demand management opportunity for the business.
We have place across our directly managed UK and Grid balancing installed three additional photovoltaic arrays Irish assets for three years.
Our French Energy storage in 2018, bringing our total onsite renewable contracts are very low carbon as the grid is Power purchase agreements with capacity to 1.4mWh.
The second PV array predominantly nuclear power.
Now we are installed at Victoria Gate is our first car port renewable facilities looking to go further and are exploring power system and in addition to generating energy purchase agreements as a potential energy Innovative energy for the centre, also provides a great space for procurement model.
This would enable us to events with fantastic views of Yorkshire!
management use our demand for clean energy to facilitate additional renewable energy supply into the Our Positive Places strategy addresses these Next we will be exploring opportunities to grid, both fide-risking our energy supply and issues in a number of ways.
At the most basic install battery storage capacity and combine supporting our Net Positive carbon level, our approach to energy management and this with on-site electricity generation.
energy purchasing enables us to reduce our expect battery technology to develop 36 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Sustainability review Sustainability review continued World green building week How we deliver UN goals UN goals Positive Places In 2018 we extended our support for World Green Building Week.
Colleagues across the The consistent delivery of positive The UN Sustainable Development Goals were The UN Sustainable Development business were encouraged to support sustainability results requires genuine Goals were raised by a number of our sustainability issues affecting not only raised by a number of our stakeholders and senior-team leadership which brings stakeholders and have clearly gained Hammerson but also their daily lives.
We have clearly gained traction with major cross-business support.
Our Positive Places traction with major corporates and even turned the logo green.
programme and our Net Positive targets are corporates and investors as a helpful strategic investors as a helpful strategic well supported and understood across the sustainability framework for businesses.
Throughout the week, a social media sustainability framework for businesses.
Positive Places has become campaign and short videos informed W We identied the UNSDGs that we are e identied the UNSDGs that we a re embedded within company culture with our Hammerson Twitter and LinkedIn followers most relevant to the business two years most relevant to the business two years ago approach to sustainability consistently about the days Net Positive theme and ago and these continue to be supported by and these continue to be supported by our achieving high scores in the annual Great sustainable actions being taken across the our Positive Places strategy and actions.
Place to Work survey - 86% in 2018, the Positive Places strategy and actions.
Colleagues opted for meat-free highest in the company.
Mondays, calculated their carbon footprint and pledged to reduce their emissions.
We updated our sustainability governance Actions were posted to the Butterfly Bank structure in 2018 to reflect the increased employee engagement platform, and will levelof ownership being taken for delivery of support out Net Positive targets.
sustainability outcomes by each business area.
With Board level responsibility being Linking Positive Places to ledby our Chief Executive, the structure for monitoring progress across the business the Groups strategy along with key responsibilities is clear.
Looking ahead, Positive Places is at the heart Sustainability targets are included within of our City Quarters concept.
Placing personal objectives and cascaded to the sustainability at the heart of our cities, both in teamsfrom head offices through to sitethe design of new buildings but also in the basedoperations.
remodelling and operation of the existing estate will underpin the long term desirability Our Group Head of Sustainability reports and value of each scheme.
New facilities, directly to our Chief Executive, who also public realm and local infrastructure we chairs our Positive Places CR Board.
This deliver will have to respond to a changing Board oversees our sustainability strategy climate and be fit for a low carbon world and performance, monitoring progress and witha changing population.
The knowledge ensuring compliance with legislation.
Three our teams have developed through delivering sustainability Working Groups meet regularly our Positive Places strategy is directly to monitor the progress being made within informing and enriching our City Quarters our Operations, Development and Corporate ambitions to ensure our schemes are resilient teams against our Positive Places objectives.
and bring long term positive change for all ourstakeholders.
Our sustainability governance structure Positive Places Group Executive Committee CR Board Hammerson UK & Ireland Management Board France CR Working Groups Corporate Sustainability Positive Places Development Operational Excellence www.
com 37 Case study and our centre management team were able Focusing on accessibility Whilst Hammerson to navigate an obstacle course with a guide Purple Day 2018 are always incredibly dog, whilst blindfolded, to get a brief insight We strive to ensure our assets provide a into what a visually impaired person inspiring to work welcoming and accessible environment for experiences when visiting the centre.
In November 2018, Hammerson was pleased to support Purple Tuesday, the At Bullring, athletes from the British outdid themselves in UKs first day dedicated to the needs of Wheelchair Basketball team demonstrated their support for disabled shoppers, co-ordinated by Revo and their skills, and encouraged visitors to try out disability organisation, Purple.
Retailers and wheelchair basketball for themselves.
Purple Tuesday right shopping destinations across the country Freefall Dance Company, a partnership across their UK introduced new measures to make the between Birmingham Royal Ballet and Fox shopping experience more inclusive for Hollies Performing Arts College, performed portfolio.
a piece specifically choreographed for Purple inviting charities into Tuesday, showcasing ten dancers with All Hammerson UK city-centre assets centres, teaming up learning disabilities.
supported Purple Day, collaborating with with them locally, our tenants, disability groups and Next steps... holding quiet hours organisations to deliver a range of initiatives Since Purple Tuesday, The Oracle has and events.
These aimed to address some of for customers and a launched a Safe Places scheme.
Safe Places the difficulties those with a disability aims to help people with a disability feel whole host of other experience whilst shopping and to assess the confident and safe whilst visiting the centre.
most impactful long-term measures we activities, the support To date, 14 brands have signed up to support it.
could undertake to deliver a more positive and endeavour experience for the disabled community, their We are now working with Purple to support families and carers.
shown was Purple Tuesday in 2019 which is shaping up to be an even bigger event.
A range of activities were enjoyed by centre continuing to expand initiatives such as visitors and staff alike.
Volunteers and guide Autism Hour, Disability Confident training, dogs from Guide Dogs UK visited Cabot Samantha Sen and certification and AccessAble audits.
Our Circus to raise awareness and offer advice to DWP Disability Retail Sector Champion, 2019 target for all our UK flagship assets is to customers and brands.
Shoppers, tenants Head of Policy and Campaigns, Revo achieve Disability Confident certification.
38 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Sustainability review Sustainability review continued All About Me Boutique in Croydon is an Positive social excellent example of this work.
A impacts collaboration with Croydon Councils Gateway Employment Service, All About Me Social impact forms the second priority area offered local residents with disabilities the within our Positive Places strategy.
Our opportunity to gain a retail qualification by venues play an important role in generating establishing and managing a store over a three local business opportunities, employment, week period.
Participants learnt about training, new investment and a wealth of running a boutique from stock and display other activities for the local community.
management through to understanding the importance of delivering outstanding Our True Value research shows that our social customer service.
Eleven participants impacts are positive and that our business successfully gained a City & Guilds activities attract significant additional qualification, three have since entered investment into local economies.
However, The Hammerson Ireland team at paidemployment.
the analysis also reveals a wide range of Hillside Resource Community Centre in challenges facing the communities in which Dublin.
Our aim is to optimise the benefits our destinations bring to an area, Our annual Community Day is a highlight in through the creation and delivery of the events calendar.
This year it coincided programmes tailored to specific with National Volunteering Week.
available Hammerson employees are expected to get out of the office on Our community engagement activities focus Community Day and spend time volunteering on four key themes: in our local communities.
employment and skills The turn out this year was as strong as ever.
enterprise Almost 400 employees 75% participated in events in the UK, France and Ireland, young people volunteering over 3,000 hours of time to health and wellbeing worthwhile causes.
Working with local organisations, we identify Employee-led fundraising local needs and focus our community engagement where it will have the greatest Inspire!
brought 30 local school children In addition to Community Day, once again, local impact.
These range from linking those into our head office for the day where this year Hammerson employees have gone furthest from employment with job they set about designing a shopping above and beyond for many charitable causes.
opportunities in our venues to supporting centre.
Over 38k was raised by employees this year projects for under-served groups within from a variety of hiking, cycling and other ourcommunities.
Table 14 During 2018: Beyond supporting different communities, Community investment volunteering and fundraising for good causes 750 community activities and events 2018 2017 has multiple benefits for our staff, including: have been supported by or taken place Direct contribution across our portfolio, 000s 1,699 2,223 Improving teamwork and team Indirect Contribution 472 community organisations have been relationships 000s 312 260 supported Enhancing personal development in areas Number of 100 jobs secured at our assets for local, such as improving organisation, organisations 472 476 previously unemployed people communication, and management skills 150 business start-ups given training Building relationships with a range of support and guidance.
community, voluntary and charitable organisations Our assets are vital pieces of local infrastructure providing a much needed Working within and learning about the local spacefor human interaction in an communities in which Hammerson operates increasingly on-line world.
Research we enriches the experiences of our colleagues carried out this year revealed a worrying whilst reinforcing our local relationships.
sense of isolation within our communities, particularly amongst young people.
This makes the initiatives we run, that encourage engagement with local people, .
com 39 Our Net Positive progress To be Net Positive we must put more back into our environment and our society than we take out.
Net Positive basis of reporting Our Net Positive targets and reporting include the impacts of our portfolio at equity share, corporate impacts including office space and business travel, and the positive impacts of offsets, e. g. provision of power for electric vehicle charging.
This basis of reporting is different to that used for our mandatory GHG emissions and EPRA environmental reporting.
2018 targets 2018 outcomes 2019 plans Continue reducing Our Net Positive Carbon We also offset over 200 tonnes Achieve 13% energy Carbon carbon emissions emissions target is a key focus of emissions by enabling EV saving across Net Positive Net Positive means Install additional area and impacted charging and supporting portfolio carbon emissions renewable electricity by both water and waste.
Continue to expand PV avoided exceed capacity We made excellent progress installation emissions generated.
Energy demand fell by 15% Explore potential against this target in Work with tenants on across Net Positive portfolio significant offset 2018 achieving a 35% more reducing store and CO e by over 9,600 programmes year-on-year reduction in 2 emissions tonnes.
This was driven by Explore further offset a combination of factors opportunities Chart 15 including energy savings, Net Positive carbon emissions improved grid factors in the UK and onsite 30,559 power generation.
27,543 25,404 17,873 13,836 12,260 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Review the use of Net Positive Resource use footprint fell by 28% year-on-year Optimise materials use Resource use materials in the Brent to 5,594 tonnes in 2018 within all development Net Positive means Cross, design to reduce 412 tonnes of virgin materials saved at Cergy Trois designs and major waste avoided, resource impacts Fontaines development using recycled content in concrete refurbishments recycled or re-used Expand our clothes Achieved a recycling rate of 75% across the Net Positive Continue to increase exceeds materials hanger re-use portfolio, 79% in UK and Ireland operational portfolio used that are neither partnership across our recycling rates recycled, renewable or centres Work with retailers to sent to landfill.
Continue to improve support product and recycling rates material reuse initiatives Roll out a utilities Water is potentially our most challenging net positive target.
Utilise Envizi smart Water metering that will Being relatively low cost makes efficiency investment metering platform to drive Net Positive means significantly improve challenging.
However it is scarce global resource.
In 2018 we: further efficiencies water replenished by our ability to manage Installed smart water meters in eight UK assets allowing Implement findings from external projects exceeds water demand daily monitoring of consumption site water audits and extend water consumed from Explore opportunities Carried out water audits at one asset identifying and audits to two further assets mains supply.
for expanding fixingleaks Work with regional water rainwater harvesting Reduced water demand across the NP portfolio by 6% companies to reduce leaks across the portfolio year-on-year and identify offset projects Run Pop-Up Business Continue our Pop-up business events delivered at eight assets Socio-economic programme of Projects delivered at four assets with Initiative France events at assets in UK Net Positive means Over 100 local unemployed people provided with skills andIreland portfolio-wide making a measurable community training and jobs through our employment and skills Run Braveheart schools positive impact on brokerages engagement days in UK engagement initiatives socio-economic issues andIreland relevant to our local Extend our support for communities beyond Purple Day to French a measured baseline.
portfolio Maintain our relationship with Initiative France 40 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018
