CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Hargreaves Lansdown, we want to make sure that our impact on society ispositive and sustainable.
Our approach to corporate citizenship is based on four pillars We are committed to the principle of Corporate Social Responsibility and want it to be embedded, where appropriate into our policies and practices to the benefit of stakeholders and the wider community with long-term sustainable outcomes forall.
Our purpose is to empower people to save and invest with confidence.
Achieving this will help them to make more of their money throughout their lifetime.
Our values are rooted in placing the client at the heart of what we do.
We believe Clients that doing the right thing for clients and colleagues makes great business sense.
We work for the long-term, looking beyond immediate success.
We are committed to managing the environmental impact of our operations, treating our colleagues well and maintaining a great culture and working Environment People environment based on our values.
Communities ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT We have spent time over the last 12 months embedding these five core values with existing colleagues and sharing them with new starters during their induction Clients are at the and then throughout their careers with us.
in e clien fir Our clients play an important role in in e ri in shaping our service, new products and We pride ourselves on our integrity CLIENTS features and we actively encourage their in all our dealings and decisions as views and feedback through surveys and Culture and values a business with the aim of being clear, focus groups.
At Hargreaves ansdown we have an fair and transparent.
embedded culture whereby the interests If clients ever feel the need to complain, We recognise that the views and of clients are always put first and that the complaints handling team carefully experience of our colleagues are they must be treated fairly.
Our people investigates our clients complaint and important and through our Whistleblowing play a key part in developing and driving endeavours to provide them with a fair Policy we encourage our people to this forward.
To identify our key values as and timely resolution.
We benchmark raise any concerns about malpractice a business we look to our colleagues to our performance in treating clients fairly or wrongdoing within the workplace.
provide real insight, an approach which against statistics published annually by Allconcerns are treated with the utmost ensures the values identified are truly the Financial Ombudsman Service for confidence and in full compliance with reflective of us as a team and authentic the industry.
The results for the 2018 thePublic Interest Disclosure Act 18. financial year compared to the last figures We put the client first we never published by the Ombudsman show that All colleagues undergo annual training stop trying to deliver the best client Hargreaves ansdown is both fair and which includes anti-money laundering, experience, always thinking of how our responsive in such circumstances.
Where protecting client money, spotting market services can meet our clients needs.
we make mistakes we will ensure that our abuse, data protection, information Its their future in our hands.
clients do not suffer poor outcomes.
We go the extra mile for our clients and for each other.
We focus on what in e era ile ain i eay we need to do, then do it well, taking Ensuring that we service our clients The easier something is to do, the greater every opportunity to delight, inspire needs and exceed their expectations the number of people who will do it.
wherever we can is important to us and encourage people to engage with their our broad offering means we have the finances and make good decisions we We do the right thing every time.
Were ability to assist clients throughout their aim to make dealing with us as easy and fair, honest and upfront.
Doing what we financial lifetime.
Clients have differing efficient as possible.
Our client experience say we will and the best thing for our financial needs and goals.
istening, team is dedicated to making things easier clients.
Its why they trust us, and how finding solutions and treating them as for people, monitoring frequent problems we earn their loyalty.
individuals ensures we provide our clients and pinch-points on client ourneys We make it easy looking after peoples with an exceptional personal experience.
and using these insights to streamline savings and investments is a serious Examples include opening our helpdesk interactions enabling clients to conduct business, but that doesnt mean it on Sundays and late into the night during their business with the minimum of hassle needs to be complex.
Everything should the ever busy tax year end, to help clients through whichever channel they choose.
be easy to access, understand and do, meet their tax saving deadlines.
Information on our website is easy to giving our clients confidence to make find, application processes only ask for important decisions.
the information we really need, and if We do it better energetically leading you contact us by telephone you will be the way, we seek every chance to do put through directly to a knowledgeable things better and we dare to call out person rather than an automated whats not working well, then we fix it.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our clients range from first time investors, to the highly experienced and the ongoing challenge is to maintain focus on individual client needs and have a broad appeal to How we create anyone who wants to engage in saving and investing.
Our recent rebrand is part of our an inclusive and efforts to make investing more accessible to a wider audience.
diverse workforce: PEOPLE Doing it better respecting and We are committed to attracting, We continue to innovate around our developing and retaining talented clients needs through challenging valuing the people who put our clients at the heart of ourselves to always deliver better contribution of everything we do.
Our people are proud solutions, better services and a better of what they achieve together, and have a experience.
Our recently launched Active all our people.
strong sense of belonging to Hargreaves Savings service provides clients with the ansdown and everyone recognises the same experience with their cash savings crucial role that they play.
as they have with their investments, making it simple and easy to move money Our success is founded on delivering A premier destination for talented people from one account to another to get better incredible client service through the skills Hargreaves ansdown is a premier rates on their cash.
This innovation came and passion of our people who bring our destination for talented people.
The main as a result of listening to our clients and values to life across the business.
We take purpose of our Talent Acquisition strategy the problems they had, before coming up the responsibility of looking after clients is to ensure that we attract and retain the with a market-leading solution.
Only right numbers of talented people to meet from creating trust and true client focus Through our recent investment in the the short, medium and longer term needs through our embedded values can we Active Savings service, improved mobile of the business.
As part of delivering our build long-term relationships and deliver experience and our H Select funds, we strategy we aim to on our strategy to the benefit of both demonstrate our consistent desire to Increase diversity and inclusion and new clients and shareholders.
deliver new ways to help clients with their perspectives bringing new talent and savings and investments.
ideas to the business Our people strategy The strength of our people is pivotal to our Campaigning on behalf of investors Support parents returning to work business and our key areas of focus are We always endeavour to do the right thing Create stronger links with local schools, for our clients and other stakeholders.
To attract, develop and retain colleges, universities and communities We actively seek to lobby via public outstanding people consultation and with policymakers Improve brand awareness amongst where we believe that investors in the UK To embed a culture that puts clients at young talent and millennials will benefit.
Examples include lobbying the heart of everything we do Support future recruitment needs for pension and investment companies To establish a strong talent pipeline like Hargreaves ansdown to help their We offer competitive rewards to attract of people who can deliver our future clients with financial guidance working and retain the right people.
Independently strategic goals with government on retirement savings benchmarked pay and benefits data solutions for the self-employed leading an helps us to do so.
We believe that working industry initiative to improve the transfer together as a team is key to our success of investors money between companies and so to complement pay we include and challenging HMRC on the discount the majority of our colleagues in a tax.
In March 201 Hargreaves ansdown bonus scheme, linked to the success won the discount tax HMRC challenge of Hargreaves ansdown and distributed which would mean the return of around on an individual performance-related 15 million to our clients.
However, HMRC basis identified via a performance has decided to appeal the initial ruling and appraisal system.
we now expect a resolution in the first half of 201.
42 arrea e andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT To encourage employees to share in Career Development Apprenticeship lyee ellein the success of our business we offer CDA which is an apprenticeship for Our people are central to delivering immediate entry into our Save as You Earn colleagues who are already working at H our vison and strategy and ensuring SAYE scheme.
As at 0 une 2018, 55 in a specialist role and would benefit from their well-being is of key importance to of eligible employees were in at least one developing their skills through completing us.
In addition to our excellent rewards SAYE scheme.
In the year to package, we believe a wider curriculum 0 une 2018 there were five people on of activities and support helps to make To complement the direct financial the apprenticeship scheme and we plan H an enoyable place to work and one rewards we provide pension contributions to extend this programme to 12 for the which is attractive to a diverse community.
which includes a double matching scheme summer 2018 intake.
Sport is an important part of daily life and to encourage our colleagues to save a way of engaging and evolving different for their retirement and extended life We offer Internships of 12 weeks paid community groups.
work experience which attract students colleague sports teams, and runs mixed on their summer break.
H first piloted sports and social events on a regular H Rewards, our flexible benefits scheme, the scheme in 201 and interns complete basis.
Many colleagues also do a variety includes health checks, extended holiday various administrative tasks and mini ofsporting activities to raise money for entitlements, medical health cover, a proect work.
Our aim is to implement a our H Foundation.
health cash plan, discount cards, a cycle to structured scheme where students can work scheme and child care vouchers.
gain valuable experience and provide Other initiatives include Personal short-term resource for the business.
We Development, Healthy iving and Healthy idenin r recrien l hope that the interns will return to H on Mind weeks where a range of workshops We have developed a range of schemes other youth training schemes, for example and classes are run to raise awareness and to widen our recruitment pool and the Apprenticeship Scheme or Industrial promote a healthy working environment improve diversity Placement Scheme.
There were eight for employees.
interns in the year to 0 une 2018.
A Twilight team in our Operations As part of our employee wellbeing department that work three evenings a Our university placement programme is programme, over the last year we have week.
The team are primarily made up of designed to give 12 students a preview of increased the numbers of qualified first students and parents and have been a key working life over a 12 month period and aiders to, each having successfully contributer to improving efficiency.
gain hands on experience of our working completed a three-day course.
Doing everything in-house also introduced our first mental health In December we partnered with a plays to their advantage, as we offer first aiders and will expand this number recruitment company to run a Returnship placements in a variety of business areas inthe next year.
programme offering roles for people as well as plenty of additional proects looking to return to work after a career earnin and deelen in which to get involved.
This has been a great success with earning and development is a key programme, placement students work many securing permanent positions.
component of our People Strategy.
The on a live client-focused proect which is Hargreaves ansdown earning Academy We offer two types of Apprenticeship presented back to our CEO.
is used to house our new starter induction New Specialist Apprenticeship NSA is Our graduate training scheme looks programme, career development an opportunity for someone who wants to develop future leaders on our programmes, manager training and to move into a particular profession, but bespoke two-year programme with teambuilding events.
doesnt have the previous experience or rotations across key departments qualifications to move into that specialism.
including Operations, Digital Marketing, This is often someone that has ust Finance and Investment departments, completed school or college.
this is an inclusive opportunity and we will Graduates are mentored by senior consider applicants of any age.
managers and directors, and at the end of the programme find a role at H that matchestheir personal skills and ambitions.
This year we had five graduateson the scheme and w e expect the same number next year.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Career Development Path We believe it is important to listen and Diversity is a broad issue encompassing We support our colleagues in their understand our colleagues views and variations in experience, skills, age and continuing personal and professional motivation their honest feedback background, as well as more traditional learning and development by encouraging is crucial in evolving our colleague diversity factors such as ethnic origin, attendance at external and internal engagement programme.
Our most disability, religious beliefs, sexual programmes.
This year we introduced recent annual colleague engagement orientation and gender.
Commercially, our new Career Development Path for all survey received a strong response rate of and for best practice reasons, we are an colleagues, and an internal careers fair to 80 and our overall engagement score equal opportunities employer and believe promote wide-ranging opportunities for increased to 2 from 52, reflecting that to succeed as a business we need personal growth and career development the work that has been done over the past to make the most of the potential of our in our business.
year to improve employee communication people whoever they are.
We have human and the working environment.
resource policies in place to attract a diverse workforce and our people can alen anaeen rrae During the year we held our first expect to develop in an environment that We recognise the importance of building a Innovation Day to encourage is free from discrimination or harassment.
pipeline of skilled and motivated talent for entrepreneurial thinking and reinforce our Chris Worle, an Executive Committee future leadership roles.
Over the last year, value of doing it better.
This resulted in member, is responsible for our diversity working alongside an external provider, we 1 ideas submitted from 5 people and and inclusion programme, which ensures have developed a robust talent framework a further 80 people offering to work on we have the appropriate level of focus in to ensure we deliver this pipeline and that developing the ideas.
this area to back up our commitment with we retain those in business critical roles.
meaningful action and positive change.
Diversity and inclusion lyee enaeen More details can be found at We believe in building a culture and It is widely recognised that an organisation www.
co. uk about-us diversity environment that attracts, values and whose employees are engaged with retains people from all backgrounds, life We give full consideration to applications its purpose and culture will perform experiences, preferences and beliefs for employment from disabled persons.
better than others, and create value for ensuring they are recognised and If members of staff become disabled the clients and shareholders.
This is because respected as individuals and valued for the Group continues employment, either engaged employees feel a strong different perspectives they bring.
As our in the same or an alternative position if connection with their employer and business grows, our needs and challenges necessary, with appropriate retraining believe their work is important.
It is crucial become more diverse and therefore so being given if necessary.
A full assessment therefore that we communicate with our too must our workforce and we support of any disabled employees needs is people ensuring they understand our the governments work in this area.
undertaken and reasonable adustments purpose, vision and priorities and how they are made to the work environment or each play their part in the development of practices in order to assist them.
We do this via a coordinated internal communications programme which includes six-monthly presentations by the CEO, senior management insight talks, monthly CEO updates and production of the H Times to all colleagues.
Celebrating success and our achievements, such as the milestone of our one millionth client during the year, also serve as a great means of engagement.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT We recognise this is a serious global issue and are committed to improving 2018 TOTAL WORKFORCE 32% our practices and playing our part in FEMALE combatting slavery and human trafficking.
FTE 1,499 As a financial services business based in the UK, we predominantly use UK 2017 TOTAL WORKFORCE suppliers.
Whilst this reduces many of 31% FTE 1,185 the risks global businesses are exposed FEMALE to, we take our responsibility towards the prevention of slavery and human trafficking very seriously and we are fully 69% MALE compliant with our obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
One of our core values is to do the right 68% MALE thing, which includes treating people fairly whether they are our clients, colleagues, As at 0 une 2018 contractors or people working in our 1 Board directors Other senior management al elyee s upply chain.
We all have a responsibility Female 50 8 20 to be alert to the risks of modern slavery, however small.
Since our first Modern Male 50 80 Slavery Statement in December 201, we O ther senior management is defined as an employee who has responsibility for planning, direction or controlling have taken, and are taking, further steps the activities of the Group, or a strategically significant part of the Group, other than the Boarddirectors.
to ensure we have the right training and controls in place to combat slavery and human trafficking, and in our statement ender ay a The Chair and Chief Executive are we explain how we are doing this, please In early 2018 we published our first members of the 0 Club and H has visit our website www.
co. uk data gender pay gap report.
At the time Chris signed the Women in Finance Charter, assets pdffile 000 1182 ModernHill commented diversity, inclusion and both committing to increase the Slavery-Act.
pdf giving an equal opportunity to everyone number of women in senior positions who wishes to progress their career are all Top 25 in FTSE 100 ranking of Women Anti-bribery and corruption extremely important to me.
A diverse and on Boards and in eadership - Hargreaves ansdown maintains a full balanced workforce is good for our clients, Hampton-Alexander Review suite of policies and procedures to guard its good for building a team with colleagues against bribery and corruption.
This and it is also important for investors.
Greater support for women who take includes an Anti-Bribery Policy, outlining career breaks, through improved Although our gender pay gap is not yet the offences, responsibilities of all staff maternity and returner programmes where we want it to be we have an action members and clear reporting procedures and flexible working plan to increase the proportion of women a Whistleblowing policy and process in senior roles.
We expect the gender Full details of our Gender Pay Gap Fraud, Anti-money laundering and pay gap to reduce over time and we are report can be found at www.
co. uk Market Abuse policies and procedures committed to making improvements and about-us gender-pay-gap procedures for dealing with making to supporting all colleagues who wish to and accepting gifts and hospitality progress their careers regardless of gender an ri on-line guidance and a suite of bespoke or background.
Progress to date includes Hargreaves ansdown has a ero tolerance training programmes for raising staff approach to slavery and human trafficking awareness.
Employees can access A clear commitment from the Board of any kind within our business operations policy and guidance statements via the and senior leadership to fairness, and supply chains.
We are committed to Group intranet and these procedures equality, diversity and inclusion acting ethically and with integrity in all our arereviewed and updated on a H plc Board has a female Chair and business dealings and relationships and periodic basis by the Senior equal male and female representation to implementing and enforcing effective Managers responsible for them.
systems and controls to ensure slavery is not taking place anywhere in our business or in any of our supply chains.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Bristol and the local community Hargreaves ansdown is a true Bristol success story being one of only two FTSE 100 companies based in the city ow we make and one of the largest employers in the region.
Proud of our Bristol heritage, we an impact on support local proects and plans which aim to improve the lives of the people our community who live and work in the city.
During the COMMUNITY year we were sponsoring partners of through Bristol Pride and a sculpture sponsor of ndain nein in a the Grand Appeal Arts Trail in aid of the fundraising, eerre Bristol Childrens Hospital.
A group of On 1 September 201, the Group volunteering, managers from across the business have launched the Hargreaves ansdown been mentoring a group of students at Charitable Foundation, a charitable arm of mentoring and a local Bristol School and we have been Hargreaves ansdown.
The Foundations furthering plans to develop closer links mission is to utilise the skills and time supporting other with Bristol colleges and universities.
of our workforce and partners to make community a positive, sustainable difference in We have oined the Bristol Equality Charter the world around us.
It focuses on four working group.
Aimed at both individuals initiatives.
pillars the next generation, health and and organisations, the charter is a pledge well-being, improving lives and local by the signatories to take actions relevant communities.
Every three years it will to them, to improve equality and diversity select charities corresponding to these across the city.
The charter will launch on pillars which it will support through a range 12 November 2018. of fundraising events.
The charities are nominated and selected by employees and the first five are as below The foundation aims to provide a centralised focus for fundraising efforts, e enerain improve support and increase the money The Princes Trust raised for charitable causes and improve Youth Adventure Trust links with our local communities and national charitable groups.
All of the legal ellein and administration costs are met by the Cancer Research UK Group so 100 of the money raised goes to the employee nominated charities.
The day-to-day running of the Foundation rin lie is by Hargreaves ansdown volunteers.
Guide Dogs for the Blind More details can be found on the website www.
co. uk about-us hl-foundation In the first full year over 5,000 was Communities raised by colleagues for the selected Great Western Air Ambulance charities with fund raising ranging from the ever-popular payday lottery, to bike rides, cake and other food sales, and sports tournaments.
In its second year we will exceed this target and Foundation activities have included trekking to Everest base camp, running the ondon Marathon and the Race for ife.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT We have also been active participants, through our involvement with the Bristol City Office, in the ongoing development of the Bristol One City Plan, an initiative How we minimise to develop a shared vision for Bristol which brings together participants our impact on the from business, public sector, voluntary organisations and local communities to environment.
help identify and address key challenges facing the city.
ENVIRONMENT We take our responsibilities toward the Environmental initiatives environment seriously and continue a raey Our obective of reducing waste and to promote energy efficiency and Integrity and good conduct are central minimising the environmental impact of the avoidance of waste throughout to our culture and this means we aim our business is aligned with our obectives our operations.
Our new colleague to comply with both the spirit and the of protecting client data, reducing costs environment group looks at ways in which letter of the law and are committed to and improving efficiency.
It is our aim to we can minimise our environmental conducting our tax affairs in a clear, fair deal with clients and other businesses impact and planned initiatives include and transparent way.
electronically wherever possible, not only Green event to focus on how colleagues to speed up information transfer, but also Taxes provide public revenues for and the business can make a difference.
to reduce the amount of paper we use.
government to meet economic and We have invested heavily in providing a Our business is fundamentally based social obectives.
Paying and collecting user-friendly, comprehensive website, a on intellectual capital and conducts taxes is an important part of our role as a mobile app and automated links to banks the maority of client transactions business, responsibly operating within and and fund providers.
The benefits will grow online and undertakes no industrial contributing to society.
as more people and businesses choose to activities.
Therefore we do not have the We aim to comply with all our tax filing, tax transact business and receive information environmental impact of many businesses reporting and tax payment obligations.
We aim to increase the take-up of of a similar sie.
We seek to maintain an open, honest online and paperless services, and have Running and maintaining our IT and positive working relationship with been successful in doing this during the infrastructure at our head office and tax authorities and we do not undertake year.
Other initiatives have included a data centres comprises the main source aggressive tax planning.
Our corporation move to using 100 of our energy from of our environmental impact.
This tax and employers national insurance paid renewable sources and switching to oxysupports our award winning platform in respect of the year ended 0 une 2018 degradable polythene envelopes for our which is fundamental to the success of was.
Our programme of cyclical addition, we pay other taxes such as VAT, replacement of hardware and software ne ne stamp duty and business rates.
ane aims to reduce energy usage and cost.
Vantage H Tech, our new Warsaw technology hub, clients operates in a similar way, in a brand new, registered as environmentally friendly building, where paperless the impact is also low.
Vantage client equity deals placed online Clients registered to use our online services Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ine rael and cin We have reported on all of the emission d We do not provide company cars to sources required under the Companies Hargreaves ansdown has continued managers or to our network of advisers.
Act 200 Strategic Report and Directors to be included in the FTSEGood Index Advisers are spread throughout the UK Report Regulations 201 except our series, having been independently which minimises travel time and carbon Warsaw office which has been excluded on assessed according to the FTSEGood emissions.
We provide a telephone advice the basis that it is a new site and it has not criteria.
The FTSEGood index measures service where a face-to-face meeting is been possible to obtain a full years worth the performance of companies that not required.
The popular cycle to work of data.
This will be reported in next years meet globally recognised standards on scheme which offers our employees an report.
We do not have responsibility corporate social responsibility.
To be incentive to travel to and from work in an for any emission sources that are not included, companies must support human environmentally friendly way, is now in its included in our consolidated statement.
rights, have good relationships with second year.
Our emissions are calculated in line with various stakeholders, be making progress the Greenhouse Gas Protocol using the to become environmentally sustainable, This year we improved the secure bike 201 emission factors provided by DEFRA.
ensure good labour standards not only for park at our office enabling up to 18 staff their own company but for companies that to cycle to work.
More employees are now The Groups Scope 1 and 2 emissions for supply them and seek to address bribery able to work from home using laptops, the year to 0 une 2018 are set out in and corruption.
which, as well as consuming less power the table below.
Scope 1 emissions relate than desktop computers, reduces the to the Groups fugitive emissions from need for work related travel.
the combustion of fuel and operating activities and Scope 2 emissions relate to the Groups electricity usage.
ecyclin We continue to shred and recycle In order to provide an intensity ratio for our confidential waste and have arrangements emissions disclosure, we have calculated for the collection of recyclable waste such our greenhouse emissions per employee.
as printer toner cartridges, cardboard, The Directors believe that the number plastics, newspapers and out-of-date of employees is the best indicator for literature.
During the year we changed a Group of this sie and nature for the our waste management company which purposes of this disclosure.
The number reports on our levels of recycling and will of employees used is the average number help manage our environmental impact.
of full-time equivalent employees over the Redundant IT equipment is disposed of in measurement period.
For the year ending two ways serviceable monitors are gifted 0 une 2018 our emissions per employee to the H Foundation which in turn sells decreased by 1 them to staff, and the remainder through specialist third parties.
lal eii n daa r erid ly ne nadied reene a eiin Since 1 October 201, the Companies Tonnes of CO e Act 200 Strategic Report and Directors Current rerin Comparison Report Regulations 201 has required all year year UK quoted companies to report on their iin r ane greenhouse gas emissions as part of their ScopeCombustion of fuel and annual Directors Report.
Scope Purchased energy for own use, .
- Tonnes of CO e per average full-time equivalent employee.
- ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 02 GOVERNANCE Chairs introduction 50 The Board of Directors 51 r rae ernance rer id iee rer n een iee rer ir ecr enerai n rer Nomination Committee report 90 i iee r er ir ecr rer aeen irecr re niiliie Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018
