Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility | 41 Our 4Cs ways of working Our belief and approach is based on our 4Cs ways of working: serve and invest in our colleagues, company, customers and communities and be a good neighbour.
We approach all stakeholders openly, transparently and with a strong sense of commitment and use the 4Cs to measure performance and success as individuals and as a Group, so we have a clear, consistent and balanced approach to delivering our objectives.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 42 | Corporate responsibility continued Colleagues Our 4Cs ways of working starts with colleagues.
We believe that engaged Investing in and developing our Colleagues colleagues lead to happy customers The ability to deliver straightforward insurance comes from a high so we are committed to investing performing, dedicated and customer focused team.
We invest in our in, developing and listening to our colleagues and provide them with an environment in which they feel included, colleagues so they continue to valued, empowered and able to reach their full potential.
Attracting, recruiting contribute, thrive and be who they are.
and retaining talent is vitally important for us as we grow.
Our agility, clear identity and 4Cs ways of working is why we stand out and what makes us who we are.
Colleagues really like working at Hastings and feel they can truly be themselves and bring their personality to work.
They feel supported, that there is a strong sense of team and a focus on getting it right for customers.
However, feedback from colleagues tells us that there are always things we could do better: for example, as a result of colleague feedback weve introduced new benefits, new Monday to Friday shift patterns for customer facing colleagues and career frameworks.
Reward Every colleague is expected to contribute to the success of the business.
Accordingly, we recognise the hard work and dedication of our team by linking remuneration to personal performance in a way which does not compromise the impact on customer outcomes we do not remunerate colleagues through sales incentives.
Pay rates for all colleagues across the Group are in excess of statutory minimum requirements and roles are benchmarked to similar roles within financial services firms, using data from an external service provider.
This way, we ensure that colleagues are fairly remunerated for their contribution to the success of the Group as a whole.
The Group is currently assessing compliance with the principles of the Living Wage Foundation.
The Group does not operate any zero hour or similar type of contracts for any colleagues.
It will also not tolerate slavery and human trafficking within its business and supply chain.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 43 Core health and lifestyle benefits for all 39 new leaders completed the colleagues include annual leave, pension, Leading Business Programme and health cash plan, income protection and over 15,000 hours of leadership life cover.
Other benefits are available, training and development was either at no cost or at a colleague delivered to leaders across our contribution relative to salary, and business in 2018 include access to a digital general 90% of colleagues in our YourVoice practitioner, ability to buy sell holiday, Colleague engagement survey agreed enhanced health insurance including that they understand how their role dental and eye care, health assessments, contributes to Hastings success as a childcare vouchers, Share Incentive business and 83% of colleagues agree Plan, and discounts and cashback at a that their line manager enables me to large number of high street and online perform as best I can retailers, including Hastings Direct car and home insurance.
Development We actively encourage personal development by offering a range of development options to build the capabilities of our teams for the future and encourage the behaviours needed to deliver our business strategy.
Through ongoing development, we are committed to developing the skills and careers of all of our colleagues and continually invest in our training and development programmes: customer facing colleagues completed over 50,000 hours of upskill training in 2018 we delivered over 170,000 hours of induction training to new customer facing colleagues in 2018 I f eel that the training was colleagues spent 26,000 hours a good start to the job and utilising the content of the yourcareer what we will actually be portal in 2018 and nearly 80% of our colleagues in our YourVoice survey doing.
I believe the duration agree that they Know what skills they of the course was perfect it need to be successful wasnt too long or too short.
77 colleagues enrolled on I feel that I have learnt a lot apprenticeship schemes in 2018 about the job and Hastings and are studying for professional Direct in general and what qualifications in a range of subject areas across Finance, HR, Insurer we stand for.
I feel proud Services, Customer Relations, Retail to say Im a Hastings Direct Operations and Information colleague and I look forward Technology to seeing where this journey our leadership development activities with the company takes me.
focused on onboarding new leaders to the business and developing the Sam Mayo skills and knowledge so they Customer Representative understand the business, the role they play in our success and have the skills they need to build and lead high performance teams Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 44 | Corporate responsibility continued Listening and acting upon feedback As we grow, its important that colleagues share how they feel about life at Hastings.
Regular conversations allow us to listen and respond in the best possible way.
We encourage two way feedback through a number of channels, including: Our annual engagement survey is designed to understand how colleagues feel about life at Hastings and what YourVoice we do for our 4Cs.
We then capture key themes raised by colleagues through company-wide and local action plans that feed through to 4Cs objectives so we can make improvements where necessary and importantly, we can measure progress through the year.
This gives us one view, so we regularly ask for colleagues to share their thoughts, ideas and frustrations through all of our communication channels to make sure we that we focus on things that are front of mind.
We also run pulse surveys throughout the year to check in with our colleagues about communication, how theyre feeling or to get feedback on key initiatives.
Some of the key changes we have made as a result of colleague feedback include wider and more frequent recognition through our 4Cs Awards process, improved benefits, more training opportunities, weekday shift patterns for our customer facing colleagues and improvements to our onsite restaurants.
Our colleague elected representatives from across the business meet monthly to consult with senior Hastings management, and Board, representatives, on any key changes and to provide invaluable feedback and Colleague insight from their teams.
As a result of their input we have made some significant changes, ranging from Forum improved benefits to simplified HR policies and processes.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group HR HCF Director make themselves available to attend meetings in an inclusive and non-threatening manner, so colleagues are free to express themselves and their opinions.
The Group does not officially recognise a trade union preferring to engage with colleagues directly, either through their line manager, the HR function or the Hastings Colleague Forum.
Colleagues are however free to join a union and be represented by a union member, as appropriate, should they choose to do so.
Examples of items discussed at the HCF: employment policy review agency workers, redundancy, unauthorised leave policy : salary and bonus review consultation: colleague benefits: and consultation on business reorganisation including a redundancy consultation exercise in December 2018.
Agility is key to our success and we apply focus on the big changes and small fixes in equal measure.
To Small support this thinking, we created a small change team back in January 2017 who work with our Hastings change Colleague Forum to get colleague feedback and prioritise the small operational things that make things small but easier for our colleagues and customers.
In 2018 we made a lot of small changes and we share all updates collectively through our Chief Executive Officers monthly updates which focus on all things 4Cs.
impactful We made 57 small change fixes throughout 2018 and here are some examples: automated email response has been updated to help digital teams identify and verify customers without having to ask them for duplicate information: changes to the Hastings Direct website making it easier for customers to navigate: interactive voice response messaging improved to promote self-serve options to customers on hold: customers can now change their document delivery method to either post or online mid-way through their policy: added interesting facts to our mobile app loading screen to make the login journey more interesting: and tweaked wording and buttons throughout Hastings Direct MyAccount to help customers find what they need.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 45 Contribute and thrive All of the support and help Our Wellbeing starts The Hastings with colleagues thats only a phone call Wellbeing away is faultless Ive never programme had company benefits like this before!
includes: Colleague Assistance Wellbeing at Hastings is a key part of our pilates, mindfulness and mindful Programme usage rose role as a responsible employer and we yoga, sleep awareness, physical, believe it has a positive impact on both environmental and mental health our individual colleagues and the awareness, migraine awareness, productivity and efficiency of our flu jabs, blood pressure and other business.
Thats why we created a health checks including diabetes.
90% comprehensive Wellbeing programme confidential support via external vs 2017 that provides colleagues with free service providers for a wide range support, education, information, of matters such as financial advice courses, events and practical advice to loans and credit cards, initial legal help them feel healthier, happier and advice, bereavement etc as well as stronger, both inside and outside of the contact details for external workplace.
We also have a fantastic charities and other support group of committed champions who are networks and organisations.
the mainstay of our Wellbeing programme, responsible for making family friendly workshops sure that our colleagues are up to date designed to help colleagues and on all things wellbeing including leaders understand the steps they mental health, physical health, both need to take before, during environmental health and resilience.
As and after a period of extended well as advocating a healthy culture at leave.
These are primarily aimed at Hastings, our champions promote colleagues taking maternity leave mental health and wellbeing messages, but also offer useful information education and events across the Group.
for those taking other types of They also support Colleagues who may extended leave.
need wellbeing help and advice, making subsidised in-house restaurants sure they have access to the right at our locations in Bexhill and services to meet their needs.
Were Leicester provide breakfast, lunch really proud of the positive impact the and dinner with an ethos of programme is having on our colleagues offering freshly made food using and were not the only ones.
Colleague colleague wellbeing received the feedback has resulted in highest score increase in our recent improvements to the healthier colleague YourVoice engagement options on offer including a wider survey compared to last year range of salads, proteins and we are gaining external recognition, more vegetarian options.
presenting this year at the Aviva Wellbeing conference and at the recent Wellbeing@work conference in London Its really good to see Hastings looking out for our colleagues and 68% their wellbeing.
Wellfest was a brilliant of all colleagues attended Wellfest 2018, event!
It was very engaging and 99% of those who attended said it was a valuable use of their time.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 46 | Corporate responsibility continued Recognition We regularly recognise and reward the hard work and dedication of our colleagues whether its just by saying thank you, awarding vouchers or by celebrating with them at our 4Cs Awards events or at other social events.
We also use the 4Cs to recognise and thank colleagues for going the extra mile on a monthly and annual basis.
Our 4Cs Awards programme offers colleagues the chance to nominate their team members for their achievements and in 2018 we had over 3,200 nominations and the winners of seven categories received their coveted awards at the annual 4Cs Awards Final.
2018 Be who they are Equal opportunities and human rights We are committed to ensuring that To support and guide our colleagues in everyone has equal opportunities at all the work place the Group has policies in stages of recruitment, selection and place ranging from discrimination and Gender diversity across the throughout their working careers.
Short anti-bullying, to diversity and inclusion, to Group as at 31 December 2018 listing, interviewing and selection is stress management and flexible working carried out with neutral regard to practices that drive the right behaviours disability, gender, gender reassignment, to recognise and develop all colleagues.
All Colleagues full and part time sexual orientation, marital or civil These policies are an effective way to partnership status, colour, race, ensure that all colleagues understand Male 48% nationality, ethnic or national origin, their rights and to reinforce the Female 52% religion or belief or age.
Our approach to appropriate behaviours.
Regular training recruitment is to elicit candidates from as and awareness, not only on policies and many different backgrounds as possible.
work practices, but also wellbeing and Senior leaders health are provided throughout the year.
The Group has a responsibility to Male 72% conduct its business in an ethical and Mandatory training is required for all Female 28% transparent way.
Accordingly, we adhere colleagues to ensure that all of our to a set of business principles which colleagues are aware of company include a commitment to human rights policies, the companys values and Underwriting Board AICL principles.
The Group has policies in legislative requirements.
Our training place to support these principles which courses cover data protection, Male 100% include non-discrimination, health and information security, anti-fraud, safety, anti-bribery, human slavery and anti-money laundering, anti-corruption Female 0% trafficking and environmental issues.
We and bribery, customer experience, maintain a zero tolerance approach to complaint handling and vulnerable bribery, corruption and slavery.
customers, to name but a few.
Training Retail Board HISL outcomes are monitored and remedial training is provided as appropriate.
Male 50% Female 50% Company Board Male 67% Female 33% Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 47 Diversity and inclusion Hastings, where everyone counts We regularly monitor all aspects of colleague diversity across the business.
We consider candidates from all At Hastings we are committed to creating a Company that is at ease with itself backgrounds as part of any recruitment and encourages you to be who you are.
Its our combined efforts, personalities, process and we are committed to culture and commitment to our 4Cs that makes us a success.
attracting and retaining the best talent in the industry.
In 2018, The Group is committed to making sure we welcomed 3,322 that its workforce and the respective company boards are representative in Colleagues across 1,069 terms of diversity and candidates from our sites a wide range of backgrounds, disciplines new starters and experience are considered.
The Bexhill 1,827 Group abides by this policy by ensuring Leicester 1,363 that the best candidate is selected and Homeworking 84 it does not intend to adopt a quota Gibraltar 28 system with prescriptive, quantitative London 20 targets.
However, it is acknowledged there is an imbalance in the number of senior females within the Group and we are taking steps to address this.
Over the past 12 months weve successfully Our business is made up of: recruited a number of females to senior leadership roles but theres more we can do.
Weve signed up to the Women 76% Millennials born 19802000 in Finance Charter supporting the progression of women into senior roles in the financial services sector by focusing on the executive pipeline and the mid-tier level.
We are also signatories to the 30% Club committing to having 30% female senior leaders at 18% Generation X born 196579 Hastings by 2020.
To date 26% of our senior leaders are female and we will 6% Baby boomers born 194664 continue to improve on our commitment Traditionalists born pre-1946 into 2020.
We have introduced initiatives 0.01% to focus on recruitment, induction, talent and other parts of our colleagues experience, such as, new and enhanced ways of working, including increased 92% support to colleagues during and after maternity and other extended periods Feel treated with dignity and of leave and Be Who You Are case respect by their line manager studies that reflect and celebrate the YourVoice 2018 diversity of our talented colleagues at Hastings.
Diversity and inclusion are also very relevant to the Companys Board.
We have achieved over 33% Women make up 33% female director representation on of our Company Board the Board during 2018 as part of its and 28% of our Senior commitment to the Hampton-Alexander Leadership Team Review, which aims to ensure that talented women at the top of business are recognised, promoted and rewarded.
Aiming to achieve 30% of female Senior Leaders by 2020 33% Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 48 | Corporate responsibility continued Customers We have a straightforward approach to provide our UK car, van, bike and home Listening and responding to customer feedback insurance customers with straightforward We consistently capture customer sentiment across the entire customer products at competitive prices.
Through a dedicated platform we are able to monitor customer they choose to interact with us and to responses within the customer lifecycle: from initial purchase, through the provide a straightforward service by: service and claims processes, to policy renewal.
Contact centre colleagues and team leaders can access data via personalised dashboards in real time, not only allowing them and management to take action and improve our customer experience, but also to celebrate our heroes on the frontline.
This cross contact channel, allows us to optimise our customers digital and web chat experience, as well as improving our contact centre interactions.
Working in an open and accountable way Treating customers fairly is at the heart of what we do and we strive to deliver improved outcomes for all of our customers whether they are purchasing or renewing their vehicle or home insurance or making a claim.
By providing straightforward, simple and understandable information.
We ensure that: our customers are confident that they are dealing with a firm where the fair treatment of customers is central to the corporate culture: our products and services are marketed and sold in the retail market, and are designed to meet the needs of identified consumer groups and are targeted accordingly: customers are provided with clear information and are kept appropriately informed before, during and after the point of sale: Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 49 we take account of the needs of Making it easy for customers Maintaining high standards potentially vulnerable customers: to complain of customer experience we hope that no one needs to our quality assurance function also our customers are provided with complain about our products and or ensures we do not rest on our laurels products that perform as we have led our services.
However, sometimes by monitoring recorded customer them to expect, and the associated things do not go to plan or a calls to ensure that our colleagues are service is of an acceptable standard customers expectations may not maintaining the highest standards of and as they have been led to expect: be met in full.
We make it easy for customer experience and complying and customers to complain, should they with regulatory and legislative our customers do not face feel it necessary, whether directly requirements: and unreasonable post-sale barriers on the phone, by email or even advice is provided direct to colleagues imposed by the terms of our social media: on areas of improvement and products, if they choose to switch our colleagues are empowered to remedial training can also be provided provider, submit a claim or make successfully resolve various matters if appropriate.
of customer dissatisfaction at the time reviews customer complaints and it is raised.
Where a customer does outcomes to ensure that we are formally or informally express consistently treating customers fairly dissatisfaction that cannot be and honestly.
resolved at the time, our dedicated complaint resolution team take over: and we aim to ensure that customers are satisfied with the service they receive and should they need to complain we strive to ensure that they are not inconvenienced for any longer than necessary.
Complaints data is publicly available on the FCA website www.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 50 | Corporate responsibility continued Company Hastings stands out because we focus on getting it right for our 4Cs.
It is our Strong supplier relationships are vital to our continued success.
We work closely belief that ethical conduct is an integral with our local and national suppliers to communicate our standards, values, component of running a business principles and sustainability goals to them and ensure they are aligned in successfully and it is an expectation helping us offer the best price, product and service solutions to benefit our we have of both our colleagues and customers and colleagues.
We continually look at Each colleague is responsible for delivering our everyday activities in ways to make improvements so we a way that reflects ethical principles.
can continue to serve our communities We play our part by: inviting our customers to receive all and be a good neighbour.
their documentation electronically: supporting local businesses with a range of unique offers that encourage and incentivise our colleagues to buy from local retailers, suppliers and services: promoting a Travel Green initiative that supports our colleagues in making greener journeys to work through car sharing, increased cycle use and discounted rail travel: dedicated recycle and confidential waste stations and at our head office site in Bexhill we send zero waste to landfill: encouraging the use of travel mugs and water bottles to cut the use of disposable cups.
This year we also introduced 40 dedicated coffee cup recycle stations across our head office in Bexhill: using reduced energy electric light bulbs and motion sensitive lighting where possible and practical: and recycling unwanted furniture by donating it to local charities and organisations.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 51 Governance The Company and its subsidiaries have unitary boards in common with best Information on the Board as well as the practice within the UK.
Retail and Groups governance arrangements can Underwriting are separate companies be found later in this report on pages within the Group and each of their 62 to 91. respective boards has a majority of independent non-executive directors.
As the ultimate parent entity of the To ensure that communication with, Group, the Company establishes the and oversight by, the Company of the practices and tone from the top in subsidiary companies is maintained, relation to governance.
As a listed their respective boards have one company the Company is required to independent non-executive director comply and explain its compliance with who also serves in that capacity on the UK Corporate Governance Code the Company Board.
Retail and Code as well as adhere to various Underwriting apply the provisions and other requirements such as the Listing principles of the Code, as appropriate, Rules and the Disclosure and as well other regulatory requirements Transparency Rules.
The main trading that apply to financially regulated firms entities of the Group, Retail and in the UK and Gibraltar, for example Underwriting, are private companies the FCA Handbook and Solvency II.
and are not required to apply the Code.
However, where possible, these entities adhere to the spirit of the Code by applying those principles and provisions that are achievable and are not onerous to their operations and or independent governance.
This enables the Company to better understand and challenge those elements of the business that are vital to good governance within the main trading subsidiaries.
Retail adopted the recently published FRCs Wates Principles for Large Private Companies into its governance framework at the beginning of 2019.
The Companys compliance with the Code is provided on page 73.
Supplier due diligence Suppliers of key services to the Group are subject to a robust due diligence process under a Supplier Relationship Management Framework in order to enhance relationship and risk management.
Critical suppliers are subject to ongoing reviews throughout the year at which service levels and adherence to processes and procedures are discussed and improvements made as appropriate.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 52 | Corporate responsibility continued Whistle blowing, fraud and Good corporate citizen anti-bribery and corruption Sustainable, long term investing extends A whistle blowing policy is in force beyond the evaluation of quantitative factors and traditional fundamental across the Group to enable colleagues to bring to the attention of any Director analysis of financial metrics, extending analysis to an entitys impact on serious matters of misconduct which they believe would damage the stakeholders, the environment and society.
Environmental, Social and performance or reputation of the Group.
A confidential, externally Governance ESG factors can affect investment performance, expose serviced hotline is provided for all colleagues to raise matters of potential investment risks, and provide an indication of management excellence misconduct.
During the year no matters of significant misconduct were raised and leadership and they integrate these factors into our investment and through the whistle blowing hotline.
Responsible ownership also extends through proxy The Group has a leading anti-fraud capability which to date has generated voting and active engagement with the boards and management of the funds significant cost savings and supports its insurer panel and reinsurance partners.
This capability supports comprehensive risk selection and loss validation through a dedicated team of new business review agents, analysts, intelligence operatives, claims handlers, former police officers and field based investigators.
Financial crime is a serious matter for all companies and more so for those that operate within the financial services sector.
Colleagues are required to undertake awareness training on all types of financial crime and must follow Group policies, procedures and guidelines in relation to all financial operations.
During the year no significant matters relating to financial crime, with the exception of fraudulent claims and ghost broking identified as part of normal business operations, were reported.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 53 Underwritings independent investment advisor undertakes an evaluation of ESG Reports investment managers approach to ESG and compliance with industry standards, The Groups Tax Strategy and for example the UK Stewardship Code.
Statement on Slavery and Human Integration of ESG criteria looks beyond Trafficking are approved by the the existence of policies and procedures Companys Board and are available and also investigates underlying on the Groups website.
In addition they extend a comply or explain The Gender Pay Gap Report approach to a range of ESG factors, for Hastings Insurance Services both when initially screening managers, Limited, the main employer but also on an ongoing basis to provide and only entity with more than an ongoing framework to evaluate 250 employees in the Hastings investment manager behaviour.
Our Group, can also be found on advisers continually develop their the Groups website.
research process, investment strategy modelling tools and reporting by incorporating innovative thinking on ESG matters.
Our independent investment advisor is in the process of signing up to the United Nations supported Principles for Responsible Investment www.
org and expects to be a signatory within the next year.
Our aim is to adopt a principled and sustainable tax strategy that underpins the Groups desire to balance the various interests of all its stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, governments, regulators, colleagues, and the community interests which it serves.
The Group seeks to ensure that it complies with all legal requirements both in the UK and in all other jurisdictions where it operates, by making all appropriate returns and payments in respect of its own tax liabilities and by collecting taxes on behalf of the relevant tax authorities in accordance with prescribed rules and deadlines.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 54 | Corporate responsibility continued Community With happy colleagues, satisfied customers and a profitable Group we Being a good neighbour Our Charity Events Committee is made are able to take the 4Cs full circle by up entirely of colleagues who volunteer to organise fundraising events taking an active part in serving our throughout the year for local charities nominated by colleagues.
We focus our efforts Community Fund provides a helping hand to local individuals or groups by locally so that we play an active role in providing advice, physical support or small grants to help with fundraising.
In the communities where we work and live 2018 we raised over 54,000 for local charities and organisations and gave and do this by being a good neighbour, over 7,700 hours of practical or professional advice or support investing in local education initiatives through our community days.
and looking after our environment.
During 2018 our charity partners were: Hope Against Cancer: cutting edge research and making clinical trials available to local people OpenHands: helping the most vulnerable and disadvantaged You Raise Me Up: support families that have suffered the loss of a teenage child Seaview: wellbeing centre for the homeless Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 55 As part of our insurePink product offering, where 10 for every insurance T he average cost to help a family who has lost a young policy purchased is donated to a breast adult between the ages of 16 to 25 is 6,200 a year, cancer charity Pink Ribbon Foundation, including funeral and counselling, so your support is we are pleased that our customers have invaluable!
now helped us raise over 1million for Lesley Powell-Cullingford, Fundraising coordinator, the good cause over the last ten years.
You Raise Me Up, Eastbourne Investing in local W eve already benefitted education initiatives from a gift of recycled office We have significant interaction with Looking after our environment goods from you and your schools, colleges and universities in The Groups direct operations are purely and around our communities to help office based and as such have a relatively donation will help us provide develop, attract and nurture home low impact on the environment lifesaving support including grown talent.
In 2018 we started the compared to other industries, however, hot meals and sleeping bags.
fourth year of the Be the Change we seek to improve the Groups and our Itll also help with running programme in Bexhill and Leicester colleagues footprint as much as possible.
which aims to raise the aspirations of costs to keep our wellbeing Conquest House is the Groups head local 13 14 year olds.
The programme office and the building was built in the centre in St. Leonards warm is designed to help remove barriers that 1970s.
Improvements to Conquest House and open.
may make students disengage from for the benefit of our colleagues and the Annie Whelan, Chief Officer, school and in life and provide them environment are ongoing for example we Seaview, Hastings with life skills to help shape their future.
have plans to replace lighting systems Our colleagues volunteer as business with less power hungry light sources and mentors to help support the students to improve cooling and heating system with anecdotal and professional advice performance.
We encourage our Our environmental commitments also and guidance.
Hastings continues to be colleagues to use public transport as extend to our colleagues where we the only corporate organisation to much as possible and operate cycle to provide a safe, healthy working sponsor a full bespoke Be the Change work and car share schemes.
We strive to ensure that programme in the UK.
points for electric vehicles are installed at all colleagues are able to work, rest and our Bexhill site and are free to use for play in an environment that promotes Be the Change gives colleagues the colleagues.
The Groups Gibraltar based safety and good health.
Our sites provide opportunity to make a difference to the underwriting business recently relocated areas where colleagues can leave their education and career paths of Year 9 to a new rented office block: our sites in work stations, fide-stress and relax, be students from two secondary schools, London and Leicester are also rented: all that a clean restaurant stocked with one each in Bexhill and Leicester.
Over three of these sites have good healthy food, quiet rooms, outside space 940 students have taken part in the environmental credentials.
to read and chill, or games rooms.
The programme since it launched in 2015 Group does not currently operate a and over 210 colleagues have been green procurement programme but business mentors, with many returning encourages all of its suppliers to be year after year.
This year, the Groups environmentally responsible.
Chair, Gary Hoffman, who participated in the first event, was appointed as the Groups Be The Change ambassador.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 56 | Corporate responsibility continued The Group moved out of Franklin House Greenhouse gas emissions in Newmarket in November 2017 and colleagues were relocated to other Group offices or now work from home.
Tonnes CO e 2018 2017 2016 2 There were no emissions associated with Scope 1 248 235 277 this building in 2018.
In November 2018, the Groups operations in Gibraltar Scope 2 710 906 1,064 moved location: invoice data was available for the previous location for the Total CO e 2 majority of 2018, but at the time of the reporting there were no invoices for the 958 1,141 1,341 new office.
Consumption for the new office has been estimated based on average historical usage at the old location.
Only offices where energy usage Full time is within the control of the Group have colleagues 1,730 1,798 2,001 been included in the reporting scope and therefore exclude the leased offices in Leicester and London for which energy CO e 2 data is not available and or accurate.
per FTE 0.55 0.63 0.67 Full time colleagues based in the Scope 1 D irect emissions resulting from natural gas & gas oil consumption and refrigerant Leicester and London offices and those gas release that work from home are not counted Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions from purchased grid electricity towards the CO e per full time colleague 2 FTE figure quoted.
GHG emissions arise from the Groups Emissions associated with grid Greenhouse Gas Emissions electricity and gas consumption through electricity consumption continued GHG the operation of its offices.
There were to decrease in 2018, owing to All emission sources have been no refrigerant gas emissions in 2018 and decarbonisation of the grid: the reported on as required under the the diesel-powered backup generator emission factor was 0.28307 kg CO e Large and Medium Sized Companies 2 previously deployed at the Groups head kWh in 2018, a decrease of 19.5% on and Groups Accounts and Reports office in Bexhill has been removed and 2017.
The annual level of greenhouse Regulations 2008 as amended.
The therefore was not used in 2018.
The gas emissions resulting from activities reporting boundary used for collation of Group does not own any vehicles and for which the Group is responsible the above data is consistent with that business travel through private vehicles continued to decrease: 2018 emissions used for consolidation purposes in the is limited: transport emissions have were 958 tonnes CO e 2017: 1,141 Financial Statements.
The Group has 2 therefore been excluded from the TCO e, a reduction of 16% on the followed the methodology laid out in 2 reporting scope.
This equates to 0.55 DEFRAs Environmental Reporting tonnes 2017: 0.63 tonnes per Guidelines and calculated the carbon Electricity and gas data has been colleague.
The emissions for 2018 were emissions using the relevant carbon collated through supplier utility invoices 35% below the emissions from the base conversion factors as issued by DEFRA: and or half hourly electricity data.
Refrigerant gas F-Gas losses have been the carbon emissions solely comprised co. uk.
Emissions have been reported based on the F-Gas log of refrigerant those from electricity and gas 74% and in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent re-charged into the AC systems in 2018 26% respectively : there were no CO e which include CO, CH and N O.
2 2 4 2 there were no losses reported and emissions from refrigerant gases or The publication of Gibraltars CO per 2 consequently no re-charging.
kWh of electricity generated ended in 2015.
Therefore this years emissions The reporting period is in line with the from this source have been derived using Companys financial year, which is the the 2015 factor.
Electricity consumption same as the calendar year.
from offices in Gibraltar accounted for only 2% of the Groups total electricity usage in 2018.
The emissions have been calculated and the data validated by an independent energy consultancy Concept Energy Solutions.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018
