Hgs review Hgs review Responsible investing How we integrate Responsible Investment Growing sustainable into our investment process businesses which are Investment screening & Due Diligence great employers, have When considering potential new investments, we screen their activity against our exclusion list and a low environmental assess the quality and sustainability of their business model.
impact and are good During due diligence, we assess companies for compliance with relevant laws in relation to corporate citizens environmental, social, governance, health and 30 30 safety, bribery and corruption issues.
Why responsible investing is important to us For Hg, Responsible Investment RI means growing sustainable businesses which are great employers, have a low Ownership environmental impact and are good corporate citizens, whilst We take an active approach to managing ESG generating superior risk adjusted returns for the millions of during our ownership.
This starts with an ESG pensioners and savers globally who are invested with us.
onboarding and maturity assessment to prioritise We want the businesses we invest in to be genuinely ESG topics and agree an action plan.
focused on doing well for all stakeholders including employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders and the We conduct an annual ESG assessment and work wider society.
We firmly believe that responsible business with our businesses to identify areas for practices help generate superior longterm performance.
improvement and help them to realise their ambitions within and beyond our Responsible Our responsible investing journey Business framework.
Hg has been a signatory of the UN Principles for We organise facetoface events for our Responsible Investment UNPRI since 2012.
At the end of management teams to share best practice, 2017, we reviewed and updated our RI framework, policy network and receive support.
In 2018, we have and approach to set our ambition and ensure we focus on held forums on diversity, implementing GDPR the ESG opportunities and issues most relevant for the and best practice in HR.
types of businesses we invest in.
Our new Responsible Business framework forms the foundation of our work and all businesses are assessed against the framework on an annual basis.
All businesses get a score from 1 10 Realisation 10 being the best and a list of opportunities to consider.
Upon realisation, we aim to demonstrate the In 2018, the average score across the portfolio was 8.6. increased value from improved ESG performance This is a good reflection of the performance of our with case studies and performance metrics.
companies and demonstrates the low level of inherent ESH risks across the sectors and geographies we invest in.
Weve found it unique and reassuring that Hg values nonfinancial metrics and ESG performance so highly, while genuinely caring about the employees across the portfolio.
Hgs Responsible Business assessment helped us review measurements towards how we do business and the impact we have on our employees and society.
It proved to be a valuable exercise in understanding how we perform against the rest of the industry and Hgs portfolio, while also enabling us to reflect on what we do well and what we could do differently.
Hgs portfolio forums are a great way to share these best practices and learn from others across the Hg family.
Hg is truly a responsible investor and Sovos is happy to have their backing and support as we continue our mission to Solve Tax for Good.
Colleen Schlagel, Chief Talent Officer, Sovos HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 D Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information s R P l a o P o i T t u s & o a T w r E k o s G h C r - E p i n w & E a o t e o o & n o v K l i m s E S n D B b c v i K v s s m n c n i G i s r o o u p y e s e e w e v - s o o r p h l c g n r i o m b Responsible investing continued A signatory to the UNPRI since 2012.
AA 2018 PRI Assessment Score: A for Strategy & Governance, and A for Private Equity Ownership 31 31 Our Responsible Business framework Hgs Responsible Business framework outlines key ESG areas of focus and how Hg can support our businesses.
The framework is used to assess prospects both before investment and businesses we own throughout our ownership.
It focuses on three key areas: Essentials Employees Society There are certain minimum ESG Among the most important assets of Our businesses contribute to society requirements that Hg expects from our businesses are their employees.
in a number of ways: all our businesses.
A diverse workplace with engaged and Community engagement including motivated employees is vital for growth These include: community engagement initiatives, and business success.
We look at apprenticeships, charitable giving Governance and Business employees from four aspects: and volunteering: Integrity, such as code of conduct, Diversity of talent and equal appropriate controls, board Environmental impact The opportunities irrespective of composition and appropriate majority of our businesses have ethnicity, gender, disability and health & safety and grievance low carbon footprints and minimal background: procedures: impact on the environment.
We Engagement and motivation still encourage them to consider Risk and Compliance, including by promoting transparent how they can improve their energy compliance with all laws and communications, health and use and waste management, as regulations, active risk wellbeing, learning opportunities, well as reduce business travel: management, as well as standards recognition and good leadership: and policies to combat bribery, Positive relationships with key corruption, money laundering and Grow businesses and talent, external stakeholders including other malpractice: including organic job growth, healthy customers and suppliers.
For staff turnover, talent management example, by responsible pricing Data and Cybersecurity, which and succession planning: and sales and supplier relationships: includes Hgs minimum standards for cybersecurity along with Purpose and culture, including Transparency of company appropriate information appropriate and value driving commitments and progress, protection practices and vision, mission, values, norms including external reporting and GDPR compliance.
For more information please go to www.
com responsibility HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 n w e r i o o n o n & a n a & m e e r t e e T u p r y o w a i g s o r l s t m s l c p e s n e a s s a e n e e y s l u l i l e n o t e R i e o c t s l T i a c n s c t & y e o w t n y u o u h n - w r c r o s n i e e K t y Hgs review Hgs review Responsible investing Case study: Maximising care, minimising cost in the healthcare sector The siloed nature of most global healthcare systems makes effective treatment across the patient journey a complex challenge to solve.
Investment in technology provides one solution and we at Hg believe that the healthcare technology landscape will be transformed over the next decade.
32 32 Healthcare IT is an area that we at Hg have followed for many years and we website: www.
com initially invested in Allocate Software Allocate, a leading international provider Investment sector: Technology of workforce solutions to the healthcare, defence and maritime sectors, in 2014.
Cluster: Healthcare Allocates software solutions help health and care organisations safeguard savings Location: United Kingdom and safety by deploying their workforce effectively based on service and patient needs.
Each client typically achieves annual savings in excess of 1 million money which can be spent on creating even better care and service for patients.
Allocate optimises the medical professions most valuable assets its people to deliver excellent care for patients.
Its core software product allows for the Overall, Allocate enables smooth running of workforce rostering, time and attendance, monitoring and healthcare organisations reporting, resulting in increased productivity and morale of staff and better care to ensure: quality and safety for patients.
Higher quality, safer care: Allocates Optima platform is a workforce optimisation solution deploying 800,000 ensuring the right staff are in the right place, at the right time to nurses, care professionals and doctors in more than 800 organisations worldwide meet real patient needs.
Built around the specific needs of health and care organisations, the platform brings together staff and patient needs in one tool, providing a clear Engaged staff: greater view of staffing for every audience from the bedside to the boardroom.
involvement of staff in rostering process, visibility of schedules There is also increasing recognition that patient outcomes are reliant on strong and fairness of allocations.
operational delivery throughout their patient journey.
Furthermore, the ways that healthcare systems are reimbursed, and regulated, are changing towards a Maximised use of highly system that rewards or punishes based on patient outcomes.
skilled resources: staffing matched to patient needs, Not only do we see this new dynamic as creating opportunities to grow tech optimised over weeks and businesses in the healthcare space, but there is also a knockon positive effect for months to reduce costs many stakeholders, including buyers of these systems hospitals and other care of care.
providers, patients and, ultimately, wider society.
For example, research shows Reduced cost and that there is a positive correlation between technology maturity within hospitals administrative burden: and patient outcomes.
More efficient systems result in reduced costs and the 80% quicker to create rosters right level of staffing, which in turn has a positive impact on the flow of patients and improved compliance through the hospital as well as the service provided.
With increasing evidence with workplace regulations that better healthcare operations result in better healthcare outcomes, we also and policies.
see a benefit to wider society, reducing the development of chronic conditions and the resulting need for follow up treatment.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
