Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Corporate Responsibility Responsibility We recognise that to be successful in achieving our strategy of sustainable profitable growth it is essential that we act responsibly in all our businesses and towards all people who are stakeholders in them: our employees, our customers and suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
The Group is committed to implementing the correct policies and procedures relating to the sustainability of the environment and to the successful delivery of an effective health and safety system, as well as ensuring that the people connected with the Group behave in the right way, complying with all local legal and regulatory requirements.
Derek Muir, the Chief Executive, is the Director responsible for the Corporate Responsibility CR performance of the Group and is supported by the operating Directors in achieving compliance with the Groups policies, primarily through: communication across the businesses: implementation of supporting principles: and monitoring performance and improvements.
Our operating Directors are supported in this by the Groups employees, who are encouraged to contribute positively to the communities and environment in which we do business.
Non-financial information statement We aim to comply with the Non-financial Reporting requirements contained in S414CA and S415CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The table below, and the information it refers to, is intended to help readers understand our position on key non-financial matters.
Reporting requirement Policies and standards which govern our approach Additional information See page no.
Employees Group Code of Business Conduct Behaving correctly 44 Training & development policy Succession planning and talent Senior management salary policy management 42 Health & Safety policy Group learning and development 42-43 Health & safety 45-46 Wellbeing 43 Human rights Recruitment of employees policy Diversity & inclusion 43 Employment references policy Gender pay 43 Equal opportunities & diversity policy Human rights 44 Board diversity statement Data protection policy Modern slavery policy The environment Environment policy Sustainability 47 Energy policy Greenhouse gases 47-48 Water & waste 48 Community Individual subsidiary approach 49 Anti-bribery and Anti-bribery & corruption policy 44 corruption International competition law policy 44 Gifts & Entertainment policy 44 Whistleblowing policy 69 Description of the Our business model 8-9 business model Our purpose 8 Our values 10-11 Description of the Our business model 8-9 principal risk and Our markets 12-17 uncertainties and Risk framework 32-34 impact of business Principal risks & uncertainties 36-39 activities.
Non-financial key Diversity 43 performance indicators.
Accidents 46 Greenhouse gas emissions 47-48 Water & waste 48 Visit https: www.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance policies Those policies marked with an asterisk can be found on the Companys website 40 Stock Code HILS Case Study Following the Hurricane Maria disaster, V&S Galvanizing helped bring relief to the island of Puerto Rico, by being In September 2017, Hurricane Maria brought devastation to the island of Puerto Rico, part of the relief effort that rebuilt 18 bridges across leaving the island without power, food, communications or water.
More than 1,100 the island re-establishing lives were lost in this catastrophic event.
the road network and reconnecting During 2018, the US Bridge and Acrow Bridge companies brought relief to five communities communities.
throughout the island using modular designed bridges.
In just six weeks, with the help of the V&S Galvanizing plants in Columbus, Taunton and Amboy the first of these hot dip galvanized bridges was manufactured and installed.
Within six months, all the communitys bridges were completed, reconnecting the residents across the island.
In total there were 18 bridges reconnecting the Puerto Rican citizens with families and their lives.
V&S Galvanizings plants galvanized more than 2,850 metric tons of hot dip galvanized steel, which was used to create more than 20,000 feet of bridges, including the embedments, stringers, cross members, and all major structural support members.
The flooring was also galvanized and coated with each companys trademarked grit surface.
Even though the work took place during the heart of the winter, V&S Galvanizings workforce ensured that the steel was galvanized, properly packed into containers and prepared for the emergency contractors to erect the bridges immediately on arrival of steel at the site.
Find out more about the company at http: www.
com 41 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Corporate Responsibility continued Our people The Group recognises the need for successful businesses to deliver a good service and product and this can only be done by developing, supporting and maintaining the right people.
Appropriate resources and support to maintain the required standards of performance and conduct expected of employees are provided.
This is only achieved through the provision of training and career development opportunities, promoting a forward thinking, proactive and creative working environment to engage and motivate employees.
Investing in our people development framework helps ensure we create a skilled and motivated workforce that will positively impact on our future success.
Our aim is to continually develop our Group leadership and management capabilities across all levels of the organisation, enabling all our managers to effectively motivate and co-ordinate their teams in their business.
Succession planning and talent management We are in the fourth year of our Succession Planning and Talent Management SPTM programme for managers across all subsidiaries.
Subsidiary Boards continue to identify the senior managers within the Group who would succeed them on their subsidiary board as directors.
In 2018 we saw the programme bear fruit, in that two managers were promoted to the position of subsidiary company directors and, in one case, the opportunity was filled by a senior manager from elsewhere in the Group.
UK subsidiaries continue to engage with the SPTM process and recognise the need to address succession considerations, talent management and staff development to enable ongoing corporate success.
The SPTM programme has supplemented and or formalised existing arrangements for some companies: for others it has introduced a new approach to explore succession planning and learning and development more generally, whilst others are still relatively recently adopting the process as a result of ongoing expansion and restructuring.
A number of management and leadership programmes have been co-ordinated since the SPTM launch an executive-level development programme, culminating in the IOD Corporate Director qualification: a senior management leadership programme and a first-line management development programme sponsored by the Institute of Leadership and Management ILM.
All these programmes additionally enable managers to undertake recognised management qualifications as part of their studies.
These management programmes are underpinned by Group-wide programmes at supervisory and team leader level.
In 2018 we introduced an SPTM programme into our US subsidiaries, with twelve senior managers being identified as leaders of the future.
Participants were identified by local Managing Directors across the three US business groups and attended a nine-day programme over seven months.
The workshops were delivered at various different sites across the US, incorporating site tours to provide an opportunity for managers to improve their understanding of our different businesses and network effectively with their peers.
The programme was designed to maximise the impact of these leaders and their teams within their own organisations.
Content included leadership, emotional intelligence, financial awareness, understanding culture and performance, leading change, strategy and innovation.
Group learning and development strengthening our talent pipeline Alongside these management development programmes, individuals are encouraged to undertake appropriate specialist technical and personal development appropriate to their roles and aspirations and in line with organisational strategy and in 2018 we introduced a number of apprenticeship schemes across the UK subsidiaries.
Our UK sites are taking advantage of utilising their apprenticeship levy payments in a variety of areas: however, the greatest impact is through Business Improvement Techniques launched across numerous companies this summer.
Through 5S Lean Development and Kaizen projects, businesses are looking to see major improvements in their manufacturing processes as well as taking on apprentices across a variety of areas: Business Administration, Electrical Engineering, Design Draughtsperson, Health & Safety, Welding, Warehousing, Sales and Accounting.
In addition, in 2019 two new development programmes will commence: The UK Hill & Smith Group General Management Development Programme designed for existing managers who have no formal training and want to further develop their leadership skills.
The programme is one of skills development and comprises six one-day sessions.
It will be possible to convert to an ILM qualification at a later date if desired.
42 Stock Code HILS Our People Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 The US Supervisors Development Programme is a five-month programme, delivered as a combination of face-to-face and virtual workshops.
The programme has been designed to ensure our next level of supervisors managers are developing Number of PLC their skills in line with the senior managers, delivering consistent Board Directors: messages from management levels across the businesses of leadership, goal setting, accountability, giving feedback, Male & Female split managing change, influencing others, handling resistance and performance coaching.
Male 5 Employees are also encouraged to immerse themselves in the Female 1 Group with regular communication through the Groups intranet and owning shares in the Group through the employee sharesave scheme.
This currently has over 750 participants.
Diversity and inclusion The Group is committed to equal opportunities and fairness and to policies, practices and regulations for promotion of equal Number of other opportunities in recruitment, training and career development.
As Directors: the Group has a global presence, these are appropriate for the local areas of operation.
This includes a no tolerance approach to Male & Female split discrimination, bullying and harassment.
All our policies promote the principles of fairness and equal opportunities and if these are not followed, employees can use an externally hosted whistleblowing Male 59 hotline to report adverse behaviours.
The Board has overall Female 2 responsibility for the Companys Equal Opportunities, Discrimination and Diversity Policy.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group-wide split of male and female employees is shown in the charts opposite.
Gender pay Gender pay reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees to publish statutory calculations every year Number of senior showing how large the pay gap is between their male and female managers in the Group: employees.
This legislation affects three of our UK subsidiaries: Birtley Group Ltd, a galvanizer and construction business: Joseph Male & Female split Ash Ltd, a galvanizing business: and Hill & Smith Ltd, a roads barrier manufacturer.
Male 167 The gender pay gap indicates the percentage difference in the Female 19 average pay between all men and women in a workforce and is different to any equality of pay, which deals with the pay differences between men and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value.
The data for each of the above companies can be found on their websites via www.
For 2018, the Group extended these calculations to all our UK subsidiaries.
This Group data can also be found on our website www.
Total number of Wellbeing employees in the Group: During 2018, the Group partnered with Lifeworks to deliver an Employee Assistance Programme EAP to its UK employees.
This Male & Female split programme includes the following: 24 7 365 access to support: EAP-appropriate counselling model: unlimited routine telephonic Male 3,728 critical & significant incident support: phone apps: and support for dependants.
Lifeworks are also able to support our international Female 366 colleagues and we will be looking at this in more detail during 2019.
com To read the Boards Statement on Diversity and the Groups Equal Opportunities Policy.
com 43 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Corporate Responsibility continued Behaving correctly least basic human rights standards.
Our Group companies will also The Group is committed to conducting its business activities comply with all applicable wage and working-time laws and other responsibly, ethically and in accordance with the laws and laws or regulations affecting the employer employee relationship regulations applicable to the jurisdictions in which we operate.
The Board has introduced training and education programmes for We oppose the exploitation of all workers, particularly children employees, relating to compliance, including export controls and and young people and we will not tolerate forced labour, or labour economic sanctions and competition antitrust legislation.
Our Code which involves physical, verbal or psychological harassment or of Business Conduct CBC sets down the guidelines by which we intimidation of any kind and we will not employ child labour in expect our business to be conducted and this is supported by a set any of our operations.
Nor will we permit the exploitation of, or of global policies issued through the Group intranet and internal discrimination against, any vulnerable group.
We support fair and communications.
reasonable rewards for workers, with wages reflecting local norms The CBC presides over areas such as health and safety, fair, and they must meet or exceed any legal minimum wage levels.
honest and ethical business practice, gifts and entertainment, The Board is committed to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and has conducting international business, protection of individuals, continued to support a number of policies and initiatives during resources and assets and at a high level summarises the Groups 2018 to supplement the Groups existing compliance controls in legal and compliance responsibilities in areas such as anti-bribery respect of anti-slavery and human trafficking.
In January 2018 we and corruption, export laws and regulations and international undertook an internal audit of our Bergen Pipe Supports business in fair and open competition.
The CBC also extends to the handling India and concluded that there were no issues that should concern and minimisation of conflicts of interest and the protection of the the Group.
During 2018 we have also undertaken an in-depth Groups valuable intellectual property rights.
analysis of the location of our UK-based subsidiaries customers and The Groups written policy states that if any employee has suppliers and compared that against the Global Slavery Index.
The reasonable grounds to believe that the Groups CBC policy or internal analysis revealed that the vast majority, 97% of both our customers Group policy is not being adhered to by any person or group of and suppliers, were based in the United Kingdom and that only people, he or she is able to contact Senior Managers within their c. 0.08% of suppliers and customers were based in countries in the business unit, the Group Company Secretary or the Chairman of bottom quartile of the Global Slavery Index.
Consequently, the risk the Audit Committee.
Should individuals wish to raise concerns of exposure to modern slavery in our supply and customer chains anonymously they are able to do so via a compliance hotline and is considered to be low.
However, we are taking steps to ensure that email facility the Reporting System.
these customers and suppliers conform to the Groups CBC and Modern Slavery policy.
We intend to undertake the same exercise The Reporting System is operated in conjunction with a with our USA-based subsidiaries in 2019. whistleblowing policy, which is approved annually by the Audit Committee.
The policy gives assurance that issues will be The Group is also committed to maintaining a safe and productive investigated and resolved in accordance with the principles of environment, free from harassment in which all individuals are the CBC.
During 2018 eleven such issues were reported and treated with respect and dignity and we expect all our employees investigated.
and individuals that work on our sites to follow our health and safety policies and procedures and be free from substance abuse at all The CBC is designed to ensure that as a Group, all subsidiary times.
companies act ethically, honestly, with integrity and in a legally compliant manner in their business activities and this applies to everyone who is engaged by the Group anywhere in the world, Regulatory compliance whether they are employees or third parties.
Consequently, as The Group deploys an Anti-Bribery & Corruption Programme which part of the CBC the Group has implemented a set of procurement includes policies, training and due diligence of all third parties with standards, which seeks to ensure that the Group and its subsidiaries whom the Group engages.
The provision and receipt of gifts and mitigate any risk stemming from its supply chain and is able to entertainment is tolerated within considered parameters which leverage the economies of scale a group of its size, composition and align with the Groups legal obligations.
Procedures and controls are structure can hope to expect.
deployed to monitor such activity across the Group.
The CBC is not designed to supersede detailed Group policies The Group benefits from a Competition Law compliance but rather to supplement and summarise the Groups compliance programme which includes a manual, online training and auditing initiatives, its behavioural and ethical standards, as well as to give via simulated dawn raid.
The programme is based on requirements the relevant assurances in respect of the Groups key corporate, of UK law with local variations applied to non-UK businesses.
The Group operates a Sanctioned Countries Policy in line with its As in previous years, each business is required to certify its legal and financial obligations using restricted party screening compliance with the policies issued by the Group during the year software.
Additional protocols have also been provided to certain and in particular with the CBC.
subsidiaries to ensure they meet all international obligations when trading in sensitive geographical areas.
Human rights The Group is committed to treating all people, whether employed Procurement controls directly by the Group or its subsidiaries or employed in its supply The Group is further developing its procurement systems to chain, fairly and equitably and we are committed to upholding their enhance and embed best practices in purchasing activity and during human rights.
The Group recognises all individuals basic human the year looked at how the Modern Slavery Act impacted upon its rights and is committed to respecting the Universal Declaration supply chain.
for Human Rights in the design of diversity practice and its ethical approach to employees, suppliers and customers.
The Group and all its worldwide subsidiaries respect the human rights of all those working for or with us, and of the people in the communities where we operate.
We will not knowingly do business with companies, organisations or individuals that we believe are not working to at 44 Stock Code HILS Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Health and safety An ongoing and non-negotiable commitment to our workers continues to minimise the risks they face on a daily basis.
The provision and maintenance of good health, safety and welfare standards for everyone is a prime focus across all sites.
The Group continues to adopt various measures to maintain a safe working environment, to ensure work-related risks are effectively identified and controlled, that our monitoring regimes for health and safety help to spot issues at the earliest opportunity and that lessons are learnt from any events that do occur.
The awareness around and importance of safety culture, personal responsibility and keeping an eye out for anything dangerous forms a key part of our Group objectives.
Sites continue to work alongside our external health and safety consultant to assist the Group in achieving its objectives around health and safety which continues to be focussed on: third-party support including a programme of external audits, a compliance-based software solution and for the UK US subsidiaries regular Group safety forum meetings.
In the US, the appointment of a third-party Safety Specialist, to mirror our well established approach in the UK, will provide more effective support for site auditing and ongoing advice to the US operations.
This approach, alongside our safety forums and regular contact with key parties on each site, continues to ensure that best practice is shared, that practical solutions to common issues are evaluated and that overall, sites are striving to work to a set of common standards.
Summary of health and safety objectives for 2018 Objectives Outcomes In the UK, the safety culture This was undertaken across all UK sites in July assessment tool was re-run to 2018.
Whilst the 55% response rate was lower than provide us with a comparison the previous survey 2016: 65%, the Safety Climate on how the safety culture Tool ratings showed improvements across all areas across the businesses is reviewed.
Overall, our UK sites are performing in line improving.
Of particular note were upward performance shifts in Organisational Commitment and Health & Safety Trust and Engagement.
All sites still face the ongoing challenge of ensuring their day to day working procedures covering H&S requirements are made simpler and are easier to understand by our workers.
Sites are now starting to implement their own action plans to address the survey findings.
In the US, an inaugural Health & Full day meetings in April and November 2018 saw 22 Safety Forum was held in April representatives from all US businesses discuss a range 2018 with another in November, of safety-related matters, together with key parties from bringing together, for the first our Insurers.
The days were extremely useful in sharing time, key health and safety best practice and setting the framework for future teams from across our US relationships and meetings.
Further meetings for 2019 subsidiaries who shared best are planned.
In parallel with the US Safety Forum, an practice, discussed common external Safety Specialist has been appointed to assist issues and agreed a way the Company in providing more scrutiny and support forward for safety performance to the US sites.
The appointment will run alongside the and auditing.
UKs continued use of a third party consultant to advise, audit and validate safety performance.
The continuation of the external Audits undertaken for UK sites showed a consistent audit programme, with current level of performance from 2017 and visits to ATA in levels to be maintained or Sweden and Bergen Pipes in India also showed those improved, as appropriate.
subsidiaries are improving their approaches to health and safety.
For the US, following the appointment of the Safety Specialist, a joint exercise with our UK Consultant was undertaken at three sites to share our UK audit protocol and expected standards.
The US Consultant is now all set up and will commence the 2019 programme of audits directly with each site.
For France, a Board visit was undertaken and an overview of their safety performance was discussed.
com 45 Health & Safety Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Corporate Responsibility continued Objectives Outcomes An ongoing drive to encourage Within the UK subsidiaries, there was a 22% increase in the numbers of near miss events reported better reporting of near misses which demonstrated the effectiveness of various awareness campaigns reminding workers of the and non-injury related events and a importance of not walking by something that may be dangerous.
At the same time, we also saw a further review in the way accident reduction in total injury reports, which we hope is also a reflection of addressing issues before they data is collated to provide a more cause an injury.
meaningful measure based on Collating a consistent set of data points for rates is ongoing.
The Group companies work actively to effectively manage health and safety, evidenced by the following initiatives: Ongoing attainment of OHSAS 18001 certification by Hill & Smith Ltd, Asset International Limited, Variable Message Signs, and Mallatite Ltd, France Galva: Within the Joseph Ash Group, additional sites have been certified to OHSAS 18001 with a view to the remaining sites attaining it by the end of 2019: Birtley Group, Technocover and Bergen Pipe Supports India have started their OHSAS 18001 journey and are expecting to achieve certification in 2019: Joseph Ash Galvanizing once again received a RoSPA Gold Medal in recognition of their safety performance and involvement of the workforce: A number of subsidiaries continued to maintain their Achilles supplier HSE accreditation, which is a national registration scheme allowing companies to be assessed to work in the Infrastructure sector: Following on from 2016, which saw a number of UK subsidiaries launch drug and alcohol awareness campaigns with a supporting policy and random monitoring, other sites are now adopting a similar approach to help ensure the impact of social use of drugs and alcohol is better understood: and Technocover were asked to present a session on hand-arm vibration at a Health & Safety Executive organised event in North Wales, outlining how the issue could be practically dealt with.
This also built on various other UK subsidiaries introducing real-time monitoring and data trackers for hand-arm vibration exposure.
This has helped greatly in operatives being able to control their own levels of exposure.
KPIs Link to our strategy KPI definition 2018 performance Comment Health and The health and safety Number of The focus during 2018 remained the desire to raise the safety performance of each accidents, including awareness of minor injury and near-miss reporting and subsidiary is key to our minor injuries.
improve the culture within our businesses, thereby helping management of the our employees to better understand the inherent benefits Number of lost time Group as a responsible Down 7.8% from having a safe place to work.
employer and to our Audit scores and reputation in the markets benchmarkings.
Incidents Encouraging the open reporting of accidents and incidents continues to be a prime objective.
In the UK, more effective near-miss reporting is leading to a much better appreciation of working safely and keeping work areas clean and tidy.
We intend to undertake further work in this area to ensure a more open and active reporting culture around close-call and near-miss events.
For 2018 the Group received, on a like-for-like basis, 464 accident reports 2017:503.
Allowing for acquisitions which have now been included in the Groups health & safety regime, the injury rate per 100,000 employees fell by 13.6% and days lost due to accidents fell from 123 in 2017 to 61 in 2018.
Audits The externally managed health and safety audit programme continues to show that sites are demonstrating a high level of health and safety management and adherence to safe working practices.
In the UK for 2018 this showed that existing sites were maintaining a good level of performance and newly acquired sites had improved their rating by more than 50%.
Those overseas subsidiaries that were audited, also showed a good level for performance and improvements being made year-on-year, both in terms of general working conditions, risk management and specific safety initiatives.
With our US Safety Specialist now appointed, the Group is better placed to benchmark the US operations going forward.
2019 Health and Safety objectives In the forthcoming year our efforts in promoting a safe and secure workplace will continue with specific focus on: In the UK, ensuring the results from the safety culture assessment tool are used to form future strategy and action plans for each site.
Firmly embedding the Safety Forum across the US subsidiaries to assist in sharing best practice, discussing common issues and agreeing the way forward for safety performance and auditing.
The continuation of the external audit programme for sites in the UK, Sweden and India, with current levels to be maintained or improved, as appropriate.
For the US sites, ensuring each one is audited by the newly appointed Safety Specialist and benchmarked standards collated accordingly to provide a baseline against which future performance can be assessed.
In France, we intend to undertake a further review of their corporate health and safety arrangements to provide a benchmark against the UK US businesses.
An ongoing drive to encourage better reporting of near misses and non-injury related events and encouragement to promote the monitoring of safe unsafe behaviours as a means for providing both positive and negative feedback to workers and management.
46 Stock Code HILS 503 464 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Sustainability and the environment The Group places a high priority on meeting its environmental sustainability responsibilities within the geographies in which it operates.
Each business has an appointed Energy Champion who is responsible for ensuring that the Groups policies on energy and the environment are promoted throughout its operations.
All employees are encouraged to report energy savings and recycling ideas to their local energy champion, and the Group contributes information and data to the Carbon Development Project, a programme designed to tackle climate change.
As in previous years, the Group continues to measure its water and energy usage and monitor the disposal of its waste products, paying particular attention to the recycling of materials.
Different geographies have different attitudes to waste disposal and recycling and the Group is committed to seeking ways to motivate its businesses to adopt an environmentally friendly approach to these activities.
In the UK we utilise the services of CMR Consultants CMR, an independent energy management consultancy who help to collect, collate and verify the data.
A programme of environmental audits is carried out on a regular cycle, by an independent third party, to monitor individual company performance and to assist the Group in reducing its environmental impact on an ongoing basis.
In addition, during the year our UK-based Group companies conducted energy audits at their premises, in accordance with the Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme.
Recommendations were made following these audits and these were discussed at the Companys annual Energy Forum meeting in November 2018, where the subsidiary Energy Champions shared experiences and best practice and discussed actions to identify energy savings opportunities, how to drive forward their implementation, and whether such plans should be developed on a local basis or sponsored by the Group.
Our UK operations are also committed to working towards compliance with the ISO 14002:2004 standard, which is awarded to companies that operate to an accepted environmental government standard.
A programme of audits has been agreed for our UK businesses, with companies monitoring their environmental impact on a day-to-day basis.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions The Groups GHG emissions continue to be constantly monitored, so that we can improve upon our use of energy, water and recyclable and non-recyclable resources, ensuring long-term environmental and business sustainability and creating long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders.
We recognise that our business can have a direct and indirect effect upon the environment.
The data provided below illustrates how our carbon footprint is created by them, allowing us to monitor the impact of our operations on the environment and make improvements where feasible.
Group total emissions by scope Group Group Group Group emissions emissions emissions emissions 2018 2017 2016 2015 Scope 1 Gas, fuel & oil usage 44,231.49 44,995.94 45,346.72 40,662.05 Purchased electricity 24,448.78 22,599.19 21,950.87 23,146.75 Water & waste 528.90 472.20 869.10 466.07 Total tCO2e 69,209.17 68,067.33 68,166.69 64,274.87 Total revenue 637.9m 585.1m 540.1m 467.5m Intensity ratio 0.108 0.116 0.126 0.137 For the UK and overseas data, the Group has decided to measure the GHG emissions using the Group total turnover, as the intensity ratio IR.
The IR is measured as the total tonnage of emissions, stated as carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e per 1,000 turnover.
com 47 Sustainability Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Corporate Responsibility continued KPIs Link to our strategy KPI definition 2018 performance Comment C02e Cost reductions and Carbon usage The Group has continued to focus on energy saving C02e IR emissions greater efficiency, comparison opportunities: however, due to the acquisition of three new improve not only our year on year and sites actual total tCO2e used across the group rose by operating margins but over a three-year 1,142.85 tonnes.
Group activities also increased throughout also the sustainability of programme.
the year with the result that the Groups intensity ratio fell by our operations.
2017 2018 2017 2018 Water consumption Although water consumption rose in 2016, the initiatives put in place in 2016-2017 resulted in a fall in overall water usage in 2017 of 7.4% with a resultant 14.7% fall in the intensity ratio.
These same initiatives have continued the improvement in 2018, with the IP ratio falling by a further 12.2%.
Group water usage 2018 volume 2017 volume 3 3 UK water usage 36,895.5 m 36,001 m 3 3 Overseas water usage 50,589.4 m 55,475 m 3 3 Total usage 87,484.9 m 91,476 m Ratio per 1,000 of Group turnover 0.137 0.156 Waste management The Group continues to manage its waste disposal, discouraging the use of landfill sites and using expert waste disposal companies to dispose of such waste and to recycle it wherever possible.
For example, some of our plastic waste is recycled into new products and alternative bio-energy sources and a large proportion of our waste acid is reprocessed and recycled into other waste treatment processes.
Waste quantities 2018 volume 2017 volume 3 3 Liquid waste 11,727 m 12,083 m 3 3 Acidic waste like-for-like 10,471 m 10,475 m 2018 tonnes 2017 tonnes Waste to landfill 5,038 4,404 Recycled waste 28,779 20,736 Total waste inc. landfill 33,817 25,410 The Group discourages waste to landfill, using expert waste disposal companies to dispose of such waste and to recycle it wherever possible.
Within the UK, the Group complies with the Producer Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations 2007 as amended in compliance with the European Union Directive.
The Group provides evidence to Wastepack, an organisation that provides confirmation to the UK Government that the Group is continuing to meet UK recycling and recovery standards set by Defra.
com To see the Companys Energy and Environmental policies 48 Stock Code HILS 68,097 69,209 0.116 0.108 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Although the Group does not have a Group-wide programme in place to support specific charities or communities, it remains committed to encouraging its subsidiary companies to fully engage with their local communities.
The Group values its relationship with the local stakeholders and the support it receives from them.
During the year Joseph Ash Ltd supported the Lily Mae Foundation and worked with a valued customer, Reid Steel, to rebuild a school on the Caribbean Island of Tortola.
Other subsidiaries supported national and local organisations including Magic FM, Macmillan Cancer Support and Hope House.
Images: Top: Artists impression of the new school on the Caribbean island of Tortola.
Middle: Staff at Technocover Ltd, Welshpool, hand over a cheque in respect of their fundraising efforts.
Bottom: Lionweld Kennedy Bake Off and Joseph Ash Ltds sponsored golf day.
com 49 Community The Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority is using Composite Advantage Incs products for their accessibility platforms in Boston.
These fibre reinforced polymer FRP composite platforms and ramps are replacing deteriorated concrete panels on train platforms as they are unaffected by salt, water and fideicing chemicals.
50 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Governance Report 52 Board of Directors 54 Chairmans Introduction to Governance 56 Governance Report 56 Leadership 58 Effectiveness 61 Accountability 63 Remuneration 64 Relations With Shareholders 65 Nomination Committee Report 67 Audit Committee Report 73 Remuneration Committee Report 74 Directors Remuneration Report 87 Directors Report other statutory information 90 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Top: The thrilling new White Cap and Breakers Edge water slides at Hershey Park, Pennsylvania, constructed with steel galvanized by our V&S Galvanizing plants.
Bottom: Modular steel security building incorporating twin and single doors, designed to protect mechanical and electrical operational equipment.
Provided by Technocover Limited to a water booster station on an Affinity Water Limited site.
