Sustainability 42 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Sustainability We pride ourselves on being a responsible organisation that is committed to helping people and improving the communities in which we operate.
In our sustainability strategy we have prioritised four key areas.
Operating responsibly and ethically see page 44 Supporting our patients and communities see page 46 Enabling our people see page 50 Monitoring and minimising our environmental impacts see page 52 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 43 Sustainability continued Operating responsibly and ethically Operating responsibly and ethically is vital to our long-term Our Code of Conduct provides all employees with a clear understanding of the principles organisational success.
Through a continuous focus on of business conduct, standards and ethical strengthening our governance frameworks, building trusted behaviours.
The Code of Conduct is publicly available on our website, communicated and transparent partnerships and upholding high standards of annually through Group-wide e-learning human rights and ethical conduct, we are building a sustainable training modules to all employees with management support to engage their teams, platform for the future.
reinforce messages, and ensure understanding.
We maintain an open-door policy and have in place a process that enables stakeholders inside or outside Hikma to confidentially raise concerns about incidents that do Upholding high standards not align with our values.
We review 100% of reported incidents and respond to all of ethical conduct substantiated cases with the necessary Our culture is built upon shared values actions.
All cases are reviewed by our of integrity, respect, excellence and Preliminary Investigations Committee, transparency.
We have developed a robust which includes members of our Legal, programme of internal controls to reduce the Human Resources and Compliance teams.
risk of bribery and corruption.
As a publiclylisted company on the London Stock Exchange LSE, we abide by the regulations Defending the principles of the UK Listing Authority.
We operate in of human rights compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010, We respect and uphold the principles of the the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights both Physician Payments Sunshine Act, as well as within Hikma and across our value chain.
We local laws and regulations.
We also remain are also committed to upholding the principles founding members of the Partnering Against of the Modern Slavery Act MSA taking Corruption Initiative, an offshoot of the World measures to ensure that modern slavery in Economic Forum dedicated to promoting the form of forced or compulsory labour and compliance and eliminating corruption on human trafficking does not exist in any of our a global scale.
For four years we have been businesses or in those of our partners and members of the Business 20 Anti-Corruption suppliers.
These principles are articulated Working Group, which operates under the within our Code of Conduct, and umbrella of the G20 international forum of communicated to all our people through governments with the mandate of helping annually distributed e-learning modules.
companies improve their ethical conduct.
We conduct regular audits to assess MSA compliance for major spend suppliers, and Our Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics maintain a zero-tolerance policy towards Committee CREC a Board-level committee violations of these principles.
established in 2010 which is chaired by an independent non-executive director leads our efforts to strengthen anti-bribery and corruption ABC policies and manage associated risks.
44 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Sustainability Eliminating discrimination Addressing anti-microbial resistance Our Code of Conduct upholds Principle 6 of As a manufacturer of anti-infective the United Nations Global Compact on the medications, we consider it our responsibility elimination of discrimination in the workplace.
to educate patients, healthcare professionals We welcome variety and treat all employees and policymakers, particularly in MENA, about equally regardless of any actual or perceived the rising threat of anti-microbial resistance characteristic.
We are committed to employing AMR and to encourage the responsible use and engaging talented people, irrespective of of our products.
Throughout the year, we their race, colour, religious creed, age, sex, undertook several activities to address the marital status, national origin, present or past threat of AMR in the MENA region.
history of mental or physical disability and any other factors not related to a persons ability In November, we sponsored The Rational to perform a role.
use of Antibiotics and Antimicrobial Stewardship Summit in Jordan.
The objectives of the summit were to share Our inclusion in the developments amongst regional FTSE4Good Index policymakers and industry peers about In 2018, we maintained our membership of the role of government in curbing AMR, the FTSE4Good Index Series an index of the possibility of collaboration to promote LSE-listed companies that demonstrate strong national awareness and the role Environmental, Social and Governance ESG of conventional and novel diagnostic and practices as measured against international therapeutic techniques to confront AMR.
The FTSE4Good assesses Working alongside the Jordan Food and companies effectiveness in addressing issues, Drug Administration JFDA, the Ministry of such as human rights, anti-corruption, Health and the Pharmaceutical Association environmental impacts, health and safety, and of Jordan, we organised and sponsored community engagement.
Their assessments the National Action Plan for Containment are used by a wide variety of market of Antimicrobial Resistance initiative participants to develop responsible investment developing local solutions to manage funds and other products.
We increased our AMR in Jordan.
FTSE4Good score to 3.5 out of 5, placing us in the 70th percentile amongst member companies.
We will continue strengthening our ESG monitoring and performance in the future.
Aligning with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SDGs are a set of 17 goals adopted by the United Nations to drive sustainable development.
In 2017, we selected six goals that are aligned with our business and values.
We have made good progress towards these goals and will continue to focus on them in 2019.
Our adopted goals Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 45 Sustainability continued Supporting our patients and communities Across our business and in our communities, our activities Ensuring access to medicine are directed towards four themes that align most closely Addressing drug shortages with our values and our brand promise: We are committed to improving access to medicines for patients in need and are Ensuring access to medicine dedicated to addressing drug shortage situations in the US and elsewhere.
Shortages Supporting education are a major public health risk.
As a top three Raising awareness of healthcare needs manufacturer of injectables in the US with a broad portfolio of more than 100 different Empowering women products, we recognise our responsibility for ensuring patients maintain reliable and consistent access to vital medicines during supply shortages.
During 2018, we worked with the US FDA and DEA to address this issue in the US.
More information on our efforts to address shortages can be found on page 22.
Providing access for those in need We strive to put better health within reach for patients.
By providing in-kind medicine donations we are addressing unmet healthcare needs for refugees and low-income groups in MENA as well as patients in the US without sufficient medical insurance.
The chart below gives information about our in-kind medicine donations in 2017 and 2018.
In-kind medicine donations number of units donated 20172018 2018 2017 15,000 44,000 330,000 405,000 MENA US 46 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Sustainability Partnering with Direct Relief In 2017 and 2018, The Princes Trust supported 2018 marked the start of our collaboration more than 66,000 young people across the with Direct Relief a global NGO dedicated UK, and we are hopeful that our partnership to providing tailored medical solutions for will contribute meaningfully to their goal of vulnerable and at-risk populations around the assisting one million young people over the world.
In our first year of the partnership, we next ten years.
delivered regular in-kind donations to support US safety net clinics near our operations.
Funding for STEM-related activities Direct Relief maintains the largest charitable A significant portion of our financial medicine programme in the US with a network assistance for The Princes Trust is directed of safety net clinics that provide comprehensive towards supporting STEM Science, health services to more than 27 million patients Technology, Engineering and Maths each year, where nearly 70% of those patients education through the implementation of have incomes below the federal poverty level a series of STEM-enrichment workshops.
and roughly 23% lack health insurance.
The workshops are aimed at providing young participants with the tools and knowledge We aim to expand the scope of donations to diversify their capabilities and secure beyond the US, sustain our financial future employment opportunities.
contributions and incorporate employee volunteering opportunities that will help Volunteering activities create tangible benefits on the ground.
We also organised several volunteering opportunities where our people could directly offer their support.
During the World of Work Supporting education Day, we welcomed young participants to our offices in London, where they spent the day with our employees developing their Our partnership with interpersonal skills, enhancing their curriculum The Princes Trust vitae and practising interviews.
We also In 2018, we began a four-year partnership with participated in the Palace to Palace cycle The Princes Trust, a UK-based organisation challenge to raise funds for the Trust helping dedicated to providing capacity-building and them exceed their fundraising goal by 169%.
job readiness opportunities to young people facing barriers to education and employment.
As Patrons of The Princes Trust, we are committed to supporting the organisation through financial contributions and by enabling our employees to volunteer as mentors.
The participants absolutely loved it!
We were so impressed with how well Hikma had managed to tailor the day to the young people and make it fun yet really informative.
Laura Guy, Lead Specialist Mentor at The Princes Trust, reflecting on World of Work Day Through our partnership with Direct Relief, we aim to deliver medical solutions to those in need Taking part in The Prince's Trust Palace to Palace cycling fundraiser challenge Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 47 Sustainability continued Supporting our patients Providing opportunities for refugees: Supporting cancer research For the second consecutive year, cancer our partnership with MIT ReAct and communities specialists from across MENA gathered to We continue to develop and support attend the Hikma Cancer Network Middle programmes that assist displaced people.
continued East and North Africa Forum which was The Massachusetts Institute of Technology organised in collaboration with the MIT ReAct programme was developed in Department of Leukemia at the University 2017 to provide educational and professional of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center.
The opportunities for displaced people around two-day forum, held in Jordan, attracted more the world.
The programme combines the than 200 regional cancer specialists and key universitys educational strengths with opinion leaders, offering educational sessions networking and internship opportunities.
and opportunities to share information about MIT ReAct also incorporates workshops in the latest advances in cancer treatments.
This innovation, entrepreneurship and soft skills, forum reflects our dedication to ensuring that generating an individualised, contextualised, medical professionals across the MENA region and blended learning experience.
are sharing best medical practices and the latest advances in the field of cancer.
In 2018, we hosted five interns two of whom have become permanent employees.
We plan to build on the success of the Adopting the Sweimeh School for programme and expand our support in Girls in Jordan 2019 by hosting ten interns.
The Sweimeh School for Girls is located in the Balqa province in Jordan, where less than half of women are enrolled in basic education and the illiteracy rate for women and girls is more than double that of men and boys.
In 2015, we began to work with the school in an effort to reduce dropout rates and raise the graduation rate, which had been zero for the previous five years.
We also provided financial assistance to improve the schools infrastructure, and employees volunteered to assist with renovations as well as taking part in mentoring and teaching activities.
We continue offering mentorship and training to improve the students employability after graduation.
We are proud that since we began to work with Sweimeh there has been a noticeable improvement.
The number of graduates has increased to three in 2017 and then seven in 2018.
Volunteers had the opportunity to help teach Employees in Sudan distributed school supplies helping rebuild Sondos School for Girls classes at the Sweimeh School for Girls in Jordan 48 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Sustainability Rebuilding the Sondos School Fighting leukaemia The Light the Night walk helps fund research for Girls in Sudan for people in the US living with or in remission Following heavy rains and flooding in from leukaemia, lymphoma or myeloma.
Sudan in 2017, the Sondos School for Girls For the seventh year, employees across our infrastructure collapsed.
For months, US locations participated in Light the Night students attended their classes outdoors.
More than 80 volunteers took part Our employees in Sudan assisted with the in the walk this year, and even more helped rebuilding effort.
Through a combination of with fundraising.
Through a combination of financial donations and volunteer assistance employee donations and Hikma sponsorships, over a period of several months we were able we were able to raise more than $15,000 to complete the necessary infrastructure in 2018. repair that enabled the schools 403 students to return to classrooms in July 2018.
Empowering women Raising awareness of in the community healthcare needs Supporting women entrepreneurs As part of our effort to empower women Addressing iron deficiency in our communities, we established the This year, in both Lebanon and Jordan, we Hikma Fellowship in Support of Women collaborated with public and private entities Entrepreneurs Programme in Jordan in 2016. to raise awareness of the dangers of iron The programme offers workshops to help deficiency.
Iron deficiency affects almost women entrepreneurs develop their one-third of the worlds population and has businesses.
The programme also provides a high prevalence in the MENA region.
Our opportunities to network and share ideas.
teams partnered with ministries of health in We recently expanded the programme to Jordan and Lebanon, along with the medical include opportunities for our people to adopt diagnostics company Biolab, to organise a startups and offer them mentorship and large-scale awareness and testing programme assistance.
In 2018, we adopted four startups in both countries.
Through the campaign, we in Jordan.
We aim to expand the scope of the used public booths and TV broadcasts to programme to other markets in MENA over spread awareness, and provided free testing.
Strengthening womens leadership in the health sector The Strengthening Womens Leadership in the Health Sector Conference was held in 2018 in Jordan, where stakeholders and policymakers identified major opportunities and barriers facing professional women in the healthcare sector.
Several representatives from Hikma attended the event, which was organised by USAID.
Following the conference, participants established the Women Leaders in Health Steering Committee.
The goal of the Committee is to help women in Jordan attain leadership positions, particularly in healthcare.
Sandra Shaqareq, a member of our Hospital Unit team, was selected as Vice Chair of the Committee.
More than 80 volunteers across our US locations participated in the Light the Night walk to help fund research for leukaemia, lymphoma and myeloma Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 49 Sustainability continued Enabling our people Our people are our most valuable asset and the driving force Supporting continuing education for our people behind our success.
We are committed to investing in the We are committed to enabling our people to development of our workforce and in protecting their health realise their full potential.
To support this, we began our Continuing Education programme and safety.
in 2010 offering our employees with opportunities to advance their formal education through partial or full scholarships.
Through these opportunities, employees can further their education at the undergraduate, Investing in our peoples growth graduate or doctoral level.
Through the programme, 47 people have attained higher and development education diplomas.
A key achievement in 2018 was the launch of The Hikma International Professional the Hikma Academy, an institution dedicated to consolidation and optimisation of all of Excellence HIPE programme our learning and development L&D efforts HIPE was launched in 2016 as a crossunder a global training hub.
The Academy is functional rotation programme for exceptional intended not only for employee training, but employees and fresh graduates, providing also for students and interns to strengthen them with opportunities to gain exposure their employment prospects.
The Academy to the operational, financial and commercial oversees employee development on a aspects of our organisation.
The programme Group level with systems including a global includes workshops, team-building activities learning management system that allows and regular skills assessments to provide a Hikma to deliver high-quality employee comprehensive learning experience.
HIPE exemplifies our approach to nurturing employee potential combining on-job training and experience with managerial and leadership skill development.
Launched in Jordan, the programme is currently being rolled out internationally.
What our I consider myself extremely I gained an understanding of Im proud to have been able fortunate to have been taught the whole company and the to positively contribute to people say and supported by many great links between departments on each team I have worked about HIPE leaders at Hikma.
Management territory and corporate levels.
with, build a good reputation strongly believe in young Firas Momani, in the company, and grow people, their energy and HIPE participant my professional network their willingness to learn and by meeting great people this has supported me in my across different sites and professional journey with HIPE.
Soula Alhaj Asad, Senior Sahag Pailian, Packaging Supervisor, Jordan, HIPE participant and former HIPE participant 50 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Sustainability Ensuring health and safety Ten years of You are Hikma Monitoring ethnic diversity Our inclusive corporate culture contributes campaign It is fundamental to our business success to our diverse workplace.
Although we are 2018 marked the tenth year of our global that we secure a safe and healthy workplace committed to diversity, we do not set ethnic You are Hikma campaign, which focuses for our employees.
We continue to prioritise diversity quotas.
We actively monitor ethnic on spreading employee awareness about Occupational Health, Safety, Environment diversity where required by local laws, relevant health and safety issues as well as and Energy OHSEE management.
We including at all our US locations.
the importance of community engagement provide information, training and support and environmental stewardship.
Activities to all our employees to ensure we have safe Ethnicity breakdown our US locations across our sites vary based on local needs, working environments and processes.
and include awareness lectures, blood drives Asian 15% and fire safety tutorials.
Black or All our units comply with stringent industry African American 14% standards, which we monitor across all our In our US locations, we hosted our first Hispanic or Latino 5% operations.
We are continually refining our Household Hazardous Waste Takeback Day, Two or more ethnicities 2% production processes, equipment and training helping our employees safely dispose of 4,000 White 64% to minimise potentially harmful situations pounds of potentially harmful substances, and to prevent and manage environmental such as pesticides, paints and electronic accidents and emergencies.
This year, we Innovation and Leadership waste.
Across many of our other locations, expanded the monitoring of Lost Time Injury we provided free medical testing, and blood Advisory Board Rates LTIR to include all of our locations.
drives, and worked alongside public servants For the third consecutive year, our Innovation The chart below illustrates LTIR across our to provide firefighting training to our and Leadership Advisory Board ILAB has US facilities between 2013 and 2018. employees.
We also held sessions on the served as a channel for young people in Hikma reduction of energy consumption, first aid to nurture and develop new ideas.
ILAB has treatments, and informational sessions on achieved much success, most notably by: our Compliance, Process Improvement and representing young employees across Lost time injury rate US facilities Technical Management CPITM Committee the organisation roles and functions.
helping foster an innovative culture 3 identifying and implementing innovative and creative solutions to address Enabling a culture of diversity business issues and inclusion 2 Amongst the most successful ILAB projects has been i-Tech, a series of events designed We believe in equality for all employees and to showcase ideas and companies that are at are an equal opportunity employer.
We the forefront of innovation and technology.
1 oppose discrimination in all its forms and pride Our latest i-Tech event was held as a panel ourselves on the diversity of our people.
discussion amongst industry experts around the theme Healthcare Disrupted?.
Empowering women in 0 We also organised our second Hikma 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 our workplace Innovation Competition HIC, a companyWe continue to develop programmes and wide competition where colleagues propose All US Facilities policies to promote womens empowerment innovative ideas to help achieve business LTIR is defined as number of injuries x 200,000 number within our organisation.
Our Dare to Dream goals, of which the most practical and of total working hours.
Big programme in Jordan a series of monthly feasible is selected by a committee of judges.
Injuries defined as those resulting in one or more days educational sessions targeting capacityThe winning idea in 2018 was the Visual Expiry away from work.
building and the development of leadership Indicator a colour-coded indicator that, skills amongst women was rolled out to five once activated by a patient, will change more MENA countries in 2018. colours as the product nears expiry, thereby keeping the patient continuously aware of the 2018 also marked the beginning of our products shelf-life.
mentorship programme with the Business and Professional Women Association BPWA in Jordan.
The BPWA is a non-profit organisation dedicated to facilitating the empowerment of professional women in the Jordanian workforce.
Through our partnership, 32 women from the BPWA will serve as mentors to women at Hikma over a six-month period, helping to promote their professional and career development.
Winners of the Hikma Innovation Competition accept their prize from CEO Siggi Olafsson Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 51 Sustainability continued Monitoring and minimising our environmental impacts We are committed to monitoring and minimising our environmental impacts.
We continue to achieve progress in making our Company more energy efficient, and are making improvements in our management of waste and water consumption.
Greenhouse gas emissions: 20172018 Measuring our emissions The table and graph on this page show our 2018 2017 emissions performance for the last two years.
Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation of facilities tCO e 38,404 36,839 2 Emissions are reported from sites which Scope 2 location-based electricity tCO 89,873 92,421 represent 86% of all employees.
Non- 2 manufacturing facilities with less than 150 Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions location-based 128,277 129,260 employees, and joint ventures with less Scope 3 indirect emissions from waste tCO e 468 N A 2 than 50% holdings are not included in our greenhouse gas GHG reporting scope.
Scope 3 indirect emissions from water tCO e 328 N A 2 Total Scope 3 emissions 796 N A Performance Our reported GHG emissions decreased by 0.8% in 2018 compared with 2017.
By relying more on the use of cleaner fuels, such as natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas LPG rather than diesel, we were able to 129,260 129,073 offset the emissions that resulted from our production increases.
103,191 92,421 89,873 76,456 38,404 36,839 26,735 796 Scope Scope Total Scope Scope Total Scope Scope Scope Total 1 2 1 2 1 2 3 2016 2017 2018 Data notes: Emissions from the consumption of electricity are reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO2 rather than tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO2e since the International Energy Agency emission factors for electricity currently account for carbon dioxide emissions only Emissions are calculated in alignment with the WRIs Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard The full-time equivalent FTE employee figures used to calculate the reported intensity metric cover the sites for which emissions data was provided rather than the total FTE figure for the organisation as a whole 52 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018
