40 Hochschild Mining PLC SUSTAINABILITY OUR SUCCESS BRINGS RESPONSIBILITY Hochschild is defined by its approach to responsible and innovative mining committed to a better world.
and a perception study that was commissioned through an external firm.
Further details on these initiatives, as well 98% as those of our Argentinian operation, can be found in this report and on our website.
WORKFORCE TRAINED 2017: 81% Our environment With regards to our environmental performance, I am delighted to report on the success of the second consecutive year of the use of the Environmental $8.3m Corporate Objective ECO.
The ECO AMOUNT SPENT OR DONATED TO score for the year, which is explained in the I am pleased to report on the Companys BENEFIT LOCAL COMMUNITIES Environment section of the Report, was 2017: $5.9m progress in 2018 on sustainability which higher than the most stretching target forms the foundation of Hochschild approved by the Board, demonstrating Minings business.
restated to also include community social an environmentally conscious approach donations made at a corporate level.
The ECO Dear Shareholder score was incorporated as one of the A record year of production underlines corporate objectives and therefore the Groups operational performance eligible employees will, justifiably, see during the year and in this part of the some recognition for this impressive Annual Report we provide an overview achievement.
For further details, please of the Groups progress in its areas of see the final page of this report.
focus with regards to sustainability.
Tailings Facilities It is with deep regret that there were three Finally, in light of recent events in Brazil fatalities during the year and I would like and similar events over the past three to reiterate the Boards condolences to years, I would like to address the issue the families of those involved.
The of the Groups tailings storage facilities.
members of the CSR Committee, indeed Firstly, I would like to reiterate that the the full Board are committed to doing all safety of these structures is something we can to minimise all accidents across that the Company takes seriously.
The Safety Culture Committee considered the status of Transformation Plan, which commenced these facilities in the early part of this in 2017, was designed and implemented year and we were reassured that they with this aim in mind.
This wide-ranging are designed in a way that provides programme covers a number of aspects more structural resilience than those of safety management, further details of that have been the subject of recent which are provided in the Safety section press coverage.
The Company has of this report.
We are encouraged that the carried out third-party audits and Plan is having its desired impact with a internally-led inspections of its facilities 46% reduction in high potential events and has designed an enhanced and a 35% reduction in the accident programme of monitoring going forward.
frequency index, when compared to 2017.
I hope you will find this report informative.
Our communities If you should have any questions or In 2018, our focus Education, Health and comments, please do not hesitate to Socio-Economic Development continued.
contact me at sustainability@hocplc.
com We also took steps to review and revise our community engagement strategy which is targeting, to a greater degree, Graham Birch the needs of those people who live close Chairman to our operations.
This is being facilitated Corporate Social through a number of means and not least Responsibility Committee a technology partnership with Mandu Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 41 For further information on how monitored the execution of the yearly we prioritise our resources and the plan in each of the four key areas of Committees terms of reference, focus including detailed reports on please visit www.
com safety performance: en sustainability.
considered the priorities of the environmental team and their Management of sustainability work plan: The Board has ultimate responsibility for establishing Group policies relating considered a detailed presentation on to sustainability and ensuring that the Groups community engagement appropriate standards are met.
The strategy, including the findings of a CSR Committee has been established perception study see the Community as a formal committee of the Board Relations section for more information : with delegated responsibility for various reviewed the environmental and Governance of Corporate Social sustainability issues, focusing on community relations related risks and Responsibility CSR compliance and ensuring that appropriate related work plans: and The Board has ultimate responsibility systems and practices are in place approved the 2017 Sustainability for establishing Group policies relating Group-wide to ensure the effective Report for inclusion in the 2017 to sustainability and the CSR Committee management of  risks.
has been established with the As Chairman of the CSR Committee, responsibility of focusing on compliance Given the exposure of the Groups strategy Graham Birch has Board level and ensuring that appropriate systems to Sustainability Risks comprising Health responsibility for sustainability issues to and practices are in place.
& Safety, Community Relations and whom the Vice President of Operations Environmental risks, the full Board received What is Hochschild Minings approach and the Vice President of Legal and regular presentations on how such risks are to sustainability?
Corporate Affairs report for sustainability managed.
Furthermore, the Board received The Company has adopted a number issues.
From 1 January 2019, the Vice presentations from management on the of policies demonstrating our President of Human Relations also accidents that resulted in the fatalities commitment to: reports to Mr Birch who is the nominated during the year.
Additional details of these Board member overseeing employee a safe and healthy workplace: accidents can be found in the Safety engagement.
managing and minimising the The CSR Committees work in 2018 environmental impact of our operations: Reporting of targets and indicators During the year, the CSR Committee: encouraging sustainability by As part of the Companys ongoing respecting the communities of the considered the investigations into the strategy to make more information localities in which we operate: and fatal accidents during the year and the available online, detailed sustainability steps to be taken to further strengthen related performance indicators as well all in compliance with applicable laws, the Groups safety culture: as targets for 2019 are available on the regulations and the Companys own Companys website.
Our areas of focus Safety Health & Our Our Environmental Hygiene people communities management Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more p42 p44 p45 p46 p48 42 Hochschild Mining PLC SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED SAFETY Our people are our most valuable asset and their safety is paramount.
2018 Highlights Continued implementation of the Safety Culture Transformation Plan see bottom right for further details All safety management systems at operating units achieved Level six re-certification by Det Norske Veritas GL Behaviour Based Safety Checklists The Hochschild approach March 2018: Arcata A process of reviewing the Groups to safety Overview: In the process of recovering a safety checklists was undertaken in tool which had dropped by the entrance Given the inherently high risk profile 2018 which involved the conscious of a shaft, a mineworker disengaged a of mining, safety is always our highest move of the design of checklists safety mechanism and lost his balance priority.
Ensuring the safety of our from the corporate centre to the which resulted in a fall from height.
employees is a key metric for our operations.
This prompted the corporate success.
The investigation resulted in a number participation by middle of actions being taken, including: management comprising mining Our achievements in 2018 engineers, safety engineers, process refocussing training to highlight the 46% reduction in the number of engineers and environmental need for constant risk assessments: High Potential Events vs 2017 engineers in discussions and reviewed procedures with regards to 35% reduction in the accident analyses of workplace safety over replacement equipment: and frequency index c. 600 man hours.
This ensured that the re-design of supply shafts.
Successfully achieving 100% coverage the checklists, which are used to of portable carbon monoxide detectors record observations at surface-level May 2018: Pallancata making Hochschild one of only a few and underground operations, are Overview: Two members of the electrical underground mining companies in the relevant and targeted.
maintenance team attempted to access world to have done so : and a work area through a route which had The checklists have been positively Restructuring the emergency response been cordoned off and were overcome received and will be incorporated teams: resulting in operating by carbon monoxide fumes.
into a mobile app in 2019. efficiencies.
The resulting investigation prompted Accidents in 2018 the following actions among others : It is with regret that there were two fatal instigating inspections and procedural accidents in 2018 which resulted in three changes to reinforce the need for fatalities.
In this section of the report, we self-rescue equipment to be carried: have summarised the details of each revising operating procedures to render incident and the remedial actions taken.
access to cordoned-off areas more difficult: and a tailored communications plan.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements N O I T A C T I R N A U I N M I M N G O C Annual Report & Accounts 2018 43 Immediate Action Plan Safety Action Plan Messaging from senior management 2018 Training Update A programme comprising short-term and on the non-negotiable zero tolerance The implementation of a two-year longer-term actions, to be implemented to accidents see left training programme for emergency over three years, was put in place in 2017 brigades commenced during the and which we progressed during 2018.
Safety top management year with the support of a thirdleadership meetings party consultant.
The programme, World-renowned consultancy, DuPont, which focuses on rescue methods were engaged to conduct a safety and the use of equipment in culture assessment with the confined spaces, is provided on a participation of 750 employees rotational basis across all Peruvian Increased safety supervision operations.
New fire pumps and implemented emergency trucks have been Clinical psychologists recruited delivered from the US for fitting out at all sites and use in 2019.
Re-allocation of work between employees on the basis that expert workers are safer workers Safety Action video Long-term Action Plan: The Safety Risk Management Mines Annual Training Culture Transformation Plan System RMS Programme Hochschild RMS upgraded to Redesigned structure and latest DNV version 7.0 ISRS content of weekly training International Safety sessions.
Training sessions Regulations System for mine workers comprise three modules of c. five External audit, by DNV, of hours per week in the areas RMS across all operations of practical safe working, use completed in mid-February of technology and safety Review of all HOC protocols leadership and procedures in process for completion by the end Safety Plan communications of 2018 support Activities detailed herein, Leadership Programme together with safety New safety committee achievements and risks HOC PLAN with senior management communicated to all involvement in the review of individuals through a potential high impact events corporate communication Coaching programme for plan operations management team led by DuPont 10-month leadership programme for mine supervisors Independent safety promoters have been hired at all mines P I H S S R Y E S D T A E E M L 44 Hochschild Mining PLC SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED HEALTH & HYGIENE The work of Health & Hygiene is to provide an integrated approach to employee welfare 2018 Highlights Increased provision of psychological support as part of the Safety Culture Transformation Plan Full implementation of industrial hygiene standards at the San Jose operation Development and implementation of new occupational safety and wellbeing software The Hochschild approach to health and hygiene Underlining the importance we place on our people and their wellbeing, the Groups Health & Hygiene department is tasked with providing an integrated approach to employee welfare.
Whilst the Health team is focused on ensuring that employees have access to the relevant services and infrastructure to ensure that treatment can be provided, the Hygiene team looks to reinforce the importance of the quality of life at work through the prevention of occupational illness.
Given the nature of the work and the Our achievements in 2018 Supporting Mineworkers families two-week shift patterns which result in The Health team, in collaboration with The Health & Hygiene team held events in frequent periods of absence from families, other departments, including the Arequipa aimed at providing mineworkers the Group recognises the importance Safety team, continued to go beyond families with support and advice.
of ensuring the mental wellbeing of its its traditional area of prevention and The sessions provided families with the employees.
For this reason, the Groups sought to influence the way that opportunity to share their experiences.
Health & Hygiene teams are also trained employees approach their tasks.
Medically trained staff gave presentations in occupational psychology.
During the year with advice on dealing with the pressures Our Health & Hygiene teams undertake senior members of the team of shift-working on family life.
their work in line with the following participated in discussions with respect guiding principles: to new legal requirements and provided training to team members: Prevention comes first a comprehensive programme aimed at Maximising quality of life minimising and eventually eradicating Adopting measures for the long-term exposure to harmful levels of noise was benefit of our people implemented during the year.
This was Proactively identifying and controlling achieved through the procurement of hazards at source specialist monitoring equipment to Contributing to the continuous gauge the level of exposure, workers improvement in the Groups at all units underwent medical Health & Safety culture examinations and informational material highlighting the risks and Developing leaders dedicated to encouraging the use of protective prioritising the wellbeing of their equipment was prepared teams and maintaining high levels of and distributed.
occupational health and hygiene standards Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 45 OUR PEOPLE Hochschild can only succeed through a sustained programme of investing in its people and their development The Hochschild approach to our people Training and development The quality of our people is key to the success of the business.
Thus, the ability for the Group to attract and retain high quality personnel is imperative.
The Human Resources team seeks to achieve this goal by providing competitive remuneration, a positive working environment and continuous opportunities for professional development.
Group values, labour relations and human rights Amongst the primary responsibilities of the Human Resources team is the clear communication of the Groups corporate values: Integrity, Teamwork, Quality People indicators and Excellence, Responsibility and 1 Gender diversity statistics 2018 2017 2016 2015 Commitment to our People.
These values Number of employees are embodied in our Code of Conduct Male which, amongst other things, sets out 3,894 3,849 3,859 3,492 our undertakings to treat all employees Female 245 235 222 237 2 fairly and to respect the right to be free Number of senior managers of harassment or intimidation in the Male 37 36 35 34 workplace.
We recognise the core Female 1 1 1 2 labour rights principles and, in this Number of Board members respect, support the right to freedom of Male 7 7 8 8 association and collective bargaining.
Female 1 1 1 0 Approximately 58% of our total 1 As at 31 December.
workforce is represented by a trade 2 Defined as those who qualify under the UK statutory definition of senior manager as at 31 December.
As a signatory of the Global Compact of the United Nations, Hochschild Mining respects Activities in 2018 Enhancing the Working Environment the human rights of all of the Companys The people-focused initiatives during The Group continues to make use of an stakeholders including those of our the year included the following: Organisational Climate Survey which has employees, our contractors and been widely acknowledged as a key tool Putting Safety First suppliers, as well as the members to measure levels of satisfaction amongst As part of the Safety Culture of our local communities.
employees and to identify opportunities Transformation Plan, a three-year for further development.
Employee leadership programme focused on satisfaction in 2018 was registered at promoting our safety culture was 62.4%, compared to 57.4% in 2017.
This programme encourages on survey results and employee feedback, participation across all levels at the some improvements that have been mining units and administrative offices.
implemented in the mining units include: Strategic development plans have been Change in the transportation provider designed and implemented for those 58% for mining staff: in critical roles across the business.
OF OUR TOTAL WORKFORCE IS REPRESENTED Continuous soft skills training for mine BY A TRADE UNION OR SIMILAR BODY Keeping our talent workers known as Day 8 training : and The People Review process was Improved feedback and communication undertaken which maps talent within sessions between workers and the organisation and identifies key managers.
We have continued to review our offering 62.4% of non-financial benefits which has EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION resulted in flexible working hours for head COMPARED TO 57.4% IN 2017 office staff in the summer, and the holding of regular social events.
46 Hochschild Mining PLC SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED WORKING WITH OUR COMMUNITIES Hochschilds commitment to its local communities is an acknowledgement of our social licence 2018 Highlights Reviewed and updated strategies for Community Relations and social support Strengthened educational support for our local communities Launched and successfully implemented a new communityrelations tracking software see right box for further details Our view of working with In addition, we have continued to pursue Secondary education our communities programmes in the following areas: Hochschild supports programmes that promote personal development and basic Through a long-standing collaboration, Education economic business awareness to equip we have tailored our approach so that we Elementary education those in secondary education for their interact with each community by Contributing to the education of early adult lives.
respecting their customs and social community members living close to our dynamics.
By doing so, the Community operations has been an established part Over the course of 2018, we have Relations team can focus on prioritising of our social support.
Each year we collaborated with over 500 secondary their specific needs and hence the Groups evaluate programmes and direct our students and almost 100 teachers across efforts and its intervention strategies.
efforts at those where we maximise value seven educational establishments.
for students, teachers and parents.
Our achievements in 2018 Digital inclusion In 2018, we focused our efforts on In 2018, we maintained our vision of the We have promoted IT literacy through the re-evaluating our understanding about education of the future, and how to best ongoing support of four digital centres our relationships with the communities support our communities on getting there.
supporting 484 participants in urban that surround Hochschilds mining We provided intelligent classrooms to 314 areas close to our operations.
These operations by commissioning a consulting students and 37 teachers in 12 schools digital centres comprise computer firm to carry out community-wide surveys located across our sphere of influence.
laboratories and Hochschild-hired ICT and focus groups.
The findings in this Intelligent classrooms include a computer specialists who provide training and survey have informed our approach and equipped with digital academic resources technical support for the local population.
social investment strategies to be better to support teaching, and a projector for We provide training in the form of aligned with each of our mining units teacher and student use.
Additionally, we two-year technical courses open to the unique communities.
support teachers with academic whole community.
This initiative has been specialists who train them on the use of made possible through a partnership with information technologies and on how to Cisco and the technical institute, Tecsup.
incorporate them into class sessions.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 47 Health Argentina Medico fide Cabecera the Travelling In conjunction with its joint venture Katari Case Study Doctor programme partner, the Group has also promoted Hochschild, in partnership with With the Travelling Doctor Programme, a number of initiatives at the San Jose Mandu, a technology company, trained field doctors serve our most operation in Argentina.
These have designed a software programme remote communities in a mobile medical included scholarship opportunities, that assists the Community unit.
This programme is highly valued technical training and subsequent Relations team to document their by both the young and old as it brings employment of students from the interactions with communities and health coverage to areas that local town of Perito Moreno, located near their needs.
The system will enhance state services do not reach.
In 2018 the the mine, and support of local cultural the way the Group engages with its programme facilitated over 9,000 causes, such as infrastructure communities, making it more attendances.
improvements to the local museum responsive and to monitor the and municipality, as well as the fulfilment of its commitments Socio-economic development hosting of recreational activities.
Business networks This programme, originally established in 2013 with only 25 participants, has seen an impressive level of growth in the past few years with over 350 participants in 2018.
The project was originally set up with community members living close to the Inmaculada mine who today have become suppliers to the mines catering contractors.
48 Hochschild Mining PLC SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Hochschild seeks to be an industry leader, sourcing minerals with the smallest footprint possible and enhancing the environmental sustainability of its operations.
2018 Highlights The Hochschild approach to Our achievements in 2018 Exceeding ECO Score target environmental management 2018 ECO score of 5.37 out of 6 points, for second year in a row exceeding the performance target set Hochschild Mining is committed to being for 2018 of 4.0.
The best individual result Continued focus on water a leading global mining company in was obtained by Pallancata, with 5.88 management and treatment environmental performance, sourcing points out of 6 and the most across all operations minerals with the smallest environmental improvement year-on-year was footprint possible.
obtained by Arcata, going from 5.25 in Hochschild recognises that environmental 2017 to 5.63 in 2018. and social responsibility extends beyond Secured environmental permits for 101 the life of our operations and as a result, exploration platforms and necessary mine closure plans are in place to restore permits to sustain operations.
areas where mining activity has ceased On-going closure of mine components, and the Company operates a policy of in line with the mine closure plans.
progressively closing historic mine components.
The Company has over 100 workers dedicated exclusively to environmental management, of which 75 are members of the communities living within close proximity of the Companys operations also called the areas of direct influence.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 49 1 Environmental Policy Greenhouse gas emissions data 2 2 2 tonnes of CO2e 2018 2017 2016 2015 In order to achieve the Companys Emissions from combustion of fuel environmental mission, the Environmental 38,941 47,265 46,033 46,790 and operation of facilities tCO2e team is committed to: Emissions from purchased electricity tCO2e 90,602 94,249 91,893 78,163 ensuring compliance with all legal and Emissions intensity, per thousand ounces of environmental regulations in place: 3,662 4,051 4,235 5,531 3 total silver equivalent produced CO2e k oz setting an annual environmental performance goal for all Company 1 Method u sed based on ISO 14064-1 Standard and GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
2 Includes dat a for the whole year for Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata, Inmaculada, San Jose and office locations.
employees: 3 T otal production includes 100% of all production, including that attributable to the joint venture partner at San Jose.
requiring an efficient use of resources, aiming for savings by implementing the As a Corporate Objective, the ECO Performance Data best industrial and mining practices, Score is placed on the same footing as In launching the ECO Score, the modern technologies and solid production, financial and safety Company has taken a significant step in procedures for environmental objectives which are used to determine strengthening its environmental culture management and control: employee bonuses.
In this way, each by aligning the financial interests of its requiring all Company employees to employee is held accountable and employees with the Companys adopt an environmentally conscious cooperates to achieve the established environmental mission.
Since its creation, the ECO Score has providing all Company employees with The ECO score is calculated by generated positive results within the the necessary resources and training to monitoring performance at two levels: at Company, such as a 44% reduction in take environmentally appropriate each mining operation and, overall for the water consumption per worker, a 41% decisions: entire Group using a range of KPIs which reduction in the generation of waste per promoting innovative and forward reflect the following: worker and a tripling in the proportion of thinking in the development and waste recycled.
Zero tolerance to non-compliance with execution of new concepts and discharge limits and environmental designs related to environmental incidents, such as spillages management: and The number of observations received requiring those who perform activities from the environmental regulator in Peru for the Company to abide by the Good environmental management Corporate Environmental Policy.
measured on the basis of: Environmental Corporate Objective Water consumption per worker ECO score Amount of non-recyclable waste Since 2014, Hochschild Mining has generated per worker endeavoured to comply with the highest Proportion of recyclable industrial environmental and social standards in waste that is commercialised the mining industry.
A part of this effort involved analysing available data to Corporate Performance Indicator develop a tool that allowed the Company which tracks the number of to measure and manage its footprint and compliance inspections that are identify behaviours which require passed with over 95% improvement.
These KPIs are reported on a monthly As result of this effort, in 2015 the basis by each mining operation and Company began designing and testing, communicated to all Company over a two-year period, an Environmental employees.
Through this monthly Corporate Objective, known as the ECO publication, we try to foster healthy Score.
After this initial period, the most competition amongst the mining units, significant and representative an effort called Green Challenge or performance indicators were chosen.
The ECO Score was officially launched in 2017.
