HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 20 20 Corporate & social responsibility Corporate & social Page header responsibility Our corporate responsibility objectives support our vision and help bring our corporate values to life.
Putting Customers at the heart of everything we do by ensuring that customers are treated fairly and that we provide the high levels of service expected of us 2.
Giving our People the opportunity to work in an environment which values innovation, integrity and professionalism, rewards success and encourages responsibility and accountability.
Using our skills and resources to drive a positive Social impact for the benefit of the wider community and support and encourage employee involvement in charitable activities.
Having regard for our Environment, ensuring we use resources wisely and efficiently to lessen our own impact and encourage awareness in others wherever.
Our business model and strategy aim to create value and build relationships with all of our key stakeholders: customers, partners, tradespeople, employees, communities and investors.
Our approach to corporate and social responsibility is also largely peoplecentric.
See page 5 for our global values.
See page 14 for more information on our principal stakeholders.
We are committed to developing and implementing a successful corporate and social responsibility programme that benefits key stakeholders.
We believe that a successful business must also be a responsible business.. u o y e k i l s r e m o t s u c m o r f, s HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 21 21 Corporate & social responsibility HomeServe's impact Electrogaz in France did not form part of any detailed reviews.
Due diligence Our business model on page 12 lists procedures completed as part of the acquisition processes did not highlight the sources of value which are key to any concerns and all businesses are expected to adopt and comply with HomeServes success.
In developing HomeServes policies in FY19.
these sources of value, Homeserve is respectful of its wider impacts and The Group did not have an approved policy on Human Rights, however responsibilities with regards to social, we endeavour to demonstrate respect for all people our business touches community and environmental either directly through our customers, employees and other stakeholders matters.
Our business model is not or indirectly throughout our supply chains.
A policy will be developed and believed to present a significant risk implemented during FY19.
Customers People are fundamental to Our Customer Promises demonstrate our commitment to our customers.
our ongoing success and their The promises exist in all of our businesses and are embraced by all levels recruitment and development is one from the front line to senior management and the Board.
Our employees are of our principal risks on page 32. empowered to always do the right thing along every step of the customer Addressing this risk and developing journey and we have fostered a culture which places the customer at the heart sources of value such as our of our operations.
We value our reputation and we continue to win awards for local contractor networks places high levels of customer service in all of our businesses.
HomeServe in a unique position to be able to have a positive impact on the communities and environment Our UK Customer Promises around us.
Our strategic initiative to innovate p16 may also generate Before a Customer joins positive environmental impacts e. g. Well make it clear what theyre buying and reducing water loss through LeakBot what it will do for them or improving energy awareness When a Customer joins and usage through smart boiler Well tell them how much theyre paying, what that buys them technology.
and how to claim Policies When a Customer becomes a member Detailed policies can all be found on Well make life easy for them our website for: When a Customer makes a claim Anti-Fraud and Bribery Well solve their problem quickly and easily their emergency is our emergency Whistleblowing If a Customer isnt happy Well listen, say sorry and put things right wherever Code of Business Conduct we can, as soon as we can Environment and Health & Safety http: www.
aspx % All Membership businesses were 95 of customers would buy again.
deemed compliant with these policies throughout FY18.
Our by recent acquisitions of Help-Link and Checkatrade in the UK and w e i v e r l a e r 8 3 5, 1 n o d e s a B HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 22 Corporate & social responsibility Corporate & social responsibility continued People may affect them.
As in many organisations HomeServes continuing success process and employees are actively women are currently underis reliant on having the best people encouraged to share ideas and represented at HomeServes senior in all areas of our businesses.
A opinions with senior management levels.
At these levels our data customer focus runs through our on HomeServes internal social shows that 25.5% of our most senior recruitment and development media platforms or confidentially leadership roles globally and 18.2% processes ensuring all employees through suggestion boxes.
All of our Executive Committee roles share the same purpose.
local CEOs also encourage staff of and their direct reports are held all levels to attend 1-2-1s with them by women.
Whilst this is a good Our people are considered for to discuss anything from product representation, there is more to employment, training, career improvement ideas to individual do to improve this, in particular development and promotion on the career progression.
ensuring that talented womenare basis of their abilities and aptitudes, appropriately recognised and regardless of physical ability, age, There is a Group wide employee represented on succession plans gender, sexual orientation, religion share scheme One Plan in which for roles that sit on the Executive or ethnic origin.
Our gender split in all employees are able to participate Committee and on our Board.
FY18 across the Group was 54:46 and to share in HomeServes success.
FY17:55:45 Male:Female with Diversity a team of over 5,800.
We apply Talent Ensuring that our future senior fair and equitable employment Developing our global talent strategy leadership team better reflects policies and these ensure that has been a key focus during FY18 the diversity of the markets we entry into, and progression within, with a plan in place to drive the serve and the people we employ is the Group is determined solely by attraction, growth and retention of now a key objective of our global the fair application of relevant job talented employees with the right talent strategy.
A diversity lens criteria and by personal ability and capabilities to deliver our growth will be incorporated into the way competence.
During FY18 a Group we hire, develop and promote our the career development of our Talent & Development team was senior talent globally, and we are employees with talent development established, focused on building a committed to reporting the resulting a specific focus in FY18.
Full and solid foundation for a global talent impact that this makes in our Annual fair consideration having regard agenda.
The plan was approved by Report going forward.
to the persons particular aptitudes the newly formed People Committee and abilities is given to applications in January 2018.
The primary principle behind the for employment and the career plan is to widen the gate not lower development of disabled persons.
Central to our work is defining the bar, and like many organisations We will take all practicable steps to the HomeServe Way which we are starting this journey by ensure that if an employee becomes describes the DNA of successful focusing on a plan to drive increasing disabled during the time they are HomeServe Senior Leaders in terms levels of gender diversity, both employed, their employment can of knowledge, skills and attitude.
This within our current senior leadership continue.
We continue to review is being developed in partnership team and the succession pipeline both performance and potential as a with the Executive Committee, and that sits beneath this.
We recognise key part of our annual performance provides a clear and consistent that diversity is much broader than management, career development framework for hiring, developing and gender, but believe that achieving and succession planning processes.
promoting the right people within sustainable traction in this critical our most senior population.
area of talent will give us strategies We use a range of regular that can be applied more broadly to communication channels to keep It is especially important to ensure we release the talent of every employees briefed on the Groups HomeServe that we have the right employee.
strategic and financial progress level of diversity responsible for and any ongoing initiatives that our strategic thinking and decision HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 23 Corporate & social responsibility Gender Pay Under UK legislation we reported our required gender pay data for our UK operations in March 2018.
The gender pay gap is the difference in the average hourly wage of all men and women across our workforce.
HomeServe has always had equal pay for equal roles in all of its businesses, however, like many companies we have significant progress to make to address the balance of our gender pay.
We are committed to making improvements in this area with the People Committee engaged to oversee a number of initiatives to improve all diversity, not just gender.
These can read about on our UK website at https: www.
com media uk documents gender-pay gender-pay-2017- final.
In March 2018 we reported our gender pay gap for our UK operations.
Our UK pay is distributed across four equally sized quartiles as follows.
20.6% 24.5% 46.5% 53.5% 53.4% 46.6% 75.5% 79.4% Lower Lower middle Upper middle Upper Across the whole HomeServe Group, our gender split in FY18 was 54:46 FY17: 55:45 with a team of over 5,800 employees as detailed below.
Male Female Total 3,134 2,712 5,846 Total employees at 31 March 2018 2,879 2,363 5,242 Total employees at 31 March 2017 Regarding our senior leadership teams, our gender splits were as follows: Population % Female External Benchmark Plc Board Executive & Non Executive Directors 18.2% 22.8% Executive Committee 0% 16.6% Executive Committee & their direct reports 25.5% 24.0% Global Senior Leadership team 29.6% N A The external benchmark used is the Hampton Alexander report 2017, FTSE 250 data.
This outlines a target of 33% female by 2020 for FTSE250 Boards & Executive & Direct Report Teams HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 24 Corporate & social responsibility Corporate & social responsibility continued Social UK We are committed to local causes We have participated in five BBC TV DIY SOS Big Builds.
that our employees feel passionate about and that make a positive contribution in the communities in which we work and they live.
Our People are also rewarded for the time they give to their community and we encourage our People to volunteer and support their local communities.
Our business model and our sources of value - in particular our people and tradespeople networks - place us in a unique position to be able to use our skills around the home to help our communities and many of our community projects focus on Spain this area.
Our Spanish team cares passionately about environmental impacts with The UK has four principal specific targets to reduce paper and print usage.
90 volunteers participated engagement programmes - iServe, in a reforestation day in Madrid, CommunityServe, BuildServe and planting 120 trees towards offsetting TeamServe.
These are various the impact of our Spanish offices incentive programmes for people paper consumption.
who volunteer their personal time, support local schools, participate in initiatives that use our practical engineering and DIY skills, and France opportunities for departments or HomeServe France has been building a major charitable partnership teams to support local causes they with the Habitat & Humanisme foundation H&H since 2014 helping feel passionate about.
less privileged people and their housing.
Amongst various initiatives this year were a series of running events to raise awareness and funds for the Our international businesses have foundation.
also established programmes to encourage all employees to participate in activities they feel passionate about for the benefit of their own communities.
This year We have completed a number of projects in local communities in all of our businesses using engineer and office staff skills.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 25 Corporate & social responsibility North America promoted the health and wellbeing Johnathan Ford, Group Chief Much of North Americas of employees through various Operating Officer is the director CSR programme also focuses campaigns and awareness sessions responsible for environment, health on housing needs and e. g. benefits of exercise and quit and safety matters.
HomeServe Cares programme Following a review of our policies helped 33 disadvantaged France has seen a significant and procedures we have introduced homeowners receive over reduction in the number of work a new Group Health, Safety and $90,000 in urgent repairs related accidents with an increased Environment policy into which across territories in Baltimore, focus on employee education all our businesses are aligned, Maryland and Birmingham, through the implementation of new the HR directors lead Health and Alabama.
The ongoing jeans e-learning for all employees and Safety matters in each business pass programme in which training on the prevention of road and are responsible for the policy HomeServe matches employee risks for employees.
execution, except in the UK where donations in return for a simple the responsibility is with the Chief opportunity to dress more The US has continued to see an Risk Officer.
casually in the office also improvement to both the number raised much needed funds to of injuries and severity of injuries Intra company Safety benchmarking aide disaster relief following throughout the year, this is due to remains strong and both accident hurricanes Harvey, Irma and the multi-faceted safety programme frequency rates and lost time Marie, which all had widespread launched in FY17 which focused injury rates are used to compare impacts on homes and housing.
not only on awareness & training.
and monitor the safety culture and Part of the US team South Jersey levels of engagement across the Energy Service Plus team achieved businesses.
the National Safety Council's Perfect Record Award of 60,000 hours with Across the group we have continued no work time loss incidents to see a positive trend in the reduction of accident and incidents in FY18 and as a result the amount of In Spain the accident rate continues lost time because of injury.
Because to be low, HomeServe Spain of our growth in our Heating, continue to raise awareness through Ventilation and Air Conditioning campaigns regarding road safety businesses alongside our growth in to prevent accidents to and from Gas policies within the UK, this has the place of work.
In addition, they Environment, Health & Safety resulted in an increase of directly have undertaken additional activity Health, safety, well being and employed engineers grow, we have regarding Fire Risk Management environmental guardianship continued to increased our focus with a review of the fire evacuation remain central to everything we on Health and Safety through more processes across the offices and do.
All of our businesses comply resources and support for our service additional fire drills.
with ten guiding principles for operations areas.
occupational health and safety and There has been no prosecution or for environmental management.
We The UK has continued to review other enforcement actions taken focus on safe working environments its operating procedures and has in respect of our business by any of for employees in all areas of our actively undertaken employee the health, safety or environmental business whether they are routinely campaigns and training to further regulators office based or, for example, raise health and safety awareness engineers working in our customers especially the reporting and homes.
Our employees are recording of near misses.
It has also supported in all aspects of their work and we strive for zero work-related injuries and illnesses.
