There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the More information about our diversity and inclusion activity and our Directors from 31 December 2018 to the date of this report.
UK Gender Pay Gap Report is available at www.
4 The information to be disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts Gender diversity statistics pursuant to UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 is contained within the Corporate Governance Report.
Political donations HSBC does not make any political donations or incur political expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words.
We have no intention of altering this policy.
However, the definitions of political donations, political parties, political organisations and political expenditure used in the UK Companies Act 2006 the 'Act' are very wide.
As a result, they may cover routine activities that form part of the normal business activities of the Group and are an accepted part of engaging with stakeholders.
To ensure that neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries inadvertently breaches the Act, authority is sought from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to make political donations.
HSBC provides administrative support to two political action committees 'PACs' in the US funded by voluntary political contributions by eligible employees.
We do not control the PACs, and all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are directed by the respective steering committee of each PAC, which are comprised of eligible employees.
The PACs recorded combined political donations of $179,200 during 2018 2017: $131,300.
Employees At 31 December 2018, HSBC had a total workforce of 235,000 fulland part-time employees compared with 229,000 at the endof 2017 and 241,000 at the end of 2016.
Our main centres of employment were the UK with approximately 39,000 employees, India 38,000, Hong Kong 31,000, mainland China 26,000, Mexico 15,000, the US 10,000 and France 7,000.
People at HSBC span many cultures, communities and continents.
We want to build trust-based relationships with our people, where they feel empowered in their roles and inspired to grow.
We help Male Female our leaders to set the tone by listening, not just talking, and valuing the behaviours that get a job done as much as the outcome.
Combined executive committee and direct reports includes HSBC's executive Directors, Group Managing Directors and their direct reports excluding Employee relations administrative staff plus the Group Company Secretary.
Senior leadership refers to employees performing roles classified as 0, 1, 2 or 3 in We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with employee our global career band structure.
It is our policy to maintain well-developed communications and consultation programmes with all employee Employment of people with a disability representative bodies.
There have been nomaterial disruptions to We believe in providing equal opportunities for all employees.
our operations from labour disputes during the past five years.
The employment of people with a disability is included in this Diversity and inclusion commitment.
The recruitment, training, career development and promotion of people with a disability are based on the aptitudes We are committed to a thriving environment where people are and abilities of the individual.
Should employees become disabled valued, respected and supported to fulfil their potential.
By during their employment with us, efforts are made to continue building upon the extraordinary range of ideas, backgrounds, their employment and, if necessary, appropriate training and styles and perspectives of our employees, we can drive better reasonable equipment and facilities are provided.
outcomes for our stakeholders, including customers, communities, suppliers and shareholders.
Employee development We focus on enhancing the diversity of our workforce so that it is The opportunity to develop is one of the most important factors more reflective of the communities in which we operate and the affecting how people feel about HSBC.
We celebrated the first customers we serve.
anniversary of our home of learning, HSBC University, in We expect our people to treat each other with dignity and respect, November 2018.
HSBC University strengthens how we learn and creating an inclusive culture to support equal opportunities.
We do lead, through new programmes, resources and premises.
We have not tolerate discrimination, bullying, harassment and victimisation launched HSBC University regional hubs at our offices in Dubai on any grounds.
We encourage our employees to build positive and in the new HSBC UK Headquarters in Birmingham, providing and lasting relationships among the variety of people with whom opportunities for our colleagues, clients and community groups to they interact.
come together to learn, develop and connect.
Diversity and inclusion is championed by our Group Chief We have expanded our management and leadership development Executive and his executive team and is governed by the Group with new programmes, including Leading with Impact, for senior People Committee.
leaders, and Leading Myself, for individual contributors.
We have further developed our Essentials programme to support people managers strengthen their coaching and hiring skills.
Across the HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 169 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report organisation our employees have completed 6.2 million hours of long-term objectives summarised in performance scorecards, and formal learning, which equates to 2.8 days of learning per adherence to the HSBC Values of being open, connected and employee.
dependable and acting with courageous integrity.
Altogether, performance is judged, not only on what is achieved over the short Health and safety and long term, but also on how it isachieved, as the latter The Group is committed to providing a healthy and safe working contributes to the sustainability of theGroup.
environment for our employees, contractors, customers and The financial and non-financial measures incorporated in the visitors on HSBC premises, and where impacted by our annual and long-term scorecards are carefully considered to operations.
We aim to be compliant with all applicable health and ensure alignment with the long-term strategy of the Group.
safety legal requirements, and to ensure that best practice health Further information on the Groups approach to remuneration isgiven on and safety management standards are implemented and page 172. maintained across the HSBC Group.
Employee share plans Everyone at HSBC has a responsibility for helping to create a healthy and safe working environment.
Employees are expected to Share options and discretionary awards of shares granted under take ownership of their safety, and are encouraged and HSBC share plans align the interests of employees with the empowered to report any concerns.
The following table sets out the particulars of outstanding options, including those held by Chief Operating Officers have overall responsibility for ensuring employees working under employment contracts that are regarded that the correct policies, procedures and safeguards are put into as continuous contracts for the purposes of the Hong Kong practice.
This includes making sure that everyone in HSBC has Employment Ordinance.
The options were granted at nil access to appropriate information, instruction, training and consideration.
No options have been granted to substantial supervision.
shareholders and suppliers of goods or services, nor in excess of Putting our commitment into practice, in 2018 we delivered a the individual limit for each share plan.
No options were cancelled health and safety education and information training programme by HSBC during the year.
to every one of our employees.
We also carried out a range of A summary for each plan of the total number of the options which programmes to help us understand and effectively manage the were granted, exercised or lapsed during 2018 is shown in the risks we face and improve the buildings in which we operate: following table.
Further details required to be disclosed pursuant We developed and implemented a health and safety continuous to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on improvement programme, focusing on education, engineering The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited are available on our and enforcement reward.
com our-approach corporategovernance remuneration and on the website of The Stock We developed and implemented an improved health and safety Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at www.
hk, or can be training and awareness programme for all employees globally.
obtained upon request from the Group Company Secretary, This was to ensure roles and responsibilities were clear and understood: and processes for identifying and reporting 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
hazards and incidents were clearly defined and communicated.
Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are setout on page 191.
We implemented, through our global facilities management service provider, an electronic permit-to-work system to provide Note 6 on the Financial Statements gives details of share-based payments, including discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans.
effective controls for all high-risk work that is undertaken.
All-employee share plans We developed and implemented a global earthquake risk management programme to ensure all HSBC properties in HSBC operates all-employee share option plans under which earthquake zones were risk assessed and controls implemented options are granted over HSBC ordinary shares.
Subject to leaver to manage the risk.
provisions, options are normally exercisable after three orfive years.
During 2018, options were granted by reference to the We ensured all our properties had been assessed for fire and average market value of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the asbestos risk, with over 40,000 individual actions taken to five business days immediately preceding the invitation date, then improve standards.
The mid-market closing price for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares quoted on the London Stock Employee health and safety Exchange which, as derived from the Daily Official List on 20 Footnotes 2018 2017 2016 September 2018, the day before the options were granted was 1 Number of workplace fatalities 1 2 1 6.6570.
2 Number of major injuries to employees 27 33 44 The UK HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan will All injury rate per 100,000 employees 184 209 246 expire on 23 May 2025 at which time the plan may be extended with approval from Shareholders unless the Directors resolve to 1 Contractor fatality relating to use of work equipment.
terminate the plans at an earlier date.
There have been no further grants under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Remuneration policy Plan: International.
The quality and commitment of our employees is fundamental to The HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan was our success and, accordingly, the Board aims to attract, retain and introduced in 2013 and now includes employees based in motivate the very best people.
As trust and relationships are vital 27jurisdictions.
in our business, our goal is to recruit those who are committed to making a long-term career with the Group.
HSBCs reward strategy supports this objective through balancing both short-term and sustainable performance.
Our remuneration strategy is designed to reward competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable performance and attract and motivate the very best people who are committed to maintaining a long-term career with the Group while performing their role in the long-term interests of our stakeholders.
In order to ensure alignment between remuneration and our business strategy, individual remuneration is determined through assessment of performance delivered against both annual and 170 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 HSBC Holdings Share Option Plans HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Dates of awards Exercise price Exercisable At Granted Exercised Lapsed At Footnotes from to from to from to 1Jan 2018 during year during year during year 31 Dec 2018 1 Savings-Related Share Option Plan 1 Aug 30 Apr 24 Apr 21 Sep 2012 2018 2017 2024 4.0472 5.9640 64,566,103 20,501,336 23,194,305 4,807,621 57,065,513 2 Savings-Related Share Option Plan: International 24 Apr 1 Aug 31 Jan 2012 2017 2018 4.4621 38,829 25,295 13,534 24 Apr $ $ 1 Aug 31 Jan 2012 2017 2018 7.1456 17,873 11,064 6,809 24 Apr 1 Aug 31 Jan 2012 2017 2018 5.3532 10,539 8,486 2,053 24 Apr HK$ HK$ 1 Aug 31 Jan 2012 2017 2018 55.4701 36,309 20,631 15,678 1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 6.5220.
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 7.7119.
Statement of compliance The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages Under the Hong Kong Code, the audit committee should be 152 to 213 and the information referred to therein constitutes the responsible for the oversight of all risk management and internal Corporate governance report of HSBC Holdings.
HSBCs Group Risk Committee is responsible for referred to do not form part of this Report.
oversight of internal control, other than internal control over financial reporting, and risk management systems.
This is permitted under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Relevant corporate governance codes, role profiles and policies UK Corporate Governance Code www.
uk The Company has codified obligations for transactions in HSBC Group securities in accordance with the requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate Governance www.
hk Code set out in Appendix 14 to Market Abuse Regulation and the rules governing the listing of theRules Governing the Listing of securities on HKEx, save that the HKEx has granted waivers from Securities on the Stock Exchange strict compliance with the rules that take into account accepted ofHong Kong Limited practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share Descriptions of the roles and www.
During the year, all Directors were reminded of their responsibilities of the: corporate-governance  obligations in respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities and, Group Chairman Group Chief Executive except as disclosed on page 168, all Directors have confirmed that Deputy Group Chairman and Senior they have complied with their obligations.
Independent Director Board Board and senior management www.
com who-we-are leadership Roles and responsibilities of the www.
com our-approach Board's committees corporate-governance boardcommittees Boards policies on: www.
com our-approach corporate-governance boardDiversity and inclusion responsibilities Shareholder communication Human rights Remuneration practices and governance Global Internal Audit Charter https: www.
com our-approach corporate-governance  internal-control On behalf of the Board HSBC is subject to corporate governance requirements in both the Mark E Tucker UK and Hong Kong.
During 2018, and with the following Group Chairman exceptions, HSBC applied the principles and complied with the applicable provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and HSBC Holdings plc also the requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Registered number 617987 Code.
19 February 2019 Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board is required to undertake an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees.
For the reasons described on page 152, this evaluation did not take place in 2018.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 171 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
