Strategic Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY to connect with other colleagues At IG we understand that sustainable long-term returns in different parts of the business.
These events have strengthened our stem from good conduct whether that be in the way we culture, as evidenced by our rising treat our clients and our employees, or the way we interact engagement scores and feedback.
with the markets and our regulators.
We have continued to improve our intranet and provide additional resources, in order to help all employees In all our relationships we seek to act with business forward thinking creatively, understand our clients better.
We use integrity and transparency, maintaining working collaboratively and building various communication methods, such as a reputation for professionalism and rewarding relationships with our clients.
blogs and email updates for commercial ethical practice along with a constant parts of the business, to communicate determination to do things better.
Communication and involvement performance to all employees.
We A critical part of building a sustainable provide specific forums for the Board Underpinning this approach are the business is ensuring that our people to meet with our employees, to discuss shared values that shape all our attitudes and our culture are aligned to our the strategic issues facing the business, and behaviours: values.
Last year we launched our and we also report monthly to the Board Champion the client values by conducting a number of on people-related metrics and activity.
employee roadshows across our Lead the way business.
These roadshows were Employee engagement Love what we do aimed at reinforcing the connection We are proud to have been certified our people feel to our business and as one of Britains Top Employers by Our values provide the foundation for strategy, and reflect our history as an the Corporate Research Foundation our future growth and success, and they innovative and ethical business.
for over ten years, and are committed give us an ongoing focus in our day-toto making IG a great place to work.
We recognise the importance We have taken measures to embed of defining and communicating these our values throughout our business, To understand our employees values to all of our people, providing to ensure that good conduct remains perceptions of the business and address them with a strong framework and at the core of our culture and features their concerns, we carry out an annual direction.
As well as helping our prominently in our recognition engagement survey.
By collecting their employees to realise our overall vision, scheme, communication initiatives and feedback in this way, we give our people this helps ensure that good conduct performance management protocols.
another direct channel of communication remains at the core of our culture.
to the executive team and the Board.
To continue to align our people with our We take into account the insights we A sense of responsibility manifests itself in business and values, communication receive when making decisions that are everything we do.
It has underpinned our has been an area that we have likely to affect employees interests.
conduct as a business since our inception, focused on during the year.
We have playing an instrumental role in the growth continued to develop our channels In response to the feedback we have and success of IG Group and the leading of communication to ensure that our gathered from these surveys, we have standards we have set in the industry.
employees have a number of avenues launched two global employee-focused available to them in which to learn programmes.
Our global recognition The following sections set out how more about our business and our awards programme is based on our IG has been able to demonstrate its performance, and to connect with our values, and allows our people to commitment to our values, attitudes senior management and the Board.
nominate their peers for awards in and behaviours.
We Our Chief Executive Officer regularly have also created an employer brand SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE addresses the business and takes awareness programme that will be Nurturing a team of talented and questions from employees, while our used globally to attract critical talent dedicated people is central to our executive team undertakes visits to to IG.
We recently tested this in the strategy, enabling us to deliver the our various offices throughout the year competitive Indian labour market by exceptional products and services that to engage with our employees.
We sponsoring The Great Indian Developer keep us at the forefront of our industry.
continue to hold fortnightly meetings Conference in Bangalore, during April By cultivating an inclusive and enabling for the global management team, 2018.
Feedback from the event was environment, we ensure that our people and cascade messages through this very positive, with a strong interest can thrive and achieve their full potential.
We also provide expressed by those we interacted with.
This, in turn, empowers them to drive our informal events for our employees 40 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info Wellbeing A diverse and fair workplace UK-based organisation that campaigns for the equality of LGBT people.
We We are fully committed to the health We believe that a well-managed and have actively supported the marriage and wellbeing of our people.
Our diverse workforce brings creative energy equality campaign in Australia, together employees receive appropriate to our business.
We are committed with various LGBT events and forums, protection benefits and discounted to developing a team of individuals particularly in London and Krakow.
In the UK, our people can with the best skills to help us realise This support makes business sense, as access our flexible benefits portal, which our vision and strategy regardless we continue to look for ways to access provides the opportunity for individuals of their age, ethnicity, faith, gender untapped talent pools to support the to personalise benefits to their lifestyle identity, sexual orientation or physical ongoing growth of our business.
We welcome applications access to private healthcare, the cycle to from candidates with a passion for our Another example of gains we have work scheme and health assessments.
business, irrespective of their educational made in diversity and inclusion over and professional background.
the past 12 months is our Front Office We recently launched a global employee Graduate Scheme.
By using more We have extensive people policies in assistance programme EAP.
The innovative attraction and selection place to ensure that we recruit the right offering extends our 24 7 telephone methods, we were able to achieve a 50% people and enable them to develop counselling service and other wellbeing female and over 50% ethnic minority without experiencing discrimination or resources to all our people.
The service proportion, and we recruited from a harassment.
We continuously reinforce is delivered in local languages for each wider range of universities, for our first the need to treat all employees fairly, location, and all calls made to the intake that started in November 2017. creating an environment free from helpline are completely confidential.
bullying, where people of all grades and We published our Gender Pay Gap positions enjoy dignity and respect.
During the month of May 2018, we figures for the UK for the first time in supported Mental Health Awareness March this year.
This publication can We fully consider applications for Week across our global offices.
We held be found on the IG Group website.
employment from disabled persons with a number of different events to increase Our gender pay gap exists due to aptitudes and abilities in line with our awareness about mental illness and to the fact that we have more men than requirements.
Where existing employees encourage our employees to maintain women in senior roles.
We aspire to become disabled, temporarily or good mental and physical health.
eliminate this anomaly over time.
permanently, it is our policy to provide continuing employment wherever Rewarding high performance The initiatives described here illustrate practicable in the same or an alternative Following on from last years launch of the various approaches we are using to position.
Appropriate training and or a performance check-in process that help close the gender pay gap at IG.
graduated back-to-work programmes, provided regular opportunities for We are also targeting high-performing in conjunction with occupational health performance feedback, recognition women for progression, through a range professionals, help achieve this aim.
and evaluation, we have introduced of career and personal development moderation meetings to support tools and learning programmes, This year we have formalised our fair and consistent performance including a mentoring programme commitment to supporting employees evaluation.
Moderation meetings aimed at women in mid-level positions.
from diverse backgrounds through formalise our current practices and the creation of global employee further engage management teams in Human rights networks.
The first two networks that assessing individual performance.
have emerged as a priority are for We conduct our business in an ethical LGBT and female employees.
Each manner, following policies that embody We offer a competitive reward package group now has executive sponsorship, key human rights principles.
To ensure and a market-related salary structure a formalised annual plan of activities the rights of our employees are that is regularly benchmarked.
We also and dedicated funding.
The launch of respected, we have an equality, diversity include the majority of our employees the IG womens network was a specific and inclusion policy and corresponding in a group bonus scheme.
Bonus levels highlight of late 2017.
We remain open complaints procedures.
Any employee are intrinsically linked to the financial to support more such groups as these with concerns about how IG respects and operational performance of IG, are identified, and we will be collecting the rights of employees or clients can including client satisfaction.
We also data throughout the year to help better also raise these to senior management ensure that our employees individual understand our employee profile.
We performance is reflected in any bonus expect our suppliers to uphold human payments through moderation, We have continued to nurture rights in their own organisations, and ensuring that our best performers relationships with organisations that we will not tolerate modern slavery or receive higher bonuses relative to promote diversity in our industry, such human trafficking.
Bonuses are distributed as Code First: Girls, and have created can be found in our Slavery and Human at the end of each financial year.
a new relationship with Stonewall, a Trafficking Statement on iggroup.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41 Strategic Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 1 The remainder of our employees We acknowledge the important role OUR WORKFORCE are included in specific sales-related our managers and leaders have in bonus plans.
We also reward our highthe success of our business and have launched management development In terms of gender, our potential employees through a longschemes in London, Krakow and term incentive plan, and we offer our workforce is made up as Bangalore.
We will look to extend employees in the UK, Australia and the follows at 31 May 2018: these in the coming months.
We have US the chance to share in our success also begun training qualified coaches through our tax-advantaged shareacross our business, and have provided Board purchase schemes.
An average of 36% coaching and mentoring solutions for of eligible employees took part in our 2 25% our managers and emerging talent.
| share plans in the 2017 financial year.
Community involvement Developing talent We are keen to encourage our people to We take the development of our 6 75% | people very seriously, recognising engage in activities that both help their that the recruitment and retention of own development and contribute to top employees and the development local communities, so we have launched of their skills is vital to our continued IG Community Fund.
This is an internal Senior executive team success.
We are constantly improving the fund that supports our people to help the quality of the learning opportunities our causes they care most about.
We match 2 | 29% people can access, and we encourage the fundraising efforts of our people and employees to progress within the provide funding to enable our people to business, supporting them in their complete bigger challenges for charities.
5 71% | To make the most of charitable All of our employees are able to donations, we continue to work with benefit from a variety of learning and the Charities Aid Foundation, allowing development resources, ranging from our employees to make contributions to Senior leadership team on-the-job coaching and mentoring selected charities from gross earnings, to webinars, secondments and Board directly from their monthly pay.
We encourage do we support charities with gifts of attendance at relevant external events money, but also by providing time and and, where appropriate, sponsor our resources.
Our absence-management people to undertake formal, industrypolicy offers the opportunity for our 9 | 82% recognised training courses and people to take up voluntary work, for achieve professional qualifications.
which we grant additional leave on a like-for-like basis up to a maximum of five In order to build a succession pipeline matched days per annual leave year.
Employees to fulfil our critical roles, we operate an annual process to assess potential 488 30% | across our organisation.
This involves using an externally recognised model of potential and moderation meetings with senior managers to examine 1,127 70% | talent deep into the organisation.
The purpose of this process is to identify individuals who exhibit the leadership attributes we require, and to monitor the Total progress of those previously identified.
We nurture these individuals through 494 30% | personalised development plans, using a variety of experiences to accelerate their development and progression.
The outputs of the process are succession 1,147 70% | plans for senior critical roles and talent pools for critical capabilities.
Both are reviewed twice a year.
42 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info Effective tax rate ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY Tax strategy IG aligns its payment of tax with its The effective tax rate ETR for the We are fully committed to preventing, commercial objectives, making sure year is 19.4% 2017: 20.8%, reflecting detecting and deterring fraud, bribery that it is compliant with the tax laws the fall in the UK tax rate from 20% to and all other corrupt business practices.
in jurisdictions where it operates.
Further details can be found in creates most of its value in the UK, note 8 to the financial statements.
We conduct all of our business activities where the majority of its staff are with honesty, integrity and to the highest based.
The Group benefits from the UK Cash tax rate ethical standards.
As a publicly listed corporation tax rate, which is already low company on the London Stock Exchange, The Group paid 48.9 million in in comparison with many other countries.
we abide by the UK Anti-Bribery Act 2010, corporate tax during the 2018 and we have established a Share Dealing financial year 2017: 45.3 million.
The The Chief Financial Officer is responsible Code of Conduct, a Disclosure Committee effective cash tax rate is 17.4% 2017: for the management of tax risk.
IG and a relevant policy, to ensure we 21.2%.
The cash tax rate can differ relies on its in-house tax team and continue to meet the requirements of the from the ETR because payments are Market Abuse Regulations.
the support of external tax advisors made outside the financial year.
to ensure that it is operating in line We adhere to policies that comply with with local tax laws and meeting its Future effective tax rate anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and statutory compliance obligations.
The Groups estimate of the ETR for this includes employees wishing to give the year to 31 May 2019 is 19.5%.
The or receive gifts or hospitality.
Employees The Group has a Tax Strategy, which Groups ETR remains dependent on the do not make or accept facilitation sets out its approach to paying taxes, mix of taxable profit by geography, the payments of any kind.
and a Tax Risk Management Policy, availability and use of taxable losses and which governs the tax decisions that the tax rates levied in those geographies.
Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy are made by employees on behalf of with assessment of knowledge is rolled the Group.
These are both reviewed OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT out to the Group on an annual basis by the Audit Committee and approved As a business that conducts nearly through our e-learning training module.
by the Board on an annual basis.
all of its client trades online and undertakes no industrial activities, we The Group makes charitable donations The tax team works with the business do not see ourselves as a significant that are legal and ethical under local laws to ensure that the implementation emitter of environmentally harmful and practices, but does not make of the Group Strategy is supported substances.
However, we still take contributions to political parties.
by timely and accurate tax advice.
any necessary actions to ensure While considering tax advice, we that we minimise the impact of our TAXATION take into account the needs of all operations on the environment.
stakeholders, ensuring that the outcome We aim to make a positive contribution is fully aligned to the commercial to the societies in which we operate, Our greatest environmental impact transaction and remains within the and one of the most sustainable ways comes from running and maintaining spirit of the law and IGs values.
to achieve this is to be a responsible our IT infrastructure.
We align our approach to supports our award-winning platform The Group has a transparent relationship tax with our core values, by leading and ensures we are consistently able with tax authorities, and will approach the way and doing the right thing.
to maintain our high level of platform them when the application of tax uptime.
Powering and cooling our laws requires clarification.
The tax Tax contribution datacentres results in the majority team meets with HMRC on a regular In the 2018 financial year, IG paid of our energy usage as well as our basis, to discuss the status of ongoing 76.6million to tax authorities globally energy costs.
As such, we update our tax matters and to update HMRC in corporation tax, employment hardware and software as appropriate on changes to the business.
taxes, irrecoverable VAT and betting to save money and energy.
Taxation is one of the most significant expenses for the business.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 43 Strategic Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our offices are the second-largest Basis of preparation consumer of energy.
We apply a number Greenhouse gas emissions are of energy-saving processes and have a calculated on the basis of financial far-reaching recycling policy.
This not control, with the emissions data included only encompasses a proportion of our for the companies consolidated in daily office waste, but also extends the Financial Statements, noting the to our IT equipment when we replace Statement of Exclusions given below: hardware.
We try to use any desktop Our methodology has been based on equipment for its maximum functional the principles of the Greenhouse Gas life, and this year we recycled 8,631 kilos Protocol, taking account of the 2015 of redundant IT and electrical equipment.
amendment which sets out a dual reporting methodology for the Our head office building, where around reporting of Scope 2 emissions half of our employees are based, is ISO We have reported on all the measured 14001 certified and has sensor lighting.
emissions sources required under The We operate a hot-desk working Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report model and provide all employees with and Directors Report Regulations laptops, enabling our people to work 2013, except where stated from home regularly.
This minimises the workspace required in our premises This includes emissions under Scope 1 and optimises our efficiency.
and 2, except where stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3 As and when our global offices become The period of our report is 1 June due for refurbishment, we continue to 2017 31 May 2018 inclusive roll out the sustainable initiatives already Conversion factors for UK electricity implemented in our head office.
This location-based methodology, gas and year we have made further progress in fugitive emissions are those published introducing laptops and the hot-desk by the Department for Environment, working model to our sites around the Food and Rural Affairs for 2017-18 world where this is practical, as well as Conversion factors for UK electricity installing environment-friendly, statemarket-based methodology are of-the-art video conferencing and published by electricityinfo.
org collaboration technology provided by Skype for Business.
This continues Statement of exclusions to reduce the need for work-related travel between our global locations.
Global diesel use for vehicles has been excluded from the report on the We make every effort to source our basis that it is not material to our office services from providers that are carbon footprint committed to sustainable principles.
For Our fugitive emissions have only been example, in the UK our fruit supplier plants reported for regions where the data one fruit tree in Malawi, Africa, for every has been made available basket purchased.
During the past year, 7,225 trees were planted thanks to IG.
Emissions data We provide emissions data in respect of the financial year ended 31 May 2018 in the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio tables on page 45.
In the tables, Scope 1 emissions are those incurred in air conditioning our offices and running back-up generators for our servers, while Scope 2 emissions are purchased energy such as electricity.
For the most significant sources of energy consumption discussed above, we purchase electricity via our landlords.
44 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORT 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 CO e tonnes CO e tonnes CO e tonnes CO e tonnes 2 2 2 2 Emission type Location based Location based Market based Market based Scope 1: Operation of facilities 430 0 430 0 Scope 1: Combustion 131 89 131 89 Total Scope 1 emissions 561 89 561 89 Scope 2: Purchased energy 3,248 3,139 2,402 2,581 Total Scope 2 emissions 3,248 3,139 2,402 2,581 Total emissions 3,809 3,228 2,963 2,670 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY Total footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e. 2 Previous year Current year Year-on-year 2016 17 2017 18 variance Net trading revenue 491.1m 569.0m 15.9% Intensity ratio, location-based method tCO e 100,000 7.75 5.67 -26.8% 2 Intensity ratio, market-based method tCO e 100,000 6.03 4.69 -22.2% 2 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 45
