34 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility Our ambition is for IMI to become a world-class business a truly great company that leads its marketplace, that thinks long-term, that delivers sustainable value to all stakeholders and operates all aspects of its business in a responsible way.
To help ensure we achieve this ambition we focus on: Creating a positive Attracting the best and collaborative people and developing place to work and engaging with our employees We are committed to creating Our performance is dependent a positive and collaborative on developing, retaining and workplace where our culture is recruiting the best people with underpinned by core values and the most relevant skills and behaviours which promote fair experience who are aligned and ethical working practices.
with our values and behaviours and who can contribute to delivering our strategic ambitions.
Turn to page 36 Turn to page 38 Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 35 Members of IMI Remosas team, where IMIs investment together with talented employees has created a world-class business.
Prioritising health Ensuring that and safety we minimise our environmental impact The health and safety of our We have a responsibility to employees, contractors and minimise the environmental visitors is a primary priority for impact of our day-to-day the Group.
Our products help and Health and Safety audits our customers operate their underpin Group-wide rigour systems and processes safely, and continuous improvement cleanly and cost effectively.
Turn to page 40 Turn to page 42 36 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility Creating a positive and collaborative workplace We are committed to creating a positive and collaborative workplace where the culture is underpinned by core values and behaviours which promote fair and ethical working practices.
Not only are we convinced that creating this culture is the right thing to do, but it also enables us to operate more effectively, while attracting and retaining great people.
Culture We have a clear purpose and a well-established set of values and behaviours that help shape our culture and outline the standards and conduct expected of everyone across the Group.
Our values and behaviours are embedded in all our internal processes and procedures, including our Code of Conduct, and they are integral to the The IMI Way, which defines how we do business.
Our purpose We deliver GREAT solutions for our We employ around 11,000 people around the world customers tackling the worlds most demanding engineering challenges.
Breakdown of employees by geography Breakdown of employees by division Our mindset RoW 2% Western Europe UK IMI Critical 51% Engineering GREAT together.
12% Engineering 29% IMI Precision Emerging Engineering Markets Our values 55% 11% IMI Hydronic North Engineering America 16% 24% Integrity Excellence Innovation Collaboration UK Gender Pay Gap Summary for the year ending 5 April 2018 Human rights, equality, diversity UK Gender Pay Gap 2018 2017 and inclusion Mean Gap 32.6% 36.5% We are committed to creating a diverse and Median Gap 21.7% 25.1% inclusive working environment where everyone is treated fairly and with respect.
As highlighted in the g raphic above, we are a global business employing around 11,000 people around the world.
The above summary only covers our 1,046 UK employees.
We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact Further information about our UK gender pay gap, together with an explanation of which establishes standards for human rights, how these figures were calculated, is provided on our website: www.
We also deploy our own policies and procedures, which set out how people should be treated and how we should conduct our business.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 37 We believe it is essential that across all parts Ethical behaviour Community activities of our business we employ people from different It is essential that we run our business in an ethical We recognise our responsibility to the communities backgrounds and cultures to serve our global way with the highest standards of integrity.
around the world in which we operate.
We support footprint and our diverse customer base.
a range of local charities and contribute funding As part of their induction, every employee who To ensure that our workplace is inclusive and to organisations who provide emergency support joins the Group receives training in relation to that all employees and workers are treated fairly in crisis situations.
During our annual IMI Way Day the IMI Way and our Code of Conduct which in an environment which is free from any form our employees across the Group spend time covers, amongst other things, anti-bribery and of discrimination, we operate a Group-wide supporting a local community charity or project.
Refresher training on our Code Diversity and Inclusion Policy.
We implement this These initiatives contribute to the local community, of Conduct is provided regularly, and is reinforced policy using a number of mechanisms including: help build trust and reinforce our team building through our annual IMI Way Day, as well as and collaborative approach.
the principles that underpin our Diversity and face-to-face and on-line training sessions.
Inclusion Policy are embedded in all our human During the year, 7,000 employees undertook an resource processes and procedures which Some of our IMI Way Day online training module in anti-bribery and around are regularly reviewed for both appropriateness 2018 activities 4,000 participated in a similar programme and competitiveness: Planting trees in SriCity, India to covering competition law.
In addition, we have we run diversity awareness training coincide with World Environment day.
a series of policies and procedures including programmes, including an E-learning module regular on-site legal and compliance reviews, Donating blood in India raising translated into core languages which which are designed to help instil the highest ethical funds for medical equipment for a employees can access via our global intranet: standards and regulatory compliance.
These are care home for the elderly.
embedded in our risk assessment processes, when creating shortlists for internal and external Donating bicycles to a charity which further details of which are provided on page 46. vacancies, we insist that external recruiters supports neglected and disadvantaged provide diverse shortlists: children, Farmington, USA.
We encourage all employees to report to their manager any incident that is not in keeping with our as part of our internal management Developing an outdoor space to values and behaviours.
We operate a confidential be used by school children and their performance process, each Divisional Managing independent hotline in 12 languages, which allows families Birmingham, UK.
Director is set and further cascades objectives anonymous reporting.
Hotline activity is reviewed and local metrics aimed at improving diversity each month by the Groups Ethics and Compliance and inclusion in their division: Committee.
An overview was presented to the Audit Promoting science, we are committed to employing and developing Committee in 2018 and will go to the full Board in technology and engineering local employees in our geographies to align with 2019.
All reports are investigated thoroughly and, excellence our customers and the communities in which where required, appropriate action is taken to we work.
As a result, we have a very small During 2018 we entered into partnerships resolve issues fully and quickly.
During 2018, 49 with three museums located near our and focused expatriate population: and cases were reported via the hotline which compared headquarters in the Midlands.
They all to 52 in 2017 and 48 in 2016. we have piloted workshops to promote diversity have links to our engineering heritage of thought across key areas of our business and they are also actively promoting We conduct advanced due diligence on our Science, Technology, Engineering and including in relation to product development business partners including our agents and Manufacturing.
In the year we supported: and innovation.
We do this using a software tool that covers a range of areas including initial The Derby Museum Gender mix across the Group and ongoing background checks, screening against sanctions lists, a compliance certification Female Female % Male Male % process and the signing of a formal agreement.
All 3,281 28% 8,617 72% In addition, all our businesses carry out checks employees including sanctions screening to understand Managers 237 20% 921 80% potential customers and to identify risks that The Derby Museum of Makings new may be involved in supplying to them.
Senior 124 19% 518 81% Midland Maker Challenge Prize which will managers be launched in 2019.
Schools and higher Managing our supply chain Board 3 33% 6 67% education providers will compete to design solutions to address environmental and Our commitment to human rights extends across Including a gency and contractors.
societal challenges: our supply chain.
We conduct regular audits to make sure that child or forced labour is not used The redevelopment of the Ironbridge Gorge in our supply chain and that suppliers workplaces Museum Trusts Enginuity centre which is The WISE Campaign a national design and technology centre are safe.
If suppliers are unable to comply with and interactive museum: and Having a diverse workforce is essential our strict responsible business requirements to delivering our business goals.
During we terminate our relationship with them.
ThinkTank in Birminghams restoration of the year the Group joined the WISE The Smethwick Engine, the worlds oldest Campaign, a UK initiative that is focused We use a combination of general corporate working steam engine.
on increasing the participation, contribution responsibility policies and specific supply chain and success of women in science, Smethwick compliance actions to avoid any potential for technology, engineering and mathematics Engine in action modern slavery in our supply chain.
Being part of WISE helps statement on the Modern Slavery Act and detail to demonstrate our commitment to about the steps we take to ensure that slavery encouraging gender diversity and we aim to be a preferred employer for anyone and human trafficking do not take place within looking to build a career in engineering.
our supply chain or any part of our business Credit: Birmingham Museums Trust is available on our website at: www.
38 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility Attracting, developing and engaging the best people The Groups continued success is dependent upon our people.
We recognise the need to attract and retain great people, provide them with opportunities to make a difference in a positive work environment while supporting their personal and professional development.
Overview of our development and Recruitment Our graduate programme training programmes Our performance and ability to execute our Each year around 30 graduates, predominantly strategy relies upon recruiting the best people with engineering backgrounds, join our business.
with the most relevant skills and experience who Recruited from around the world, our graduates Leading the Way to Engineering share a passion for our values and behaviours and participate in a two-year structured programme GREAT programme are aligned with our strategic ambition.
We operate which includes different rotations and involvement Delegates: our leadership group a robust process for selecting and integrating new in live projects across the Group.
Objective: to ensure we have leadership skills employees.
We follow the principles embedded across the Group capable of supporting our strategy in our Recruitment Policy which aims to ensure Our apprenticeship schemes and growth our process is fair, transparent and consistent We operate our apprenticeship schemes in many Number of participants: with our ambition to develop our own talent of our European based businesses including since launch in 2015 around 230 and leaders for the future.
Around 50 new people including 70 in 2018.
Target for end of 2019 300. apprentices join us each year and for each of them Development and succession we create a career development plan which covers planning on and off the job training across a range of relevant Being a GREAT IMI Manager At IMI we have a strong talent pipeline and training technical skills.
and procedures which enable our employees to Delegates: newly promoted and existing managers enhance their skills and progress their careers.
Here some of our apprentices explain Objective: to build a pipeline of management talent how their careers have developed We operate a wide ranging platform of training capable of supporting our strategy and growth and development programmes designed to Number of participants: since launch in 2015 NAME AND CURRENT ROLE: increase employee skills across a number of around 1,150 people including 400 in 2018. disciplines.
During the year the internationally Target for end of 2019 1,450.
Maria Collins renowned Brandon Hall Group awarded our Apprentice, Junior Leading the Way to Engineering GREAT Applications Engineer, programme a gold award for excellence IMI Learn our Group-wide IMI Precision Engineering in leadership development.
Delegates: all employees across IMI In addition to our training and development WHY I JOINED: programmes, all employees are provided with Objective: to provide accessible and effective on-line I wanted to gain workplace skills and experience training to support training and development across on-the-job training and where appropriate, that I could put into practice while studying and IMI globally personal mentoring.
We also operate a my interests in science and problem solving led Number of participants: we have 8,000 registered Performance Management Process to ensure me to choose a career in engineering.
I wanted users on our learning management system that all employees are appraised in a fair and to work at IMI for several reasons, including the consistent way.
This process provides employees continuous improvement culture which provides with regular opportunities to discuss their lots of opportunities for me to get involved in IMI Leanthe key to operational objectives and personal development plans really interesting projects.
MY EXPERIENCE: Delegates: senior organisational leaders I have gained so many skills including machine In line with our ambition to develop our own talent Objective: to equip site leaders to accelerate their operation, computer aided design, lean and for future leadership roles we set and achieved lean improvements ergonomics.
I have also worked on a number of live our target of 40% for our 2018 leadership group Number of participants: 300 people have completed assignments including several factory improvement internal succession rate 32% in 2017.
For 2019 the training and taken the learning back to their sites.
programmes and a project to design a large-scale we are aiming to improve this further.
Target for end of 2019 480. model for use at a trade fair in Germany.
At the same time, I have gained further qualifications and have also been able to promote engineering to pupils at local schools and careers fairs.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 39 39 1 Graduates from the September 2018 intake attend induction meetings at IMI HQ.
2 Investing in and developing our people is key to future success at IMI.
1 2 Engagement How we engage with our employees Given how important people are to our success, Forum Engagement maintaining an active dialogue with them is essential.
We keep them informed about the IMI Way Day All employees participate in this annual event.
Senior management Groups performance and development as provide a business update, and employees then have an opportunity to ask questions and discuss a range of issues.
During the day well as specific matters that affect them as employees complete an employee engagement survey which covers employees.
And we listen to their feedback their views on a number of important business subjects.
Survey results to identify the key issues that matter to them.
are recorded and the data is shared with employees.
Action plans are developed and used to measure and track progress.
Further and To facilitate this dialogue we operate a number ongoing survey work is conducted where appropriate to maintain of regular and ad hoc mechanisms, some of positive momentum.
which are detailed on this page.
In addition, Group Conference 300 senior employees from across the Group meet for an update in November 2018 Birgit Nrgaard, one of our on strategy and initiatives for the coming year.
The agenda includes non-executive directors, was designated as the a Q&A session with the Executive Directors and Divisional Managing Director responsible for undertaking Board level Directors and the Chairman also addresses participants.
In this role Birgit will is gathered during and after the event with the conferences key messages and outputs then communicated to all employees.
participate in our Group management conference and our European Communications Forum as European Employee representatives from around ten European countries meet well as other events involving employees.
Communications regularly with senior management to discuss strategic progress and Forum ECF performance compared to our key performance objectives.
The discussions cover updates on key initiatives such as IT security, NAME AND CURRENT ROLE: New Product Development, Lean and Value Engineering.
Following the meeting, minutes and newsletters are produced and used by the Nils Nesladek employee representatives to share information with their colleagues.
Trainee Production Designer, IMI Z&J, Town hall meetings Our Divisional Managing Directors hold quarterly online town hall meetings covering recent results and current initiatives.
Employees Germany are invited to ask questions and provide feedback on their own concerns and or share best practice on current initiatives.
WHY I JOINED: Pulse surveys Where required we use quick and effective localised real-time surveys IMI has a reputation for being a good employer to gather specific insights from employees.
We use the findings to that offers an excellent training programme.
inform our plans for improvement.
And because the Company recruits quite a IMI Eye Our cross-divisional magazine is published twice a year and covers number of apprentices, I knew there would news stories and best practice sharing from around the Group.
be a good support network and lots of opportunities to share experiences.
Group-wide and Our global and divisional intranets are used to communicate key divisional intranet developments and share best practice across the Group quickly MY EXPERIENCE: and effectively.
I am currently a trainee production designer.
My role covers both product design and production engineering.
Every day were In 2018 over 8,900 employees participated in our IMI Way Day looking to improve our customer offering which survey.
Results were consistent with the encouraging feedback means always evolving what we do and moving from previous years.
In particular, 71% would recommend IMI forward.
I am impressed by the future focus as a good employer to family and friends and 87% are clear of the company and the emphasis on about the key priorities their division is focused on.
I am pleased to feel part of a secure, yet constantly improving work environment.
40 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility Prioritising health & safety The health and safety of our employees, contractors and visitors to our facilities is of paramount importance and integral to our ambition to be a world-class business with a world-class health & safety record.
To achieve this ambition, we take a proactive approach and strive to continuously improve our performance.
Our proactive approach Progress during the year Health and safety is our key priority and monitoring and improving our performance is a core metric which During the year we improved our health and is embedded in our reporting systems at multiple levels across the whole of IMI.
All areas of our business safety performance in a number of areas: continuously assess their operations and twice yearly we undertake a formal Group-wide health and During the year the total number of LTAs reduced safety audit at every major operation to monitor the progress against our formal improvement actions.
Details of this review process are outlined below.
The 2018 figure includes 3 LTAs recorded by Bimba, which was acquired in January 2018.
Our bi-annual review process The Precision Engineering division is currently Timing Activities Objectives and outputs executing a range of plans and initiatives to integrate fully Bimba into their North American November Local assessment of key Audit current benchmark scores.
operations and our key priority is to embed the December operational and safety Identify business-critical issues, IMI health and safety culture and supporting and areas, focused on business develop improvement actions to procedures across Bimbas entire business.
May June performance issues and rate progress and track KPI trends.
Undertaken There has been a slight reduction in the number by independent IMI Group Agree further improvement activities of sites reporting zero LTAs 79% compared or divisional specialist health with local and divisional leadership.
This reflects the restructuring and safety experts.
of IMI Critical Engineerings manufacturing footprint and the acquisition of Bimba.
January and July Publication of Lean - HSE Identify commonly recurring The LTA frequency rate improved considerably benchmarking data on Group-wide hazards.
26% in 2018 and across IMI there was 0.8 Group intranet.
Develop remedial plans to address.
LTAs for every million hours worked compared to 1.1 in 2017.
In 2017, we launched a Group-wide campaign to prevent hand injuries which were the largest Combined with semi-annual Lean benchmarking reviews.
volume of injuries reported in 2017.
In 2018 IMI Critical Engineering delivered a 65% reduction In line with our established policies and procedures we strive to ensure that accidents are avoided and in hand injuries and IMI Precision Engineering that our operations are risk assessed to be as safe as possible.
All employees, as part of their induction, and IMI Hydronic Engineering reported reductions receive health and safety training relevant to their role in line with health, safety and environmental of 35% and 56% respectively.
Further on-site training in relation to hazard identification, risk assessment and action planning is provided to employees engaged in manufacturing operations.
We report, record and investigate every incident requiring first aid, or medical intervention and in addition, a full root cause investigation of every Lost Time Accident LTA is presented to the relevant Divisional Managing Director.
Following a formal review at divisional level, a remediation plan is agreed and implemented, and safety alerts are issued to share lessons learned and increase safety awareness across the Group.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 41 2018 Health & Safety initiatives 1 Our passion to continue to improve our health & safety performance resulted in the launch of a number of new procedures and training initiatives during the year including Learning to See and Lock Out Tag Out.
Learning to See In all our manufacturing operations management routinely undertake Gemba Walks a Lean term used to describe the detailed observation and identification of potential hazards and risks.
During 2018 we launched our Learning to See training programme which equips our operational 2 3 management with further knowledge and skills to make their Gemba Walks even more effective.
The two-day training programme takes place on site and provides practical instruction on taking 4 the process beyond completion of health and safety checklists to a more interactive discussion with employees.
This process allows questions to be asked, encourages suggestions for improvement and creates more effective and proactive engagement on health and safety issues.
During the year over 600 employees based at our manufacturing sites participated in the Learning to See programme.
Lock Out Tag Out Lock Out Tag Out is a safety procedure used to ensure that machines are properly shut off and not able to operate during maintenance and repair work.
Prior to 2018 every IMI business operated its own Lock Out Tag Out procedure and as a result, standards of protection varied across the Group.
In an effort to reduce the risk of 1 Bimba maintains an expansive actuator serious injury in the high-risk shutdown testing lab to ensure that parts meet procedure, we introduced a new and specified performance characteristics.
more stringent Lock Out Tag Out procedure 2 The Groups continued focus on wearing appropriate gloves resulted in a significant which all our operations are required reduction in hand injuries in IMI Critical.
3 Throughout 2018, Learning to See training was delivered to all Hydronic Engineering manufacturing sites.
4 Ensuring safe practices and the correct clothing protect our people.
42 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility Ensuring that we minimise our environmental impact Our purpose is to deliver great solutions that tackle the most demanding engineering challenges and help our customers operate their systems and processes safely, cleanly and cost effectively.
We are committed to doing this in a way that minimises the impact on the environment.
CO emissions 2 Our operations Our products 000 tonnes We operate globally with manufacturing facilities Our products and technologies help our customers 63 in more than 20 countries.
We are committed to operate their processes safely, cleanly and operating these facilities in a sustainable way efficiently and help address some of the biggest 62 and to minimise their impact on the environment.
global challenges facing the world today including 61 climate change and resource scarcity.
Below are We monitor and report our environmental Bimba some of our products that help reduce emissions 60 performance at the monthly Executive meetings and energy consumption.
with a view to delivering continuous improvement 59 and reducing our CO emissions year-on-year.
2 IMI Critical Engineerings EEEasy-Seal: 58 this innovative sealing system for control valves IMI Energy efficiency prevents the leakage of emissions in oil refineries 57 2015 2016 2017 2018 and petrochemical plants.
Given the nature of our production processes, our main focus is energy efficiency and our IMI Precision Engineerings PET Reduction in waste and scrap Group-wide energy efficiency programme delivered blowing blocks: a number of improvements during the year.
Details As outlined on page 22, improving operational this market leading product reduces the amount of some of the key projects are set out below: of air, and as a result energy, required to performance is one of our key strategic priorities.
By running our business more efficiently we IMI Critical Engineering installed a new enhance our competitiveness, save costs and IMI Hydronic Engineerings Halo: award-winning heating system in three of the reduce waste and scrap levels.
Each of our divisions launched in 2018, this thermostatic radiator manufacturing halls at IMI Z&Js facility in Dren, has made significant progress in this area including: head, which has a built-in sensor, controls the Germany.
As a result, gas consumption in the temperature of individual rooms by automatically three halls has been reduced by 30%.
IMI Critical Engineering: at IMI Z&Js facility adjusting flows, depending on ambient in Germany, Lean methodology problem solving IMI Precision Engineering introduced a temperature.
Compared with a manual radiator techniques were used to identity three main head, it can reduce energy consumption by as renewable power system in parts of its facility areas for improvement, including welding errors.
Following the installation Processes in the plant have been adapted and of solar panels and heat pumps the facilitys improved and as a result scrap levels have CO emissions and energy consumption 2 reduced by 58% year on year.
IMI Precision Engineering: since 2017, IMI IMI Hydronic Engineering installed new LED Precision Engineering Fradleys scrap levels have lighting throughout its Swedish plant in Ljung reduced by 67%, driven by the implementation which has helped reduce CO emissions and 2 of Lean process design and the Fradley team electricity consumption.
undertaking regular problem solving and Kaizen We support the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP continuous improvement activities.
Lead times climate change initiative and submit annual CDP and inventory levels have shown radical reports which cover our risk management approach improvement as a result.
to climate change and our emissions performance.
IMI Hydronic Engineering: the divisions facility Since 2015, on a like for like basis excluding at Erwitte, Germany has continued to reduce its Bimba, we have reduced our CO emissions by 2 scrap.
Building on the 50% reduction achieved over 4%.
In line with our continuous improvement in 2017, the plant reduced its scrap levels by culture and investment in our operations, we are a further 10% in 2018.
The application of Lean committed to further reducing our emissions methodology and problem solving to identify in the future.
the root cause and implementing improvement actions underpinned the improvement.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 43 1 3 2 4 5 6 1 IMI Precision Engineerings new plant in Noida near New Delhi has its own sewage treatment plant which converts sewage into biodegradable waste.
The facility also has a rain water harvesting system which collects rain and feeds it back into the ground.
Further information about the new plant can be found on page 20.
2 Hydronic Engineerings new thermostatic head Halo not only helps to achieve energy savings for homeowners, it also has a stylish modern design.
3 New energy efficient and environmentally friendly LED lighting in Hydronic Engineerings plant in Sweden.
4 IMI Norgren PET blowing block.
6 EEEasy-Seal will ensure a significant reduction in valve leakages.
