B E SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW ENABLING GROWTH, CREATING VALUE Our sustainability strategy is integral to the long-term success of our business and underpins our drive to create shared value for our stakeholders.
During the year we reviewed and refocused our sustainability strategy to more closely align it with our Group strategy and the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
These goals aim to have a transformational impact on the world by 2030 and we are currently developing long-term targets to enhance our reporting against them.
We identified the key areas that have the greatest significance Our values and Code of Conduct are an essential part of our to us and our stakeholders: sustainability agenda and reflect the behaviours we expect from everyone who works for us and with us.
reduced harm Next Generation Products NGP : developing alternative products that are less harmful to health Our sustainability performance is subject to independent assurance and verification.
We measure our health and safety a sustainable tobacco supply: maintaining sustainable and environmental performance by comparing our results with agricultural practices to ensure a consistent, quality supply our 2009 baseline year, using independently assured data.
of tobacco responsible operations and people: behaving responsibly at Each year we participate in the CDP formerly the Carbon Disclosure all times and providing a safe and rewarding work Project climate change, forestry and water programmes.
Due to environment for employees a change in CDPs reporting timeframes, CDP is unable to publish company ratings until early 2019.
Once their report is published, The three pillars of our strategy, designed to enable growth and details will be made available on our website.
create value, define the approach we take to addressing our environmental, social and governance issues.
We remain The following pages provide an overview of our achievements in committed to reducing our environmental impact, collaborating 2018.
More information is available at www.
com, with stakeholders to make a positive social impact and where we also provide details of how our values shape the way maintaining high standards of governance.
we do business and publish our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code in full.
Key data reported in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year to 30 September 2018 as indicated in footnotes has been independently assured by PwC under the limited assurance requirements of the ISAE 3000 standard.
The full assured data and PwC's assurance report are included in the sustainability section of our website www.
30 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 30 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 H A V I N G R E S P O N S I B L Y OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS HIGH QUALITY INNOVATION REDUCED HARM PRODUCTS Our leading-edge science underpins our commitment to create Regular and high quality innovation is key to enhancing the something better for the worlds smokers.
We want smokers to vaping experience and improving smoker conversion rates.
switch to less harmful alternatives to cigarettes and have Last year we acquired the UK-based NGP innovation developed a range of Next Generation Products NGP that have business Nerudia to strengthen our capabilities.
Our laboratory the potential to reduce smoking-related disease.
provides rapid results of testing on concept prototypes, providing the innovation team with real-time feedback as LEADING-EDGE SCIENCE innovations progress.
We undertake and monitor scientific research to continually improve our knowledge of tobacco and the diseases associated Our innovation pipeline continues to develop, ensuring we have with tobacco consumption.
We use the findings to develop and a regular supply of products that appeal to adult smokers.
assess NGP that have lower health risks.
During the year, we successfully completed tests on our heated Our NGP portfolio is built on the blu vapour brand and therefore tobacco product Pulze, prior to its launch in 2019. our NGP research is predominantly focused on vapour.
We also developed a hybrid product that uses new-to-world Vapour products, also known as e-cigarettes, do not contain technology to provide smokers with a true tobacco experience in tobacco and deliver nicotine and flavour in the form of vapour.
There are also vapour products that do not contain nicotine.
These are cutting-edge innovations, ground-breaking initiatives There is growing public health consensus that these products that are designed to accelerate smoker conversion rates and stop offer a less harmful alternative to smoking.
Our research has shown that blu vapour is over 95 per cent less toxic than smoke from a cigarette, contains over 99 per cent fewer toxicants and carcinogens and does not negatively impact indoor air quality.
We are proud of our science credentials and open and transparent about our research.
Find out more at our science websites: www.
com 31 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW continued RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS SUSTAINABLE TOBACCO SUPPLY We insist on high supply chain standards and are committed Our respect for human rights extends throughout our operations to purchasing tobacco from socially and environmentally and is reflected in our Human Rights Policy, Code of Conduct, responsible suppliers.
We stop purchasing from any supplier who Supplier Code and our supplier programmes STP and the persistently fails to deliver our required performance standards.
A detailed statement setting out the steps we take to mitigate SUSTAINABLE TOBACCO PROGRAMME the risk of slavery and human trafficking occurring within our Our Sustainable Tobacco Programme STP defines our standards business and supply chain can be viewed on our website.
for our leaf tobacco purchases and facilitates continuous The findings and recommendations of an independent human improvement through a measurement framework involving a rights impact assessment of our global operations and supply combination of self-assessment, third party review and our own chain are also available on our website.
SUPPORTING WOOD SUSTAINABILITY The STP, which all our tobacco suppliers are required to participate in, has been designed to: help the supply of tobacco leaf meet future In tobacco production, wood may be used as either a fuel for environmental sustainability challenges, raise labour standards and curing or as construction material for barns and we work with provide greater levels of detail on where to focus improvement.
suppliers and communities to support wood sustainability.
The programme specifically addresses the issue of child labour.
This includes investing in projects to increase the number Child labour is unacceptable and we continue to make every effort to of fuel-efficient curing barns and reduce the level of wood consumption.
stop it happening in our supply chain through the STP, our Leaf Partnership Programme and our support of the Eliminating Child In Africa we continue to work with our suppliers to achieve Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation.
wood sustainability for our farmers by 2022.
This involved Our Leaf Partnership Programme funds projects that enhance the planting 1.1 million trees in 2018. livelihoods of farmers and the environmental sustainability of their Further information on the work we do to ensure a sustainable activities, including reducing their overall labour requirements and tobacco supply can be found at www.
com improving their operational and resource-use efficiency.
This helps secure future tobacco supplies and is essential for providing farmers with a better income and higher standards of living, reducing poverty and the reliance on child labour.
32 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 32 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS We also work with retailers to reinforce the message that tobacco RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS AND PEOPLE and NGP are solely for adults and support initiatives aimed at We take pride in behaving responsibly and running our business preventing the sale of our products to minors, including schemes the right way.
Its not just the right thing to do, it underpins the that highlight the minimum age at the point of sale.
ongoing growth and development of Imperial Brands.
CLIMATE CHANGE YOUTH ACCESS PREVENTION We are revising our approach to climate and energy, in line with Tobacco products and NGP are for adults only and should never the recommendations from the Taskforce on Climate Related be sold to minors.
We do not want minors to use any of our Financial Disclosure TCFD.
products and take youth access prevention very seriously.
We have updated our previous carbon and water Life Cycle Legislation that governs the way tobacco should be advertised Analysis LCA across our global operations and supply chain, and marketed to the public exists in most countries, and we also analysed our potential risks and opportunities relating to climate have our own stringent Imperial Brands International Marketing change, and are in the process of developing long-term targets.
Standard IMS, which is published in full on our corporate website: www.
com These activities will enable us to incorporate robust, up-to-date information and perspectives on climate-related issues into our We insist that all Imperial Brands companies and employees, as core business objectives and strategy.
We will make our findings well as the agencies who work with us, stringently adhere to our available during 2019.
IMS and local legislation at all times.
To support IMS awareness and understanding we have developed an e-learning module We continue to participate in the CDP Supply Chain Programme that is available in 11 languages.
to gather information about how our major suppliers are managing climate change and water matters.
This year we also NGP regulation is evolving and varies from market to market.
invited our strategic NGP suppliers to participate.
We have an equally strict IMS for NGP and fully support, and advocate for, legislation prohibiting sales of NGP to minors.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION This IMS can be viewed at: www.
com We are committed to reducing our environmental impact by NGP should not be advertised or marketed in a way that makes minimising waste, improving energy efficiency and reducing them appealing to minors and non-smokers.
Social media has an emissions.
Getting the most out of the materials and natural important role to play in ensuring greater awareness of the resources we use is good for our business and good for health benefits of NGP but communication should only ever be environmental sustainability.
Additional environmental aimed at adult smokers.
Strong action should be taken against performance data can be found on the website.
companies who use social media in an irresponsible manner.
In our manufacturing operations we use environmental management We voluntarily implement a number of youth access prevention systems independently certified to the international standard ISO 14001 to drive environmental performance improvement.
Ninety-one per initiatives, including online age-verification mechanisms and clear product labelling that states not for sale to minors.
cent of our factories were certified as of 30 September 2018. www.
com 33 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW continued GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS A DIVERSE AND ENGAGED WORKFORCE We report on greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the We employ 33,300 people and take great pride in the diverse nature operations that fall within our consolidated financial statements, of our international workforce.
Forty one per cent of our employees using the operational control reporting approach.
At a senior leadership level, 13 per cent of the Operating Executive and 33 per cent of the Board are female, as of 30 September We report Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 indirect emissions for 2018.
The Board recognises the value of gender diversity to Imperial which we are responsible, using a methodology in line with the and is committed to increasing the representation of females within Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and senior management roles to 30 per cent by 2023.
We report on the seven main greenhouse gases and report in terms of tonnes of CO equivalent CO e. The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is 2 2 highlighted in our Code of Conduct and underpinned by our values.
LOGISTA We strive to create a work environment that allows equal opportunities Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 for our people and ensures they are employed fairly, safely and in CO equivalent emissions Tonnes FY17 38,027 527 193,611 2 compliance with applicable employment laws and regulations.
FY16 36,735 1,441 187,572 Regular engagement helps motivate employees to deliver our FY15 35,065 4,378 199,953 strategy.
Throughout the year we provide updates on our strategic priorities and performance through a broad range of communication We report separately on Logista, our European logistics business.
channels, including meetings, emails, videos, intranet, social Logista is managed remotely due to commercial sensitivities and media, webinars, conferences and employee magazines.
has provided independently assured data for absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions since 2014.
We are pleased that our efforts to provide the best possible workplace and career opportunities for our people continue to be Logistas Scope 1 emissions comprise stationary and mobile fuel recognised externally with a number of best employer awards, combustion from transport operations for which Logista has including in Spain, France and the UK.
operational control, and from the leakage of refrigerant gases at those operations.
Scope 2 emissions comprise indirect emissions WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY resulting from the use of purchased electricity at sites under The welfare of our people is of utmost importance to us and we Logistas operational control and are reported using market based continue to focus on improving health and safety standards emission factors.
Scope 3 emissions comprise transport activities for across the business.
which Logista does not have operational control.
Since 2009 we have reduced our Lost Time Accident LTA frequency Logistas 2017 relative Scope 1 and 2 emissions comprise rate by 77 per cent.
A successful campaign in 2016 to highlight the 39 tonnes 2016: 47 of CO2 equivalents per million of 2017 importance of reporting all near misses and accidents resulted in an distribution fees our non-GAAP revenue measure for Logista.
increase for that year, which subsequently reduced.
Further information on the scope of Logistas GHG reporting is LTAs this year were slightly higher due to a rise in minor available at www.
com incidents such as slips, trips and falls.
We are focused on working with our people to reverse this trend in 2019.
Environmental and LTA data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection, validation and external assurance.
The monetary value million is for tobacco net revenue.
2017 data has been independently assured by PwC: see www.
com sustainability for more information.
PwC have assured energy from manufacturing sites and offices 92,418 kWh million : energy consumption from fleet fuel was out of scope for assurance.
Unverified 2018 data is estimated based on data from the last six months of 2017 and the first six months of 2018.
Verified data for 2018 will be published next year.
34 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 34 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018
