OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Acquisitions and disposals and the continued rollout of the iPower system.
During 2017 the Group invested in greenfield sites In March 2018, the Group acquired Grupo Rudelman, and the enlargement of existing facilities, including the a Suzuki focused Distribution business with integrated optimisation of the Jaguar Land Rover footprint in the UK.
Retail assets operating in Costa Rica and Panama.
We expect net capital expenditure to fall to a more The total cost of this acquisition was 155.5m including normalised level of c75m in 2019. cash acquired of 8.5m.
During the year the Group also entered into a Distribution contract with Jaguar Land Cash flow and net funds Rover to distribute the Jaguar and Land Rover brands in The Group delivered free cash flow of 280.7m 2017: Kenya and acquired one Lexus site in the UK.
After the acquisition of businesses in the year, has also disposed of its Jaguar Land Rover operations in the payment of the final dividend for 2017 and the interim Shaoxing and a dealership in the UK generating disposal dividend for 2018, the Group had net funds of 12.7m proceeds of 13.4m.
In 2017 the Group acquired premium automotive Lease accounting IFRS 16 operations in Estonia, focused on exclusive Distribution for BMW Group, from United Motors AS and entered into IFRS 16 introduces a comprehensive model for the a Distribution contract with Groupe PSA to distribute the identification of lease arrangements and accounting Peugeot and Citroen brands in Australia.
The total cost treatments for both lessees and lessors.
IFRS 16 will of these acquisitions was 19.3m.
In addition, the Group supersede the current guidance on leases including also made a completion payment of 4.4m in relation IAS 17 when it becomes effective for the Groups financial to the Subaru and Hino business in South America.
Under IFRS 16, the The Group also disposed of its Lexus operations in distinction between operating leases off balance sheet Shanghai generating disposal proceeds of 5.6m.
and finance leases on balance sheet is removed for lessee accounting and replaced with a model where Financing a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability are During the year, the Group has entered into a 120m recognised for all leases by lessees.
As a result, all leases bilateral facility with a relationship bank, maturing in will be on balance sheet except for short-term leases and March 2019 with an option to extend for a further leases of low value assets.
six months, with terms similar to those of the Groups The Group plans to apply a fully retrospective approach existing Revolving Credit Facilities RCF.
to leases where the Group is the lessee.
Therefore, Driven by upcoming maturities, in February 2019 the cumulative effect of adoption of IFRS 16 will be we refinanced our core RCF.
This has increased our recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance of committed facilities from 620m to 700m at improved retained earnings at 1 January 2018, with restatement of rates which drives a broadly neutral impact to our interest comparative information.
The Group is currently finalising charge.
The facility extends over the period to 2024, with its assessment of IFRS 16 and estimates that the impact options to extend to 2026 at the discretion of lenders.
on adoption would be to add c 450m to 470m of lease liabilities to the balance sheet as at 31 December 2018.
Capital expenditure It would also increase the ratio of net debt EBITDA by During the year, the Group invested 99.3m 2017: c0.9x.
However, it is a non-cash accounting adjustment 101.4m of net capital expenditure in the development and does not change the financial liquidity of the Group.
of greenfield sites, the enhancement of existing facilities RECONCILIATION OF FREE CASH FLOW Year to Year to Year to Year to 31December 31December 31December 31December 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Net cash generated from operating activities 375.7 389.5 Add back: Payments in respect of exceptional items 10.1 32.1 Net cash generated from operating activities, before exceptional items 385.8 421.6 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 90.8 103.2 Purchase of intangible assets 34.4 24.0 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 25.9 25.8 Net capital expenditure 99.3 101.4 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 5.8 6.3 Free cash flow 280.7 313.9 Included within free cash flow are movements in restricted cash balances described in note 18.
26 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS MODELS ASIA At the heart of the Asia region, we are the Distributor and exclusive Retailer for Toyota, Lexus, Hino and Suzuki and operate Distribution and exclusive Retail for Jaguar, Land Rover and Ford in Hong Kong with additional Distribution and Retail franchises across the region.
Country Route to market Brands Hong Kong Distribution & Exclusive Retail Toyota, Lexus, Hino, Daihatsu, Jaguar, Land Rover, Ford, Maxus Macau Distribution & Exclusive Retail Toyota, Lexus, Hino, Daihatsu, Jaguar, Land Rover, Ford, Maxus Singapore Distribution & Exclusive Retail Toyota, Lexus, Hino, Suzuki Brunei Distribution & Exclusive Retail Toyota, Lexus Guam Distribution & Exclusive Retail Toyota, Lexus, BMW, Chevrolet Saipan Distribution & Exclusive Retail Toyota Thailand Distribution & Exclusive Retail Jaguar, Land Rover China Retail Porsche, Mercedes, Lexus, VW AUSTRALASIA We are the Distributor for Subaru in both Australia and New Zealand, in addition to Peugeot and Citroen in Australia.
We also operate multi-franchise Retail operations in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Route to market Brands Australia Distribution & Retail Subaru, Peugeot, Citroen Retail BMW, Jaguar, Land Rover, VW, MINI, Honda, Isuzu, Kia, Mitsubishi, Aston Martin, Bentley, McLaren, Rolls-Royce New Zealand Distribution Subaru UK AND EUROPE We have scale Retail operations across the core regions of the UK focused on premium and luxury brands.
Our European operations are centred on Toyota and Lexus Distribution in Belgium, Greece and the Balkans, BMW Retail inPoland and a number of fast-growing businesses in the Baltic region focused on Jaguar Land Rover, Mazda and other brands.
Country Route to market Brands UK Retail Toyota, Lexus, Audi, BMW, MINI, Jaguar, Land Rover, Mercedes, VW, Porsche, Smart Belgium Luxembourg Greece Romania Distribution & Retail Toyota, Lexus Bulgaria Macedonia Albania Finland Distribution Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda Estonia Distribution & Retail Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda, BMW, MINI, Kia Latvia Retail BMW, MINI, Ford, Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda, Lithuania Distribution & Retail Mitsubishi, Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda, Ford, Hyundai, BMW, MINI, Rolls-Royce Poland Retail BMW, MINI EMERGING MARKETS In South America, we have BMW Distribution businesses in Chile and Peru as well as Subaru and Hino operations across these markets, Colombia and Argentina.
Our business in Ethiopia is centred on Distribution and exclusive Retail for Toyota.
In Russia we operate 22 retail centres in Moscow and St Petersburg representing a number of our global OEM brand partners.
Country Route to market Brands Ethiopia & Djibouti Distribution & Exclusive Retail Toyota, Daihatsu, Komatsu, New Holland, Hino Kenya Distribution & Retail Jaguar Land Rover, BMW Russia Retail Toyota, Audi, BMW, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lexus, MINI, Rolls-Royce, Volvo Chile Distribution & Retail BMW, Subaru, Rolls-Royce, Hino, DFSK, Kia Peru Distribution & Retail BMW, Subaru, DFSK, BYD Colombia Distribution & Retail Subaru, Hino, DFSK, Mack, Daihatsu, BAIC, Jaguar, Land Rover Argentina Distribution & Retail Subaru, Suzuki Costa Rica Distribution Suzuki, BAIC, JAC, Changan, Kubota Panama Distribution Suzuki, JAC, Changan, Great Wall Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 Investors & Shareholders OEMs CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUPPORTING OUR LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY CSR is one of the mechanisms that helps to ensure the long-term sustainability ofthe Company.
It is an important contributor to building Trust, which is at the heart of our Ignite strategys vision: to become the worlds most trusted automotive Distributor andRetailer.
OUR CSR STRATEGY IS COMPRISED OF THREE CORE PILLARS Our people Health and Safety Sustainability and the environment To be the worlds most trusted automotive Distributor and Retailer Employees 28 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Local Communities Customers STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Complementing this approach, and creating a further level of support to deliver our vision of Trust, is how we identify and interact with key groups for whom Inchcape provides value: engagement with our stakeholders.
Our goal is to create value and build Trust through commercially and societally beneficial dialogues with allour key stakeholder groups.
Group How we create value How we engage Outcomes in 2018 We provide our OEM partners Top-to-top executive Establishment of Suzuki as OEMS with professional and efficient management meetings acore partner with scale routes to market for the acquisition in Costa Rica Regular market-level post-factory automotive andPanama operational meetings focus value chain.
on maximising performance Relationship-driven expansions into new Pan-market brand Distribution markets development support for for BMWand JLR leading OEMs We provide access to Analysis of reviews to feed Introduction of reputation.
CUSTOMERS automotive ownership and in to continuous cycle com review aggregation support services throughout of improvement tool to produce clear the customer journey, and overviews of and Single view of customer aim to deliver the best improvement in through Salesforce experiences for customers performance implementation in our industry globally.
Continued rollout of Ongoing surveys at Salesforce CRM to build full market level journey service capability We aim to enable every Bi-annual engagement Survey completed in EMPLOYEES colleague to achieve their & pulse surveys 16 markets and results personal goals at each stage shared with senior teams Employee intranet and of the employee journey: collaborative platforms Action planning in progress to recognise and develop provide two-way Survey planned for talent: and to foster a socially communications completion in all markets conscious culture based on capability Group-wide by end Q2 2019 inclusion, empowerment Prospective employees and optimised potential maintain active awareness through learning.
of issues to stay relevant Our objective is to deliver Regular dialogue with Positive reaction to in-depth INVESTORS & outstanding returns on institutional investors focus given at Capital SHAREHOLDERS long-term investment based Markets presentations AGM on a sustainable platform for Positive change to Annual Report & plc website growth, disciplined approach analyst position: deeper Capital Markets Day held to capital allocation and cash understanding of our at regular intervals last in returns through dividends and strategy and how we May 2018 share buy-back.
create value We have a balanced Market-specific activity, Local support given to LOCAL approach to engagement coordinated at local level provide emergency shelter COMMUNITIES with the communities in which to our employees and their Group-level support for we operate, empowering families affected by typhoon extraordinary events ownership at local level with in Saipan affecting our market structural support from Group.
communities Funds raised by colleagues and matched by Group for Saipan relief Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE The knowledge, experience and dedication to excellence embodied by Inchcape people in all fields of activity is the Companys greatest asset.
Our human resources function both at a Group and market level focuses on ensuring that our peoples value is recognised and rewarded: that talent is developed through learning: and that all employees are empowered to achieve their personal goals at each stage of their career with Inchcape.
Our ambition is to create a socially conscious culture based on inclusivity and learning.
We believe that the business is enriched by embracing diversity in the workplace and this is underpinned by marketrelevant policies and practices.
We foster a learning culture to enable people to optimise their performance in role and truly realise their potential.
We aim to empower our people to collaborate in communities of practice: to share and work together socially knowing that their contribution is truly valued.
The approach we take to engaging and developing our workforce is designed to proactively mitigate Principal Risk 16, see pages 39 and 44.
2018 PROGRESS Over the past year we have developed and implemented several initiatives to support our people strategy over the long term, the rollout of which will continue in 2019.
Leadership and talent Our global leadership development programme was created to identify and support a pipeline of talent to ensure succession and the long-term sustainability of the business.
Currently this consists of around 100 leaders and managers in 19 countries, but this rolling programme continues to identify a pool of high-potential individuals at different stages of their careers.
In addition to internal development, we have also broadened our talent pool by hiring from outside the automotive industry as we seek to bring new skills and capabilities to support our digital transformation.
Learning and development We have partnered with Hive Learning to build a new learning and development platform for Inchcape, as an enabler to sharing best practice on a wide range of subjects relevant to our business.
The digital Hive tool allows teams to leverage expertise both from inside and outside of the business, to build a knowledge-bank of reference materials that improve skill-sets and ultimately develop more successful customer propositions.
In 2019, rollout of Hive will be extended to more individuals and teams with greater scope for collaboration and communication to leverage our global scale.
Employee KPI dashboard In 2018 our objective was to aggregate and measure demographic information at different levels, from individual markets to total Group, in support of our overall people strategy.
Ultimately our ambition is to employ a well-equipped and capable workforce that is relevant to the markets in which we operate and reflective of our local communities and wider society.
30 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HEALTH AND SAFETY The health and safety of our people, customers and all With operations in 32 international markets and no single who use our facilities is of the utmost importance to us.
worldwide Health and Safety standard to apply to the We are committed to providing environments that can business, it is our ambition to build a consistent approach be trusted as spaces in which to work, where risks are through shared best practice and leveraged scale.
controlled and that are clean, safe and promote healthy We have appointed a Group HSE Director to lead this work-life balance.
work plus Environment through a global Community of Practice.
The primary function of the H&S CoP is to Our aim is to achieve zero safety incidents and to reduce develop a single direction for Inchcapes Health and 1 our exposure to risk by continually challenging ourselves, Safety culture across all our business, as described below.
sharing best practices and investing in the systems, 1.
See Principal Risk 10 on pages 39 and 43 structure and training to support our objectives.
BUILDING HSE CAPABILITY Main activities Description Develop set of common KPIs ESTABLISHING PERFORMANCE Introduce a reporting system that shares results and highlights best practice TRANSPARENCY Develop and use one set of business policies and procedures with the objective of ensuring the level of compliance required in each market Develop and introduce online reporting dashboard to facilitate transparent reporting Launch the CoPs by deploying HSE members across business regions to support MANAGING locally on the codification of best practices and standards COMMUNITIES OF PRACTICE COP Commence the CoP communication, promote the business focus toward HSE with support from HSE team Prioritise capability areas for standard setting incl.
ways of working and ways of thinking CODIFYING INCHCAPE Drive standard development and documentation of fit for purpose implementation PRACTICES road map, led by Group HSE experts AND STANDARDS Define Inchcape practices, three tiered approach: 1.
Inchcape Best Practices Create approach and format for opportunity assessments, e. g. health checks COORDINATING combined with on-site audits OPPORTUNITY ASSESSMENTS Oversee regions conducting the assessments, participate in assessments and share learnings for speedy implementation Analyse results, share opportunities with business partners, CoP committee, give recommendations on how to proceed Develop robust prioritisation logic for start point and rollout sequence PROVIDING EXPERT SUPPORT Engage on-site with managers to support implementation of CoP and or best practice Help to solve specific problems by delivering hard output Prepare training material how to implement, deploy, measure and improve SUPPORT best practices TRAINING Train and disseminate capabilities local CoP members to become coaches Train people selectively on market level to close capability gaps in markets i. e. through training products Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED SUSTAINABILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 2018 PROGRESS CDP CLIMATE CHANGE During the year we have continued to improve our data During the year, we participated in the CDP Climate collection processes for greenhouse gas emissions Change project formerly The Carbon Disclosure Project.
GHG emissions and have also incorporated the data We, along with our shareholders and customers, for our newly acquired businesses.
recognise the tangible business benefits of disclosure and are taking steps to address our environmental We have also been collecting information which will help impact and improve our score year-on-year.
We will us set science-based targets.
We are working towards continue to participate annually and endeavour to ensuring that the data is robust and that the targets are manage our impact on the environment positively.
both achievable and meaningful before we roll out globally and will continue this work into 2019.
FOCUS FOR 2019 Our new Group HSE Director, will also have responsibility The GHG emissions for 2018 and for the prior year are for our environmental strategy and will begin to embed given on page 90 of the Directors Report.
standardised practices in the markets during the year.
We will monitor effectiveness of these policies and report the outcomes in future years.
ENVIRONMENT CASE STUDY The employees at VW Romford have been preparing energy consumption data to monitor their usage for several years in order to minimise energy waste.
During 2018, the site consumed a total of 454,178kWh of electricity equal to approximately 43,412.
However, it was noted that the overnight electricity consumption was not being managed as efficiently as possible and data analysis calculated that 7,727 worth of electricity was overconsumed outside of operational hours which could be avoided.
As a result of the energy audit the following observations and actions were made: Areas prone to having lights left on were identified PIR sensors were adjusted to shorten the timer and increase LUX sensitivity Boiler controls were located and programmed correctly Air Conditioning controls that require manual operation were identified Showroom lighting switches were turned off at night The showroom heating and ventilation timer clock was reprogrammed The actions taken did not impact the general operations of the site and resulted in a large reduction in electricity usage, with savings of approx.
32 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018
