42 Strategic Report | Corporate social responsibility Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate social responsibility Delivering a positive impact 2018 Materiality results Corporate responsibility is a key enabler for our HIGH business, supporting 1 sustainable long-term Top 3 6 2 2 performance by managing 4 3 Cyber non-financial risks that 9 5 security 10 can impact reputation 8 15 and shareholder value 12 7 17 Customer 19 14 9 privacy Ensuring we act in an ethical manner, taking 11 account of our responsibilities socially and 16 environmentally is important in the way we 18 Access to operate and interact with our stakeholders, worldwide including investors, employees, suppliers services and business partners.
This way of working contributes to how we create value for all stakeholders.
More information on our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR activities can be found on our website.
Our heritage in supporting LOW HIGH Relevance to ICT industry safety of life at sea and enabling connectivity where there would otherwise be none, is something we have provided for 40 years and we are proud of 1 Cyber security 10 Environmental impact of satellite launches how we therefore contribute to a global society.
2 Customer privacy 11 Inmarsat emissions target This section of the Annual Report is prepared in 3 Access to worldwide services 12 Environmental impact of space debris 4 Anti-bribery and corruption 13 Waste in operations accordance with the Companies, Partnerships 5 Customer climate change adaptation 14 Charitable giving and Groups Accounts and Non-Financial 6 Supplier screening on social issues 15 Use of raw materials including precious metals Reporting Regulations 2016.
We have 7 Customer energy efficiency 16 Procuring renewable energy included information on new developments 8 Training and investing in people 17 Engaging with suppliers to reduce emissions and performance and discussed the impact of 9 Equal opportunities, diversity 18 Energy efficiency of operations our activity relating to environmental, employee and outreach activities 19 Public policy & political contributions and social matters.
CSR is embedded into our governance structure.
The Board provides oversight on activity and delegates these responsibilities to the Chief Executive Officer The Company recognises the importance of surveys to understand the level of stakeholder who has an ESG objective within his annual electronic information, systems and network concern regarding a wide range of sustainability objectives who cascades these duties within security cyber security and security updates are issues.
We then assessed the relative importance the Executive Management Team.
The Board is included as Board agenda items several times a of the issues identified by our stakeholders to updated where there are any issues which need year.
We have a dedicated cyber security team the ICT industry by conducting analysis of key to be reported on CSR.
We are also committed whose primary role is to safeguard the Company sustainability topics reported by companies to improving transparency in these areas and, to meet its legal and regulatory obligations, in the DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Indices as a result, respond annually to the RobecoSAM maintain business continuity and limit damage World Index.
The results are shown on the Corporate Sustainability Assessment.
In recognition of the work matrix above and have informed the content undertaken throughout 2018 we achieved ISO included within this report.
In 2019, we will 27001 accreditation at the end of 2018.
There continue to engage with stakeholders, internally Materiality were no material cyber security incidents during and externally, to prioritise sustainability Our 2017 Annual Report and Accounts published the year.
There were no leaks, theft or losses of issues and help us better manage our impact.
in 2018 reported on topics recognised by our customer data.
We were in compliance with the We have utilised the GRI framework again to stakeholders as having a significant impact on new GDPR requirements applicable from May 2018, structure our disclosures.
Our GRI Content Index our business in respect of economic, social and with our policies and processes implemented can be found on the CSR section of our website.
This was the first and tested.
We have continued to invest in our There have been no significant restatements time we reported on ESG matters in line with the controls and review our current policies.
or changes in the reporting boundary since Global Reporting Initiative GRI standards and the previous reporting year.
we are pleased this year to build on this.
In 2018, we continued our engagement with our external and internal stakeholders including We will continue to engage with our Material topics reported by stakeholders as employees, customers, suppliers and shareholders.
stakeholders on an ongoing basis.
important to them in 2018 were cyber security, We held stakeholder interviews and sent out access to services and customer privacy.
Relevance to shareholders Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Corporate social responsibility 43 Code of conduct, anti-corruption and Internal Audit has its annual plan in conducting Our collective focus on employee wellbeing and anti-bribery and corporate tax evasion reviews of business operations, financial and the health and safety of employees and those Our Code of Ethics requires Directors, officers, internal controls, IT and cyber security, and legal who work on, or visit, our sites is a contributory employees and contractors to conduct business and regulatory compliance.
Through these reviews factor to the success of our organisation.
Our with the highest standards of personal and Internal Audit assessed the key risks, including risks culture, with a safety focus, and our employees professional integrity.
A copy of our Code of related to bribery and corruption, and mitigation demand high standards for all aspects of health Ethics is published on our website.
activities undertaken by management, and and safety.
This is supported both by our mandated reported its findings to the Audit Committee.
Health and Safety Policy and the principles We comply with local laws where we operate and, In 2018 Internal Audit had not identified, or contained within our Code of Ethics for employees.
in 2018, we have received no fines or penalties reported, or been aware of any incidences of We promote wellbeing through a wide variety associated with non-compliance to any law relating corruption.
Moreover, no legal cases relating to of programmes, including exercise and fitness to the environment, human rights violations, corruption have been brought against Inmarsat promotion, flexible working, nutrition and labour standards, anti-corruption or related or its employees during the reporting period.
We know that to claims of tax evasion.
No employees have been dismissed or disciplined good mental and physical health contributes for corruption activity and no business partners Across our Group we ensure our employees to better decision making, greater productivity have had their contracts terminated or not comply with the UK Bribery Act and the U. S. and higher levels of employee satisfaction.
renewed due to violations related to corruption Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act.
A summary We run campaigns to encourage employees in the reporting period.
of our anti-bribery and anti-corruption to take responsibility for their health problems, policy can be found on our website.
As part The Company has invested significant time and such as heart disease, diabetes and cancer.
of our commitment to preventing bribery and resources, working closely with an expert external Our goal is to encourage strong leadership establishing a culture that does not tolerate organisation, to review its processes to ensure in championing the importance of a corruption wherever and in whatever form it takes, compliance with the recent new legislation common-sense approach to health and safety we ask our employees and contractors to confirm regarding corporate tax evasion, combining in the workplace.
We recognise the need to annually that they understand the restrictions the review with an updated assessment of its provide a safe working environment for our outlined in the policy and the implications for anti-bribery and corruption processes.
The work employees, contractors and any visitors.
breaching the policy for the business and them has highlighted where improvements can be made as individuals.
Our anti-bribery policy operates to existing business processes and practices.
Health and Safety does not work in isolation in line with current legislation.
The policy also from how we operate across our business.
incorporates guidelines on dealing with gifts and Human rights This year, new and improved processes were accepting and giving hospitality.
Our latest training We are committed to respecting the human rights introduced to improve our ways of working.
module on this subject was issued to employees of employees, customers, suppliers, business in February 2018.
We had 23 2017: 27 accidents or near partners and the wider communities in which we misses reported, and again we had no fatalities.
We have policies in place dealing with ethics, operate.
We could affect our peoples rights if our fraud, the use of inside information and employment standards fall short, or workers in During the year we undertook the whistleblowing.
These policies are fully endorsed our supply chain through buying practices are not following activities: and supported by the Board which has ultimate treated in accordance with local requirements.
Carried out Construction Design and oversight.
They are captured together in the Inmarsat has had no incidents of non-compliances Management compliance and audit Group legal compliance review which is circulated with labour standards or of human rights violations assessments in relation to the refurbishment once a year for completion and accessed through including those relating to child labour or forced of our London headquarters the online training platform Nebula reaching labour within the reporting period.
A global gap analysis was carried out to During 2019 we will be launching an overarching compare current conditions and practices We have a worldwide anonymous telephone human rights policy and embedding it into in order to identify gaps and areas in need of service for employees to use if they have any our business.
No calls were received by the external have already begun and will continue as part provider in 2018.
There is also an email address Wellbeing and health and safety of our 2019 framework for use by employees which is publicised on our The Inmarsat plc Board receives an annual intranet and in our policy documents.
We reviewed our fire strategy at our London update on the wellbeing and the health and office with a view to continue this approach In addition, our internal audit team complete safety activities across the Group.
Rupert into 2019 for all sites regular anti-corruption and anti-bribery risk Pearce, CEO, has been identified as having assessments as part of the ongoing internal responsibility for wellbeing and the health and Risk assessments continue to be a key focus audit programme.
All third parties that are safety issues within the Group and one of his of our business for different activities and in contact with Inmarsat during the course of 2018 objectives related to Health and Safety legislative requirements any business matter, are also assessed for risks overview across the Group and the monitoring Mental health and first aid training and related to corruption through visual compliance and performance of ESG requirements.
We have awareness was once again arranged and and due diligence checks.
We have detailed a dedicated Health and Safety Manager who is was well received across our global offices clauses in our contracts with agents, suppliers located in our London headquarters and our and partners regarding the need to adhere subsidiary operations have identified managers The annual Wellbeing Week, with a focus to anti-bribery requirements.
responsible for health and safety.
on maintaining a healthy eating lifestyle for employees, continued to be supported by offices in all our key hubs 44 Strategic Report | Corporate social responsibility Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate social responsibility continued We continued to drive improvements by the general public.
Personnel who work what happens in the macro environment and in operating in a safe operating culture at these sites are provided with relevant see how this affects future innovation so we training as to health and safety issues.
produce services our customers want to use in We embedded processes in our corporate a way which takes into account how we can work systems for capturing staff, contractors or An additional area of ensuring we monitor with our satellite manufacturers to ensure their interns globally who may have a disability effectively the safety of our satellite operations processes are as environmentally friendly as or mobility impairment to be compliant is that we have adopted the highest industry possible and also how our launch providers are with the Equality Act 2010 standards in terms of space debris mitigation.
SpaceX, with whom we This includes end-of-life graveyard manoeuvre have had a successful launch, is an example of We introduced an on-line tool for staff to log plans for the disposal of satellites when a launch provider which reuses some of its launch incidents.
This will allow us to capture data they reach the end of their commercial life.
vehicles and we believe there will be a focus to monitor trends and implement corrective We operate our satellites in geosynchronous on greener technology to be adopted more action where necessary.
This is particularly orbit which is approximately 36,000km by all connected with the satellite industry useful for our field engineers and those working 22,500 miles above the Earth.
This orbit has going forwards.
in shipyards for installations and we have seen significantly less debris than at low earth orbit it being used across multiple group offices.
which is approximately 700km above the Earth Our partners and where several MSS operators have their In 2018, we participated in several UK local Our partners are critical to our business success satellite constellations.
We are also a founding government-led meetings with emergency and supplement our own capabilities.
We rely member of the Space Data Association service representatives to identify and assess on their experience to support our business SDA.
Along with Intelsat, SES and Eutelsat risks that may cause an emergency for our objectives and strengthen our service offering we aim to improve the satellite safety of flight business and how to respond.
Areas covered and therefore, we aspire to negotiate deals that and make operations in space safer and included flooding, pandemic flu, utility failures allow our partners to make a fair return whilst more reliable.
maintaining cost certainty and competitive market deals.
As part of our business of operating a global Our technology satellite network, we operate a number of We have identified technology as one of the The roll-out of Inmarsats Streamline Programme satellite access stations, VSAT and telemetry key resources supporting our business model.
for customers has continued throughout 2018. and tracking facilities where there are satellite While investment in innovation is clearly important, The Streamline Programme encompasses dishes which generate radiation.
Access to having talented and experienced teams who updated terms and conditions and agreements these sites is restricted and there are regular understand how technology and innovation can for our customers which can be accessed health and safety checks to ensure that they work together is essential.
Our teams monitor through the My Inmarsat partner portal which are in protected areas away from access contains pricing and product information as well.
Many of our key customers have transitioned to this new way of working.
Additionally, all new products are available via this partner portal Volvo Ocean Race and all new customers are using the Streamline Programme as standard.
This roll-out will Inmarsat continued its partnership with continue into 2019. the Volvo Ocean Race, providing safety, Our Procurement team has delivered a communications and advanced broadcasting number of major corporate deals during 2018, services to the whole fleet.
The 201718 saving us over $46m highlights include the edition had sustainability at its heart.
The award of GX5 contracts ground infrastructure, team Turn the Tide on Plastic formed part of antennas, site preparation ready for the the UN Environments Clean Seas Campaign, launch of our fifth GX satellite and sourcing which aims to better understand the issue a complex multi-vendor landscape to enable of plastic pollution in our oceans and inspire a major IT transformation programme the millions of race fans to take action against One IT that will overhaul our internal service single-use plastic in their day-to-day lives.
We continue to lead the rationalisation of the vendor base by reviewing different ways of buying.
Adopting a different strategy on legacy issues, such as supporting products using alternative suppliers, has helped us remove cost for our stakeholders to spend on more value added products and services.
In addition we continue to negotiate appropriate terms of payment with our vendors resulting in paid on time invoices and working capital benefits.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Corporate social responsibility 45 Other notable events were the nomination, for the first time, for a Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply Management Award, which is known for recognising excellent performance in the UK, and the appointment of a new VP for Global Procurement, moving us forward on the next steps of our continuous improvement programme.
As part of our ongoing programme of vendor due diligence we worked with a third party agency to review our entire vendor base to undertake a risk review including credit, compliance and other business risk areas.
This analysis will be used to identify and mitigate risk in our supply chain and the supply chains of our vendors.
The simplification of our Procure to Pay P2P function was further supported by a number Developed in collaboration with | TheGlobalGoals@trollback.
com | 1.212.529.1010 For queries on usage, contact: dpicampaigns@un.
org of enhancements to our core finance system.
UN Sustainable Development Goals panel for The Safety4Sea Technology Award The Procurement Portal went live in early 2018, Inmarsat fully supports the objectives of acknowledged Fleet Safety as a significant enabling a new, easier, more compliant way to the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
technological breakthrough, recognising that buy across Inmarsat, ensuring employees are We support various humanitarian and the system will improve the safety of mariners guided to the preferred and approved vendors charitable organisations with either free and vessels worldwide.
At the prestigious Safety we want them to use to ensure we make effective airtime or support for hardware, and work at Sea Awards 2018, the Terminal was named buying decisions.
A P2P Kaizen event took with organisations in many developing parts Best Safety Service of the Year.
place in Q3 2018, focused on improvements for of the world.
Our heritage of saving lives at We have not only further enhanced working with our vendors.
This, in conjunction sea and our ability to connect people in areas maritime safety technology for the seafarer, with, the expansion of Purchasing Cards will allow where there is little or no infrastructure, reflects but we have also created a new service for the the business to acquire the goods and services how our work touches directly or indirectly Maritime Rescue Coordination Centres RCC it needs using the most cost-effective methods.
our support of the UN Goals.
We will continue called RescueNET.
This free service enables to identify ways we can work through our own Our Modern Slavery Statement can be accessed Search and Rescue SAR authorities to staff, our partners and wider ecosystem to on our website.
An assessment of our vendors co-ordinate and communicate with vessels develop our support of these Goals further.
identified that the majority are located in very in distress and other SAR authorities quicker low risk areas.
Inmarsat remains focused on and easier than ever before.
RescueNET is Maritime Safety Services the vendor due diligence it undertakes and currently being used by 21 countries around Maritime Safety is firmly embedded into the highlights anything that doesnt feel right the world, ensuring that no matter what waters DNA of Inmarsat, with us continuing to be proud with the existing vendors we use.
We also have a vessel sails in, there is an Inmarsat associated providers of the Global Maritime Distress and clear guidelines on how we work with agents RCC waiting to assist if disaster was to strike.
Inmarsat has been and government organisations.
This new service is already saving lives including the sole satellite provider responsible for the safe a rescue by RCC New Zealand of three men in a During 2019 we will be reviewing and publishing keeping of our 1.6 million global seafarers around 15 foot wooden boat missing in Kiribati Marshall a new supplier code of conduct to hold suppliers the world.
We continue to be the only satellite Islands, approximately 2,800 nautical miles to account for standards of ethical behaviour, communications provider currently providing northeast of New Zealand.
environmental awareness, health and safety the recognised services approved by the and other relevant working practises.
Our dedicated Maritime Safety Team not only ensure the smooth running of our GMDSS Although we have a long and successful service, but also provided training in 2018 to Meeting our public responsibility history in providing these emergency services, a varied audience, including an annual three Our website provides considerable information we do not stand still.
We are continually pushing day seminar to the World Maritime University, about how we connect with organisations, regulatory and technical advances to ensure Search and Rescue capacity building within individuals and our different partners to extend we provide new, innovative and functional safety three African countries and educational talks the reach of our services to support those who services and continue to look forward with our to national authorities and schools.
We work may need assistance either for humanitarian long-term investment into Safety Of Life At Sea.
closely with IMSO, who oversees our GMDSS needs or charitable endeavours.
During 2018, we transitioned our out more online at inmarsat.
com and review In 2018 we achieved unprecedented full IMO safety services from our older Inmarsat-3 case studies and updates in our CSR section.
recognition for our latest GMDSS technology satellites to the Inmarsat-4 satellites and are As we enter our 40th year, we are very proud Fleet Safety.
Fleet Safety is already being preparing for our next generation Inmarsat-6 of our heritage for saving lives across the applauded as playing a pivotal role in modernising satellites currently being built to provide world through our connectivity capabilities.
This new offering from safety services into the future.
Inmarsat, due to be commercially released in 2019, has already won two awards in 2018.
The judging 46 Strategic Report | Corporate social responsibility Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate social responsibility continued Charitable Partnerships We continued to support the telecommunications relief aid organisation, Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF who celebrated 20 years of saving lives in May 2018.
We contributed in 2018 a $260k cash donation to TSF and $100k in free airtime to a partner in connection with TSFs airtime usage.
We also paid $115k to the World Maritime University as part of our support for the education of maritime specialists and we also provide visiting speakers to provide education updates as well as one of our employees sitting as a Board member to provide expert support.
We support Team Rubicon UK TRUK see below with charitable donations of $89k.
These three payments are our most significant charitable payments.
The total charitable donations amount paid in 2018 was approximately $416k.
This amount excludes the free airtime and $260k terminals we offer to multiple charities as we support their endeavours throughout the year.
Donated to relief aid organisation Our core charitable support remains on the Tlcoms Sans Frontires work carried out by TSF.
TSF runs programmes on disaster relief and preparedness, training for other relief organisations and regional Global Xpress, and find it is very beneficial Working Group.
We have also committed and national disaster response agencies to allow many of the victims they meet to to the Working Group on Broadband for All: about the available capabilities for emergency connect with their families and friends more A Digital Infrastructure Moonshot for Africa.
They have adapted easily using their own phones.
Our technology These types of activities contribute to our well to working with our latest technology, changes therefore have a beneficial impact support of the UN Sustainability Goals on the way TSF is able to respond to support mentioned earlier.
We have also Our Universal Service Obligations seek Inmarsat reinforces continued our support for the International to support the use of our services, normally Telecommunications Union ITU.
commitment to maritime payphones, in rural villages in remote regions safety at Our Ocean 2018 In 2018, we continued to strengthen our of the world, where terrestrial voice services support for Team Rubicon UK which unites the are poor or non-existent.
skills and experiences of military veterans with Our Ocean gathers representatives from Our global offices support local causes at a first responders to rapidly deploy emergency countries around the world to influence corporate and employee level and we encourage response teams worldwide.
Some 50 individuals concrete and actionable commitments staff to get involved in local community initiatives.
from across the Inmarsat business are now to preserve the oceans health.
The 2018 Employees across our offices are encouraged trained as Team Rubicon Greyshirts, which priorities include: combatting maritime to support individual charities of their choice, means they have completed training courses crimes: promoting maritime safety and and for employees in our principal UK office, to be able to support the charity.
We supported security: innovations in surveillance and this is encouraged through the UK Governments deployments in the UK, Indonesia, Nepal and monitoring: and sharing-mechanisms tax approved contributions scheme.
During Haiti by providing resources, communications to improve maritime safety.
We continue 2018, one of our employees, working with equipment and airtime.
Our staff are encouraged to contribute to the targets set by a small team, has mobilised our workforce to to get involved during Company time supported Our Ocean by improving the vessel support him to raise funding for TRUK raising by the Company volunteering programme.
monitoring system VMS technology tens of thousands of pounds in the process.
for tracking and regulatory enforcement Our CEO, Rupert Pearce serves as in the fishery industry, and the work we Commissioner to the Broadband Commission International Partnership Programmes are undertaking with the IMO to modernise for Digital Development.
It was set up by the In 2018, we implemented three major international the Global Maritime Distress and ITU and UNESCO with the aim of boosting development programmes, each of which is Safety System.
the importance of broadband on the supported by the UK Space Agencys International international policy agenda and expanding Partnership Programme IPP.
The IPP is a fund broadband access to accelerate progress that supports international development objectives towards national and international development aligned to the Sustainable Development Goals targets, as proposed by the UN.
It uses the unique advantages of space a member of the Broadband Commissions based systems to provide service and data to Working Groups on Digital Entrepreneurship, disadvantaged populations.
All of the projects must Vulnerable Countries and Digital Health meet defined SDG ambitions and demonstrate that Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Corporate social responsibility 47 the project is the most effective way of meeting Environment gateways connecting customers using the the international development objective.
In 2018 Inmarsat achieved a CDP score Inmarsat satellites to terrestrial networks.
of B 2017: B, maintaining our performance To manage this risk, we have established Indonesia fisheries: Enhancing the safety, and demonstrating that we are managing site selection due diligence processes productivity and food security of Indonesian our environmental impact, as well as which incorporate climatic geographical fishers and their communities by designing and climate change related business risks considerations.
Our 2018 CDP response is implementing innovative solutions for smart and opportunities.
available on our corporate website.
Looking satellite technology to promote inclusive and beyond our direct climate impact, we have sustainable fishing practices in Indonesia Although the direct activities of the Group noted that our stakeholders identified are judged to have a low environmental impact, that working with suppliers and customers Philippines: Reducing the impact of natural we understand that unless urgent action is taken to reduce emissions in our value chain disasters by prepositioning powerful but to limit global temperatures to 2C 35.6F above should be a priority for Inmarsat.
easily deployable equipment, supported by pre-industrial levels, climate change presents effective training to permit the operation As a result, we are currently working with our significant and systemic risks.
We support of disaster response communications sustainability partner, Carbon Credentials, the recommendations of the Task Force on to quantify emissions from our indirect Scope 3 Climate-Related Financial Disclosures TCFD Nigeria eHealth: Raising the standard of activities with the ambition of engaging with and will look to continue to develop transparent Nigerian healthcare outcomes by extending our partners to set meaningful emissions reporting around climate-related risks and the reach of basic medical services into remote reductions targets.
This work feeds into our opportunities for our business.
areas of the country, delivering professional ongoing programme to set a science-based training, data collection and disease monitoring Within our annual CDP response we provide emission reduction target in line with the UKs in areas with poor communications through details on Inmarsats substantive regulatory, commitment under the UN Paris Agreement.
the application of satellite connectivity physical and reputational risks and We have approximately 1,800 staff in 39 We have been very proud to be involved with opportunities relating to climate change.
Of those offices, these programmes where we can see a direct For example, rising sea levels as a result of warehouses and satellite access stations, impact of the value satellite connectivity climate change could impact our satellite over 80% operate from eight locations.
access stations which are located at strategic points around the world and act as traffic Team Rubicon case study Inmarsat first became Team Rubicon UKs satellite communications partner in 2015.
Since then we have been providing connectivity for Team Rubicons emergency relief efforts and long-term reconstruction projects.
We also have 50 Inmarsat staff trained as Greyshirts volunteers.
The National Three Peaks Challenge was made up of a team from Inmarsat, our partner Spectra and Team Rubicon UK.
48 Strategic Report | Corporate social responsibility Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate social responsibility continued Our environmental principles are to: collaboration tools allowing visual connectivity are being used to reduce the dependency Provide first-class energy and environmental on air transport and are a popular means of management practices communication with staff working in different locations and across different time zones.
Comply with all relevant global environmental legislation and regulatory controls At our headquarters in London we are currently undertaking a significant refurbishment project Identify significant environmental and social that will help reduce energy consumption at this impacts and establish objectives and targets principal site.
We are in the process of replacing for improvement the energy-intensive chillers on-site with new In our main UK site, recycle a minimum of 90% environmentally friendly machines which produce of generated waste and to constantly review less carbon emissions per unit of gas input and the opportunity to use recycled products operate 20% more efficiently.
The refurbishment will also offer a fresher, more collaborative work Actively encourage the conservation of place for our people and visitors.
With about energy, water and natural resources through 70% of the work completed at the end of 2018, the increased efficiency and introduction we are already seeing the benefits of an improved of new and modern technology work environment where collaboration areas Encourage all employees to be proactive are well used.
in their daily activities by separating their waste into dry and wet waste receptacles Commercial waste and water In the London office and at our major sites, Ensure that printer cartridges are recycled we continue a progressive approach to waste Switch off lights, computers, phone chargers management.
Recycling is managed locally in and any other electrical items when not in use the larger sites with the separation of plastics, paper and non-recyclable materials.
In the Reduce business travel and using more head office in London, which is the single largest site-based technology such as video and office for the Group, 100% of waste is diverted audio conferencing and from landfill and this policy has been in place Replace inefficient building lighting with since 2009.
We separate our waste into four Enabling environmental LED technology streams: recyclable, non-recyclable, glass sustainability across and confidential waste.
Confidential waste We continue to monitor our energy consumption the value chain is shredded and pulped to be reused in paper and comply with our social and legal responsibilities products.
In 2018, our total waste from in terms of carbon emissions.
Please see our the London head office increased by 11%.
Through our services, we can help reduce summary of carbon emissions within the Report We continue to work with our London office carbon emissions and increase resiliency in of the Directors on page 102. caterers to reduce our impact on the environment other sectors.
For example, the agriculture and, for example, cooking oils are now collected sector is faced with a multitude of challenges, We set an interim target to reduce absolute and converted to sustainable biofuels.
tasked with increasing the amount it produces Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 20% compared while reducing its impact on the environment.
We have achieved this target with Our water use, in our London office, in 2018 A study undertaken by Inmarsat shows our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions having was double the usage in 2017.
This is something that agriculture organisations are adopting decreased by 27% since 2016 using the we are continually monitoring and improving Industrial Internet of Things IIoT to market-based Scope 2 accountancy method.
help them achieve these goals.
However, This decrease in emissions is a result of without the right connectivity networks, During the year we replaced and upgraded our our switch to a renewable electricity supply IIoT deployments wont deliver the instant water boilers and water fountain machines at our London headquarters, our largest improvements in sustainability they are to improve water efficiency and quality.
 site, and a number capable of.
The global nature of the agriculture of energy-saving initiatives rolled out across sector means that organisations need reliable the Group.
connectivity to gather critical data from We continue every area of their operations and analyse All new office builds, such as in St Johns it in real-time.
With global and reliable coverage, Canada and Batam Indonesia, are designed to monitor our energy our satellite communications offer the levels with energy efficiency in mind.
We continue of connectivity organisations need to to improve operations to ensure they consider consumption and comply make IIoT a success.
occupational usage, including the efficient with our social and legal running of servers at our data centres.
Across the group LED lighting has been installed where responsibilities in terms appropriate.
Video conferencing and other of carbon emissions
