Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Our people 49 Our people Our people are behind every aspect of our strategy will make our company more successful.
The initiatives set in train this year will form the We believe passionately Early indication shows that we are starting foundation of our approach for the years to come.
that Inmarsat is a unique to collaborate better across departments and our vision and strategy are better Learning and development organisation to be part understood than previously.
Alongside developing our senior leaders, ensuring we lead and manage for performance of and the great people The programme is also intrinsically aligned with across every level of the organisation is critically and underpins our new values of Accountability, who work here are the important too.
This year we have continued to Respect and Excellence.
Listening and strengthen our broad learning and development foundation on which understanding what mattered to our people offering, and this has been reflected in the resulted in these values values that put the it is built growth score improvement from 7.0 to 7.4 customer at the heart of what we do, and look in our People Pulse engagement survey to the collective power of our people to deliver over the course of 2018. pioneering solutions to meet their needs.
Supporting our drive to create a high An innovative collaboration caf workshop performance organisation is a key pillar of Managing for performance is underpinned ran across the globe to immerse the organisation our company strategy and 2018 saw further by our Be Your Best development in understanding what they mean for us.
An acceleration and progress in the delivery of conversation-led approach and 2018 has internal communications survey showed that our ambitious People Strategy across all been its first full cycle.
Tailored webinars and over three quarters of our people have a good areas of the employee experience.
90 minute learning workouts have supported understanding of these new values.
This cultural all our employees to build their skills and Central to our work this past year has been focus has helped us build the right internal capabilities in leading and participating in great our focus on creating the right culture and environment and behaviours that will underpin performance conversations.
Our workshops values-centric environment where our our future growth as a company.
have not been constrained to this focus area, employees can thrive and drive the business but also covered a broad range of leadership forward.
Alongside this we have built and Strengthening leadership and management topics and are proving strengthened leadership capability, focused Leaders are pivotal to shaping culture and to popular with 55 sessions and a total of 322 on managing for performance across our driving employee performance, revenue growth employees completing one in 2018. global workforce, created and communicated and ultimately our business success.
At the heart a compelling employee value proposition, To support and embed the Be Your Best of Inmarsats people strategy lies our ambition launched our diversity and inclusion strategy.
cycle we have also integrated our talent and to attract and develop world class leaders and We also continued to build an effective reward processes, to underpin more holistic support them in their careers at Inmarsat.
In 2018 organisation by ensuring our market facing conversations about performance, talent we have made great strides in strengthening businesses have the right capability and potential, development and reward.
our leadership capability in a number of ways.
structure to sustain our future growth.
Developing mentoring capability has been Firstly, our focus on senior level leadership a priority, and over the course of 2018 we has seen a talent review of our senior level Culture and values have rolled out a new mentoring programme, population to inform succession planning Creating an engaging and inspiring place supported by a comprehensive toolkit.
We and active management of our talent pipeline.
to work remains at the heart of our people now have forty trained mentors who are able In a relatively small, highly specialised industry philosophy and this year we have been working to support colleagues across the business.
sector, this is increasingly important to ensure to drive an internal cultural transformation.
our future skills and capability needs are met.
The High Performance Culture programme, Our Learning hub our focus area for all which launched with senior leaders at online learning continues to extend its reach Insight from our talent review has informed the end of 2017, has now reached around and has seen a 66.5% increase in usage across the active programme of tailored development 90% of our global employee workforce, via a the year, with over 1,300 users across the system for our senior leaders.
Partnering with CASS two-day immersive workshop delivered largely accessing a total of approximately 750 different Business School, we have delivered a commercial by Inmarsat facilitators.
Our 2018 focus saw us e-learning courses and programmes.
curriculum, building skills across a broad spectrum start to actively shape our culture by aligning our of areas.
We have also partnered with Henley employees around key behavioural concepts and Cranfield to deliver an Executive MBA that resonated with everyone and introduced a programme and currently have 14 employees shared language and understanding of how we enrolled in the programme.
In 2019 the focus moves to embedding these concepts across global We have also made a significant improvement in offices countries and 70 nationalities and applying the gender diversity of our Executive team, up to the culture tools to enhance business practices.
In an industry challenged by the pipeline of female talent, it is important This cultural alignment is starting to shape that we made changes at the highest level in a common approach to how we work together the organisation.
This includes supporting our and deliver for our customers.
71% of respondents female talent to progress, which has also been to our recent culture impact survey said they an area of focus, and a partnership with RADA collaborate more as a team with higher levels has delivered Executive Presence development of trust and 83% believe the culture process for both senior and mid-level female leaders.
T he growth score in our People Pulse engagement survey indicates how people feel about training and development opportunities 50 Strategic Report | Our people Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our people continued We have also made technical online training Weve aligned and improved our recognition work collaboratively with the GWAP.
In total 125 available to our engineering and technical approach to reflect our new values, including employees in the Netherlands and Australia are people, using online platforms that provide a our peer nominated Spot Beam Awards that covered by collective bargaining agreements.
range of relevant and up to date skills training.
offer employees the chance to recognise We are also committed to supporting our people exceptional values-led behaviours and with flexible working policies that enable them achievements of their colleagues across Launching our people promise to balance their working and personal lives.
In 2018 we have seen over Delivering an engaging employee experience This is key to attracting and retaining talent, 350 such award nominations.
remains at the heart of the People Strategy and we continue to champion this approach.
and our principle measure of success is the We have continued our work to advance our overall employee engagement score, tracked In recognition of our efforts to make Inmarsat internal communications, from improving our in the six-monthly People Pulse survey.
a great place to work, we were proud that our cascade and storytelling about our purpose and Our final survey of 2018 showed a significant St Johns office Newfoundland, was ranked strategy, increasing visibility of our Executive improvement this year from 7.4 10 to 7.6 10. one of Atlantic Canadas top employers for the Management Team, and encouraging more This is validation of work across all pillars of second year running.
The award reflects our two-way communications.
Our first internal our People Strategy and is endorsement commitment to employee engagement and communications survey showed a group of its direction and ambition.
the collaborative and positive culture that internal communications index score of 63%.
we have continued to build in the office.
Underpinning the employee experience is a We are also launching a Global Workforce clear articulation of whats in it for me or the Advisory Panel GWAP providing a direct Diversity employee value proposition.
In May we were conduit and effective dialogue between the Rupert Pearce, our CEO, believes we do not proud to launch our People Promise that set workforce, the Executive Management Team just want diversity we need it.
As digitalisation out our commitment to our employees in terms and the Board, in line with requirements outlined and globalisation continue to transform the of how we intend to engage, develop, reward and in the recently updated Financial Reporting world, every aspect of our lives becomes more recognise them in their working life at Inmarsat.
Councils UK Corporate Governance Code.
We are immensely proud of our diverse Our People Promise was built on rich insight and GWAP will capture the views of employees on make up as a multi-national, multi-ethnic feedback from our employees, gathered from proposals and issues which affect our people, organisation.
We believe that the breadth and a series of nine global workshops, competitor recognising barriers and enablers and helping richness of skills, contribution and viewpoints is review and other feedback routes.
GWAP will promote a culture central to our success.
Creating an environment of collaboration and high performance, Insight from this work has driven a number that is inclusive and diverse, where everyone and consult on and provide advice, support of initiatives.
Recognising our peoples passion can be themselves is central to our three-year and feedback during the implementation for making a difference, we have launched a new diversity and inclusion strategy that launched of programmes and policies.
Most meetings volunteering policy that encourages employees in 2018.
The strategy touches every aspect of GWAP will be held virtually due to the global to support their local communities, alongside of the employee life cycle from attraction, nature of the business but there will be an annual our continued support of employees training recruitment to development and retention.
meeting with the Executive Management Team as Team Rubicon Greyshirts.
We have seen a Bringing external perspectives into our planning and Board in London.
GWAP held its first meeting steady take up of staff taking volunteering days has been critical and we have partnered with in February 2019.
Our UK Staff Forum and in 2018 to support causes such as homeless Stonewall and the Business Diversity Forum as Netherlands Works Council continue to act charities and Norways Redningsselkapet we have developed our strategy, to ensure it is as formal staff consultation bodies and will lifeboat service.
robust and aligned to best industry practice.
We want to foster the richness of ideas, thoughts, opinions, perspectives, backgrounds and experiences to create value.
Our initial focus has been on gender diversity, from our Early Years Gender parity Programmes and how we foster and nurture interest in STEM subjects in the next generation, in the workplace to improving our gender mix at the most senior levels as evidenced through our achievement The Board has ultimate oversight of of the recommended Hampton Alexander the development of the people and culture target for our Executive Management Team.
programme to contribute to a sustainable We also support and enable our internal female business and ensure this is delegated to talent to flourish through the RADA programme the CEO and his management team to deliver for female mid and senior level leaders.
Pip McCrostie, In addition, we now have an active Womens one of the Non-executive Directors, took employee network, sponsored by an Executive part in the Companys first panel discussion Management Team member, and its role is on gender parity in the workplace which to actively champion and support female demonstrated our commitment to being colleagues across the company.
an inclusive organisation for our global employees.
Pip said she hopes to support The gender split across the Group excluding management to inspire the next generation contingency workers is illustrated in the of leaders at Inmarsat by ensuring there is following table.
a level playing field for everyone.
Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 with 2017, reflecting the progress we 2018 2017 have made in female representation Male Female Male Female in the last 12 months.
Diversity We know that a reduction in our gender of plc Board 83% 17% 83% 17% pay gap will only result from a holistic Diversity 150 combination of key interventions and our of Executive diversity and inclusion strategy sets our Management Team 69% 31% 75% 25% Young people benefited from approach to achieve this.
In 2018 we saw Diversity of spending an insight day at our the start of key initiatives to support gender senior managers 71% 29% 81% 19% London headquarters.
parity in the broadest sense possible, Diversity of all including pay.
In 2019 we will be improving a other employees number of policies to support women across excluding the employee life cycle, introducing blind contingency CVs and continuing to raise awareness and Once again this year we have invested in partnering workers 70% 30% 71% 29% educate our employees on this topic.
with City and Islington College to run an engaging Were pleased to say that in 2018 we have and stretching six week strategy challenge with seen progress in our gender diversity, most around 18 students, as part of their initiation into Early years programmes notably in the Executive Management Team tackling real world business problems.
We have seen With a growing STEM skills shortage and our desire and Senior Manager populations.
a number of these students, after completing the for our workforce to be diverse and inclusive, challenge, use this experience to support their 2018 has seen the development of a holistic Our diversity and inclusion strategy extends university applications and it has also led them approach to fostering and developing the future beyond just gender, and in addition to the to undertake a work experience placement.
pipeline of STEM and other talent that we need.
womens employee network, we have also launched a further network for Lesbian Gay 2018 also saw us partner with Envision who develop We have established an early years foundation Bi-sexual Transgender plus other groups that young peoples employability by empowering them programme that encompasses three key areas.
identify across the LGBT spectrum.
This network, to tackle real-life social problems.
In the UK, Firstly educational engagement that manifests in has an Executive Sponsor.
We have also this saw us working with Sydenham School for girls Insight days, secondly graduate programmes that introduced an ally framework and engaged with and raising money for young careers in Lewisham.
include placements and summer internships and the UK student population about LGBT inclusion.
All of the 14 participants of the programme were finally apprenticeships in a variety of fields including supported over the three month project durations engineering, sales, HR and Marketing that we This year we asked our people in our by Inmarsat mentors to develop skills in teamwork, are funding through the apprenticeship levy.
engagement survey about their views on our determination to succeed and confidence.
equality in the workplace and we are proud to As a result of our new entry level programmes report that this question scored 8.2 out of 10.
Many of the early careers initiatives have been around 30 young people have experienced To understand more robustly what our diversity supported by the dedication of our own employees, our business this year, rising to 80 with one week focus should be, we have conducted a diversity finding time to work with the young people work experience placements.
All have experienced and inclusion survey to give us a baseline to inspire them about STEM careers and the a structured programme while with us enabling understanding of how we are doing and to working life at Inmarsat.
In addition to the above them to gain knowledge and skills and for us inform and support activity going forwards.
initiatives, over 50 Inmarsat staff were involved to benefit from their skills and talents.
in some way in volunteering with young people.
Our Technology and Engineering Graduate Gender pay Our website contains more information on the areas Programme is a two-year rotational scheme We have published our second UK Gender of education we support, including, for example with a mission to grow individuals to have a solid Pay Gap report, showing data as of 6 April 2018. our continued support for World Space Week, an understanding of our organisation, developing As in 2017, the 2018 report provides data on initiative started by the United Nations in 1999. strong foundations to enable them to become our entire UK workforce, as well as for employees Subject Matter Experts or future leaders.
We employed by Inmarsat Global Ltd, the one UK have also run a graduate programme for Delivering HR excellence entity we operate with more than 250 employees.
graduates joining our Sales teams.
Much progress has been made this year on In April 2018 we had 792 employees in the UK, 71% of improving the quality of HR service delivery, We are building relationships with a growing whom are men and 29% are women.
The overall gap including changing our operating model and number of primary and secondary schools, in earnings is 21.9% mean and 22.8% median significantly upskilling the team.
In particular, colleges and uniform groups and over 150 2017: 24.5% mean and 24.4% median.
we have transformed the resourcing function, young people benefited from spending an shifting the balance more towards sourcing As many other organisations, particularly those insight day at our London headquarters.
talent directly rather than through agencies in the technology industry, Inmarsats gender These days provide opportunities for young resulting in cost savings avoidance of over pay gap also reflects the challenges we have in people to understand more about the industry $3m throughout the year.
recruiting equal numbers of men and women and specifically the work that we do, and to to all parts of our business, especially in the meet and talk to our employees.
In addition, technical engineering and sales areas, which and perhaps more fundamentally, they get to be ALISON HORROCKS tend to be more highly paid in the UK market.
hands on, solving age appropriate engineering CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER challenges to develop a natural curiosity and We are pleased to report that our gender pay AND COMPANY SECRETARY an interest to work in a STEM related career.
gap numbers have reduced in 2018 compared 18 March 2019
