STRATEGIC REPORT continued CORPORATE SOCIAL Gender balance RESPONSIBILITY The gender balance of those in senior IntegraFin is committed to acting management positions being the ethically and with integrity and layer below the Board and of their transparency in all business dealings.
direct reports as at September 2018 IntegraFin demonstrates its social was as follows: responsibilities primarily through Male Female its relationship, as ultimate parent % % company, with companies in its Group that operate ethically and deliver Board Directors 5 71.4 2 28.6 commercial benefits to stakeholders.
Senior Managers 7 58.3 5 41.7 IntegraFin also acknowledges its Direct Reports 24 57.1 18 42.9 responsibilities more widely in relation All Staff 308 66.7 154 33.3 to the companys effects on environmental and social wellbeing.
Total 344 65.8 179 34.2 Employee wellbeing Culture improvement by: ensuring recruitment The Group recognises that one of is not discriminatory: all staff are Transact was founded on the principle its main assets is the staff employed.
treated equitably: all staff have equal of offering adviser firms and clients a The Group strives to ensure all staff opportunities to work flexibly, high quality service with transparent are motivated, respected and regardless of seniority or role: charging and a demonstrably agnostic safeguarded whilst at work.
This is and, all staff are remunerated fairly attitude to clients investment choice.
achieved through ensuring staff and in line with the role they perform.
This ethical approach informs all of have the opportunity to develop and the Groups business principles.
progress, that the work environment Disabled employees is maintained and comfortable, Payment practices IntegraFins policy regarding and that any additional requirements employment, training, career staff may have are considered.
IntegraFin endeavours to pay all development and promotion of suppliers within agreed payment The Group recognises that work life disabled employees, and employees terms.
It does not seek to disadvantage, balance is important, and strives to who became disabled whilst in or compromise, suppliers with whom ensure staff attain the right mix.
employment, is to make reasonable it conducts business.
In financial year This is achieved through allowing adjustments as necessary.
2018 the Group paid 90% of flexible working patterns wherever suppliers within 15 days.
possible, albeit ensuring it is not Environment to the detriment of internal and Modern slavery IntegraFin has reduced its external stakeholders.
environmental impact during the year IntegraFin does not tolerate modern The Group aims for a collegiate, by continuing efforts to reduce waste.
slavery, servitude, human trafficking industrious and sociable environment, or forced labour.
The Groups modern The average volume of waste and this is encouraged through slavery statement is found at: materials being recycled by the Group various social and charity events www.
co. uk modern-slavery has risen by 21% year on year, that are arranged for staff.
this has been achieved through staff Human rights are respected by Gender pay gap education, more recycling points and management and all staff and other reducing the Groups consumption of IntegraFin published its first gender stakeholders are treated equitably.
We are encouraging pay gap report in March 2018. adviser firms and clients to use IntegraFin compares favourably electronic, rather than paper based, with results reported by others in instruction delivery and statements, the sector in which it operates and with some success.
The company remains committed to continuous 36 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018
