Strategic Report | Sustainability report Solutions for a better world SOLUTIONS FOR A BETTER WORLD Our sustainability priorities aligned with our 5x5 differentiated strategy for growth.
As a Total Quality Assurance provider, we are in a strong position, given our global scale and expertise, to support the sustainability objectives of our customers with our industry-leading Sustainability value proposition.
Whilst supporting our clients, we are also focused on generating a positive impact for our stakeholders the communities in which we operate, our customers, our people, our investors, and our suppliers.
Our objective is to create sustainable growth for all.
OUR VISION OUR PURPOSE TO BE THE WORLD'S BRINGING QUALITY OUR VALUES MOST TRUSTED AND SAFETY TO LIFE PARTNER FOR QUALITY ASSURANCE WE WE TRUST WE ARE A WE CREATE ALWAYS DO WE OWN AND EACH OTHER GLOBAL FAMILY SUSTAINABLE THE RIGHT THING SHAPE AND HAVE FUN THAT VALUES GROWTH WITH PRECISION, OUR FUTURE WINNING DIVERSITY FOR ALL PACE AND TOGETHER PASSION 22 22 I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t OUR STAKEHOLDERS OUR SUSTAINABILITY BRAND Our integrated global services mean Intertek is uniquely placed to help organisations understand, achieve and validate their existing and emerging sustainability goals.
2 POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR PEOPLE, OUR INVESTORS SUPPLIERS AND COMMUNITIES 1 3 SUPPORTING COMPREHENSIVE OUR CLIENTS NON-FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ESG KPIS OUR CUSTOMERS PRIORITIES OUR SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES OUR PEOPLE 4 5 OUR COMMUNITIES ALIGNING TO THE CORE TO UN SUSTAINABLE EVERYTHING GOALS WE DO OUR SUPPLIERS I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 23 23 Strategic Report | Sustainability report Solutions for a better world SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We are a purpose-led organisation where sustainability is at the heart of what guides us every single day.
Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer world.
We are passionate about through living our strong values At Intertek, our purpose is progressing our sustainability agenda as everyday everywhere.
to make the world a better well as helping our customers progress In our 2018 report, we share how our their own sustainability agendas.
and safer place by bringing dedicated colleagues around the world We are proud to lead the global quality work passionately to make significant quality and safety to life.
assurance industry responsibly, energised progress on the sustainability priorities This is the true meaning of about how we contribute to society, and we articulated last year.
how what we do at Intertek positively what we stand for.
Furthermore, we share how, through our impacts everyones lives today - and the global network of sustainability experts, lives of those that will follow.
Doing business the right way is core clients have come to rely on us to help to our differentiated 5x5 strategy that Making the world a better and safer them understand, achieve and validate creates sustainable value and growth place is what guides us every single day.
their own sustainability goals, both opportunities for all our stakeholders - our True to our Ever Better discipline, existing and emerging.
clients and their customers, our employees, we are deeply committed to minimising As the worlds only complete Total Quality our investors, and the communities across our environmental impacts, to operating Assurance TQA solution provider, the world where we operate.
OUR TQA VALUE PROPOSITION with integrity by doing business the Intertek is ideally positioned to support right way, and to pursuing our corporate Sustainability is truly important for our its customers sustainability priorities by social responsibility CSR activities people and Intertek operations around the helping them manage and mitigate risk, operate effectively and act responsibly across their global operations.
2 Our customers trust us to evaluate the POSITIVE IMPACT quality, safety and sustainability of their ON OUR PEOPLE, SUPPLIERS AND products, operations and services which COMMUNITIES helps them protect their brands and gain competitive advantage.
1 This is particularly important to me, as 3 SUPPORTING creating sustainable growth for all is one COMPREHENSIVE OUR CLIENTS of our core values and is the guiding NON-FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ESG KPIS principle we pursue on a daily basis to PRIORITIES OUR bring quality, safety and sustainability to SUSTAINABILITY life inside the operations of our clients.
PRIORITIES SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS FOR A CHANGING WORLD As new risks emerge in a fast-changing and increasingly complex world, we continue to 5 4 seek and explore new and innovative ways CORE TO ALIGNING TO THE of helping customers improve the quality, EVERYTHING UN SUSTAINABLE safety and sustainability of their products WE DO GOALS and services.
24 24 I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 S S St t tra ra rat t teg eg egi i ic c c R R Re e ep p po o or r rt t t IN THIS SECTION: During 2018, new regulatory into our Group strategy.
We have developments created the need to improved our environmental reporting develop innovative sustainability which enabled us to improve our solutions based, for instance, on the Investor Relations engagement announcement by the UK Government of activities with institutions that pursue a new mandatory Streamlined Energy and sustainable investment strategies.
We Carbon Reporting SECR framework: also benchmarked our environmental, the heightened prevalence of duty of social, governance ESG performance care legislation in France: and the newly and we were delighted to be recognised updated California Proposition 65 List of by the MSCI, with a rating of AAA.
4 Aligning to the UN Sustainable Over recent years, sustainability issues Development Goals UN SDGs have dramatically grown in importance as Measuring progress on a regular basis OUR SUSTAINABILITY drivers of consumer choice.
In fact, is central to our company performance VALUE PROPOSITION according to research from Nielsen, 73% management approach based on Read more on page 26 of global millennials are willing to pay a factual leading and lagging indicators.
price premium for sustainable offerings.
We developed our reporting progress on Supporting our customers sustainability the UN SDGs for our core Business Lines needs with our industry-leading Within this broad context, we have and Countries, effectively engaging sustainability value proposition deepened our focus inside the employees and leaders with the organisation and I am proud about the appropriate ESG metrics.
excellent progress on all aspects of our OUR PEOPLE 5 sustainability agenda in 2018, based on Core to everything we do Read more on page 28 the five priorities we defined last year.
To lead by example and ensure continuous progress, I chair our monthly Ensuring our people are engaged, 1 Supporting our clients Sustainability Committee and I receive inspired, energised and working in a sustainability priorities regular reports on the progress of safe environment We have launched a global Intertek every sustainability priority, covering Sustainability brand to improve the internal initiatives as well as the awareness of our industry-leading OUR COMMUNITIES sustainability services we offer to our sustainable solutions.
We recognise the Read more on page 32 clients.
Our Board is deeply engaged need for the customers of our clients to and kept up to date on our progress.
be sure about the sustainability of Engaging and partnering with the local products and services they buy and we Each of our Countries and Business communities in which we operate have developed a set of Intertek Lines define their own sustainability Sustainability certification marks.
We agendas, which are tied to our Group launched our first Sustainability marks priorities and focused on their local OUR ENVIRONMENT Clean Air certification and Zero Waste to operations and communities.
Read more on page 34 Landfill certification in September 2018 During 2018, we have broadened our see customer story on page 27.
Demonstrating our commitment to network of Sustainability Champions reducing the environmental impact 2 Positive impact on our people, across our Countries and Business Lines of our operations our suppliers and communities and we have encouraged our Our sustainability agenda is very Sustainability Champions to focus on TRACKING OUR PROGRESS energising for our colleagues and the all aspects of our sustainability agenda, WITH THE UN SDGS progress we have made is commendable: true to our Ever Better discipline.
Read more on page 40 we have broadened our company-wide In 2019 and beyond, we will continue network of Sustainability Champions: we Demonstrating our alignment with to deliver progress on our own have rolled-out globally our 10X Way!
the United Nations Sustainable sustainability agenda and to help training programme to accelerate the Development Goals our clients progress on theirs.
growth of our people: we have reported on our UK gender pay gap for the first We strongly believe that making the OUR SUSTAINABILITY time: we have seen good progress on our world better and safer by bringing GOVERNANCE health and safety monitoring and during quality, safety and sustainability to life is Read more on page 42 my visits around the Group I have been the true meaning of what we stand for.
Making continuous progress in inspired by the quality of our local sustainability through an appropriate community activities.
organisational focus 3 Comprehensive non-financial ESG KPIs Andr Lacroix In our 2017 Sustainability Report, we Chief Executive Officer showed how sustainability is embedded I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 25 25 Strategic Report | Sustainability report Solutions for a better world OUR SUSTAINABILITY VALUE PROPOSITION As the worlds only complete Total Quality Assurance TOTAL QUALITY.
provider, Intertek is ideally positioned to support its ATIC solutions extending beyond quality and compliance to deliver sustainable solutions customers existing and emerging sustainability priorities for every industry.
by helping them identify, manage and mitigate risk, ASSURANCE operate effectively and act responsibly across their Interteks sustainability global operations.
assurance services offer a solutions-driven and holistic approach to adoption of Companies are increasingly facing and supply chains.
At the same time, we increasingly prominent challenges driven by growing complexities support their ability to operate effectively environmental, social and in their operations, sourcing, and act responsibly.
As In this section, we provide highlights of consumers expectations of corporate TESTING the ATIC sustainability solutions Intertek responsibility evolve, demand is growing Increased scrutiny and demand offers and specific programmes we for Total Quality Assurance TQA for transparency and safety of launched in 2018 to address the needs solutions that enable organisations across products, food, chemicals, of our clients.
a wide range of sectors to keep ahead of packaging and processes has led to the necessity for testing and emerging sustainability requirements.
We list full details of our sustainability analysis services that support value proposition on our website at Through our global network of and validate sustainable claims.
sustainability experts and integrated ATIC solutions, Intertek is uniquely placed to Our customers trust us to ensure quality, INSPECTION help organisations understand, achieve safety and sustainability in their business, Our inspections help clients and validate their existing and emerging to protect their brands and to help them protect their financial, branding and legal interests throughout sustainability goals.
We not only the value chain.
provide valuable insight into our clients Our passion for the sustainability agenda, current sustainability needs.
We also proven supply chain expertise, global CERTIFICATION identify emerging trends, enabling our network and on-the-ground local Interteks certification and customers to manage sustainability that is knowledge means we can give our verification programmes help material to their business and to safeguard customers to ensure that their customers increased transparency to their reputation.
Interteks TQA promise products, assets, processes and help them manage the social, ethical and extends to our ATIC sustainability services, services meet leading standards environmental risks in their processes applicable to all industries and sectors.
INTEGRATED GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY SERVICES EXTENDED PRODUCER LIFE CYCLE RESPONSIBILITY ASSESSMENT SUPPLY CHAIN VOC RESILIENCE CERTIFICATION At Intertek our integrated global services offer everything our clients need to manage emerging sustainability GLOBAL ECO-LABELLING & INGREDIENT requirements for products, assets, SUSTAINABILITY RECYCLABILITY TRANSPARENCY SERVICES materials, processes and organisations.
com sustainability RESPONSIBLE AUDITING SOURCING REPORTING & ENVIRONMENTAL DATA ASSURANCE TESTING 2 26 6 I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t Sustainability brand launch OUR SUSTAINABILITY BRAND SUSTAINABILITY SERVICES: SCIENCEresponds to growing client demand for We have offered sustainability services BASED METRICS AND MATERIALITY product testing solutions that support for over 20 years, and in June 2018, we Our sustainability services are now better indoor air quality.
Manufacturer officially unveiled our new Intertek integrated and delivered under the new Purple Mattress uses the Intertek Clean Sustainability brand at the Sustainable Intertek Sustainability brand.
These Air certification mark to demonstrate that Brands SB18 conference in Vancouver.
services support the growing demand there are no emissions from its bedding This brand serves to communicate from companies to measure, track, products that may harm purchasers or Interteks sustainability proposition to the evaluate and report those sustainability their families.
market, helping our clients understand, metrics that are material to their business.
SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATION achieve and validate their social and Intertek enables clients to navigate MARK: ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL environmental goals.
reporting frameworks and evaluate data Zero Waste to Landfill, a programme accordingly, whether for reporting or to developed and executed through The launch highlighted the strength of meet reduction targets and regulatory Interteks Business Assurance team, our existing ATIC sustainability services requirements.
For example, as part of its uses the Intertek Sustainability and provided a platform to introduce commitment to sustainability, Mitsubishi certification mark to help clients new programmes being developed to Electric Sales Canada MESCA retained display their compliance with and their meet continuously evolving demands.
Intertek to evaluate its Scope 1, Scope 2 continued commitment to the programme.
Sustainability is core to our business and and material categories in Scope 3 The Electrolux plant in So Carlos Brazil true to our Ever Better discipline.
We are greenhouse gas GHG emissions for has achieved the highest-level constantly evaluating and improving our their entire product sales network.
certification Zero Waste for diverting own processes and initiatives, as well as 99.9% of its waste from landfill.
It is a the services we offer our customers.
SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATION proud adopter of the programme and the MARK An internal programme is in place to Intertek Sustainability certification mark.
In addition to the Sustainability brand, harness the power of Interteks global Intertek launched the Sustainability network of experts and maintain the ACQUIRING LEADING COMPANIES certification mark in 2018 to serve consistency and quality of our FURTHER STRENGTHENS CYBER as the identifier of the Sustainability sustainability services.
In 2018, Intertek SECURITY CAPABILITIES certification schemes we deliver through sustainability teams developed an internal Following the acquisitions of Acumen our innovative ATIC solutions.
and centralised location on our Group and EWA Canada in 2017, Intertek intranet to provide access to resources, SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATION further strengthened its cyber security templates and programmes.
ATIC toolkits, MARK: CLEAN AIR capabilities during 2018 with the describing sustainability services, have Formerly known as ETL Environmental acquisition of NTA Monitor, a leading been developed across all Intertek VOC Certification, Clean Air uses a global network security and assurance services Business Lines and are available to all network of ISO 17025-accredited testing provider that is based in the UK and colleagues to ensure we can connect labs to validate the level of volatile organic Malaysia.
This acquisition builds Interteks customers to the support and services compound VOC emissions from products presence, both in the UK and globally, they need.
Training of Intertek employees such as flooring, furniture, drywall, paint within the security assurance and on existing and new sustainability and foam insulation.
services is underway, with continued One of the first programmes to be emphasis throughout 2019. inaugurated into the new Intertek Sustainability mark, the Clean Air mark VERIFIED LOGO LOGO CERTIFIED ZERO WASTE CLEAN AIR GOLD TO LANDFILL THIS PRODUCT WAS MANUFACTURED IN A ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL CERTIFIED FACILITY I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 27 27 Strategic Report | Sustainability report Solutions for a better world OUR PEOPLE strategy and fostering our culture and We are focused on ensuring values throughout Intertek.
that our strategy and 44,720 Training culture give our people the Following the successful launch of our EMPLOYEES right platform, not only to The 10X Way!
training to Intertek leaders in 2017, we continued the global roll out grow and develop their Sarah of this unique programme to over 36,000 Administration careers, but also to be of our people in 2018.
The content of the training workshops was based on involved in socially internal feedback that identified the key responsible activities that development needs across the business, with a focus on delivering support, tools support our purpose to and skills to drive 10X Performance.
make the world a better The continued roll out of the training place by bringing quality across the entire organisation aims to ensure everyone has the tools, processes and safety to life everyday.
and principles to create sustainable growth for all.
To supplement the Our 44,720 passionate Intertek people face-to-face event, embed learning and deliver sustainable value through consistently deliver the message, we also unmatched expertise and quality of work developed eLearning modules, available to for our customers globally and on a daily all our 44,720 employees via our digital basis.
They contribute to the success of Learning Management System.
our customers products, services and operations, enabling us to succeed in our Graham In order to further support a highly vision of being the worlds most trusted Project Support Leader engaged and high-performing workforce partner for Quality Assurance.
of experts, we continue to embed our performance and growth conversation To achieve this, our 5x5 differentiated with My 10X Journey, which replaced strategy energises our people to take our previous appraisal process.
This Intertek to new heights, to deliver our transformational new development plan customer promise and live our values.
creates better quality conversations We foster a company culture where our during performance reviews, helping people are recognised for being inspired to better clarify expectations, foster to find innovative ways of continually continual improvement and inspire developing services and solutions for individual progress.
In addition to The 10X Way!, we provide In this section, we detail the ways in a range of in-house and external learning which we seek to engage and inspire our opportunities to provide employees with people, ensuring the frameworks are in the skills and expertise they need to place for them to succeed in a safe deliver our TQA brand promise.
We operate working environment and ultimately across a wide range of sectors requiring making them proud to work for Intertek.
Jincy different types of technical training, Operations Coordinator Assistant Energising, inspiring and engaging education and support, including our talented people apprenticeships and internship To seize the exciting growth programmes, as well as college degrees opportunities arising from our and professional qualifications.
Total Quality Assurance TQA value proposition, we continually invest in the growth of our people.
We aim to hire, inspire, engage and retain the best people to power our 5x5 strategy, providing them with the skills to grow our business.
With an Ever Better mindset we ROLLED OUT TO OVER encourage them continuously to learn new skills that help them advance their 36,000 careers and deliver our customer promise.
Our talent-mapping process is critical to INTERTEK COLLEAGUES our future success in delivering our 28 28 I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t UK Living Wage At Intertek, we are proud to be an equal INTERTEK TQA EXPERTS BY REGION In the UK, we were accredited in April opportunities employer.
We consider all 9,044 3,393 12,185 8,708 7,753 3,637 2018 as a Real Living Wage employer, qualified applicants for employment in accordance with the guidelines of the regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, Living Wage Foundation.
We will continue age, disabilities and other protected to align our directly employed staff with characteristics.
the Real Living Wage UK, and are working We reach out to prospective employees towards aligning third-party contractor in a variety of ways, depending on location staff with the recommended guidelines.
and role, in compliance with local INCLUSION, DIVERSITY AND regulations for fair recruitment practices GENDER EQUALITY and equal opportunities.
We post vacancies To live our values and be sustainable and on our website intertek.
com careers and 12,437 20,893 11,390 inclusive global family that values diversity, employ various ways of sourcing talented Americas Asia EMEA inc. Central we apply all employment policies and people.
These include recruitment agencies, Male practices in a way that is informed, fair and social media, printed advertisements, Female objective.
This covers all policies relating to employee referrals, professional bodies recruitment, promotion, reward, working and associations, schools, colleges and conditions and performance management.
To offer people career growth INTERTEK TQA EXPERTS BY GENDER and progression within the Group, we seek Our inclusion and diversity policy eliminates wherever possible to fill vacancies from discrimination to ensure that our employees 35% 65% within the Company first.
are treated fairly, feeling respected and included in our workplaces.
We are committed UK GENDER PAY GAP to maintaining the highest standards of The gender pay gap measures the fairness, respect and safety.
We adhere difference between the pay and bonuses to the principles of the UN Convention of men and women across an organisation, on Human Rights and the International irrespective of role and level of seniority.
This is different to equal pay, which is the legal requirement to pay the same to men We recognise the importance of gender and women who are doing equal work.
Male 28,982 diversity, not only in management but At Intertek, men and women are paid Female 15,738 across all levels of our business.
In line with equally for doing equivalent roles.
the Hampton-Alexander Review, as well as Interteks gender diversity reflects the supporting gender diversity on our Board, Following the publication of our gender industries and qualification profiles typical in June 2018 we contributed our data on pay gap results in 2018, we committed to of individuals working in the countries and the gender balance across our senior a number of measures to ensure we business lines in which we operate.
executive team and their direct reports: provide an energising workplace, free of any gender bias, where employees can REVENUE AND HEADCOUNT 2017 2018 flourish based on their talent and effort.
Male Female Male Female 2,184 2,093 2,166 2,567 2,769 2,801 To strengthen this, we ensure that our 36,864 38,407 41,434 42,452 43,906 44,720 Board 7 3 7 3 shortlists of external-hire candidates have Executive 11 2 11 3 a balance of gender diversity.
We also Management Team Exec provide flexible working where possible Direct reports DR 91 19 95 24 and provide mentorship to women to Combined: Exec 102 21 106 27 address the gap in gender numbers at DR senior levels.
It is vital that our workforce represents the best available talent, Data submitted as at 30 June 2018. reflects the communities in which we 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 We will continue to promote and endorse operate and is free of gender or other fair, consistent and thoughtful working Revenue m biases.
We remain committed to equality.
practices that are in accordance with Headcount our values.
OUR VALUES WE ALWAYS WE TRUST WE ARE A WE CREATE DO THE RIGHT WE OWN AND EACH OTHER GLOBAL FAMILY SUSTAINABLE THING WITH SHAPE AND HAVE FUN THAT VALUES GROWTH PRECISION, OUR FUTURE WINNING DIVERSITY FOR ALL PACE AND TOGETHER PASSION I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 29 29 Strategic Report | Sustainability report Solutions for a better world OUR PEOPLE continued DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY Ethics, integrity and professional applying the Code in their own job role, Our vision to be the worlds most trusted conduct their part of the business and location.
partner for Quality Assurance is at the A vital part of Doing Business the Right To support their continuing heart of everything we do at Intertek.
Way is our commitment to upholding the understanding, all of our people are We can only deliver that vision if we highest standards of integrity and required to complete our comprehensive operate with integrity to maintain the professional ethics.
This commitment is online Doing Business the Right Way trust and confidence of all of our embedded in the Groups culture through training course annually.
This training stakeholders, including our shareholders, the integrity principles set out in our Code covers the Code and other important our customers, our people and the of Ethics the Code, available at www.
professional conduct areas, such as data communities and environment intertek.
com investors governance security and operational controls.
Integral to this is code-of-ethics.
This also covers health completing the training, all employees are Doing Business the Right Way: our and safety, anti-bribery, labour and required to sign a certificate confirming internal risk, control, compliance and human rights.
their understanding that any breaches of quality programme.
We have a culture in which all issues the Code will result in disciplinary action At Intertek, Doing Business the Right relevant to our professional conduct that may include summary dismissal of Way means living our values, having the and our Code of Ethics can be raised and the employee concerned.
highest standards of ethics and integrity discussed openly without recrimination.
Whistleblowing hotline in how we conduct ourselves every day, We operate a strict zero-tolerance policy To empower our people and stakeholders everywhere and in every situation.
regarding any breach of our Code of Ethics to voice any concerns about breaches of The programme includes processes, and any behaviour that fails to meet the Code or of any of our policies tools and training to ensure that: our expected standards of integrity including our Labour and Human Rights as a trusted leader in the quality our people work in a safe and inclusive Policy and Modern Slavery Policy, we have assurance industry.
environment, a well-publicised hotline which can be To support this policy in action, all people used by all employees, contractors and the services we provide and the working for, or on behalf of Intertek are others representing Intertek, or by third contracts we enter into are delivered required to sign our Code of Ethics upon parties such as our customers or people with integrity and in line with our joining the Company or before who are affected by our operations.
commitment to Total Quality, commencing work on our behalf.
This every colleague commits to the highest This whistleblowing hotline is run by an confirms their acceptance of the high standards of professional conduct: and independent, external provider.
It is standards expected of them in all multi-language and is accessible by phone we deliver sustainable growth by business dealings.
The Code sets clear and by email to all employees 24 hours a managing our risks and doing the right expectations that people working for our day.
Those concerned are encouraged to thing for the longer term.
business must act at all times with report any conduct, compliance, integrity integrity and in an open, honest, ethical or ethical concerns using the hotline.
Information posters are present in all of Intertek employees or people acting on our sites.
Interteks behalf are responsible for Intertek ensures that our colleagues are fully engaged in a safe working environment 30 30 I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t 2018 2017 % change Hazard Observation 9,155 7,758 18% Near Miss 2,207 2,544 13 % Intertek is committed to First Aid 1,094 874 25% the continuous review and Lost time incidents 137 104 32% improvement of its health Medical treatment incidents 149 180 17 % and safety performance and Fatalities 1 1 Total recordable incident rate TRIR 0.65 0.70 5 bps works towards achieving zero incidents.
Rates refer to the number of lost time incidents LTIs, medical treatment incidents MTIs and fatalities occurring per 200,000 hours worked.
Note: Overall total recordable incidents TRI increased by 2, but would have shown a reduction in like-for-like reporting.
In 2018 we have included data for our acquired environmental service company, ABC Analitic.
If a report is made to the hotline, it is We go to great lengths to train all our followed up by Interteks Compliance employees on health and safety matters, 17% officers.
Our Group Compliance function, including as part of our induction process REDUCTION IN MEDICAL which is independent of our operational emergency response procedures, TREATMENT INCIDENTS businesses and reports directly to our intervention and reporting of accidents, Group General Counsel, fully investigates incidents and near misses.
We also implemented further all reports received.
Provided there is no all employees and contractors are provided H&S processes, enabling all Intertek sites conflict of interest, all reports are also with personal protection equipment when to report and track relevant activities with notified immediately to our Group Ethics & performing work for the Company.
Compliance Committee, which consists of To ensure that we can operate safely, our CEO, CFO, EVP for HR and Group In 2018, we continued to grow the there is a dedicated fire warden, first-aider General Counsel.
This ensures the number of proactive Hazard Observations and health and safety representative at effective resolution both of individual we recorded, broadening engagement each Intertek location.
These issues and of any systemic or process across all countries and achieving an representatives are empowered not only improvements that can be made to overall reduction in our total recordable to investigate incidents and implement address them.
It is preventative and corrective actions, but encouraging that our TRIR continues During 2018, 158 reports of nonalso to disseminate safety information to reduce year on year.
compliance with the Code were made to through training and continual our hotline.
Of those reports, 45 were improvement programmes to target We believe our move to proactive substantiated and required remedial identified specific areas of concern.
reporting of Hazard Observations has action.
Of those substantiated claims: led to improved health, safety and SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN environmental HSE awareness at our there were no substantiated grievances HEALTH AND SAFETY locations, resulting in incidents previously relating to human rights, labour People Assurance services recorded as Near Miss being more practices or societal impact breaches: In 2018, Intertek expanded its People accurately recorded as Hazard Assurance services with the acquisition of there were no environmental incidents: Observations.
We believe that the Alchemy Systems, a leading Software-asthere were no reported violations of the increases seen in First Aid incident a-Service SaaS company.
rights of indigenous people: and reporting are also linked with greater Alchemy offers software learning and there were no cases of discrimination.
First Aid compliance solutions for the food is a very clear type of incident and is now HEALTH AND SAFETY industry.
In a world of increasingly being reported more comprehensively.
A key corporate goal is to ensure that our complex supply chains and distribution people are fully engaged in a safe working We are constantly improving our tracking channels, employees are key in driving environment.
Managing the health, safety and reporting.
During 2018, we improved operational excellence in multi-site and welfare of our people, clients and the time for reporting and reviewing organisations.
There is therefore a growing third parties connected with the business incidents, meaning that we can respond demand for bespoke People Assurance is therefore a top priority for us.
Intertek is more quickly and avoid future issues solutions to identify, monitor and committed to the continuous review and earlier.
Our monthly reporting is now efficiently close critical skills gaps among improvement of its health and safety enhanced and richer, including ratios frontline employees.
These solutions offer performance and works towards achieving of Hazard Observations with relation an efficient and innovative platform to zero incidents.
to employee headcount for example.
help our clients achieve their sustainability Sadly, one fatality was recorded in goals, especially in food safety and During 2018 we aligned our recent China.
This occurred when a project workplace safety and compliance.
acquisitions Health and Safety H&S manager fell down a hoisting shaft on processes with our own to ensure a construction site.
complete visibility of H&S incidents across I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 31 31 Strategic Report | Sustainability report Solutions for a better world OUR COMMUNITIES Supporting rural schools in Turkey The role we play in supporting more sustainable communities in which we operate is vital to the success of our business.
Fostering good relationships provides benefits beyond reputation, in areas including recruitment, local education and engagement.
This is because our passionate and dedicated colleagues Creative Day for Social Good in Canada CSR event to support the elderly in Hong Kong are proud of improving the lives of the people and communities around them.
In this section, we have selected some examples from across the world to show how our passionate Intertek colleagues have engaged with and supported local communities during 2018.
CANADA: CREATIVE DAY FOR SOCIAL TURKEY: SUPPORT RURAL SCHOOLS HONG KONG: SUPPORT CLIENTS GOOD ALCHEMY SYSTEMS Intertek Turkey supports an ongoing CHARITY EVENT Interteks newly acquired People initiative for local schools in poorer rural Although Hong Kong is one of the Assurance business Alchemy Systems, regions through employee donations.
wealthiest cities in the world, income in partnership with Capacity Canada, Volunteers from across the business liaise disparity is increasing and the citys Conestoga College, Him & Her, Manulife with schools to collect and then circulate wealth gap is at its widest in 45 years.
Financial and the local creative a list of much needed items to all Our colleagues at Intertek in Hong Kong community, provides free marketing employees.
In 2018, following this were happy to join their client, A. S. communications work to charities from communication, Intertek Turkey Watson, in taking time to visit elderly care across Canada through Creative Day employees donated supplies including homes.
Everyone who took part is proud for Social Good CD4SG.
stationery, toys, educational materials, to have had the opportunity to assist reading books, shoes, boots and coats people in need and take part in a valued CD4SG brings together teams of art to the schools.
Thanks to the combined clients key charity event.
directors, writers, account managers efforts of all, and the generous donations, and other creative professionals who HONG KONG: ACTION TO RECYCLE more than 100 students were helped as donate their time for two days.
They PLASTIC WASTE a result of the programme.
guide graphic design and public relations Intertek Hong Kong took part in the students from Conestoga College through UK: REUSABLE WATER BOTTLES FOR 10 Tonne Challenge, a city-wide plastic the professional creative process.
ALL CALEB BRETT EMPLOYEES recycling initiative supported by the To reduce the impact of single-use plastic Hong Kong Environmental Protection products on the environment, all Department.
A large recycling station was employees at Caleb Brett in the UK have placed in Interteks Hong Kong office to been issued with branded multi-use water ensure our 1,300 colleagues recycle their bottles to use at home as well as at work.
The plastic waste collected Simultaneously, the company removed will be remade into tote bags and other 100 single-use cups from all sites.
The recycling process and have also been asked to look at other tote bag production also provide work STUDENTS WERE SUPPORTED alternatives to single-use water bottles, opportunities for the community, and the BY OUR PROGRAMME FOR RURAL including water coolers and good quality proceeds from the sale of the bags are SCHOOLS IN TURKEY tap water.
donated to support the elderly and the poor.
32 32 I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t Supporting flood relief efforts in Kerala 400 AID PACKAGES PROVIDED BY INTERTEK FOR FLOOD SURVIVORS IN KERALA 40 INTERTEK TAIWAN COLLEAGUES VOLUNTEER TO PROTECT LOCAL BUTTERFLY HABITAT Butterfly Habitat Conservation in Taiwan Women at risk: Circles of protection 30 STUDENTS IN CHINA HAVE RECEIVED SUPPORT AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM PRIMARY SCHOOL THROUGH TO UNIVERSITY TAIWAN: SUPPORTING MARINE SURINAME: CALEB BRETT SPONSORS Intertek colleagues responded to the HABITATS AND WILDLIFE KNOWLEDGE AND EDUCATION needs of survivors following the disaster, During 2018, colleagues in Taiwan took Intertek Caleb Brett was one of the Gold with voluntary deductions from their part in several activities focused on Sponsors for the Petroleum Engineering monthly salary and the provision of the preservation of marine wildlife.
Student Chapter at the Anton fide Kom clothes, food, medicines, toiletries and This included 100 Intertek employees University in Suriname, when it more.
Our facilities team consolidated participating in coastal clean-up activities participated in the 2018 PetroBowl these donations into more than 400 aid over a weekend, as well as delivering competition a quiz challenge between packages for distribution across the most sustainable management services to different universities relating to affected villages of Annamanada and clients designed to reduce marine competencies, expertise and technical Poovathussery and the nearby town pollution and protect coastal ecosystems.
knowledge in the Oil & Gas industry.
TAIWAN: BUTTERFLY HABITAT CHINA: FUNDING EDUCATION FOR RAISING FUNDS TO PROTECT WOMEN CONSERVATION THE POOR AT RISK OF TRAFFICKING In November, Intertek colleagues and 2018 is the 11th year in which Intertek The Intertek team based in Allentown, their families teamed up with The China has campaigned to raise funds for Pennsylvania, notably engaged with Butterfly Conservation Society of Taiwan poor students in Chongming District, Women At Risk WAR International during to protect habitat in the Jian-nang Shanghai.
This Michigan based non-profit butterfly garden in Taipei.
The Intertek colleagues have provided 30 students organisation creates circles of protection team worked to clear away overgrowing with support and financial assistance, around people at risk, using a range of plants around the park, providing space from primary school through to university.
culturally sensitive projects and for more butterfly-friendly vines and partnership to fund and provide safe KERALA: PROVIDING RELIEF plants to thrive.
Butterflies play key places to heal from abuse, trafficking and FOLLOWING FLOODING roles in plant pollination, and help to other forms of exploitation.
The Intertek In August 2018, severe flooding caused promote natural ecological balance.
team sold unique items made by women havoc in the Southern Indian state of On the day of the event, volunteers at risk and people rescued from slavery, Kerala, leading to widespread destruction from the Society were on hand to raising over US$1,000 enough to pay of property and the tragic loss of close to provide insights on the importance for more than three months in an 500 lives.
overseas safe house for a woman rescued from trafficking.
I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 33 33 Strategic Report | Sustainability report Solutions for a better world OUR ENVIRONMENT Our environmental mission is to provide a better quality of life today and a more environmentally responsible world tomorrow.
We will do this by continually improving our business performance in line with our Ever Better discipline to minimise the impact of our operations on the environment.
Interteks environmental software allows for site-level energy tracking to reduce carbon emissions 492 INTERTEK SITES IMPROVED THEIR NATURAL RESOURCE EFFICIENCY OUR APPROACH need to understand their local OUR DATA Interteks focus is deeply committed to environmental impact.
That enables them Our annual GHG reporting cycle runs from minimising our environmental impact.
to assess how they can manage their 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018.
To do so, we monitor site-level activities consumption through: The corresponding average number of across a range of environmental metrics employees for this period was 44,255. utilising renewable energy sources, and work with our sites to reduce energy Due to the wider scope and depth of implementing green waste consumption and limit greenhouse gas reporting from 2017 onwards, and the management practices, GHG emissions.
Intertek plays an increased attention to detail and diligence important role in raising awareness of carrying out efficient water across all Intertek sites, we made climate change and national resource management, continual refinements to our constraints among its employees, minimising business travel: and environmental data during 2018.
This has suppliers and customers.
As such, our aim operating quality management resulted in a restatement to our 2017 is to improve operational and naturalsystems.
base year, reducing CO per employee 2 resource efficiency in a consistent manner from 5.08 to 4.42. across all our sites.
To support this effort, our Environmental and Climate Change policy is implemented As a Total Quality Assurance TQA Last year, Intertek implemented a Global by country management to ensure provider, we carry out testing on behalf Sustainability Environmental Software compliance with local guidelines of our clients which involves the direct platform.
This is optimised specifically and regulations.
consumption of fuel or the direct release to provide Intertek with the reporting, of emissions through testing procedures.
analytics and auditability to support Through setting meaningful objective Our clients require the tests we perform site-level sustainability initiatives and targets and tracking accurately, we can to help them determine the safety, quality corporate reporting.
ensure that we are minimising our and environmental efficiency of their environmental footprint while providing Our teams globally regularly upload products.
While this increases our overall our key stakeholders with the data they and monitor their data within the Group reported emissions, it has a positive need to understand our performance.
This provides longer-term impact on the item them with the deep intelligence they being tested.
34 34 I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t 1 CO e emissions from activities for which Intertek is responsible include: 2 1 GHG Emissions tonnes of CO e 2 2018 2017 restated Scope 1 Fugitive Emissions 5,034 4,993 Mobile Combustion Owned Fleet 25,637 24,357 Stationary Combustion 24,715 24,877 Scope 2 Purchased and Used Electricity location-based 117,706 121,376 Purchased and Used Electricity market-based 124,269 126,527 Purchased Heat and Steam 1,625 1,573 Scope 3 Energy-Related Activities 7,616 12,274 Total emissions location-based 182,333 189,451 Total emissions market-based 188,896 194,602 Outside of scope Biomass 628 947 Fugitive Emissions 2,512 3,457 Total emissions location-based including outside of scope 185,473 193,855 Total emissions market-based including outside of scope 192,036 199,006 Intensity ratio Scope 1,2, 3 emissions CO per employee location-based 4.12 4.42 2 CO per employee market-based 4.27 4.54 2 Average # of employees during reported period 44,255 42,828 1.
For 2018, Interteks electricity emission factors available for each consumption was reported to be country and type of activity.
The emission 242,485 MWh 5.48 MWh per employee.
factors are sourced from the relevant Gas consumption was reported to be government department in each country.
Intertek uses the most 64,796 MWh 1.46 MWh per employee.
Where local emission factors are not up-to-date GHG emission available, the platform uses default In 2017 we set our first emissions target factors available for emission factors provided by the which was to reduce CO emissions per 2 International Energy Agency IEA, GHG each country.
employee by 5% by 2020 versus our 2017 Protocol, the UKs Department for base year.
Our progress during 2018 Environment, Food and Rural Affairs resulted in an overall reduction in DEFRA and the US Environmental 242,485 MWh emissions of 3.8% whilst at the same time Protection Agency US EPA.
TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION we saw a growth in employee headcount IN 2018 of 3.3%, as such our CO per employee SCOPE 3 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 2 reduced by 6.9%.
As a result of this As part of our ongoing improvements to reduction we are extending our target our environmental data tracking and 5.48 MWh to be a 5% decrease in CO per employee reporting, during 2018 we engaged with 2 from 2018 to 2023. a reputable third-party vendor to carry PER EMPLOYEE out a materiality assessment to determine Interteks reporting complies with the which Scope 3 emissions, as defined by methodologies outlined by the GHG the GHG Protocol, are relevant to Intertek.
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, ISO 140064-1, The relevance of each of the 15 and the UK Governments Environmental categories was established based on the Reporting Guidelines: including Intertek business model.
Data was then mandatory greenhouse gas emissions collected and analysed to assess the reporting guidance.
materiality of those that were determined to be relevant.
The available information In compliance with the above standards, and data from each relevant category was Intertek uses the most up-to-date GHG then used to calculate an estimate of the I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 35 35 Strategic Report | Sustainability report Solutions for a better world OUR ENVIRONMENT continued total global emissions in those categories.
ASSESSMENT OF INTERTEK SCOPE 3 MATERIALITY The review established that Scope 3 emissions are a material portion of Purchased Goods & Services Interteks total footprint.
As such, the materiality of each GHG Protocol category Fuel and Energy-Related Activities was set as 5% of total Scope 3 emissions in order to ensure that future data Employee Commuting gathering and reduction strategies will be focused on the most impactful areas.
Capital Goods After determining that seven categories Business Travel were relevant to Intertek, five were deemed to be material as they each Upstream Transportation & Distribution represent more than 5% of the total Scope 3 emissions.
During 2019, Scope 3 Waste Generated in Operations data under the five material categories 5% materiality will be assessed in further detail with the Threshold objective of reporting on these categories as part of Interteks future global emissions reporting.
Purchased Good & Services Emissions associated with goods and services that Intertek procures through routine operational expenditure 2.
Fuel and Energy-Related Activities Emissions associated with transmission losses from electricity 3.
Employee Commuting Emissions associated with employees commuting to work 4.
Capital Goods Emissions associated with goods and services that Intertek procures through capital expenditure 5. Business Travel Emissions from travel undertaken by employees on company business 6.
Upstream Transportation Emissions associated with shipping and transportation of & Distribution goods 7.
Waste Generated in Operations Emissions associated with disposal of waste generated 8.
Upstream Leased Assets Not considered relevant due to limited sub-leasing of Intertek assets 9.
Downstream Transportation Not considered relevant due to Intertek being a service provider & Distribution 10.
Processing of Sold Products Not considered relevant due to Intertek being a service provider 11.
Use of Sold Products Not considered relevant due to Intertek being a service provider 12.
End-of-Life Treatment of Not considered relevant due to Intertek being a service provider Sold Products 13.
Downstream Leased Assets Not considered relevant due to limited sub-leasing of Intertek assets 14.
Franchises Not considered relevant due to no franchises in operation 15.
Investments Intertek has employee pension schemes but due to their external management, under GHG guidelines these can be excluded 36 36 I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN Interteks sustainability teams are working ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT with companies to determine or validate Our Sustainability Services provide their GHG emissions throughout their Intertek worked with multiple ways in which we can support entire value chain and achieve carbonour clients achieve their environmental reduction targets.
As an example, OCTAL to carry out monitoring and management goals: Interteks sustainability experts have a carbon footprint analysis, been retained by Mitsubishi Electric Sales demonstrating its novel LCA evaluation of products Canada to collect data, calculate and approach to PET report their Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions for the countrys entire sales manufacture and new network.
Intertek is collecting and technologies.
evaluating data, not only for regional sales offices, but also such Scope 3 categories Interteks research into regulation as the upstream purchase of goods and preventing wastewater pollution ensures transportation, business travel and access to information on key employee commuting as well as the environmental regulatory mechanisms downstream distribution network and use.
Life Cycle Assessment that are crucial to Roches customers The project involves supporting internal Life Cycle Assessment LCA has emerged operations.
It also provides insight into teams to collect the correct information, as an essential and widely recognised evolving sustainability targets across to perform technical reviews of data and framework to understand and measure various jurisdictions.
calculations in accordance with the GHG the environmental and carbon impacts of Protocol and ISO standards, and to prepare PET plastic resin a product, material or process.
LCA tools a report outlining the science-based can be leveraged to support value chain metrics.
Mitsubishi Electric Sales Canada is decision-making, production optimisation, undertaking this in-depth analysis as part innovation in design and end-of-life of its corporate sustainability initiatives management.
Intertek is working with a and carbon reduction goals.
popular global e-commerce company to assess the cradle-to-grave impacts of Management of wastewater their core product.
The evaluation offers insight into the environmental impacts and avoided impacts associated with the Novel approach to PET plastic product from the selection of materials manufacturing and shipping networks to recycling, reuse As part of its strong commitment to and end-of-life management.
sustainability, OCTAL, a global PET resin Environmentally conscious and manufacturer, has developed innovative accountable business practices are and efficient means of producing PET essential to our clients vision and they plastic that reduces environmental intend to use the science-based metrics Wastewater global regulatory impact through an overall reduction in from the LCA to continuously improve requirements study for Roche carbon emissions.
their impacts and meet corporate Intertek worked with F. Hoffmann-La Intertek worked with OCTAL to carry out sustainability goals.
Roche Ltd in Switzerland to identify a carbon footprint analysis, demonstrating wastewater pollutant discharge limits in Experts evaluating GHG data its novel approach to PET manufacture multiple jurisdictions worldwide.
OCTAL also the prevention of wastewater pollution enlisted Intertek to evaluate the from industrial, institutional and environmental impacts associated with commercial sources is an important end-of-life recycling.
This contrasts environmental mechanism to protect with traditional disposal via landfill fresh and groundwater resources against and demonstrates the effectiveness harmful and restricted substances.
of the recycling programme in reducing Municipalities and regional jurisdictions the overall carbon footprint of PET across the world regulate and enforce plastic products.
specific concentrations of subject Carbon Footprint Assessment pollutants and substances that can be for Mitsubishi Electric Sales discharged into the sanitary sewer to Canada MESCA protect important infrastructure, human As part of the global push to reduce GHG health and impacts on the environment.
emissions, organisations are assessing As a global healthcare business, this their carbon impacts through sciencecompany is a leader in sustainability based metrics that provide accurate and committed to promoting healthy and reliable information to key decisionlives and wellbeing for all.
I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 3 37 7 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t || S Sus ust tain aina ab bi il li it ty y re rep po or rt t S So olu lut tio ions ns fo for r a a b be et tte ter r wo wor rl ld d OUR ENVIRONMENT continued OUR GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 As we operate a decentralised business model, its our local teams who look for ways to become more environmentally efficient and reduce the impact of operations.
Here we provide some examples of these achievements in 2018.
Through actively performance managing our GHG emissions in 2019, we hope to make further improvements.
1 3 6 CANADA, BC OPERATIONS, TURKEY TRANSPORTATION COMMODITIES TECHNOLOGIES, UK In Turkey feasibility studies are underway for a solar energy project.
Intertek Transportation Technologies UK In Canada, Intertek partnered with a plastic recycling company to recycle all used was awarded certification to the ISO 7 GHANA, TARKWA MINERALS 14001 Environmental Management and sample bags.
In Ghana, Intertek planted 500 trees on site.
to BS OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health 4 INTERTEK CALEB BRETT and Safety Management standards.
8 AUSTRALIA, HONG KONG, JAPAN, DENMARK, KALUNDBORG 2 NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH KOREA, MALTA In Denmark, Intertek recycles cooling water TAIWAN during RON petroleum analysis.
Intertek in Malta moved offices in Intertek upgraded to LED lighting in labs August 2018.
The new office is 5 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC in these countries.
equipped with double glazing apertures In the Dominican Republic the Accuvio and LED lighting.
system is used to monitor petrol and electricity consumption.
3 4 1 2 6 5 7 8 38 38 38 I I In n nt t te e er r rt t te e ek G k G k Gr r ro o ou u up p p p p pl l lc A c A c An n nn n nu u ua a al R l R l Re e ep p po o or r rt a t a t an n nd A d A d Ac c cc c co o ou u un n nt t ts 2 s 2 s 20 0 018 18 18 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE Accuracy the results of our review of the STATEMENT TO INTERTEK GROUP Whether site and business-level data effectiveness of these controls.
We have PLC MANAGEMENT have been accurately collated by not sought to review systems and We have performed a limited assurance Intertek Group management at a controls at Intertek Group beyond those engagement on selected performance Global level.
used for selected data defined as the data presented on page 35 of the Intertek Subject Matter Information above.
Whether there is supporting Group plc Intertek Group Annual Report information for the data reported by The scope of our engagement was limited 2018 the Report.
sites and businesses to Intertek Group to the reporting period, and therefore management at a Global level.
Intertek Group management is responsible Summary of work performed The responsibility for the prevention for the collection and presentation of the The procedures we performed were based and detection of fraud, error and noninformation within the Report.
Intertek on our professional judgement and compliance with laws or regulations rests Group management is also responsible included the steps outlined below: with Intertek Group management.
Our for the design, implementation and work should not be relied upon to disclose 1.
Interviewed a selection of maintenance of internal controls relevant all such material misstatements, frauds, management to understand the to the preparation of the Report, so that errors or instances of non-compliance that management of greenhouse gas data it is free from material misstatement, may exist.
whether due to fraud or error.
Reviewed a selection of management Our responsibility, in accordance with our Based on the procedures we have documentation and reporting tools engagement terms with Intertek Group performed and the evidence we have including guidance documents.
management, is to carry out a limited obtained, nothing has come to our level assurance engagement on the 3.
Performed a review of the Accuvio attention that causes us to believe that selected data the Subject Matter online data collection tool, including the Subject Matter Information was not Information outlined under the following testing outputs and selected prepared, in all material respects, in headings in the Report: conversions made within the tool.
accordance with the Criteria, which were Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1: applied by management.
R eviewed underlying documentation Greenhouse gas emissions scope 2: for a sample of site-level data points.
Our independence and We have implemented measures to comply 5.
Reviewed and challenged the Greenhouse gas emissions intensity with the applicable independence and validation and collation processes ratio.
professional competence rules as undertaken by Intertek Group articulated by the IFAC Code of Ethics for management in relation to the Subject We do not accept or assume any Professional Accountants and ISQC11.
responsibility for any other purpose independence policies apply to the firm, or to any other person or organisation.
Reviewed the Report for the partners and professional staff.
These Any reliance any such third party may appropriate presentation of the policies prohibit any financial interests in place on the Report is entirely at its Subject Matter Information, our clients that would or might be seen to own risk.
including the discussion of limitations impair independence.
Each year, partners and assumptions relating to the Our assurance engagement has been and staff are required to confirm their data presented.
planned and performed in accordance with compliance with the firms policies.
the International Standard for Assurance Limitations of our review We confirm annually to Intertek Group Engagements ISAE 3000 Revised, Our evidence gathering procedures whether there have been any events, Assurance Engagements Other Than were designed to obtain a limited level including the provision of prohibited Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial of assurance as set out in ISAE3000 services that could impair our Information.
The Report has been Revised on which to base our independence or objectivity.
There were evaluated against the following criteria conclusions.
The extent of evidence no such events or services in 2018. collectively the Criteria : gathering procedures performed is less Our assurance team has been drawn than that of a reasonable assurance Completeness from our global Climate Change and engagement such as a financial audit Whether all material data sources have Sustainability Services Practice, which and therefore a lower level of assurance been included and that boundary undertakes engagements similar to this is provided.
definitions have been appropriately with a number of significant UK and interpreted and applied.
Completion of our testing activities has Consistency involved placing reliance on Intertek Ernst & Young LLP Whether the Intertek Group scope and Groups controls for managing and London definitions for the Subject Matter reporting sustainability information, 4 March 2019 Information have been consistently with the degree of reliance informed by applied to the data.
Parts A and B of the IESBA Code, and the International Standard on Quality Control 1 ISQC1.
I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 39 39 Strategic Report | Sustainability report Solutions for a better world TRACKING OUR PROGRESS WITH THE UN SDGs As a purpose-led organisation and Total Quality Assurance provider, we are in a strong position INTERTEK ACTIVITIES ALIGNED TO ALL UN SDGs to align with each of the United Nations Sustainable Charity and community Commitment to inclusion support initiatives and diversity policy Development Goals UN SDGs.
This is due both to the internal activities we carry out for our people, Charity and community Charity and community support initiatives support initiatives our communities and the environment, and to the sustainability services we provide to our customers.
Food testing services Waste initiatives in the US, for our clients Australia, UK, Hong Kong Colleague health and Verifying new sustainable We use the UN SDGs as a third party, wellbeing programmes materials in Hong Kong independent framework to track our Supporting sustainable Country and Business Line progress in production of plastics sustainability.
In our 2017 report, we 10X training and Environmental audit announced that from 2018 each of our development for services for clients major Business Lines and Countries will Intertek colleagues Environmental monitoring and provide quarterly updates on their Community education control in Intertek locations progress towards achieving the UN SDGs support initiatives Fitting labs with LED lighting that they have chosen to align with and embed in their daily activities.
Workplace Gender Equality Charity and community report Australia support initiatives A wide and impressive range of goals EDGE certifications provided is targeted across the organisation.
to clients in Australia Quantitative and qualitative reporting Real-time inequality demonstrated during the year how our monitoring system in France countries have contributed to the goals.
Water quality testing Charity and community Here we provide an overview of many of services for our clients support initiatives the Groups activities across all the UN Intertek China partners WWF SDGs.
We also include examples of highlights from the year on a selection of the goals, from both an internal and a client services perspective.
Installation of Stem Battery Commitment to Doing Solution in US Business the Right Way Intertek certified several leading LOOKING AHEAD regional quality alliances in China We will continue to update stakeholders Environmental audits, training on our progress on the UN SDGs, providing and services for our clients annual examples of our activities across different Business Lines and Countries, both Commitment to UK Global network of from an internal and a client perspective.
Living Wage Sustainability Champions Charity and community drive engagement with UN support initiatives SDGs locally Charity and community support initiatives Commitment to Doing Business the Right Way 40 40 I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t MAKING OUR OWN PROGRESS WITH THE UN SDGs INSTALLATION OF A STEM REDUCING GENDER INEQUALITY CLIMATE ACTION BATTERY SOLUTION Intertek first produced a Gender Pay Gap ABC Analitic, Interteks leading The United States has a significant role to report in 2017 for its UK operations.
environmental services play in Interteks energy use and how we We are highly committed to reducing the company based in Mexico, received are meeting the carbon reduction goals pay gap and improving our gender balance the governments Certificate of outlined in this report.
across the whole organisation globally.
In achieving this, we reaffirmed We therefore continue to implement better We have, for example, ensured compliant our commitment to caring for ways for all of our US-based locations to reporting to the Australian Government and preserving the environment.
These Workplace Gender Equality Agency and The Certification in Environmental activities are fully aligned to the Affordable implemented a permanent system to Compliance is an evaluation strategy and Clean Energy goal, focusing on energy monitor inequalities in France.
used to help improve the quality of efficiency projects and clean energy In addition, we provide our clients with sustainable processes, products purchasing options.
key auditing services for Gender Equality, and services.
In October 2018, Interteks Lake Forest such as Economic Dividends for Gender California site installed a Stem battery Equality EDGE.
Intertek is the first system which is designed to reduce peak certification body fully approved to certify energy demand.
This battery storage companies against the EDGE standard, system also plays a part in strengthening which is the only global assessment the California electricity grid by methodology and business certification supporting renewable energy in the state.
AND SUPPORTING CLIENTS PROGRESS WITH OUR SUSTAINABILITY SERVICES of Tabasco, a team from Intertek ABC Total Quality Assurance validation Analitic quickly rose to the challenge of of sustainable material testing the water for toxins.
When no high In Hong Kong, our client manufactures levels of toxic substances were found Chitosan yarn, a sustainable new material WATER QUALITY TESTING SERVICES through conventional approaches, the thats based on a natural compound Our wide range of water testing services team needed to develop and implement derived from the shells of crab and assists clients operating in all watera series of entirely new tests in just shellfish.
Intertek has created a unique related sectors, including water utilities, five days.
and innovative testing method both to industry, Oil & Gas, ports and harbours, verify the materials existence within yarn Because our labs are capable of quickly food, power generation, desalination and and to assure its recycling lifecycle.
This processing the complex matrices required pharmaceuticals.
We help our clients use Total Quality Assurance solution validates in these instances, our involvement was practical technologies to explore water the materials anti-bacterial, odour mission-critical in enabling local properties and produce quality repellent and biodegradable properties.
government bodies to make informed improvements.
decisions and act quickly to prevent wider First Water Footprint Green Leaf Partnership with WWF China environmental impacts.
Mark awarded Intertek China established a partnership A product developed by the Ming Fai with the World Wide Fund for Nature Group, the leading company in the Chinese WWF China in 2017, and since then has hotel industrys consumer goods sector, participated in a project called WWF has received the first water footprint Water Management Innovation Action.
The Reeco product RESPONSIBLE PRODUCT By providing water management solutions reduces the foam produced in the laundry PRODUCTION to the textile industry, Intertek aims to process, cutting washing time and water Intertek is at the forefront of ensuring improve corporations water use efficiency consumption to reflect the key the safe and sustainable execution and within their value chain and pollutant importance of addressing water scarcity.
delivery of products to their intended discharge conditions, as well as reducing The Green Leaf mark award follows markets.
Our capabilities in a range of water related crises and adverse Interteks work evaluating the life cycle industries including electrical and environmental impacts in manufacturing of the Reeco product, from manufacture electronic products, medical devices, operations.
We continue to offer training to implementation.
IT and telecoms, toys and games, services to increase textile companies juvenile products, textiles and apparel, water risk awareness.
food and more give clients access Responding to crisis averts to an interconnected knowledge base environmental disaster that provides solutions to everything When several dead manatees were from regulatory issues to supply spotted in rivers in the Mexican state chain challenges.
I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 41 41 Strategic Report | Sustainability report Solutions for a better world OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Country network: RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT At Intertek, sustainability is Seeking opportunities to act Generating sustainable, long-term returns core to our business and sustainably, through energy efficiency is a key enabler of our 5x5 strategy for and cost reductions across energy, growth.
We achieve this by means of a everything we do.
We are water and waste usage.
constantly evaluating and RI includes the evaluation of ESG risks as Engaging with people locally to drive part of the investment process.
improving our processes, positive behaviours throughout the organisation as well as through ESG due diligence forms a key part of our both in the services that encouraging sustainability engagement acquisition review process.
We also use it we offer to our customers with local stakeholders.
when assessing capital expenditure and in our own business Maintaining best-in-class internal labour decisions on new and innovative ATIC and human rights practices, activity services.
We ensure that we have processes and initiatives.
monitoring and improving social identified potential ESG risks and have in sustainability metrics.
place corresponding mitigation plans and In 2017 we established a set of five Group remedies.
Our investment process, in line sustainability priorities, linked to our 5x5 Business Line network: with our overall Group strategy, ensures differentiated strategy for growth.
We Engaging the sales organisation within that we maintain the right balance further developed these over 2018, the Business Line to ensure it is aware between performance and sustainability.
under the leadership of the Sustainability of all the sustainability services that Operating Committee.
can be offered to customers.
As appropriate, acquired businesses will be provided with access to our Working with colleagues globally to help THE SUSTAINABILITY OPERATING Group Environmental Data Software develop our suite of sustainability COMMITTEE and will be required to submit their services.
The purpose of the Sustainability environmental data as part of the Operating Committee the Committee is Helping to generate new and innovative ongoing reporting cycle.
to advance Interteks initiatives, both in ways of offering sustainability services our external sustainability services for to our customers.
SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS clients and our internal sustainability ETHICAL SOURCING FORUM We aim to expand this network over time activities.
The core elements the Our Sustainability value proposition also to include more Countries and Business Committee focuses on include: supports our clients in their supply chain Lines, enhancing engagement across our risk assessments.
Oversight of the development of business in sustainability activities.
Interteks sustainability service Since 2001, Interteks Global Business Our people are passionate about their offerings: Assurance business line has leveraged its work and are proud to be involved in supply chain expertise in shaping the Oversight of the progress made on activities which generate a positive Ethical Sourcing Forum ESF.
This is an internal sustainability activities, including impact for society and the environment.
industry-leading event focused on supply Interteks environmental footprint, GHG Each of our Countries and Business chain social responsibility and responsible emissions, contribution to the UN SDGs, Lines defines its own sustainability ethical sourcing.
The conferences main tracking and reporting of key ESG agenda, tied to our Group priorities.
theme, Be Part of the Solution, metrics and reporting to the Executive This ensures that the objectives and emphasises ESFs role in the continuously Management Team and the Board.
activities being performed locally are improving and ever-changing areas To enhance engagement across our understood, and that we benefit from of working conditions, human rights sustainability initiatives, the Committee is best practice globally.
and environmental conditions in the supported by a network of Sustainability supply chain.
Champions across our major Countries and Business Lines.
Their roles include: SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK Group CEO Updates Board Executive Management Team monthly Updates Updates annually quarterly Sustainability Operating Committee Sustainability Data Social & HR Sustainability Lead External Reporting Sustainability Services Updates monthly Country Champions: 15 countries Business Line Champions: 10 BLs 42 42 I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 S St tra rat teg egi ic c R Re ep po or rt t In 2018 we held two ESF events, Human Rights, Modern Slavery and In the US, the panel included a one in New York and one in London.
Responsible Sourcing Consultant: and representative of the US government, These covered, among other topics, Senior Policy Advisor Forced Labour Intertek Group General Counsel and Modern Slavery and hidden labour risks Programmes, US department of Homeland Head of Risk & Compliance.
in the UK and US, as well as global supply Security Investigations, providing The forum provided an opportunity for chain trends.
different perspectives on business and senior compliance and ethical sourcing government initiatives.
In the UK, a panel of industry experts representatives from UK brands and who were invited to speak and take part retailers to discuss and learn about the Going forward, the Intertek Business in roundtable discussions included: risks of sourcing from the UK, especially Assurance team will build on these events.
around the subject of worker exploitation.
It is scheduling future Ethical Sourcing Ethical Trade Manager, Sainsburys This topic is important because the Forums in 2019 in key sourcing markets.
Group: current access to a labour market via Head of Global Ethical Policy, BBC labour agencies is increasing Studios: organisational risks such as compromised Director of Operations, Gangmasters brand reputation and reduced visibility Labour Abuse Authority: and control during sourcing and due diligence practices.
NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT We aim to comply with non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The below table, and information it refers to, is intended to assist stakeholders in understanding our position on key non-financial matters.
This builds on existing reporting under the following frameworks: Global Reporting Initiative, Guidance on the Strategic Report UK FRC and UN Sustainable Development Goals.
REPORTING POLICIES AND STANDARDS WHICH GOVERN IMPLEMENTATION, OUTCOMES REQUIREMENT OUR APPROACH AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1 Environmental Environmental and Climate Change Policy Our Environment pages 34 to 39 matters GHG Protocols: Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and Corporate Value Chain Scope 3 Standard ISO 140064-1 UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance Employees Board Diversity Policy Our People pages 28 to 31 2 Nomination Committee pages 80 to 82 Code of Ethics 1 Group Health & Safety Policy Hampton-Alexander Review 2 Inclusion and Diversity Policy International Labour Organizations Core Conventions UK Gender Pay Gap UK Real Living Wage 1 Social matters Our Approach to CSR Our Communities pages 32 to 33 Integrated Global Sustainability Services Our Sustainability Value Proposition pages 26 to 27 1 Human rights Labour and Human Rights Policy Our People pages 28 to 31 2 Modern Slavery Statement 2 Modern Slavery Policy 2 Privacy Policy UN Convention on Human Rights 2 Anti-corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy Principal Risks and Uncertainties pages 54 to 59 2 anti-bribery Accountability page 83 to 88 Anti-Bribery External Relationships Policy Our People pages 28 to 31 Whistleblowing Hotline Description of principal risks and impact of business activity Principal Risks and Uncertainties pages 54 to 59 Description of the business model Our 5x5 Strategy pages 2 to 3 Our Earnings Model pages 12 to 13 Non-financial key performance indicators Our People pages 28 to 31 Our Environment pages 34 to 39 1.
Certain Group Policies and internal standards and guidelines are not published externally.
Certain Group Policies and internal standards and guidelines are published on our website, www.
Global Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines provide a recommended framework and indicators for reporting.
A table outlining the GRI standard disclosures is provided on our corporate website at www.
All data used for performance indicators is representative of the GRI Guidelines.
I In nt te er rt te ek G k Gr ro ou up p p pl lc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 018 18 43 43
