48 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Senior Independent Director feedback: Annual General Meeting: At the AGM held PROGRAMME The Senior Independent Director in July 2017, the Chairman, CEO and other is available to meet shareholders as Directors were available to shareholders The Company has a comprehensive required, in particular in respect of any for discussion and to answer any programme which aims to help existing matter that has been previously raised with questions.
All shareholders are welcome and potential investors understand the Chairman, but not resolved.
and communicate with the Group.
Analyst meetings: In addition to Impact on the community and the The programme is designed to ensure presentations to analysts that coincide environment: See pages 35 and 36. regular engagement with institutional with the announcement of the Groups investors, shareholder groups and debt Informal feedback: Executive Directors full year and half year financial results, investors.
Regular feedback is provided to and the Head of Investor Relations the Groups CEO, CFOO and the Head the Board to ensure that they understand received feedback from analysts and of Investor Relations have regularly met the views of stakeholders.
During the year, investors during the year, both directly and with analysts to enhance the financial the programme included: through the Groups corporate advisers.
communitys understanding of the Group.
The Company Secretary also received Meetings with principal shareholders: The Executive Directors also hosted a feedback on governance matters from, Throughout the year, the Chairman, dinner for a number of analysts providing and met with, investors and shareholder Senior Independent Director who is also an opportunity for informal discussions bodies.
This information was shared with Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and queries.
the Board to help members develop their other Committee Chairs, CEO and Engagement with debt investors: The understanding of shareholders views CFOO have been available to meet with CFOO and Head of Treasury have held and expectations.
Meetings were regular meetings with the Groups largely held after the interim and full year Relationships with shareholders key relationship banks, and have also results announcements and in the lead The Company recognises the importance actively engaged with potential lenders.
The Chairman has been of communication with its shareholders.
Update meetings were held with current proactive in meeting a number of large Accordingly, the Board is happy to enter into and potential holders of public and private shareholders throughout the year and a dialogue with institutional shareholders debt instruments issued by the Group, also hosted a dinner for a number of based on a mutual understanding of and with both Standard & Poors and Fitch principal shareholders with the incoming objectives, subject to its duties regarding rating agencies.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee equal treatment of shareholders and Engagement with fund investors: The and Executive Directors in attendance.
the dissemination of inside information.
Executive Directors and the Groups The full Board has been kept informed of The CEO and the CFOO meet institutional portfolio managers maintain engagement the issues raised at these meetings and the shareholders on a regular basis, and the with fund investors through regular views of shareholders on a regular basis.
Chairman and the Senior Independent reporting, investor days and other Investor Day: In February 2018 an Director periodically contact the Companys update meetings.
Investor Day was held which included major shareholders and offer to meet Engagement with staff: See page 34. presentations from the Executive with them.
When requested to do so, the Directors, other members of the senior Engagement with suppliers: The Company Senior Independent Director, Committee management team and portfolio managers recognises that supplier relationships Chairs and other Non-Executive Directors from across our strategic asset classes.
are enhanced by prompt payment.
are happy to attend meetings with This event provided shareholders and We are committed to settling supplier major shareholders.
analysts with direct business perspectives invoices within agreed contractual terms.
on the markets in which the Group Where supplier invoices are in dispute, for operates and the context of recent and whatever reason, we will work with the future growth opportunities.
relevant party to resolve any outstanding issues and facilitate the prompt payment Remuneration Committee Chair feedback: of monies owed.
In addition, poor The Chair of the Remuneration Committee supplier management processes are has met with principal shareholders and a key operational risk of the Group as also with shareholder bodies including detailed on page 32.
During the year, the the Investment Association, Institutional procedures used to identify and monitor Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis.
critical supplier relationships have been enhanced to mitigate the risk.
