Strategic report Our people We are proud of our employees commitment to our purpose creating compelling and joyful experiences for customers and helping retailers flourish We have run an annual employee Highlights of the year engagement survey since 2011.
This years Our culture in action staff survey shows 85 per cent of staff results show greater participation and Our culture permeates our business.
find ways to bring joy to customers stable levels of employee engagement, Everyone, regardless of role or seniority, and colleagues improved perception of how we can all goes through the same brand immersion whole-company brand training bring joy to customers and colleagues to understand our purpose and our values.
programme alike, together with high levels of respect all staff can now access for intus reputation.
Our purpose is simple to create company intranet compelling, joyful experiences that make new uniform introduced This year, after listening to feedback from our customers smile and help our retailers staff and customers, we have introduced flourish.
It is an intentionally simple focus a new uniform that more closely reflects that can be understood and delivered by the intu brand.
Comfortable and everyone in the organisation.
ur employees are vital to fulfilling practical, it has been well received by staff our purpose.
In-centre or behind who say it makes them feel proud to work Our values bold, creative, genuine Othe scenes, the experiences they at intu.
Customers say it makes our centre encourage us all to behave in the right way create for our 35 million visitors and teams more visible and increases their and do the right thing: for our customers, thousands of retailers are at the heart sense of security.
The uniform has been our retailers, the environment and society.
of what makes intu different.
adapted for our Spanish teams to suit Our people understand if they apply our the local climate.
values in their work they will help create Our people are talented individuals, a successful and responsible business.
and our culture empowers them to Diverse and inclusive be bold, creative and genuine in their As a people business with over In 2017 we conducted a culture audit, and work and to come together to create 400 million customer visits a year our this year we produced a comprehensive high performance teams that drive workforce should reflect our customers guide to our culture for every member of intus success.
and the communities around our centres, staff and all new staff, to complement and so diversity is incredibly important to us.
Our role is to be a great employer, Ethnicity reporting is still voluntary but promoting diversity and inclusion, our latest staff survey suggests we closely As the brand is now five years old, and treating our employees fairly and mirror the national profile for ethnicity.
more than 50 per cent of staff are new to enabling them to grow professionally Over 45 different nationalities are intu since it was introduced, we have and personally.
2018 has been a busy represented at intu.
invested in a brand engagement year with many activities to inspire, programme, designed to remind people motivate and support our people.
We continue to work hard to achieve of the core principles of the brand and how gender balance at every level of our they can contribute to driving intus A united and successful team business.
We maintained our position reputation.
Over 200 sessions were held, We employ 2,654 staff.
In the UK 2,538 in the top quartile of FTSE 250 and 350 and 96 per cent of staff attended.
are employed across 16 centres and companies for the number of women our head office in London.
2,091 of these at board, senior and executive are directly employed by our in-house management levels with almost facilities company, intu Retail Services.
30 per cent of female staff at this level In Spain we have 38 people in our Madrid FTSE Women Leaders, Hamptonoffice and 78 at intu Xanad.
We also 54 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Gender pay gap We aim to be an employer of choice and to women within the organisation.
This is intu also has two very different populations treat our employees fairly and pay them different to equal pay, which takes into in our management services MSL and retail appropriately for their work.
We welcomed account the nature of a role and its seniority.
services RSL businesses and full details for the gender pay gap legislation introduced in If there are more men than women in senior each business are on our Group website.
2017 and the increased pay transparency positions, as is currently the case at intu, this Overall, our median pay and bonus gaps are that can result.
This is the second annual results in the overall average of the pay of men significantly smaller than the national picture disclosure of the gender pay gap, which being higher than the overall average of the with a slightly higher proportion of women compares the average pay of men and pay of women.
Pay gap Bonus gap Proportion Proportion Difference between the average Difference between the average of women of men receiving pay of men and women bonus paid to men and women receiving a bonus a bonus Median 4.7% 0.0% 85.5% 83.0% Mean 9.7% 54.4% The chart below shows the gender pay gap for different groups of employees within the business.
In a number of areas the average pay of women is higher than that of men.
Super regionals Larger city centres Smaller city centres Total employees 1,147 Total employees 592 Total employees 289 Overall gender pay gap based on mean hourly rate 9.4% 1.3% 5.2% 39% 36% 37% 7.97% 7.97% 7.97% 61% 64% 63% Regional centre directors, 8.63% 8.63% 8.63% general managers, senior 52.6% 1.8% 3.0% 52.6% 1.8% 3.0% 52.6% 1.8% 3.0% asset managers Asset managers, marketing 1.1% 2.4% 4.6% managers, operations managers, 1.1% 2.4% 4.6% 1.1% 2.4% 4.6% centre-based management roles Supervisory, admin, 8.4% 4.9% 2.7% 8.4% 4.9% 2.7% front line delivery roles 8.4% 4.9% 2.7% including technicians Female employees Male employees Men paid more Women paid more Read more at intugroup.
co. uk continue to work with the Mentoring Our drive for inclusion goes further than Through Pathways to Property, Foundation, to enhance the opportunities our staff.
By signing up as a Disability providing work experience for school for women to reach executive roles.
Confident Committed employer we aim students from less traditional to make sure our recruitment, training backgrounds, and participation in Inspire me, an informal network created and development processes are equally a property industry research project and driven by an employee, was set up to accessible by people with a disability sponsored by the JLL Foundation, give access to senior people so that others as well as enabling all our staff to treat we aim to improve socio-economic can learn from their experience see case both colleagues and customers with diversity in the sector.
We also sponsor Retail respect.
We hope to achieve the Disability Weeks Be Inspired initiative, with three of Confident standard in 2019. our senior women acting as ambassadors.
intu properties plc Annual report 2018 55 Strategic report Our people continued Our commitment to employee Age profile engagement has been recognised externally through two awards the Under 35 32% Institute of Workplace and Facilities 35 55 45% Management Employee Experience Over 55 23% Award and the Employer Brand Management Award for best employer brand management programme.
We use a range of channels to communicate with our staff Inspire me UK gender profile magazines, digital channels and faceGroup accountant Samantha Spiers to-face meetings and briefings.
Our above centre, sharing experiences with Female Male inhouse magazine Chorus is written colleagues had the idea to set up the and produced by staff volunteers from informal network Inspire me to create a 1,006 1,532 across the business.
We hold an all-staff forum where people could be inspired by 2017: 1,017 2017: 1,450 video-linked presentation with the Chief each others stories.
Ive had great support Executive at least three times a year and from senior management to get my idea a national all-centre roadshow to share off the ground, she says.
It shows that UK gender profile senior managers the business plan.
there is a really open and supportive culture at intu for new ideas.
Growing Female Male In February 2018 we launched a new numbers are joining the forum at the and improved version of our intranet, London head office and Sam is now hoping 9 24 mint, and started to roll it out to all staff to roll the idea out across our centres.
With the been an amazing success and people say it addition of new functionality such as opens their eyes to what they themselves comments, blogs and videos the new could achieve.
mint is a place for colleagues to interact A good job with each other, regardless of location Part of being a great employer is treating or job role.
our staff members well and going beyond statutory requirements where possible.
It is a modern, easy-to-use platform that Human rights At intu we respect the dignity, liberty and All our staff over 18 who have completed provides a greater understanding of the equality of everyone we work with.
We their probation are paid above the whole business and enables staff to feel only work with people who choose to work National Living Wage, even staff not part of the intu family, whether that is freely and we respect their rights to equal strictly covered by regulation.
We do discovering new things about colleagues opportunities and freedom of association.
or the business, celebrating achievements or connecting and providing information We work with our suppliers, retailers and We are committed to ending the gender to help people to do their jobs.
associated companies to ensure they pay gap and we comply fully with the meet acceptable standards of human dignity in their own sourcing policies.
Equality Act Gender Pay Gap Information We continue to encourage staff to We will continue to evaluate the pay and regulations.
See infographic on page 55. achieve their personal and professional conditions of all our employees, to ensure goals and to take part in our corporate all staff earn above the National Living Talent development responsibility, community support and Wage and enjoy fair working conditions.
We are continuing to invest in our talent sustainability programmes.
More than Fair treatment of people who work for pipeline.
Our learning and development one in five took advantage of the working intu or our suppliers is a key focus of our team run a programme of internal and days intu makes available for volunteering corporate responsibility approach.
external training to keep business skills activity in 2018. up to date as well as non-vocational Modern Slavery Act activities such as those offered by the Our plans for 2019 We are aware of our responsibilities under London Business Forum.
This year we roll out my intu, our employee the Modern Slavery Act and continue to have created a bespoke programme self-service portal, to staff across conduct due diligence on our suppliers.
for our centre marketing teams.
the business Details of our approach can be found in our reaccreditation of Investors in People Modern Slavery and Human Rights policy Employee engagement at all our centres which is communicated to all those working Ensuring our staff understand our invest in new skills and capabilities, on our behalf.
business and know how they can especially data analytics contribute to intus success is crucial to Read more at intugroup.
co. uk our progress and was part of our promise to our staff when we rebranded to intu.
56 intu properties plc Annual report 2018
