IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT Read about our Strategy on page 18 Read about our KPIs on page 22 KEY N Increase Decrease No change New Create Develop Deliver The Group may be negatively impacted operationally as a result of its recent international expansion 7 The Group may fail to comply with local laws and regulations or integrate overseas operations with similar cultures and values as the central operations.
The Group may also fail to establish effective control mechanisms in new territories.
Expansion in new territories may take significant senior management time and distract them from UK operations.
Link to Strategy Actions taken by management The Groups strategy includes building a portfolio of Local legal and regulatory advisers have been engaged in compelling  based companies across the the establishment phase of overseas operations.
US and UK, US and Australasia.
The increasing scale of the Groups Australasian teams have their own in-house legal teams who international operations represents increased importance of report to Global Head of Legal in the UK successful execution of this element of the Groups strategy.
IP Exec and HR are involved in senior hires for new territories.
Senior international personnel include current and former UK employees, encouraging a shared culture across territories There is regular travel between the UK and other territories to ensure the Group is aligned in its strategy and culture The risk management framework in place across each business unit has been established in each international territory and is integrated into the Groups regular risk management processes and reporting Third party suppliers are used for accounting and payroll services to reduce the risk of fraud KPI Developments during the year Total equity Opening of Hong Kong office announced in the year Net Assets Examples of risks Change from 2017 A legal or regulatory breach could ultimately lead to the withdrawal of regulatory permissions in Australia and N Hong Kong, resulting in loss of trust management contracts, reputational damage and fines Divergent group cultures may lead to difficulties in achieving the Groups strategic aims A major control failure could lead to a successful fraudulent attack on the Groups IT infrastructure or access to bank accounts Senior management may spend a significant amount of time in setting up and establishing new territories which could detract from central Group strategy and operations 54 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 54 12 04 2019 17:09:49 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Viability statement The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the downside scenarios model situations where, at the end of viability of the Group over a three-year period to December 2019, the Group has been unable to raise additional equity 2021, considering its strategy, its current financial position or debt finance or generate significant portfolio realisations.
Under these scenarios, significant reductions to portfolio and fund investments and the Groups operating cost base The strategy and associated principal risks underpin the are made in the following two years to preserve the Groups Groups three-year financial plan and scenario testing, which remaining cash.
the Directors review at least annually.
As a business which seeks to develop great ideas into world-changing businesses, Management has identified the most likely and significant our business model seeks to balance cash investments, potential adverse effects from Brexit over the three-year the generation of portfolio returns and ultimately portfolio period under consideration as the availability of capital and realisations.
The three-year plan is built using a bottom-up the macroeconomic environment which directly impacts the model and makes assumptions about the level of capital Groups financial returns as having the ability to alter the deployed into, and realisations from, its portfolio of financial plan.
In all scenarios modelled the Group remains companies, the financial performance and valuation of the solvent at the end of the three-year period and no breach underlying portfolio companies, the Groups utilisation of its of EIB financial covenants occur.
Given the severity of the debt finance facility and ability to raise further capital, and assumptions used in the scenarios it is considered that the level of the Groups net overheads.
Brexit-related risks are adequately incorporated into the sensitivity analysis.
To assess the impact of the Groups principal risks on the prospects of the Group, the plan is stress-tested by modelling Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable several severe downside scenarios as part of the Boards expectation that the Group will continue to operate and review of the principal risks of the business.
The severe meets its liabilities, as they fall due, up to December 2021.
indd 55 12 04 2019 17:09:50 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 SUS SUST TAINABILITY AINABILITY Our goal is to build a sustainable ESG Working Group The Group established an ESG Working Group in 2018 and viable business.
and has identified a range of initiatives it is committed to Sustainability has always been at the heart of IP Group.
Through the businesses that we back and build, we aim to address some of the worlds most pressing challenges in areas such as disease prevention and mitigation, the transition to a less carbon intense energy world and in ESG actions taken proposed initiatives productivity improvement.
We have committed to regular ESG working group environmental, social and governance ESG factors and their meetings with CEO Alan Aubrey as the accountable impact.
An area of major focus has been cleantech where executive.
we focus on building outstanding, science-based businesses 2.
We have mapped our focus portfolio to the UNs that mitigate the impacts of climate change and other Sustainable Development Goals SDGs and will continue environmental challenges.
Our support of early-stage businesses demonstrates our 3.
We have committed to developing an ESG policy to alignment with government initiatives in science and illustrate responsible asset management and investment.
innovation and contributes to employment growth in the communities in which our portfolio companies operate.
We are considering creating an investment framework to By way of illustration of the impact of IP Group, the Group guide investment decisions into new opportunities.
has invested more than 850 million to date in the UK 5.
We will implement an environmental training awareness in science and technology and created more than 300 programme for employees.
companies which, in aggregate, have raised approximately 4.7 billion of funding.
We have committed to reducing IP Groups carbon calculate more than 5,000 jobs have been created across emissions through initiatives such as minimising travel, the UK.
paper use and printing and have offset IP Groups 2018 carbon emissions pages 60 and 64.
In this way, IP Group and its portfolio companies have the potential to influence the major global challenges addressed 7.
W e are considering becoming a signatory of the UN by the UNs 17 Sustainable Development Goals, which are Principles for Responsible Investment UN PRI.
aimed at achieving a better and more sustainable future for all.
We estimate that the Group and or its portfolio companies are currently influencing all of the 17 SDGs.
In particular, there is concentration around six of the SDGs, notably: The Sustainable Development Goals created by the UN are a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all.
They address the global challenges we face, including those related to poverty, inequality, climate, environmental degradation, prosperity, and peace and justice.
Through the activities of our Group companies, we address a number of these global challenges.
We invest in businesses that are developing medicines that can overcome antibiotic resistance, repair stem cells and reduce patients suffering from respiratory or hormone problems.
These can help to change the world through a healthier society.
One key global challenge is affordable and clean energy.
IP Groups portfolio includes alternative fuel technologies.
These are beneficial as it will offer cheaper and cleaner energy.
Please see the table graphic on page 57.
indd 56 12 04 2019 17:09:53 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT 27 16 12 9 Instances Instances Instances Instances 2 2 Instances Instances 3 Instances 7 Instances 1 1 2 12 Instances Instances 1 3 Instances 1 1 1 Portfolio analysis of 'Top 20' and Focus investments.
We work with innovative companies to support the Sustainable consumption and production is about developments of industries and infrastructure.
We can promoting resource and energy efficiency, sustainable achieve this through systems to monitor and maintain infrastructure, and providing access to basic services, green equipment and developing intelligent solutions.
and decent jobs and a better quality of life for all.
This is central to many of our portfolio companies.
Further to this, there has been an increasing use of technology in society, supporting our industries and Within our portfolio, we have businesses that focus on the infrastructure.
Therefore, it has become more important than development of carbon capture technology in order to ever to protect this data.
reduce CO emissions and developing energy management 2 systems for electric cars.
This will aid climate action, enabling Many of our portfolio companies are working on solutions us to live in a better and healthier world.
that will enable sustainable cities and communities, which provide opportunities for all.
indd 57 12 04 2019 17:10:03 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CASE STUDY: AZURI Azuri Technologies is a commercial provider of pay-as-you-go home solar solutions to off-grid homes in Africa An estimated 600 million people in sub-Saharan Africa lack access to electricity.
Azuri has used mobile technology to turn this development challenge into a business opportunity through its solar home systems, which allow users to pay for solar power on a pay-as-you-gobasis, just like they dofor their phones and kerosene.
An Azuri Quad system is typically paid off over 18 months, after which the system is unlocked and all the energy generated is free of charge to the customer.
Azuri is continually innovating and committed to helping off-grid families access modern devices and services that urban families often take for granted.
In 2016, Azuri was the first to introduce home solar TV to Kenya to enable off-grid families access, for the first time in their homes, world information, news, entertainment and education programmes.
Azuris life-changing technology delivers clean, safe renewable power to families at about half the cost of the kerosene it replaces.
This helps to diminish poverty and provides sustainable energy for those who live in communities that are off the grid.
indd 59 12 04 2019 17:10:08 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 SUSTAINABILITY the UK.
Woodland Carbon Code credits are an accepted Environment mitigation mechanism under government corporate As described above, we believe the indirect environmental environmental reporting guidelines.
impact of the Group to be positive when considering the potential of our portfolio companies to influence major The Code ensures that: global challenges addressed by the UNs 17 SDGs.
However, The right trees have been planted, in the right place: we also consider the direct negative environmental impact Carbon capture estimates are site specific, scientifically of IP Group plc and its subsidiary companies, including sound and risk adjusted: through emissions caused by staff activity e. g. travel and premises and are committed to ensuring these remain as low The woodlands are managed to a high standard and as possible.
We are therefore reviewing how we best ensure protected in the long term: that the business operates in an environmentally responsible Projects will be subject to long-term monitoring and and sustainable manner.
The single biggest contributor to our re-certification: direct emissions remains business travel, particularly overseas The trees would not be there but for the intervention of flights.
Employees are therefore encouraged to host meetings carbon offset buyers.
via videoconference where possible, thereby only engaging in business travel when necessary, and to use public transport.
Social The Group also focuses on waste prevention, has recycling IP Group aims to conduct its business in a socially facilities within its offices and will train employees on their responsible manner, to contribute to the communities in use.
You can read more on the Groups greenhouse gas which it operates and to respect the needs of its employees emissions on pages 64 to 65. and all of its stakeholders.
We recognise the importance of diversity and have instigated a number of initiatives Carbon offset on this detailed on page 61 under employee diversity.
A Despite the relatively low direct negative environmental key community initiative for the Group has been its threeimpact of the Group, we have offset 100% of the Groups year strategic charity partnership with Generating Genius, direct 2018 CO equivalent greenhouse gas emissions.
We 2 a charity set up to support talented young people from have done so through a new programme of supporting disadvantaged backgrounds to help realise their potential in UK woodland creation certified under the Governments STEM science, technology, engineering and maths subjects.
In recognition of our carbon More information on this is set out under community footprint, our commitment comprises four hectares and engagement on page 63. around 4,000 native trees in a new woodland near Dunbar, Scotland.
Our support for woodland creation will not The Group also seeks to ensure that there is diversity in only mitigate our entire carbon footprint but also deliver the supply chain, working with SMEs as well as larger additional benefits to society and the environment.
Where possible, we work with local suppliers therefore impacting positively on the communities where All Woodland Carbon Code certified projects offer public we operate.
The Group is also a signatory to the Prompt access as a core requirement, and woodlands also have a Payment Code.
IP Group seeks to operate as a responsible significant role to play in mitigating flooding, reducing air employer and has adopted standards which promote pollution, cleaning watercourses and creating habitat for corporate values designed to help and guide employees in biodiversity.
An investment in woodland creation contributes their conduct and business relationships.
The Group seeks to to the UKs rural economy by helping to create jobs in the comply with all laws, regulations and rules applicable to its forestry and nursery sector, and also makes a contribution business and to conduct the business in line with applicable to the U. K. s national carbon budget, enabling the country established best practice.
We take a zero tolerance approach to meet its climate change obligations.
The specific project to bribery and corruption and implement and enforce that IP Group is supporting through its carbon offset activity effective systems.
The Group is bound by the laws of the UK, is called Arnotts Loan and it consists of 75% oak with the including the Bribery Act 2010, and has implemented policies remainder silver birch, alder, hazel, hawthorn and rowan.
and procedures based on such laws.
The woodland connects two existing mature oak woodlands and will improve water quality and biodiversity over one Governance mile of streambank.
The site will be sustainably managed on The Group seeks to conduct all of its operating and business a continuous cover basis, meaning long-term and gradual activities in an honest, ethical and socially responsible thinning and replacement of trees creating a natural all-age manner and these values underpin our business model forest.
We are committed to acting professionally, The Woodland Carbon Code delivers independently certified fairly and with integrity in all of our business dealings and woodland creation projects audited by UKAS accredited relationships with consideration for the needs of all of bodies to ISO standards that offer tangible social and our stakeholders, including university partners, investors, environmental benefits: it is the only standard of its kind in 60 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 60 12 04 2019 17:10:08 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT suppliers, employees, and the businesses in which the The above table illustrates that female representation of the Group has holdings.
IP Group endeavours to conduct its Groups Board of Directors fell to 20% from 30% last year business in accordance with established best practice, to be while female representation on the Groups Senior Leadership a responsible employer and to adopt values and standards Team is now 12% compared with 18% last year.
The Board designed to help guide staff in their conduct and business figure was impacted after one of the Groups two female relationships.
As a publicly traded entity, IP Group actively Non-executive Directors stepped down from the role to avoid seeks to engage and maintain an open dialogue with both any potential conflict of interest, having been appointed institutional and private shareholders through its investor Executive Chairman of the Engineering and Physical Sciences relations programme.
You can read more in the section on Research Council EPSRC.
While the Group continues to aspire to 30% female representation at both Board level and in the senior Responsible stewardship leadership team, the Group recognises the need for We also recognise the importance of ensuring that the improvement at the most senior levels in the business and businesses the Group helps create comply with all applicable has committed to a number of initiatives, listed below, to help environmental, ethical and social legislation.
our direct involvement in many of these companies allows greater scope to engage with their management teams Of note, IP Group has a unique opportunity to help provide and offer guidance.
In addition to the support they receive employees access to Board director roles across its portfolio from the Group, our portfolio companies often seek funding companies.
Of the total of 100 companies where the Group from other sources, both public such as governmenthas an active board director position, 19 of those, or 19%, backed grant funding and private from sources ranging are female.
The Group has committed to exploring ways of from angel investors and small privately owned funds increasing access and exposure for employees, especially to large institutional investors, and the Group will often women, on those boards, including involvement with the assist in gaining access to this financial capital.
The Group organisation Women on Boards.
complies with all applicable legislation in this respect and communicates with its co-investors in an appropriate and Actions taken proposed initiatives to improve transparent manner.
We have committed to a monthly working group Employee diversity with CEO Alan Aubrey as the accountable executive Diversity is key to how we work and the Group is committed to explore how to achieve the stated 30% aim.
to equal opportunity for all people when it comes to 2.
We will implement unconscious bias training recruitment, selection and career development.
This throughout the entire organisation.
year, we paid particular attention to gender diversity and 3.
We are considering cross-company mentorship considered a number of initiatives to support women in the programmes.
In January, our CEO pledged his support to the 30% Leadership campaign to improve gender diversity on 4.
We have collected data on our internal portfolio company corporate boards and in senior leadership teams.
board director roles and are exploring ways to increase access and exposure for employees, especially As at 31 December 2018, the Group employed an average women.
of 166 employees and had five non-executive directors.
We are considering the structure of our Senior Leadership breakdown of our people by gender can be seen in the table Team in 2019, being mindful of gender diversity.
IP Group supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and, insofar 6.
We will implement a quarterly speaker series on as it is able to, ensures that all transactions the Group enters high impact women in our industry.
We will provide career development planning in conjunction with managers and professional development Gender split as at 31 December 2018 resources.
We will review our family friendly and flexible 2 Board 8 80% 2 20% working policies to ensure that they are fit for purpose.
3 Senior Leadership Team 7 88% 1 12% Senior managers partners 22 69% 10 31% All employees 87 52% 79 48% 1 Excludes NEDs 2 Includes Company Secretary 3 Includes EDs, Company Secretary, and direct reports to CEO 61 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 61 12 04 2019 17:10:08 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Retention Culture and People We believe that exceptional people doing exceptional things A focus for the Group is recruitment and retention of the should be well-rewarded for achieving exceptional results.
talent needed to drive long-term sustainable success.
We aim While heavily weighted to successful performance over the to create an environment of collaboration and co-operation medium to long-term, we consider that the Group offers an but also one that encourages challenge and questioning, attractive overall remuneration package to all our employees given the high degree of ambiguity and uncertainty with both short and longer-term components relevant to the that surrounds the world of technology investment.
We seniority of the person.
We benchmark remuneration and endeavour to recruit people with a unique combination of benefits regularly against industry peers.
Our remuneration skills such as scientists with commercial and entrepreneurial and benefits package focuses on supporting health through backgrounds, who can operate with equal confidence in private medical and Ride-to-Work and family insurance both academia and fast-paced start-ups while speaking the and through inclusion of families in some of our other language of the City.
benefit options and Childcare Vouchers while also offering Culture opportunities for investment and saving through certain IP Groups core values of being passionate, pioneering and schemes.
principled guide the behaviours the Group wishes to see not Work experience and internships only in its general endeavours but also in its interactions with all stakeholders.
We believe that these values and behaviours Touchstone Innovations ran a regular paid internship have contributed positively to the portfolio that we have programme for six years, with the majority of those recruited built over many years and we will be exploring how we refine working in the Technology Transfer business, Imperial and build on them to deliver future success.
Between summer 2011 and summer 2018, 69 our culture is important in attracting and retaining the best interns have taken part in the programme, playing a vital talent.
We give our people a high degree of freedom and role in providing market analyses, patent management and authority and are supportive of flexible working.
contract administration, among other things.
This internship programme recruits heavily from Imperial College London Training and other leading UK universities, and many candidates While our people gain significant experience from working have PhDs or experience with post-doctoral research.
The with a number of start-up enterprises and seeing firstinternship programme offers valuable experience of the hand what works and what doesnt, sharing knowledge and commercial aspects of science and research.
Interns who discussing these experiences notably at our company away have completed the programme have gone on to work as days as well as structured training is key to leveraging this patent attorneys, technology transfer executives, and in learning across the Group.
All employees who are involved research positions at start-ups, as well as starting their own with the regulated business of managing investment ventures.
Across the Group we took on 20 trainees in 2018. transactions receive compliance and anti-money laundering training, with periodic refresher courses.
In 2018, all staff Health and safety undertook GDPR, IT security training and anti-harassment All our people are responsible for the promotion of, and training.
adherence to, health and safety measures in the workplace.
Recruitment and development The Chief Operating Officer has overall responsibility for the We use our extensive networks to recruit for staff with implementation of the Groups health and safety policies and candidates solicited from various backgrounds and expertise.
All vacancies are, however, advertised internally to offer The primary purpose of the Groups health and safety policy opportunities to current employees in the first instance.
is to enable all of the Groups people to go about their Staff turnover in 2018 was unusually high at 18% as a result everyday business at work in the expectation that they can of the integration of the Touchstone Innovations business.
do so safely and without risk to their health.
During the All staff have now undertaken annual performance reviews years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, no to summarise their achievements as well as to highlight reportable accidents occurred under UK Health and Safety development needs which are then converted into training regulations.
indd 62 12 04 2019 17:10:08 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT In the morning of the Host Day, students from Generating Community engagement Genius got insight from the careers and professional history The second year of being supported by IP of speakers from IP Group and across the Groups portfolio Group has been fantastic.
For us, the highlight companies.
This was followed by a design challenge in the event of 2018 was the Host Day.
Our students afternoon, where young people were put into groups and were able to put into action in real time some asked to solve a question sourced from the speakers own of the methods applied by IP Group in their work.
Students were challenged to think of new ways to engage children in learning how to code, the potential role everyday work.
The idea of solving problems of virtual reality in education, and how product developers posed by clients, really made our students prepare their product for use by customers.
Our programme is about stretching and challenging students and they Three students were able to gain a deeper understanding all showed how they can add value to products of IP Group through a week of work experience, spent and services.
between the Groups Head Office and Imperial Innovations.
By speaking to various teams across both offices, students Dr Tony Sewell, CBE, Founder and Director, gained an understanding of the numerous stages and Generating Genius stakeholders in the technology commercialisation process, from patenting, to investment, through market analysis.
In 2018, the Group completed year 2 of a three-year strategic They also gained first-hand experience in establishing partnership with a charity closely aligned with the Groups the patentability of new inventions and in researching a values, Generating Genius, set up to support talented young business proposal with the aim of making an investment people from disadvantaged backgrounds to help realise recommendation.
their potential in STEM subjects science, technology, In addition to the events organised by the Group, Generating engineering and maths.
In addition to a donation of 33,333 Genius chose IP Groups Head Office as the site for two of 2017: 33,333, the Group established an informal charity the charitys networking events, including the launch of its liaison team to improve communication between the Group new programme Alumni Genius, where previous Generating and the charity.
This direct line of communication enabled Genius students give back to the network by mentoring the the organisation of two events - a Host Day and work new roster of Junior and Uni Genius participants.
In both cases, various members of staff were able to contribute to each events successful delivery and the Outside IP Group, the cohort of students supported by the consequent enrichment of the partnership.
Groups donation to Generating Genius now in Year 11 has participated in a series of events and sessions to further develop their skills and inform their future education and career decisions.
These include masterclasses on wearable tech and the future of biomedical science at Queen Mary University of London and Imperial College London, respectively, a GCSE masterclass and debate workshop at Latymer Upper School, and an insight into IP from Intellectual Property lawyers Kilburn & Strode.
A list of the other charities that IP Group has supported to date can be found on the Groups website: www.
indd 63 12 04 2019 17:10:09 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Policies Methodology Copies of the Groups policies in relation to environmental, The Group has employed the services of a specialist adviser, equal opportunities and diversity, prompt payments, Ditto Sustainability, to quantify the GHG emissions associated whistleblowing, anti-corruption and bribery, anti-facilitation with the Groups operations.
of tax evasion and data protection can be found on the The following methodology was applied by Ditto Sustainability Groups website: www.
in the preparation and presentation of this data: Application of the principles laid out in the WRI GHG Greenhouse gas emissions protocol This year the Group has reported on all of the emission Calculations done in line with ISO14064 sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These Emissions factors calculated based on an offices location sources fall within our consolidated financial statement.
Next and governing body DEFRA, EPA AU, EPA US year we anticipate capturing our carbon footprint data in Location based grid emissions and market based relation to the new Streamline Energy and Carbon Reporting supplier emissions factors have been applied where regulations which come into force in April 2019.
As described relevant above, we have offset 100% of the Groups direct 2018 CO 2 All carbon has been reported in CO e, carbon dioxide 2 equivalent greenhouse gas emissions.
equivalents, making it directly comparable to other GHGs An operational control approach has been used in order to under the Kyoto protocol define our organisational boundary.
This approach requires us to report on all assets which are under our operational Absolute emissions control.
As a result, any investment subsidiaries and tenanted The total greenhouse emissions from IP Group plcs offices have not been included in the scope of this report.
operations in the financial year 2018 year ending All carbon emissions classified under scopes 1, 2 and 3 31 December 2018 were: 941.4 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 have been included, including well to tank emissions where tCO e which we completely offset through the woodland 2 available.
2017 4 2018 restated Tonnes Tonnes Note CO CO e 2 2 GHG emissions 1 Scope 1 4 14.8 1.6 2 Scope 2 location-based 126.0 145.9 2 Scope 2 market-based 106.0 123.1 Subtotal location-based 140.8 147.5 Subtotal market-based 120.8 127.0 3 Scope 3 800.6 781 Total GHG emissions location-based Scope 2 941.4 928.5 Total GHG emissions market-based Scope 2 921.4 910.1 Carbon offset via woodland projects 941.4 Total GHG emissions post carbon offset 928.5 1 Scope 1 being emissions from the Groups combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
2 Scope 2 being electricity from location-based calculations, heat, steam and cooling purchased for the Groups own use.
3 Scope 3 being all indirect emissions not in scope 2 that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and 2 downstream emissions 2017 167 employees and 4,706 m office space.
4 Restated to reflect consistent estimation basis with 2018 GHG emissions.
indd 64 12 04 2019 17:10:09 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Intensity ratio Target and baselines In order to provide context to IP Groups emissions year on Given the comparatively low GHG impact of the Groups year weve calculated the total carbon in relation to two operations, the Groups objective is to maintain or reduce relevant metrics, floor area and FTE, which give an indication its GHG per square metre of office space each year and to the size of the organisation and its potential impact on the will report each year whether it has been successful in this resulting carbon emissions.
Carbon tCO e tCO e 2 2 2 2 Key figures tCO e FTE m FTE m 2 For the reporting year 2018 IP Group has emitted 941.4 2018 941.4 167 4,706 5.64 0.20 tCO e carbon dioxide equivalents.
The large majority of 2017 2 these emissions are attributable to scope 3, as this includes restated 928.5 114 4,706 8.14 0.20 business travel by air and is also the result of the increase in staffing levels following the integration of Touchstone.
Over the course of 2018 business travel has increased as a result of the opening of operations in Australia and scaling up of operations in Greater China.
tC0 e 2 14.8 106 800.6 2018 market-based 14.8 126 800.6 2018 location-based 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Board approval The Strategic Report as set out on pages 8 to 65 has been approved by the Board.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD SIR DOUGLAS FLINT 25 March 2019 65 2018-IP Group-AR.
