Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Strategy Using the power of ITV to shape culture for good.
ITV has two main platforms for creating Changing culture in the As the largest commercial positive social impact.
First and foremost, broadcaster in the UK and through our programmes: we influence UK and wider world a growing international and inspire audiences.
Secondly, through how ITV runs as an organisation: enabling business, ITV reaches an inclusive and diverse network of people millions of people on a daily Through our programmes and reducing our environmental impact.
Every week, our programmes reach around basis through our 40 million viewers in the UK.
That gives us programmes and channels.
In 2018 we delivered powerful initiatives the opportunity to shape society, start across these platforms, just some of which The huge variety of our conversations and encourage action on are in the following summaries.
We have output and the relationship the things that matter.
also been rening our global Corporate we can build with our Responsibility CR strategy for 2019 and We create change through our programmes audiences give us the beyond: the resulting goals and social in a number of ways.
Highlights in 2018 cause will be announced later in the year.
opportunity not just to include inspiring people to eat better and The CR Board, which is accountable for reflect society, but also move more with the ITV Feel Good the implementation of the CR strategy, campaign: encouraging the nation to to shape culture for good.
reports through the Management Board preserve and plant native trees through to the Board.
the Queens Green Planet campaign and contributing to promoting diversity, by casting disabled actors in key roles in our soaps.
On the following page we showcase the Project 84 campaign which aimed to Looking ahead: The new strategy get men talking about their mental health and help prevent male suicide.
In 2019, ITV will launch its new Social Our three focus areas: Purpose strategy, a critical part of ITV being More Than TV: entertaining millions, 1.
Looking after our health growing brands, and shaping culture.
We want to support people to feel 40m good, through actively encouraging After extensive stakeholder engagement better physical health, and nurturing through 2018 among senior management viewers reached weekly through our mental health and more widely among colleagues, our our programmes new Social Purpose strategy sets out how we actively contribute to shaping culture: influencing wider culture through our audiences, and changing our internal 2.
Reducing our impact on the culture within ITV, through our colleagues planet, while increasing our impact and partners.
on audiences We want to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, limit our waste, and source responsibly from our suppliers Gender split 1 2 Board of Directors Senior Management All colleagues 3.
Fostering creativity through 6 4 95 69 2,927 3,209 diversity We want to increase social mobility, 60% 40% 57.9% 42.1% 47.7% 52.3% while also improving and promoting Male Female Male Female Male Female better representation across gender, 2017: 66.7% 2017: 33.3% 2017: 57.1% 2017: 42.9% 2017: 47.3% 2017: 52.7% ethnicity, age, sexuality and disability.
A c olleague who is a member of the senior leadership team or 2.
C olleague gender gender identity split is based Management Board.
on total headcount at 31 December 2018.
16 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Corporate Responsibility Strategy Changing culture in the Changing culture within ITV UK and wider world Through our people Through our actions Project 84 Our people are the driving force of ITV.
We ITV is a responsible and transparent Every week in the UK, 84 men take their run our business in a way that nurtures an business.
Reducing our environmental own lives.
In March 2018, ITV partnered engaged and inclusive workforce.
This means impact is an increasing focus as we with the Campaign Against Living attracting people from all social and cultural seek to go beyond legislative and Miserably CALM and Harrys Razors backgrounds to work at and with ITV, regulatory requirements.
to draw attention to this tragic but enabling everyone to be their best at work, little-discussed issue.
Replica statues and empowering our people to give back to of 84 real men who took their lives communities and causes important to them.
were installed on ITVs South Bank ofces in London.
Launched on This Morning and supported by extensive media and social media coverage, the campaign reached over 22 million people, received a mention in Prime Ministers Questions, and most importantly, encouraged public action.
CALMs online petition to demand government action was signed by 290,000 people and in ITVs Employee Network Improving the impact October 2018, a new minister for Groups of production suicide was announced.
At ITV were proud of the diversity of Reducing the environmental impact our workforce.
Our employee network of our productions is an important groups are an important way of workstream at ITV that has been actively supporting that diversity.
driven through the Productions Green In 2018 all four network groups were Team.
The team has been instrumental live for the first time.
Embrace, our in encouraging action within all BAME network, Balance, our work-life production genres.
As a result, in 2018 network, ITV Pride, our LGBT network, for the first time our World Cup and and The Womens Network supported Royal Ascot coverage achieved albert colleagues throughout 2018 with certication.
Likewise, ITV Creative, a vibrant calendar of events, talks, ITVs in-house creative agency, became and workshops taking place across the first UK agency to be awarded our UK hub sites in London, Leeds certication.
albert certication, and Manchester and shown on our administered by BAFTA, rewards intranet for international colleagues productions that implement to view.
Gender split 1 2 Board of Directors Senior Management All colleagues ITV will be publishing its second gender pay gap report ahead of 6 4 95 69 2,927 3,209 the April 2019 deadline, and will also be voluntarily publishing its 60% 40% 57.9% 42.1% 47.7% 52.3% ethnicity pay gap for the first time.
