OUR PEOPLE REDEFINING OUR TALENT Our talent strategy for 2018 was to ensure we have great people everywhere helping customers be successful in our growing network of global workspaces.
This approach continues to be pivotal to IWGs profitable growth and continued success, placing key factors like recruitment, talent, diversity, retention and succession planning at the heart of our long-term plans.
We strive to have the most passionate and committed people We also invested in a new state-of-the-art recruitment in place at every level of the organisation, to deliver the technology system in 2018.
This allows many more people to flexibility, service and support our customers need.
That is apply to IWG quickly and easily around the world, using video why we focus so heavily on ensuring that everybody in technology alongside more traditional recruitment methods.
our operations across the world can have a great day at work DIVERSITY OF TALENT and an exciting career.
Future developments in the business, with multiple brands, In 2018 we have continued to strengthen our leadership technology and supplier partnerships, will drive the need for team around the world, particularly in the areas of network our leaders to have a growing breadth and range of skills, development, sales and customer service.
We recruit our team with diverse backgrounds in mind, and the IWG employee base is The role of the Network Development Director is to expand the network with a breadth and variety of workspaces in every city over 65% female.
Our top leadership team is split 36% female and 64% male, placing us at number 66 in relation to diversity with great property investment partners.
In particular we have strengthened our Franchise team in key locations around in Hampton Alexanders annual review of the UK FTSE 250s best companies to work for.
In addition, 28% of our main Board the world.
We recruit talent externally when required, using our internal Executive Recruitment Team, which handles the majority of our senior talent needs across the world.
I joined IWG as their strategic vision and Flexible workspace represents an immense ambition to accelerate their growth are market growth opportunity and one that IWG, incredibly exciting.
I look forward to being as global leader, is by far the best-placed part of the team that cements IWGs position player to exploit.
The business culture is as the worlds number one provider of entrepreneurial and that manifests itself in a flexible workspace.
fast-moving, ambitious and exciting place to work.
MATT KENLEY FRANCHISE DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR PETER MOGG NETWORK DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR 42 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We launched our Sales & Customer Service Training Academy in SUCCESSION AND INTERNATIONAL September 2018.
This suite of training, along with additional OPPORTUNITIES sales training at the global conference, will be pivotal to Providing international opportunities for team members ensuring that our team remains focused on our existing and new helps us to create a dynamic workforce.
This year, experienced customers alike.
employees travelled to locations including New Zealand and China to work on important projects such as integrating new REWARD acquisitions and coaching new team members in highReward is another key focus area in our efforts to retain the best growth markets.
The competition for talent is unrelenting in our markets, so we work hard to ensure that our overall compensation This secondment activity also helps us get to know our talent structure is highly competitive.
We also ensure that highbetter, underpinning succession planning across the business.
potential people, at every level from graduate recruit to the Where possible, we promote from within and celebrate Executive Committee, are encouraged to stay with us via important moves throughout the business.
attractive short and long-term incentives.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Altogether, the Groups investments in its people, and their Our investment during 2017 in our new learning platform is burning desire to excel on all fronts, have resulted in countless now allowing employees to learn through e-learning, videos, thousands of great days at work throughout 2018.
As IWG CEO case studies and coaching on the ground rather than by using Mark Dixon has said: prescriptive and traditional training channels.
Since January Our role is all about making a positive difference to those 2018, over 6,000 videos, best practice questions and answers, around us, be that our customers, the businesses they run or articles, white papers and e-learning interactions have been the communities in which we serve.
We should never read and completed, with an average of 968 team members underestimate the importance of the role we each play, using the learning platform every day.
This is part of our day-to-day in our centres.
learning strategy to use multiple training and development channel for a geographically dispersed workforce.
And its by selecting and retaining the right people, helping them become as good as they can be and rewarding them fairly, All new team members have a new-starter training programme that IWG ensures the millions of members and users who spent specific to their local market, supported by a peer level coach.
time at our centres in 2018 each experienced a great day Following this, team members are accredited by their line at work.
manager and coach to start their career with IWG after taking an online exam.
This way we can ensure that the best people are looking after our customers.
Our top 320 executives attended our global leadership conference in January 2019 where we launched our new Leadership Development Programme.
We have partnered with an external global leadership specialist, to work with us globally on developing our existing talent and leaders of the future.
This is a significant investment, but having a globally aligned, world-class leadership team is fundamental to our success.
I had the privilege of being chosen to assist I have been at IWG for 14 years in various with the training and integration of a roles and multiple markets.
Hard work, strategic acquisition in New Zealand.
It was dedication and a competitive spirit are an amazing professional and personal valued at IWG.
My recent promotion to experience that can only come from working a Regional Sales Vice President is for a global company.
confirmation that these qualities open up exciting career opportunities.
KRISTEN BUDA USA TO NEW ZEALAND ALISA KAPIC RECENTLY PROMOTED TO VP, SALES FOR NORTHERN EUROPE 43
