CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STRENGTHENING OUR COMMUNITIES At IWG we are committed to promoting environmental sustainability and investing in the communities where we live and work.
As our network continues to expand, we provide positive change to each location through our greener operations, inherently sustainable products and community involvement.
We aim to help improve the communities in our areas, ensuring that they grow in parallel with our own growth.
IWG global utility cost per workstation yearly COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT change As a company, we strive to expand our network into new markets, growing in locations where there is demand for what 18 75.26 we provide.
We invest in each community by providing local 17 93.79 employment opportunities and attracting talent to the area.
16 100.35 Wherever we can, we draw on local supply chain networks, building relationships with local businesses and connecting them with our clients.
This generates wealth by helping to IWG global utility cost per workstation yearly improve and grow local economies through attracting new change breakdown people and organisations.
54.72 Our products also attract new businesses as their inherently 18 17.44 sustainable nature enables our clients to minimise their carbon 3.10 emissions, waste and energy usage.
These organisations in turn 67.31 bring further local opportunities to the area.
17 22.71 3.77 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT IWG continues to show year-on-year improvement in reducing 71.28 16 24.84 our global carbon footprint and related costs per centre.
4.23 An analysis of the global costs of gas and electricity per Electricity per workstation workstation showed a 6.3% reduction in 2017, with a further Gas per workstation 19.8% reduction in 2018, resulting in an overall reduction of Water per workstation 24.9% across the two years.
These global figures reflect the continuing improvements we CRC UK carbon emission yearly reduction tonnes are making in reducing energy consumption across our global estate and engaging our clients in our Greener Working 18 34,938 Strategy.
A similar analysis of the usage of water per workstation 17 37,192 indicates a 26.8% reduction in costs over the same two years.
16 39,830 We have systematically been implementing some of the recommendations identified by our lead assessors, PASCHALi, from the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS audit carried out in Phase 1 Dec 2015.
This approach has supported the positive reduction in energy consumption and improvements in maintenance achieved across our UK estate.
The result of this work is demonstrated by the purchase of fewer CRC equivalent carbon allowances this year than in previous years.
This equates to a CRC cost reduction per centre of some 16.1% when comparing 2015 16 to 2017 18 figures.
In line with our transparent and open policies, IWG once again participated in the Global CDP formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project and has consistently held its very good rating of B.
This is higher than the sector average of Bdemonstrating that we have a good knowledge of climate change issues and are taking coordinated management action to reduce any negative climate change impacts.
44 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Generating value from waste Our centres in Peru encouraged colleagues and clients to collect their plastic caps and donate them to the Ayudanos a Ayudar Help us to help charity.
The organisation then recycles these plastic caps, using the proceeds to purchase wheelchairs for disabled children who would not otherwise be able to afford them.
Thank you for letting us be part of this initiative, which combines recycling and charities.
Keep on encouraging causes like this.
Stephanie Cirilo, CPIM Peru Responsible recycling Together with their customers, our team in Russia has been To support them in this task, their clients are actively sorting waste into plastic, paper and organic products to participating in a campaign in which they receive all the food ensure that it is properly recycled.
Their key aim is to reduce they buy in the cafeteria in paper boxes or ceramic dishes.
the use of plastic, as it is poorly processed.
As a company, we proudly promoted our colleagues initiatives, CHARITABLE INVESTMENT encouraging them to use our facilities for their charitable Along with clients, suppliers and other stakeholders, IWG activities.
We also provided further direct donations and colleagues around the world used their time, talents and skills concessions on working space to many organisations.
throughout 2018 to support those most in need within their local communities.
With the enthusiasm and support of our colleagues, clients, suppliers and wider stakeholders, we collectively made a Their charitable initiatives included wide-ranging fundraising significant positive contribution to causes within our local campaigns, such as: communities, supporting 274 charities through 335 projects raffles, networking events and fun, in-centre activities: in 47 countries to raise a total of 317,891.
Please find further collecting gifts in-kind to support local causes and information on our year-on-year progress in the table below: humanitarian appeals: participation in challenging sporting events to raise public awareness for a particular cause: and donating their skills and time to organisations in need.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Countries with community engagement activity 20 38 43 44 46 47 Projects 54 132 219 244 260 335 Charities supported 78 100 195 239 252 274 Donations made 80,500 155,329 209,905 237,479 302,066 317,891 45 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The transformative power of space Since 2015, IWG has partnered with Up With Women, helping the charity achieve its mission of enabling recently homeless and at-risk women to exit poverty and achieve financial self-reliance through coaching and support.
As part of the partnership, IWG provides the space required to run programme sessions.
We have supported 350 recently homeless and at-risk women across Canada, providing meeting rooms at no charge for group learning and support sessions, and access to day offices for private sessions between coaches and clients.
Due to housing affordability issues in major cities, many Up With Women clients often spend several hours a day in transit, managing jobs, job searches or child care.
With IWGs large network of centres, the organisations clients can meet with their coaches in private spaces near their own Canada neighbourhoods.
This frees up additional travel time so that they can focus more time on rebuilding their careers and lives.
Each Up With Women client receives a year of free one-onone coaching with a certified professional coach, access to personality and emotional intelligence assessment tools, and subject matter expertise for developing career and entrepreneurship skills.
At open market rates, these free services would be collectively worth $15,000.
As a result of the partnership with IWG, $1.5 million in services was delivered to Up With Women clients during 2018 alone.
More than $5 million in services has been invested in the community since the start of the partnership.
IWG is committed to enabling Up With Women to meet its goals and grow its support into new locations.
One of the biggest challenges for organisations when scaling up is in achieving consistency of service.
However, through the partnership with IWG, Up With Women can grow quickly and confidently by utilising established IWG locations.
From the day we first approached IWG to explore the possibility of a community partnership, we have been thrilled with the accessibility, enthusiasm, depth of commitment and creativity of the team.
The importance of a great workspace is so easily overlooked, but it is palpable to us.
Our clients enter an IWG space, and the transformation begins to unfold immediately.
From the attentiveness and warmth of the community managers who greet and support them to the functionality and aesthetics of great office design, our clients feel welcome and can get right to work.
IWG facilitates productivity, and productivity is the first step to self-belief.
There truly is a transformative power of place.
We are so grateful that IWG helps ignite that transformation for our clients and this organisation.
Lia Grimanis, CEO, Up With Women Responsible Recycling Meeting, Russia 46 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Responding to disaster Throughout 2018, IWG actively engaged in helping Donating to help the families affected by the Camp Fire in vulnerable people and business communities in areas Northern California meant reaching out to help those in affected by natural disasters.
need at such a vulnerable, scary and uncertain time in their lives.
Some had lost loved ones, including their pets, In the USA, for example, we continued our support of as well as losing their homes.
This is something that I previous years through the Hurricane Relief Programme, could not even begin to imagine happening to myself.
I welcoming any businesses and employees that had been felt that at such a rough point in their lives I should and affected by Hurricane Florence and Michael.
Our centres could help in any way possible, whether it be to help feed offered a safe working space and vital connectivity, making the animals being taken in at the shelters or to provide all lounges across the USA free to use.
As a result, business clothing and food for the families.
My heart and prayers professionals could drop in, plug in and get a coffee while go out to all of those as well as their pets and the getting back online.
Our colleagues and clients provided surrounding wildlife who have lost something, from as further support for hurricane victims by enthusiastically little as a cherished family photo album to the ones who donating food, toiletries, clothing and bottled water.
In California, our colleagues, clients and their friends and Samantha Veil IWG client family members collected clothing, toiletries, blankets and food, donating them to the temporary housing facilities for people affected by the California wild fires.
Across the globe in Indonesia, our colleagues raised funds and collected clothing to support those affected by the Lombok Earthquake, which injured over 1,500 people.
All I always try to put myself in other peoples shoes or raised funds were provided to the ACT Fast Action situations.
In this case, I cannot imagine myself or my Response non-profit organisation, and were used to family going through the devastating fire and losing purchase first aid supplies, food and hygiene items for those everything.
My heart goes out to those families who have affected.
Together with a large donation of clothes, our team worked so hard for what they have built only to see it made a significant impact.
Having an opportunity to start and participate in this project meant Through the amazing support of our clients and centre the world to me, because I wanted to bring a better teams for the Lombok Earthquake Disaster appeal, we understanding and awareness.
Working at IWG seems like received 486 and many boxes of clothing that have made a perfect opportunity for me to spread the word and it possible to rush aid to the region.
gather everyone together to show human kindness.
IWG colleague Susan Elarms Community Manager Hurricane Michael donations, USA 47 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Running for change For the fifth year running, our team in India, their clients and family members enthusiastically supported the Make-A-Wish Foundation India by taking part in the Mumbai Marathon.
This is amongst the top 10 marathons in the world, and is the single largest philanthropic sporting event in India.
Through the teams five-year participation, over 15,000 has been provided, granting the wishes of more than 250 children.
Our long association with the Make-A-Wish Foundation gives the team and me the knowledge that our efforts are going towards helping terminally ill children fulfil their wishes.
In a small way, our contribution is bringing joy into the lives of these little ones.
Its what keeps us going each year, and we are really proud of this effort and association.
Harsh Lambah, Country Manager, India Mumbai Marathon, India Raising funds for good causes Our colleagues in the United Kingdom held a charity raffle in aid of the DM Thomas Foundation for Young People.
This raised 7,364 to help the charitys work in transforming the lives of young people.
An impressive 840 tickets were sold by one person alone.
IWG centres have partnered with the Foundation in a national raffle since 2009.
Since then, more than 92,000 has been raised for the Foundation and nominated charity project partners including DEBRA the charity for people whose skin doesnt work, the Duke of Edinburgh Award Scheme and Evelina Childrens Hospital.
Our colleagues in the UK also participated throughout the year in many other charitable initiatives alongside their clients, from hosting coffee mornings to raise funds for the Macmillan Cancer Foundation to holding Hula Hoop Charity raffle, UK competitions in aid of Sport Relief.
48 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Raising awareness October is marked as the Breast Cancer Awareness month worldwide.
In Qatar, the IWG team set out to support the Qatar Cancer Society in helping to raise awareness of breast cancer.
An interactive awareness session was arranged, where a leading expert from the largest hospital in Doha talked to our clients, colleagues and other community representatives about the importance of early detection and the range of different available treatment options.
All centres and clients were involved in this event.
Further awareness for the cause was raised through the sale of pink roses in each centre.
Breast cancer awareness events were also held in other parts of the world, including New Zealand and the UK.
The team in New Zealand held a Pink for a day campaign, where they dressed in pink and hosted charitable networking events for their clients and stakeholders, providing pink food and drinks to draw further attention to the cause.
To coincide with this campaign, the team also Qatar Think Pink raised donations to support the work of the New Zealand Breast Cancer Foundation.
In the United Kingdom colleagues dressed in pink in support of Breast Cancer Now.
It was great to be part of a worldwide cause that affects so Our Basepoint colleagues held a brilliant display of cakes many people all over the world.
Most people know of galore and wore pink outfits dressed as the pink ladies someone who is suffering from this illness, and I felt very from Grease and Penelope Pitstop.
Tommy graced us in proud of being part of a coffee and cake morning to raise his Pink Panther onesie, and encouraged the rest of funds for this charity.
Basepoint to wear pink that day.
Jane at S-Connect Ltd. Sue at S-Connect Ltd. Volunteering for good causes The team in New Zealand regularly holds activities with clients to support local causes.
Throughout the year, they have also been involved in the Eat My Lunch project in which colleagues and clients volunteer to make over 1,500 lunches for vulnerable children.
They also further support these children by providing weekly lunch donations.
Through this campaign, with every lunch that we buy a lunch is given to a child who would otherwise go without.
Its a small gesture that has had a great impact for so many children.
With a good lunch in their tummies they do better in so many ways, from helping them focus on learning to just putting a smile on their faces.
Since starting the project at the beginning of the year, we have now fed almost 300 kids with our weekly lunch orders.
Our clients in our community also love signing up to attend our volunteer slot at the Eat My Lunch headquarters.
This makes us so proud as WE are helping contribute to a great cause.
NZ Eat My Lunch The team at the Regus Constellation Drive centre 49
