Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 64 As a UK retailer, with a global supply chain, the need for our business to build trust is vital.
As Chair of the Corporate Responsibility and Corporate Sustainability Committee the Committee, I oversee the governance of our Sustainability Plan.
This spans our commitments to enable people to live healthier lives, protect the environment, and support our colleagues and people who work throughout our supply chains and champion issues that Responsibility affect our local communities.
This year we reviewed and refreshed the governance of our Sustainability Plan, to join up our thinking across the entire business.
These changes enable and us to focus our efforts where we can have the greatest impact and to be more agile amid changing dynamics and emerging issues.
I strongly believe that the new governance structure will support us in building trust and being a Sustainability sustainable retailer, fit for the future.
I am proud of the progress we continue to make against our Sustainability Plan and as we near 2020 I feel that we are in a strong position to deliver Committee against our commitments.
Going forward, we will continue to collaborate with our stakeholders and ensure our strategy generates a positive impact, in a more complex, interconnected world.
Report Finally, this is my last report to you as I am stepping down as Chair, but remaining a member, of the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee.
It has been a real pleasure to chair the Committee and I know that Jo Harlow will be an excellent Chair at this exciting time for the organisation.
Dear Shareholder Our vision is to be the most trusted retailer, where people love to work and Jean Tomlin Chair, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee shop.
Throughout our 149-year history, we have always taken our responsibilities Principal role and responsibilities to society seriously.
The Committee is supported by an internal governance structure whereby senior Directors in the business have responsibility for each of our five values.
The Committees principal role is to review our sustainability strategy for alignment with Sainsburys brand and oversee the work of the Operating Board.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 65 Principal activities in the year The Committee met twice during the year and attendance of members at the meetings is set out in the table on page 49.
The Committee discussed strategy and progress across each of our five values as well as the overall Sustainability Plan.
For example, it reviewed plans for the integration of Home Retail Group sustainability activities into the Sainsburys Plan.
In these meetings, the Committee also receives regular updates on colleague and customer insights as well as other stakeholder views on issues relating to our Sustainability Plan to ensure that we are responding appropriately.
For more on the progress we have made in responding to changes in the world around us and to what our customers want from us, see Our values make us different on page 18.
J Sainsbury plc Board Ultimately responsible for sustainability Chairman: David Tyler Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee Reviews the sustainability strategys impact against Live Well for Less and building customer trust.
Chair: Jean Tomlin Jo Harlow from May 2018 Operating Board Define Group-wide strategy, adapting to new regulatory requirements and trends.
Review cross-value progress and sign off major investments.
Chair: Mike Coupe, Group Chief Executive Officer Value Management Groups Lead operational execution of sustainability activities by value, ensuring delivery of performance in the lines.
Health Sourcing Environment Community Great place management management management management to work group group group group management group Chair: Judith Batchelar, Chair: Judith Batchelar, Chair: John Rogers, Chair: Simon Roberts, Director of Sainsburys Director of Sainsburys Chief Executive Officer Retail and Operations Chair: Angie Risley, Brand Brand Sainsburys Argos Director Group HR Director
