J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Sustainability report 26 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Sustainability report Malcolm Paul, Chairman I have pleasure in presenting the first dedicated James Fisher The starting point has been to identify the connection between the sustainability report re ecting the measures we are undertaking Groups operations and strategies with the legitimate needs and to address this critical issue both internally within the Group and concerns of key stakeholders.
Our people are our most important with all our external stakeholders.
asset and we have a clear commitment to their health, safety and general wellbeing whilst providing equal opportunities to our We recognise that creating a sustainable business will enable diverse workforce.
We often operate in challenging conditions and the Group to deliver its strategy whilst remaining ef cient and recognise that our work may impact on local communities and the competitive.
We are committed to ensuring that we are all environment.
The relationships we build with our supply chains conscious of, and committed to, our responsibilities towards the and our customers are fundamental to our success and we are at people, communities, businesses and environments impacted by the forefront of bringing innovative and technological solutions to our business in the many different markets in which we operate.
Our shareholders fully expect us not only to During 2018, I launched the Groups sustainability initiative deliver a good financial performance but also to demonstrate how designed to anchor the Groups sustainability aims around we make a positive contribution tosociety.
some common principles, to provide a reporting forum for the Examples of how we engage with all our stakeholders and the sustainability activities already undertaken by the Group and to initiatives we are undertaking are summarised in this report and set ourselves challenging targets for the future.
With the support will form the basis for a more detailed review to be published on of our global workforce, I chair the recently created Sustainability the Companys website later this year.
Committee which draws together a team of sustainability champions from across all our business units, each of whom I am delighted with the response this initiative has already will take responsibility for their local business and the initiatives received and the buy in from across the Group.
As a team we currently underway, as well as identifying opportunities to are determined to develop a value driven sustainable strategy develop our sustainability credentials in the years ahead.
underpinned by creative solutions for the bene t of all our stakeholders.
Malcolm Paul Stakeholder engagement EnvironmentLocal communities How we engage How we engage Every day we deliver in sustainable and responsible We are committed to conducting business in an ways.
We encourage our businesses and individual environmentally responsible manner.
We are putting employees to support local communities within their in place processes to understand and address our operational areas.
responsibilities in respect of our operational impacts on the environment, including climate change.
Customers and suppliers Employees How we engage How we engage We believe in customerWe believe it is important focused high quality product to dedicate time, effort and and services solutions.
attention to implementing Investment in innovation adds systems, ways of working and value to our customers.
Group initiatives to create conditions Shareholders companies promote human in which people are eager and rights, social responsibility, empowered to contribute.
How we engage trade compliance and antiThe Company maintains and values regular communication with corruption within their own shareholders.
You can read more about shareholder engagement on supplier base.
This years AGM will be held on 2 May 2019.
27 SS TRA TRA TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR T T J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Sustainability report continued Structure and governance of the Sustainability Committee Membership United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Malcolm Paul, Chairman Jim Marsh, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Danielle Le Breton, Group Human Resources Director Katy Maynard, Secretary to the Group Health and Safety Committee The Committee has been meeting regularly since the start of the sustainability initiative.
Key objectives Anchoring the Groups sustainability aims around common core principles.
Reporting on the sustainability activities undertaken by the businesses within the Group.
Setting and reviewing progress on challenging sustainability targets for the Group.
Key responsibilities Review sustainability issues and impacts, and the integration of sustainability into the Groups business.
Review and report to the Board on sustainability within the Groups supply chain.
Annually review the activities of the Groups community impact initiatives.
Review reporting to shareholders and other communities regarding sustainability activities.
Provide a forum for Group businesses to share sustainability best practice.
28 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Employees We only achieve what we do because of our people.
This Group is a remarkable place to work because of the talent and dedication of exceptional individuals, collaborating on engaging work.
We will continue to nurture our talent through the development of all our employees, while striving to grow the workplace of tomorrow.
We aim to attract and retain the best talent, to ensure our reward and recognition are competitive, equitable and exible, to engage and upskill our employees, to promote excellent performance and to value equality and advance diversity.
2018 achievements: Employee wellbeing champions have been nominated within some of our businesses, providing key contacts for employees on wellbeing problems and initiatives, and a sustainable way to drive the local wellbeing agenda of their businesses.
We have signed and supported the Women in Maritime pledge, making clear our support for creating positive gender diversity change within the organisation, and more widely, across the UK maritime sector.
We launched our first Group-wide employee survey, aimed amongst other matters at the Groups approach to sustainability.
The response was very encouraging with 53% of employees responding.
48% of respondents told us that they believe social and environmental issues are integral to the strategy of their business.
A People Development Forum has been established, consisting of senior managers from across the Group with the aim of sharing best practice and determining priorities in relation to employee-related matters.
We launched a parental transitions support programme which offers new parents access to online tools and or coaching to support them in the shift to combining their work and parenthood, with the aim of achieving smooth transitions for the individual and for the business as they leave for parental leave, and as they return.
The Group has established its Employee Value Proposition to help fide ne the culture and purpose of our Group.
This was developed by reference to feedback through employee engagement activities, including surveys and interviews with a range of employees across the Group.
The results will be used to help us attract talent, make us an employer of choice and differentiate the Group from our competitors.
We introduced Group talent development centres with the aim of providing Group-level coordinated support to our high potential employees in order to help them achieve their potential at the earliest opportunity.
The programme, which continues to track those individuals through their career with the Group, includes providing them with a bespoke development plan and subsequent development opportunities throughout the Group.
2019 goals: To increase the retention of talent.
To continue to empower our employees and make them feel engaged by providing clear development opportunities.
To refresh and strengthen the Groups approach to diversity and inclusion.
To appoint a Non-Executive Director to be responsible for the Boards engagement with our employees.
Two James Fisher Shipping Services of cer trainees on the divisions career advancement programme received external outstanding achievement awards, recognising the individuals commitment to maritime of cer training, which combines academic studies with practical sea time within the eet.
29 STRATEGIC REPORT J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Sustainability report continued Health and safety It is our main priority to ensure the health, safety and welfare of our employees, contractors and visitors to the Groups premises, as well as all those who come into contact with the Group in its diverse activities.
Our strong and proactive health and safety culture demands high standards, personal accountability and continuous improvements in this area.
That culture is set and overseen by the Group Health and Safety Committee.
Health and safety is the first item on the board agenda of every business within the Group, including the Company.
We continue to strive towards our ultimate aim of having no accidents or injuries.
2018 achievements: Recognising the impact of mental health on our people, and on our businesses through productivity and absence, we have introduced mental health first aiders into a number of businesses to help improve early-stage support for those with mental health issues.
Many of our businesses have taken part in the Time to Talk day organised by the Time to Change social movement, which aims to change how we all think and act about mental health problems.
Our first Group-wide employee survey identi ed that 95% of our employees recognise their personal responsibility to practice good health and safety whilst at work.
During the year, our Tankships business James Fisher Everard JFE made 836 voyages and carried over 3.3 billion litres of petroleum product without a single recordable injury or day away from work, and no product in the water.
JFE continued its on-going investment programme aimed at constant safety improvement around the eet, including recent investment in improved gas detection systems, tank rescue equipment and enhanced lifting equipment.
Our principal operating companies maintain internationally recognised occupational health and safety management systems accredited to OHSAS 18001 and management systems which are accredited to the international quality standard ISO 19001.
1 The Group has adopted the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 RIDDOR, and in 2018 the number of reportable incidents across the Group in 2018 was 2 2017: 5.
2 The Groups overall RIDDOR reportable frequency rate in 2018 was 0.04 2017: 0.
3 The Group recorded 4 lost time accidents LTAs in 2018 2017: 5.
2019 goals: To continue to strive towards zero incidents across the Group.
To continue to drive the focus on health and safety throughout James Fisher.
To set up a Health and Safety Hints and Tips section on the Group intranet to share best practice.
To introduce Health and Wellbeing programmes in all divisions.
To develop the Safe system of work across all divisions.
To continue to enhance reporting near misses.
1 A reportable incident under RIDDOR is a work-related injury which results in a persons incapacitation for more than seven days.
2 The RIDDOR reportable frequency rate is the number of RIDDOR reportable incidents per million hours of work.
3 An LTA is an incident which causes a worker to be incapacitated for three or more consecutive days, not including the day of incident.
30 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Environment We are committed to protecting the environment.
As our customers aspire to increasing environmental responsibility and achievements, all of our businesses support their efforts through continuous improvement and innovation to drive ef ciencies and energy-saving including through our suppl y chain.
We acknowledge the scienti c body of evidence that human activity is playing a large part in changes to our climate and we accept our responsibility to address this as part of our business activities.
Through the analysis of the products and services we deliver, we consider our main operational impacts are in emissions and the potential impact of handling oil-based products near water.
We are committed throughout the Group to improvement in these areas, as well as in other areas of environmental concern, including recycling and energy consumption more broadly.
2018 achievements: Energy consumption was measured across the Group by recording data on the combustion of fuel and the use of electricity at its facilities.
The Groups total greenhouse gas emissions GHG are set out below.
Emissions total in thousands of metric tons 2018 2017 CO2 equivalent from electricity consumption in facilities 1.9 2.3 CO2 from combustion of fuel at facilities and road vehicles 3.0 2.4 CO2 from combustion of fuel in vessels 94.4 84.0 Total emissions CO2 99.3 88.7 Emissions from the combustion of bunkers which fuel the tankers in the Tankships division amounted to 95% of the Groups total emissions 2017: 95%.
The bene t of sea transportation is that one 4,000 metric ton vessel can carry 150 times the volume of fuel carried by a single road tanker, which signi cantly reduces congestion and emissions to air.
The vessel fuel consumption has increased as there is one additional tanker compared to last year.
The Groups carbon intensity ratio calculated against the Groups revenue remained at at 0.02% 2017: 0.02%.
Our Tankships division operates a Ship Energy Ef ciency Management Plan to regulate shipping energy ef ciency and to control its marine GHG emissions.
Nearly all of our principal operating companies operate environmental management systems EMS certi ed to ISO 14001 standard.
This internationally recognised EMS enables a systematic approach to handling environmental issues.
Fendercare has instituted a waste management campaign using SMART targets to improve recycling activities within the business, including: fenders & hoses key constituents of its business activities, including entering into a research programme with the University of East Anglia to establish innovative procedures for recycling business-generated waste.
of ce waste, including replacing disposable cups with re-usable mugs, and providing personalised steel re llable water bottles in a bid to reduce the amount of plastic that is currently being taken out to windfarms.
2019 goals: To enable enhanced monitoring and reporting of our use of fuel, electricity and water on a Group basis.
To encourage our businesses to develop their supply chains to enhance responsible sourcing initiatives.
A team of volunteers from James Fisher worked together with others from ScottishPower Renewables, a key customer, to clear rubbish from a Suffolk beach as part of the Marine Conservation Societys Beachwatch beach cleaning and litter surveying programme.
The initiative formed part of a joint commitment with our customer to support regional community initiatives around the development of the East Anglia O ne offshore windfarm.
31 SS TRA TRA TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR T T
