John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The John Laing Group remains committed for the long term to its corporate responsibility agenda.
Our community investment strategy includes supporting our employees to make a significant positive impact on the communities in which they live and work.
Olivier Brousse CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Sustainability Report Under the aegis of an internal project launched in October 2018, we are focusing on not just how to sustain financial growth, but As set out in the Chairmans Statement, John Laings purpose is also on how to improve employee engagement and diversity.
to create value for all our stakeholders by investing in, developing One of the projects workstreams involves a group of employees and managing infrastructure projects, including renewable engaged in refreshing John Laings values.
energy, which respond to public needs, foster sustainable growth and improve the lives of communities around the world.
We are At 31 December 2018, the Group employed 169 employees in committed to operating with integrity and in a manner that is total 2017 158.
The percentage of employees located outside both ethical and transparent and to achieving our purpose and the UK increased from 39% at 31 December 2017 to 44% at our strategic and investment objectives by being a responsible 31 December 2018, as a result of continued recruitment overseas employer, investor and manager.
and a lower headcount in the UK.
We have an internationally diverse workforce: while some 40% of our employees are UK This section of the Annual Report sets out: i our approach as citizens, the balance comprises around 25 nationalities.
a responsible employer People section : ii how we improve the communities in which we live and work Community section : Equal opportunities iii our environmental impact as a business and how we generate a positive environmental impact through our sustainable We are committed to a positive working environment which is investments Environment section : free from any discrimination, harassment or unfair treatment, providing all employees with equal opportunities to develop within the Group and we have the appropriate policies in place PEOPLE to support this.
Introduction We recognise the value that differences bring, including but not Our employees are among our principal stakeholders and are at limited to gender, age, race, nationality, social background, professional and personal experiences and preferences.
We the heart of delivering our purpose.
Their skills, capabilities and expertise are vital to our success.
Aiming for consistent value make recruitment and promotion decisions based solely on the ability to perform each role.
No individual colleague or potential creation from our investment activities is part of our employee culture and this is demonstrated by the strong results in 2018. colleague will receive less favourable treatment on the grounds of age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, colour, race, John Laing aims to attract and retain, develop and reward high religion, nationality or ethnicity.
quality employees and to create an engaging, diverse and motivating working environment.
We support our people through Where an employees circumstances change, it is the Companys policy to do everything reasonably possible to ensure that a learning and development so they can maximise their career potential and their value as an employee, and we encourage them successful return to work is facilitated, either in the same job or in a different role.
to achieve an appropriate work-life balance.
We recognise that investing in our people is critical to the success of our business.
47 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Gender diversity Improving gender diversity Improving the diversity of our employees is important.
The steps taken included: Our priority is to recruit and retain a talented and diverse Signing up to the 30% Club and its campaign goals.
workforce and to pay all our employees fairly for what The 30% Club aims to develop a diverse pool of talent for they do.
all businesses through the efforts of their Chair and CEO We are strongly in favour of the benefits that gender members who are committed to better gender balance diversity brings and we are making progress in this area at all levels of their organisations: against the constraints of a small workforce and low staff Increased reporting in relation to diversity at Board and turnover.
At 31 December 2018, our overall gender balance Executive Committee level: was 26% female, 74% male.
At Board level, the split was 25% female, 75% male but with the appointment of the new A reminder to search firms used by the Group that Chief Financial Officer, this will increase to 37.5% female, shortlists must be strongly diverse and in particular 62.5% male.
Further information on the Boards diversity must include female candidates: policy can be found in the Nomination Committee Report Diversity targets for our Asia Pacific and North on pages 68 to 69.
American teams: We are continually looking to improve our gender balance Unconscious bias training rolled out across the Group: and took a number of steps during 2018.
These were aimed particularly at our activities outside the UK.
In our Encouragement to female employees to join female largely-UK central functions, the gender balance is 39% networking groups including Women in Infrastructure female, 61% male.
in the UK and the US and Steel Heels in Australia: and Establishing a diversity committee for the Asia Pacific region.
UK gender pay gap The bonus gap is driven by the diversity levels within the business and the fact that senior roles have higher bonus With less than 250 employees, of whom approximately 95 are opportunities: more men are in senior roles than women.
located in the UK, the Company is not required to report on its In addition, the bonus gap calculation as required under the gender pay gap.
This is the difference between the average relevant legislation does not take into account that we pro-rate amount that women and men are paid across the workforce.
bonuses for employees who work on a part-time basis, the However, we are supportive of transparency and have decided majority of whom are female.
voluntarily to disclose our gender pay gap.
At present it is higher than we would like to see.
This is primarily driven by the fact that Another factor is that the bonus structure for more senior we have more men in senior roles than women.
We also have a employees who comprise a higher proportion of men higher proportion of women than men in more junior roles.
incorporates a higher element based on corporate rather than personal performance.
This means that in years of strong Our bonus gaps are higher than our gender pay gaps.
All our corporate performance, the bonus gap between men and employees are entitled to participate in our Annual Bonus plan.
Hourly pay and bonus difference between women and men John Laing employees across all entities in the UK at 31 December 2018 Mean gender bonus pay gap Mean gender hourly pay gap Median gender hourly pay gap Median gender bonus pay gap On average women earn Women earn On average women earn Women earn 49.4% 46.3% 80.9% 86.6% less than men less than men less than men less than men These figures are irrespective of employee roles or levels in the organisation, expressed as a percentage of male average pay.
Proportion of UK employees receiving a bonus All our employees are entitled to participate in our bonus plan.
The employees who did not receive a bonus during 2018 were In the 12 months ended 31 December 2018 new joiners who did not receive a bonus relating to the year ended 31 December 2017 as they were not employees of the Proportion of female UK employees receiving a bonus 67.7% Group at that time.
Proportion of male UK employees receiving a bonus 91.7% 48 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Pay quartiles Closing the gender pay gap Based on all John Laing employees in the UK at 31 December 2018 We recognise that we have more to do to improve our gender pay gap including creating more opportunities for women to Female Male progress.
We will continue to monitor and analyse the gender pay gap and we are committed to reducing it, building on the Upper quartile 8.7% 91.3% progress being made and increasing our representation of Upper middle quartile 8.3% 91.7% women at all levels of the organisation.
However, we recognise Lower middle quartile 43.5% 56.5% that given the size of our workforce and our low employee Lower quartile 73.9% 26.1% turnover rates, this will take time and continual focus.
Total UK employee population 33.3% 66.7% We are confident that the gender pay gap is not the result of an equal pay issue.
We have the appropriate checks and balances in place to ensure that our employees remuneration is appropriate The table above shows the gender distribution across four for their role and their personal performance.
Remuneration for equally divided hourly pay quartiles, each containing new recruits is based on market-driven benchmarking.
Key Initiatives to close the gender pay gap In addition to our on-going steps to improve diversity which are set out above, our additional initiatives to close the gender pay gap are as follows: The development of a 3-5 year plan to improve diversity Review flexible working policies and their application to and reduce the gender pay gap to enable us to better consider other ways to enhance flexible working: understand and remove any barriers for women Continue our support for those returning from career reaching senior management positions: breaks: and Progress against the plan to be monitored by the Ensure that a healthy work life balance is promoted.
Executive Committee and the Board: Our staff numbers at 31 December 2018, broken down by certain remuneration and gender criteria, were: Total Male Female Number Number % of total Number % of total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total Group 169 158 125 115 74 73 44 43 26 27 Employees earning above 118 101 104 92 88 91 14 9 12 9 70,000 per annum Executive Directors 2 2 2 2 100 100 Board Directors 8 7 6 6 75 86 2 1 25 14 Training and development Recruitment and selection We aim to enhance the skills, development and learning of all our Through a fair, transparent and consistent process, we seek to employees through external courses and seminars, sponsorship attract and select high calibre candidates who will maximise for undertaking professional qualifications, secondments, their contribution to the business.
We recruit a small number of development assessments and coaching and mentoring.
employees each year: the number varies from year to year and our employee turnover rate is low.
Retention of our employees through effective development is key to the success of the business.
Throughout 2018, we focused Recognition, reward and retention on the development requirements of individuals and teams, We review our pay and benefits structure on an annual basis supported where necessary with external facilitation, to ensure to ensure that we remain competitive within the market, are teams were operating effectively.
attractive to potential new employees, and provide the right link We manage the development of our people through a bi-annual between performance and reward.
As well as having a competitive performance development review which applies to all employees, pay and benefits structure, we recognise and reward employee including senior managers.
This encourages a two-way performance through bonuses and long-term incentive plans.
discussion on performance and objectives between individuals and their managers.
It also allows individuals to discuss their career aspirations and identify development opportunities with their manager.
49 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Supportive working environment Grievance procedures whistleblowing We recognise the importance of a working environment which We have procedures in place to enable employees to pursue enables employees to achieve a balance between their work and legitimate grievances.
In addition, our whistleblowing policy personal life to the mutual benefit of the individual, the business enables employees to report concerns on matters affecting and society.
Our aim is to create a diverse environment that their employment or the Group, without fear of recrimination.
supports employees and their general wellbeing, maintains Health and safety effective working practices and enables a productive and positive balance between work and life outside work.
The Group has a John Laing believes that proper attention to the health and number of work-life balance policies and practices in place which safety of its employees, subcontractors and the communities support flexible working, working parents and periods of absence within which the Group operates is a key element of effective from the workplace.
The Group seeks to exceed statutory business management and we see health and safety as an minimum requirements where it can.
For example, we offer important measure of business performance and essential to enhanced maternity, paternity and adoption pay arrangements.
The Group is committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of its employees and all other persons who The Group also provides an employee assistance programme may be affected by its direct activities, or those under its control.
which is available to all employees, their partners and their The projects in which the Group invests maintain their own immediate family.
This is an independent service which offers health and safety policies.
support and counselling on a wide range of work, personal and family issues.
Human rights Employee engagement We recognise both the business imperative and the moral obligation to carry out our activities in a socially responsible and Employees are regularly informed of progress and updates in environmentally sustainable manner, with due consideration the business through conference calls conducted by senior given to human rights.
A suite of formal policies, including management as well as through other briefings on topical and policies on Equal Opportunities and Fair Treatment, Corporate relevant business issues.
The Groups 20-25 most senior Responsibility and Human Rights, underpins this aim.
Copies managers, together with other employees by invitation, met on of these policies can be found on our website www.
two occasions in 2018 over one to two days to address specific business issues and future strategy.
We comply fully with applicable human rights legislation in the countries in which we operate, for example, legislation covering In February 2019, we undertook an employee engagement the right to collective bargaining, equal remuneration and survey.
The results are being reviewed and will be communicated protection against discrimination.
to our employees in the Spring, with an action plan to address the key matters arising.
A follow up survey is planned for later The Group, including the projects in which it invests, has a large in the year to assess progress.
number of suppliers across the jurisdictions in which it operates.
We believe the risk of modern slavery or human trafficking in Conduct and behaviour our supply chains and procurement processes to be low given that our activities do not directly involve operations where modern The standards of conduct and behaviour that we require of our employees are set out in our policies and procedures and these, slavery or human trafficking are known to occur.
All new suppliers, however, are asked to confirm that their organisation together with our values and the behaviours attributable to those values, constitute our code of conduct.
complies and take all possible steps to ensure that all their suppliers and subcontractors also comply with all applicable Anti-bribery and corruption laws, statutes and regulations.
Similar confirmations are requested of the parties involved when we invest in or bid for John Laing has Group-wide policies on anti-bribery and new projects.
corruption ABC, and gifts and hospitality.
All employees are required to complete online training modules covering potential John Laing is committed, where we have sufficient influence, ABC and anti-money laundering AML situations.
All new to ensuring that the projects we invest in follow our practices employees must complete this training shortly after joining and policies, including those on modern slavery and human and all employees are required to repeat the training every trafficking.
We will continue to monitor our supply chain and two years or, in certain roles, annually.
Completion of this investment portfolio in relation to slavery and human trafficking training is tracked and failure to complete it is reported to the through regular reviews.
Modern Slavery Act In addition, our bidding framework includes the requirement for bidding teams to complete ABC and AML reviews on partners, We published our statement on Modern Slavery for the financial consultants and contractors as part of each new bid, particularly year ended 31 December 2017 on our website in March 2018. in respect of parties we have not previously worked with.
There We will update this statement by 31 March 2019.
It sets out the is a specific protocol in place for interaction with governmental steps the Group has taken to ensure slavery and human departments and officials.
All consultants, suppliers and trafficking are not taking place in any part of our business or partners must also be made aware of our ABC policy.
50 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 JLCT 2018 Awards COMMUNITY We are committed to our corporate responsibility agenda.
Our community investment strategy is based on supporting our employees to make a significant positive impact on the communities within which they live and work.
We encourage all 25 43 1.16m our employees to involve themselves in community activities that Organisations Grants across Funds awarded received donations the world in 2018 benefit their local communities, whether or not related to the Groups activities.
Community Investment Since 2006, we have been an active Patron of the Princes Trust, Some examples of the grants made are described below: which has allowed us to support disadvantaged and vulnerable young people across the UK, helping them move into work, Community Education Homelessness Young & Disadvantaged education or training.
Over the last year, a number of employees have taken part in events to raise funds for the Princes Trust Northern Pathways Development: Clarence Correctional Centre, including the Future Steps Challenge and a cycling event Australia organised by one of our employees.
In September 2018, six organisations in Clarence Valley, Australia were selected as beneficiaries of funding and in-kind The John Laing Charitable Trust support from the Northern Pathways consortium building the The John Laing Charitable Trust JLCT was formed in Clarence Correctional Centre.
The consortium comprises: John December 1962.
JLCT provides welfare support to existing and Laing, Serco Foundation and John Holland.
JLCT was delighted former employees of the Group and their immediate families to support the Group and its partners with these community who are in need of financial assistance.
The recipients and their projects were: charitable grants to help relieve poverty, incapacity and sickness.
New School of Arts Neighbourhood House Inc NSOA : All John Laing Group employees or members of their immediate Employment of a youth worker for 12 months to support a family, whether in the UK or overseas, directly involved in a programme to achieve positive outcomes for young people charity are able to apply to JLCT to support a good cause.
in their community by improving access to information, Additionally, JLCT is able to match charitable donations raised facilitating supported referrals to local services and by employees up to a value of 1,500 per year.
During 2018, programmes, and coordinating activities and events to 50 applications were received resulting in donations of 44,000. enhance community connection.
th Clarence River Domestic & Family Violence Specialist 170 Anniversary of John Laing Services: Redevelopment of a community centre playground th In 2018, John Laing celebrated its 170 anniversary.
To mark to meet current Australian standards.
the occasion, the Trustees of JLCT pledged funds of 1.5 million to support the Groups charitable causes with a focus on the key Gurehlgam Corporation: Engagement of a suitable areas of community, education, homelessness and the young Aboriginal person to develop programmes for the Clarence and disadvantaged.
Police Citizens Youth Club: The programmes goal developed 2018 grants by priority with New South Wales police is to get at-risk young people 177k Fit for Work and transition them from training to work 270k experience to full-time employment or apprenticeships.
Nungera Co-op: Renovations to a community building in 85k Maclean.
Grafton Ngerrie Aboriginal Land Council: Renovations to a community centre in South Grafton.
Community Education Homelessness Young & Disadvantaged 626k 2018 grants by region 474k 458k Asia Pacific Europe North America Part-time youth worker, Renee Fahey centre, pictured with Aboriginal Youth Workers 226k and Clarence Youth Action volunteers at one of NSOAs Chill and Chat sessions in Market Square, Grafton, January 2019.
51 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED A RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR Auckland South Corrections Facility Wiri, New Zealand The Auckland South Corrections Facility ASCF aligns clearly with our own values, which are to invest in projects that leave communities more engaged and better served than we found them.
A revolutionary approach to PPP in New Zealand This project was an important opportunity for investors like John Laing to participate in a new way of approaching a PPP project.
The original tender required private partners to bring creativity and innovation to the project in order to achieve long-term positive social outcomes.
ASCF The New Zealand government had a focus on reducing re-offending, particularly amongst Maori offenders.
Maori have a disproportionate representation in the prison sector in comparison to their representation in the general population.
Specifically, bidders for the ASCF project were asked to: 1.
Reduce recidivism among the Maori prisoner population by at least 10% more than other prisons in New Zealand: 2.
Achieve reintegration and social outcomes for Maori prisoners.
The SecureFuture consortium, which included John Laing and Serco, was chosen to deliver the project, based on the strength and experience of the consortium members.
The consortiums proposal also focused on meeting the required social outcome goals and need for reduced re-offending.
Working closely with the design and construction team, and using the Serco Responsible Prisoner Model as the basis for the operator-led design, John Laing was part of the team that delivered the finished facility on budget and five weeks ahead of schedule.
Designed for change The design of the prison is focused on rehabilitation, giving prisoners more autonomy and support as they go through their sentences.
Inmates begin their sentence in a standard prison block.
If their behaviour improves and they engage with education programmes and training, they gradually move to improved accommodation comprising residential style units and start to live in an environment which is more aligned to outside life.
Symbolically, they move from the back of the prison site towards the front gate as they come closer to their release date.
The prison is managed by a dedicated Serco team on a 25-year contract, and John Laing has two directors on the governance board.
Design-at-a-glance The ASCF buildings were deliberately positioned to give views of the Maunga, a significant landmark for Maori people in the area: The buildings also include a wide range of culturally-specific design features to help Maori prisoners connect with their heritage: The Visitors Centre has access to the outdoors and a play area for visiting children: Furnishings are soft and brightly coloured, and not fixed to the ground with the exception of high-risk prisoner quarters : Inmates have access to technology to help with socialisation and training: and The design introduced cooking and self-care facilities to encourage inmate independence and confidence before release.
52 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Education Young & Disadvantaged ENVIRONMENT New York Student Sponsorship Programme, US John Laing Group is committed to operating with integrity and in a manner that is both ethical and transparent.
We believe we can For more than three decades, Student Sponsor Partners SSP has addressed New York Citys educational disparity for achieve our strategic and investment objectives while having a positive impact on the environment.
low-income, academically vulnerable students by providing access to high-quality education and adult guidance and Although the direct activities of the Group are judged to have a mentorship.
SSP is dedicated to providing a bright future for low environmental impact, we believe we can deliver significant these deserving students.
Five of John Laings North American positive social and environmental value through our employees have made commitments to spend time each month investments.
We invest in a wide range of projects including with high school mentees over their four-year high school social and affordable housing, education, healthcare, green journey.
Thanks to generous funding from JLCT, these five transport and renewable energy, which have a measurable students are receiving a quality, private high school education environmental or social benefit alongside a financial return.
All five students matriculated into their sophomore year at their respective schools and are Increasingly, the overall market for greenfield infrastructure is weathering the transition from public middle schools to driven by several factors, but especially population growth, private high schools well, thanks to the support from their urbanisation and climate change.
We acknowledge that climate John Laing mentors.
change presents both a risk and opportunity to our business.
For example, the objectives of the Paris Agreement to limit global Community temperature increase to 2C above pre-industrial levels may drive significant changes to public policies in many countries, which Solar panel installation, CERES Community Environment Park, could impact upon our current or future investments.
However, Brunswick East, Australia as countries try to increase the amount of electric energy JLCT awarded a grant in relation to a solar panel project at the generated from renewable sources, this will also create a growing CERES Community Environment Park in Brunswick East.
In market for renewable generation infrastructure projects.
November 2018, 37.5kW of new panels were installed.
The panels The Group aspires to reduce the impact on the environment are expected to produce a total of c45,000kWh of electricity in their of the infrastructure projects in which it invests, by reducing first year of operation.
This amounts to approximately 19% of the greenhouse gas emissions and the volumes of waste going to landfill.
current total annual electricity requirements at the main park Over the last three years, the Group has committed 525 million and should avoid the emission of over 50kg of CO per annum.
In the future, the Group will continue to improve disclosure of the environmental impact Community Young & Disadvantaged across its portfolio.
In 2018, JLCT supported three charities linked to the Speyside community in Scotland: Generating positive environmental impact through our investments Speyside Community Car Share Scheme serves the rural Hornsdale Wind Farm, South Australia Speyside Glenlivet area, which includes John Laings The three phases of the Hornsdale Wind Farm currently together biomass plant investment, to provide a volunteer-based comprise South Australias largest renewable energy generator, transport service for those in the community who are made up of 99 turbines with a total installed capacity of 316 MW.
socially isolated by reasons of age, infirmity or disability.
Australia has committed to reduce emissions by 26-28% from Moray Foodbank provides food parcels to people living in 2005 levels by 2030 and the Australian Capital Territory ACT financial hardship in Moray.
has a target to source 90% of its electricity from renewable Moray School Bank offers new school uniforms and warm sources by 2020. winter clothing and footwear to children living in financial The Hornsdale Wind Farm has an offtake arrangement to sell its hardship in Moray.
electricity to ACT and will play a significant part in moving ACT closer to its target.
Homelessness Situated North of Jamestown, Hornsdale Wind Farm supplies Habitat for Humanity GTA Greater Toronto Area, Canada approximately 1,050,000 MWh of clean, renewable electricity into JLCT awarded a grant of 50,000 to support the Habitat for the national power grid each year.
Humanity, Canada project which helps working and lower income families to build strength, stability and self-reliance through This equates to savings of approximately 297,000 tonnes of affordable home ownership.
Around 80 children will benefit from carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e per annum, equivalent to 2 the project through improved conditions for their development taking 59,000 cars off the road.
New homeowners will be trained in various home The project and its stakeholders will join with the Canberra ownership skills through a series of dedicated workshops.
Institute of Technology CIT to establish the CIT Renewable Energy Skills Centre of Excellence which will entrench ACT as the centre for wind energy trade skills for Australia and the Asia-Pacific region.
The Centre of Excellence will take an important place in the growing ACT renewable energy industry cluster and reinforce Canberras position as the renewable energy capital of Australia.
53 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED DIRECT IMPACT Project specifics Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 John Laing Group Interest 30% 20% 20% John Laing has fewer than 170 employees worldwide and Equity Invested 12.1m 6m 10.2m therefore has a relatively low environmental impact.
Nevertheless, we are committed to minimising that impact and Operational Date Nov 2016 June 2017 Dec 2017 to improving our environmental performance wherever possible.
Installed Capacity 102 MW 102 MW 112 MW For example, in 2018 we switched to a 100% renewable electricity supply at our London Head Office, our largest  site.
Through its investment in this project, John Laing is playing an From our network of 10 offices across the world, we meet the important enabling role in the development of the renewable requirements of applicable local environmental legislation: energy sector in Australia, supporting the achievement of both minimise waste and maximise recycling: measure our carbon national and international climate change targets.
In 2018 John footprint annually: and publish the results in our annual reports.
Laing was accepted as a member of Australias Clean Energy Council, a network of over 600 leading businesses operating in In the future we aim to improve our disclosure through responding support of renewable energy.
to public Environmental, Social and Governance benchmarks.
We are committed to operating responsibly and to showing how Speyside Biomass Combined Heat and Power Plant, Scotland we are performing.
John Laing, initially along with the Green Investment Bank in the UK, has invested in a new green energy facility in Speyside, GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Scotland developed by Estover Energy Limited.
The project is capable of powering more than 20,000 homes and provides heat As a listed company, we have a regulatory obligation to report for one of the worlds most iconic whisky distilleries.
greenhouse gas emissions GHG pursuant to Section 7 of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Project specifics Regulations 2013.
John Laing Group Interest 43.35% Methodology Equity Invested 13.3m We quantify and report our organisational GHG according to the Operational Date 2017 Greenhouse Gas Protocol and have utilised the UK Government Lifetime Up to 40 years 2018 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and Max electrical capacity gross 14 MWe International Energy Agency 2018 Factors to calculate CO e 2 Carbon avoided per annum 42,000 tCO e 2 emissions from corresponding activity data.
Supplier-specific emission factors were sourced in grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour of electricity CO kWh where available.
2 The new biomass Combined Heat and Power CHP plant near This report has been prepared in accordance with the recent Craigellachie, Moray, is capable of generating 87.4 GWh per amendments to the GHG Protocols Scope 2 Guidance and annum of renewable electricity.
It can also generate 76.8 GWh therefore includes both location-based and market-based per annum of renewable heat.
Together, the carbon saving Scope 2 emissions figures.
When quantifying emissions using equates to 42,000 tCO e per annum, the equivalent of taking 2 the market-based approach, we have used a supplier specific over 8,400 cars off the road.
If this was not possible a residual mix emissions factor was then used, and as a last The project also created 123 jobs 100 in peak construction and 23 permanent and supports one of Scotlands most important option the location-based grid emissions factor was used.
The new CHP facility contributes to reducing Performance the cost of energy at the adjacent Macallan distillery by providing around 90% of the steam needed in the distillation process.
By In 2018, we emitted a total of 32.7 tCO e Scope 1 direct 2 using biomass to generate heat instead of natural gas, the emissions from fuel combustion and operation of our facilities.
distillery should reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by over This is a 3% decrease since 2017 due to a decrease in natural 17,500 tCO e per annum, equivalent to taking almost 3,500 cars gas and vehicle fuel usage.
During the reporting year, the Group undertook a number of The plant is fuelled with sustainable forestry by-product sourced energy efficiency actions, with a particular focus on the London from the local area, one of the UKs most productive forestry office, which is the largest direct energy consumer.
A consortium of local growers and forest industry implemented in 2018 included a reduction in printing, replacing suppliers supplies the plant.
This has several local benefits, old coffee and hot water machines with more efficient alternatives including providing an additional market for low-grade wood, and moving to web-based telecommunications to remove the and helping local forestry growers by supporting the production need for desk handsets.
This in turn makes local forestry and Through electricity purchased for our own use Scope 2 indirect, woodland management more economic, as well as supporting we emitted a total of 111 tCO e when taking the location-based jobs in the supply chain.
2 approach and 80 tCO e when taking the market-based 2 Local scale biomass plants like Speyside are good sources of approach.
This is a 4% decrease in location-based emissions low carbon energy, with benefits extending well beyond the local since 2017.
Using a market-based approach this is a 23% sphere.
They can help tackle climate change by reducing CO decrease, as our London office now procures electricity from 2 emissions, and by using locally sourced and sustainable wood 100% renewable sources.
fuel they reduce our reliance on imported fossil fuels and create We have also chosen to voluntarily report Scope 3 emissions a more secure energy supply.
arising from our business travel and water consumption where information is available.
54 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The table below shows our emissions by scope for 2018 and 2017.
Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK are reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO rather than tCO e. 2 2 Year-on-year Change in Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG 2018 2017 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 32.7 tCO e 33.8 tCO e 2 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for our own use Scope 2: location-based 110.9 tCO e 115.9 tCO e 2 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for our own use Scope 2: market-based 80.2 tCO 103.5 tCO 2 2 Other indirect emissions Scope 3 1,233.8 tCO e 618.0 tCO e 2 2 2017 Scope 1 and 2 figures have been restated due to availability of improved data.
The table below shows our total emissions and intensity figure for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Location-based approach Market-based approach 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total Scope 1 and 2 143.6 tCO e 149.7 tCO e 112.9 tCO e 137.3 tCO e 2 2 2 2 tCO per full-time equivalent employee 0.85 tCO e 0.95 tCO e 0.67 tCO e 0.87 tCO e 2 2 2 2 2 2017 figures have been restated due to availability of improved data.
Market-based figures include Scope 2 in tCO.
2 There was a decrease in Scope 1 emissions due to a decrease in Total emissions 2017 and 2018 natural gas consumption and leased vehicle fuel usage for the tCO e 2 Amsterdam office.
Scope 2 emissions decreased year-on-year 1,233.8 for several reasons, including a reduction in emission factors in the countries in which the Group operates.
In 2018, there was an increase in long-haul and international air travel as a result of the Groups growing international operations, which resulted in an increase of Scope 3 emissions.
A larger proportion of actual business travel data was also available compared to 2017, 618.0 meaning less of the data was estimated.
The accuracy of Scope 3 reporting is therefore likely to have improved as a result.
Reporting boundaries and limitations We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the 110.9 115.9 2018 operational control approach and have adopted a materiality 32.7 33.8 2017 threshold of 10% for GHG reporting purposes.
The GHG sources Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 that constituted our operational boundary for the 2018 reporting emissions tCO e location-based emissions tCO e 2 2 period were: emissions tCO e 2 Scope 1: Natural gas combustion within boilers and fuel combustion within leased vehicles Scope 2 emissions in 2018 by methodology tCO e and tCO 2 2 Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption for our own use within buildings and leased electric vehicles 110.9 Scope 3: Business travel and the supply and treatment of water 80.2 Assumptions and estimations In some cases, missing information has been estimated either by extrapolating available data from the reporting period or by using information from 2017 as a proxy.
Actual information was not available for the New York, Auckland, Toronto, Bogota or Los Angeles offices and therefore an average annual consumption figure per square metre of floor area was used to estimate electricity consumption at these sites.
These sites typically have low employee headcounts and energy supply is managed by the building landlord.
Scope 2 Scope 2 location-based market-based Vehicle mileage information for business travel was not available emissions tCO e emissions tCO e 2 2 for all locations, therefore 2017 information has been used as a proxy where appropriate.
Business travel data was not available for the Netherlands, Canada and the Asia Pacific region: John Laing will seek to broaden data coverage to include these locations in future.
Information on refrigerant usage was not available, therefore refrigerant emissions are excluded.
55 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
