Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Shaping our strategy with our stakeholders Our vision is for a world thats cleaner and healthier, today and for future generations and our strategy is designed to achieve it.
Our stakeholders are crucial to our long term success.
Their views inform and help shape our strategy.
We work together with them as we execute it: they input into it and benefit from the value it creates.
Pages 18 and 19: How we create value We always seek to engage with and listen to our stakeholders to understand their views.
We tailor this in different ways for our different stakeholders so that it encourages them to share with us what they expect or need from us, or tell us about any concerns.
Governments and Customers Investors trade associations By working closely with our customers, JM is listed on the London Stock Exchange We inform and contribute to debate, we aim to provide them with the best and is a constituent of the FTSE 100. mostly in areas where our science and solutions and excellent service.
We provide investors with fair, balanced technology expertise can have a positive and understandable information about the impact.
We see our role as being a company, its performance and prospects.
We encourage two way conversation and regularly seek their feedback.
Why we engage Understanding customers complex By providing open and transparent Policy and regulatory changes affect problems helps us research, develop information and engaging in two way many aspects of our business.
They and apply our science to give them the dialogue, investors are able to make create a framework in which we must best solution to their challenges.
operate and their impact on our customers can provide opportunities for growth.
Our impact We provide class leading scientific Feedback from investors forms part of By sharing information about what is solutions that contribute to a cleaner, the boards strategic discussions.
technically possible, we have provided healthier world.
useful insight for policymakers in areas such as vehicle emissions legislation.
Pages 32 to 37 Page 55 Page 55 Page 23 Pages 97 and 98 Pages 22 to 24 3 5 20 What matters most Materiality map The map below highlights the areas of focus for JM which we have identified as key Our regular materiality assessment helps to our business and most important to our stakeholders.
us to focus on the areas that matter most to our stakeholders and where we make Governance the greatest positive or negative contribution to society.
From it we define our material areas.
We review them Sustainability every year, either by engaging with our leadership stakeholders through an external JMs ability consultancy or by conducting our own to impact internal review.
In 2017 18 we carried Wider out an internal review which considered Ethical business practices society and compliance feedback from stakeholders gained Supply Climate through our interactions with them chain change risk during the year.
Our operations Financial Community Air quality sustainability engagement Pages 204 and 205: GRI Standard Content Index Greenhouse gas Diversity and emissions inclusion Health and Water use safety Employee recruitment Modern slavery and retention Resource scarcity and child labour Environmental Social Responsible sourcing Product lifecycle management Suppliers and Our people Communities other partners We work closely with our core suppliers.
Our people drive our business.
We want Our operations are part of local We also participate in collaborative them to be engaged with our vision and to communities around the world.
We scientific programmes with other feel confident that they are coming to work strive to be a good citizen and provide companies and academic experts.
in a safe, ethical and inclusive environment.
Dialogue with suppliers is essential to High levels of engagement and enablement We engage with communities to mitigate risks in the value chain and ensure in a safe, sustainable and supportive culture understand how we can make a positive a responsible approach.
Collaborative contributes directly to JMs success.
impact, in line with our vision for a relationships with other science experts cleaner, healthier world.
in industry and academia furthers our technical expertise.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct aims to Our employee engagement survey helps us Our community investments around the ensure responsible behaviours in our value to focus on the areas that matter most to world support local projects through chains.
Our scientific collaborations create our people.
provision of cash and through mutually beneficial outcomes for JM and volunteering.
Pages 28 and 29 Pages 48 to 59 Pages 54 and 55 Pages 40 to 42 Page 24 6 4 1 2 21 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
