Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report People Our people are key in delivering our strategy and achieving our vision.
We want to harness their commitment to our sustainability goals.
At the same time, we want them to be confident that they are coming to work in a safe and healthy environment, with a strong ethical culture, clear values and a positive approach to diversity and inclusion.
Sustainable business goals Our values He alth and Our Communit y Protecting Innovating safety engagement people Acting with Working Owning people and and integrity together what we do the planet improving 1 2 6 48 Creating the right culture No compromise on health and safety: doing the right thing without question: engaged and enabled people, ready to play their part.
Three of our 2025 goals relate to people We expect our leaders to walk the talk, These are special short term safety plans and cover health and safety, employee for example, through site visits and getting specific to a particular site based on its engagement and volunteering in the involved in questions, conversations risk profile and EHS performance in community.
They continue work already and updates.
These in place and build on our achievements.
We also expect our line managers special plans are over and above our For example, under our Sustainability to take responsibility and give continuous annual EHS plans.
2017 programme, we reduced lost time emphasis and clarity on health and safety injury and illness rates by 25% and requirements.
And employees are being My Team, My Responsibility occupational health incidents by 75%.
empowered to participate actively in We have continued to implement But now we are setting the bar higher EHS activities.
We are placing a special My Team, My Responsibility, the training for ourselves and there are significant emphasis on what we call high potential programme that builds on our EHS new inclusions in our targets.
learning events, where we can draw behaviour awareness programme and As a company handling chemicals lessons from incidents and risky aligns with our EHS behaviour standard.
and hazardous materials, we must behaviour.
Across JM, everyone is The training supports work we have maintain and continuously improve required to follow five clear and simple already done to encourage employees our health surveillance systems and safety principles and with a health and to take personal responsibility for safety.
safety element a requirement of all Team leaders receive training on how employees performance reviews, we to deliver the interactive programme.
1 ensure it remains firmly on everyones Keeping our people healthy Back at their local site, team action plans radar and that they are clear about and safe are developed, along with how they will what is expected from them.
These are later submitted to a Our vision is for a cleaner and healthier We have designated a core group third party consultancy for audit.
As we embark on our sustainable of our health and safety policies as of the programme is to help us identify business framework, health and safety lifesaving policies.
These policies cover preventative measures to avoid incidents and our aspiration to zero harm heads known dangers, where policy breaches from happening in the first place.
It also the list of our six new goals to 2025. could endanger life or lead to serious builds the skills and confidence of team We are building on decades of hard work injury.
We have eight lifesaving policies leaders, removes employee reluctance to to enhance health and safety.
However, covering areas such as process isolation, speak up and make the right behaviours we saw our performance plateau in permit to work, driving, working at second nature.
We plan to complete the 2017 18 so much remains to be done height, guarding dangerous machinery implementation of this by end of 2018. in an area where both leadership and and isolating electrical equipment, and employee awareness must always be have refreshed them during the year.
Process safety risk management They are available in local languages and During the last year we created a we are providing guidance to our sites One area of special concern for us is strategic environment, health and safety on how to implement them, using tools process safety risk management PSRM, EHS leadership committee that such as e-learning, gap assessments which is all about how we safely manage developed and approved a three year and internal audits.
The first e-learning our most hazardous processes.
We are EHS roadmap, taking us up to 2021.
We module was an overall awareness on all committed to improving safety by have analysed our current position in key eight of our lifesaving policies and was embedding process safety capability in areas such as process safety, lifesaving completed by about 8,000 staff who had our sites through training at all levels.
policies, occupational health and EHS access via e-mail.
For staff without e-mail, We have completed PSRM training for capability and have defined where we internal briefings were carried out.
96 of our senior executives and also want to be by 2021.
These clear targets The main causes of injuries across 312 of our site leadership teams.
This and the interim milestones will shape JM are slips, trips and falls, hand injuries training was developed with Cogent Skills our activities over the next years.
We have set a in the UK and meets the national training Our roadmap to 2021 has four behaviour standard in order to prevent standards for process safety.
A PSRM main elements: leadership and injury, the task now is to ensure that experts group has been established which personal ownership, managing key employees remain aware of their personal holds regular meetings to discuss strategy risks, management processes and safety at all times, and that of their and implementation.
the effectiveness of our EHS staff.
We know from our EHS audits While formal tasks have been set for all which sites have the highest rates of four elements and their components, injury and where they stand in meeting what underpins the whole roadmap is our behaviour standard.
To improve personal engagement with the plan.
performance on these sites, we have introduced safety improvement plans.
49 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report During the year we have updated We continue to conduct work on key Driving improvement our own PSRM Policy which defines areas such as platinum salt exposure We provide ongoing training on health applicable processes, i. e. those with high because platinum salt sensitivity can and safety to maintain employees hazards such as flammable gas and toxic occur in some, but not all, employees who awareness towards known risks and advise liquids, and also provided detailed are exposed to certain types of platinum on the top injury trends.
Our Enablon guidance for this.
We have completed salts during the course of their work.
health and safety reporting platform is maximum credible event MCE studies We have improved our management used for reporting and analysing risks, and gap assessments against our of platinum salts and are working with which helps us target areas of concern.
We also have developed the International Platinum Group Metals In September 2017 we held a three a process safety audit protocol and Association IPA to gain a better day conference and training session in audited selected sites.
understanding of the epidemiology of North America, attended by 23 EHS The focus for the coming year is those at higher risk of sensitisation.
the completion of the action plans from We are seeing an increase in mental During the conference attendees shared the MCE studies and the gap assessments health incidents involving stress and best practice, networked and obtained against our PSRM Policy, training our we are responding with research and a deeper understanding of the JM EHS process safety champions and embedding planned action.
Following a pilot survey, strategy, enabling them to better drive process safety indicators.
We are also we identified three factors that are EHS performance in their areas.
reviewing the resources we have on leading to stress in our workplaces: We have an ongoing programme of PSRM and plan to meet the requirements work relationships, work pressures and regular EHS assurance audits which are for these with in-house capabilities or organisational change.
Until recently, undertaken using global protocols.
companies have not recognised 2017 18, we undertook 26 audits at our sufficiently the toll that mental health manufacturing and R&D facilities.
In the UK alone, over Occupational health 44% of our manufacturing sites 11 million working days a year are lost are compliant with BS OHSAS 18001, Occupational health also remains because of a mental health problem, the internationally recognised British important for us.
While the number of with one in four people affected.
Standard that sets out requirements occupational illnesses reported each We are putting in place employee for occupational health and safety year remains low, we remain vigilant assistance programmes EAPs in all of management good practice.
on both known and recently emerging our major countries to support our In addition, our group occupational types of illness.
EAPs are voluntary, work-based health and policy director visits up to five Our approach to occupational health programmes that offer free and sites a year to audit their occupational is covered at the group and business confidential assessments, short term health programmes.
At group level, for example, we set counselling support, referrals and consultants have been appointed in policy and provide guidance for the follow-up services to employees who have Europe, India, the US and China.
They management of chemical exposure, personal and or work related problems.
provide help in identifying local problems which is implemented at our sites.
Ergonomics and the prevention of and implementing solutions.
Chemical exposure is a major area of musculoskeletal disorders also remain focus for us and incidents are declining.
These are tackled at the level of our businesses based on guidance that is provided at group level.
Lost time injuries and illnesses Lost time injuries and illnesses Occupational illness cases by event type by region Number Rate Rest of of cases 1,000 employees Other World Asia 8% 4% Chemical Lifting and 3% 30 3.0 related Europe handling 10% 66% 21% 25 2.5 Exposure to North 20 2.0 workplace America stressor 27% Slip, trip 1.5 15 10% or fall 19% 1.0 10 5 0.5 Struck against struck by object 0 0.0 32% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Occupational Rate per illness cases 1,000 employees 50
