All of our manufacturing sites have The drop in contractor LTIIR was due The survey continued to reveal formal health and safety committees to to improved classification and reporting mental wellbeing programmes as the help monitor, collect feedback and advise of contractor hours worked, which least well performing area of occupational on occupational safety programmes.
It was also the lowest performing They are led by site senior management to 2,171,462 during 2017 18.
There were topic from sites reporting A and B scores.
and meet on a regular basis to cascade no contractor fatalities in 2017 18: the last We are aware of a rising incidence of plans and ideas to and from our workforce.
one occurred in October 2010. mental ill health and are conducting Over half of our manufacturing sites The number of occupational internal research to help tackle the have a formal joint worker-management illnesses reported during 2017 18 was problem and provide proactive guidance health and safety committee comprised eight, giving a rate of 0.64 illnesses per as described above.
of representatives from both staff level 1,000 employees in 2017 18 compared Alongside our other health and and management grades, covering 67% with 1.0 in 2016 17.
Of the eight, six safety performance metrics, we also of employees globally.
were in Europe and two were in North monitor our OSHA severity rate.
By gender, five were males and severity rate from the US Occupational three were females.
No contractor Safety and Health Administration OSHA Health and safety performance illnesses were reported in 2017 18. is a calculation that gives us an average Our renewed emphasis over the last Our overall number of occupational of the number of lost work days per year has led to a slight improvement illnesses remains very low and we expect recordable incident and as such, provides in our TRIIR and occupational illness to see annual fluctuations as the figures an indication of how critical each injury performance.
However, our LTIIR of 0.48 are subject to statistical variation.
The premise is that an was the same as last year.
Over the same a health scorecard system developed by incident that resulted in an employee period, our TRIIR improved from 1.00 the UK Chemical Industries Association missing time from work to heal and to 0.93, a decrease of 7%.
There was to monitor our health performance.
This recover has greater significance than one a total of 68 lost time accidents and year 64 sites completed the scorecard where the employee can immediately illnesses across the group during questionnaire, compared to 69 sites the return to work.
There were no employee previous year.
Of these, 64% reported metric for us as we strive to reduce the fatalities in the year: the last employee average scores of A or B which severity of the incidents that occur at our fatality at Johnson Matthey occurred corresponds to best practice, the same facilities by improving our workplaces in July 2015.
Our performance is figure as in the previous year: 30% and our behaviours to avoid incurring summarised in the charts below.
reported average C scores which these more significant incidents.
Our construction projects use a corresponds to our current minimum At 31st March contractor workforce and we work hard target score, compared to 26% in the 2017 2018 to ensure the safety of all contractors previous year: and 6% reported an OSHA severity 11.2 12.2 who work for us.
Overall, contractor LTIIR average D score below our current dropped from 3.15 to 0.74.
We saw a minimum standards, compared to 9% rise from six lost time incidents involving the previous year.
contractors during 2016 17 to eight during 2017 18.
Lost time injury and illness Total recordable injury and illness Trade union committee rate LTIIR rate TRIIR representation per 200,000 working hours in a rolling year per 200,000 working hours in a rolling year 31 of our manufacturing sites have active trade unions and 26 of them have a trade union representative on their local health 0.60 1.20 and safety committee.
22 sites have formal 0.50 1.00 trade union agreements that cover health 0.40 0.80 and safety topics listed in the table below.
0.30 0.60 Topics covered by trade union 0.20 0.40 agreements 0.10 0.20 Topic % of sites covered 0 0 March March March March Use of personal protective equipment 86 March March March March 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Participation of worker representatives LTIIR TRIIR in health and safety inspections and investigations 82 Training and education 95 Complaints mechanisms 64 The right to refuse unsafe work 95 Periodic inspections 82 51 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report With this in mind, over the last year we change.
These will be targeted across Our People Strategy have undertaken a job classification our leadership pipeline, from first time We want our people to feel that JM is a project to enable us to develop a new managers to executives, and will seek to great place to work, where working safely globally consistent framework of career equip leaders to deal with the full range is a priority, where diversity is valued, paths and a common, globally applied and context of JMs business operations.
and working collaboratively is very much job grading system.
This past year we have launched a encouraged, all within an environment All sectors and global functions have new pilot development programme for that promotes growth and development.
been working together to identify the middle level leaders and redesigned the Our aim is to become an employer various different roles we have within the development programme for our senior of choice.
We have refreshed our company organisation and to systematically classify level executives.
This senior executive brand, making it more relevant to existing them into a common structure that will programme will launch in 2018, employees and new recruits.
Linked to this operate globally across JM.
along with a new pilot development is our employee value proposition EVP : We have classified the various roles programme for employees taking on this is the essence of how we position across the organisation into: a leadership role for the first time.
ourselves as a company with a unique set As part of our strategic pillar to Job families - a broad grouping of jobs of benefits which an employee receives in develop and support our people, we are where the type of work performed return for the skills, capabilities and developing an enhanced approach to and knowledge, skills and expertise experience they bring to Johnson Matthey.
performance management under a are related e. g. Finance : and We have begun work on our EVP and plan programme called Inspiring Performance.
to develop it further in the coming year.
Job disciplines a narrower The decentralisation of our sites meant Guiding our HR practices is our grouping of jobs with similar that, in the past, performance people strategy, which has five pillars: characteristics within a given job management was handled at a local family e. g. Accounting and Control attracting and recruiting talent: level, with a lack of global consistency.
is an example of a job discipline developing and supporting our people: We are now well advanced in a within the Finance job family.
rewarding and retaining them: programme of improving performance embedding our culture and values: and management and ensuring it is globally This job classification forms the basis supporting change.
consistent for our management and staff on which CareerPath frameworks and level employees.
Global Grade systems are established.
The last year has seen considerable We are committed to inspiring, The CareerPath framework is a tool to progress.
growing and investing in our people, help give employees better clarity on the We have launched our first ever cultivating a continuous feedback culture different career steps available in Johnson JM wide global graduate development that empowers employees and leaders to Matthey across different functional areas.
The two-year programme set stretching and achievable outcomes In the past, it has been difficult for people has been rolled out in the UK, the US that meet strategic goals.
The business to know how to progress in JM because and China, with programme managers goals in JM, and of each of our sectors of a lack of common CareerPaths across in each of the countries.
We select high and global functions are cascaded down our different businesses, countries calibre graduates from partner universities so that employees are able to link their and functions.
who are deployed in one of three personal objectives to business objectives We are piloting a new R&D CareerPath disciplines science, engineering and aligning company and individual framework that focuses on career steps operations or commercial.
Graduates aspirations so that our people can see within the R&D job family.
This CareerPath work on stretch projects with defined how they can contribute to JMs goals.
highlights key accountabilities and objectives for three eight-month rotations.
We continue to work to ensure that competencies technical and behavioural After the third rotation, we will consider our reward and benefit packages are in that are expected at each career level in permanent placement in JM based on line with the location markets.
In the the R&D job family so it can enable better what is appropriate for the next phase in past year, we have realigned our UK career aspirations, more meaningful their career development.
We are making Pension Scheme to make sure it is more career conversations about opportunities a significant investment in the programme sustainable for the future.
for development and how to match to make it a highly positive experience for We are working to develop our ambitions with the needs and goals of the new recruits in the expectation that global wellbeing framework further so JM as a whole.
Once the pilot is complete, they will want to make their future careers that we can support our employees in we will create CareerPaths in all other with us.
Alongside this we are improving the areas of emotional, financial, physical job family areas within JM.
the consistency of our global recruitment and social wellbeing.
We develop employees at all levels processes and we have launched a single There is clear evidence that wellbeing of our organisation so that they are recruitment website for JM.
We are also programmes do impact attraction and equipped with the knowledge and skills developing a global onboarding retention and play a significant role in our company needs and to improve their programme for all new recruits.
To support our business and growth result, well designed and coherent With a fresh look at the JM strategic ambitions, its important for us to ensure wellbeing programmes go beyond their drivers and skills needed for the future, our people understand the career proven ability to improve healthcare risks we are developing a new leadership development opportunities that exist and are now more firmly linked to the development strategy.
This includes a series across JM.
We are also keen to unlock the business metrics that are a product of programmes designed to shift mindsets potential we have within the company of a competitive EVP.
towards those required for leading through and ensure that all employees are enabled to reach their career aspirations.
52 In the last year, we reshaped our Engagement encourages our people In line with our Equal Opportunities business into four new sectors.
Change to contribute actively to our success, Policy, we recruit, train and develop is always unsettling to employees and while enablement measures how we employees who are the best suited to the our HR team is providing support to our are creating an environment where requirements of the job role, regardless people as our business transformational people can perform at their best.
of gender, ethnic origin, age, religion or change programmes are implemented.
The survey revealed health and safety belief, marriage or civil partnership, We are taking a holistic view and and doing the right thing as company pregnancy or maternity, sexual approach to managing change.
However, we received mixed orientation, gender identity or disability.
creating communications toolkits across ratings on clarity around our strategy People with disabilities can often be the businesses and functions to support and the openness and transparency of denied a fair chance at work because of them in helping employees to understand communications across the company.
misconceptions about their capabilities, our new strategy and the reasons for We made these priorities for action and and we work to enhance their change.
The toolkit breaks down the core have developed a far reaching, two-year opportunities by attempting, wherever messages and explains how to cascade engagement programme.
Our second possible, to overcome the obstacles.
engagement survey will take place in This might mean modifying equipment, September 2018. restructuring jobs or improving access to 2 premises, provided such action does not Employee engagement compromise health and safety standards.
JM200 The driving force behind JM is our This is set out in our policy, which employees who bring our inspiring science In 2017, the company celebrated its extends to employees who have become th to life every day.
disabled during their employment and measured in 2016, is evident, but we know who will be offered employment we can do better and have made it one of Pages 56 and 57 opportunities consistent with their our sustainable business goals.
We would also look to make ensure that Johnson Matthey is truly It provided an opportunity for reasonable adjustments for new recruits.
inclusive, fostering employee engagement employees to unite as one company to and development within a diverse and celebrate our success and the positive matthey.
com diversity global workforce goal 2. contribution we make through our Clear values are essential for science to a cleaner, healthier world.
We have set up a D&I taskforce securing engagement.
As part of our At the end of our anniversary year, and developed a D&I action plan, strategy review during 2017 18, we we held an awards ceremony at the Royal which launched with JMs D&I month recognised that our previous set of values Institution in London.
The new JM200 in May 2018. did not fully support our new strategy and Awards recognised the best examples of The D&I action plan has five were sometimes confusing.
Following our people applying Johnson Mattheys elements: training and development: internal research and feedback, we have values and vision in their everyday work.
standards: data: leadership accountability: developed a refreshed set of values.
They The awards, which are set to become and recruitment.
Among our targets we are defined as: an annual event, brought together over plan to add awareness training for the protecting people and the planet: 100 shortlisted employees from around organisation, include D&I content in all the world in an evening of celebration acting with integrity: our leadership development courses, and networking, together with most make D&I part of our global induction working together: appropriately live science experiments.
process and provide training in innovating and improving: and unconscious bias for employees involved 2 Diversity and inclusion in recruitment.
We will track our progress owning what we do.
against this detailed D&I plan using our Diversity and inclusion D&I forms part For each of our values, we have also own criteria with the aim of achieving of our drive towards wider employee defined the four or five types of behaviour 100% completion of the plan by 2025 engagement.
There is convincing research needed to achieve them, expressed as our sustainable business goal 2. from consultants CEB now Gartner actions.
The behaviours will help people and McKinsey that companies with high to know what is expected of them and levels of diversity and inclusion see Employee resource groups what good looks like.
The new values were greater employee contributions to the launched in April 2018 and a programme There is much for us to do to become a organisation and experience improved of work to embed them is underway.
truly diverse and inclusive organisation retention and morale.
but we have made a good start.
We have We also believe that it is ethically set up two employee resource groups Engagement survey right and are committed to developing ERGs.
The first is Pride in JM inviting Our first global employee engagement a truly inclusive culture.
That means LGBT membership, together with allies providing equal opportunities for survey was conducted in November 2016 or supporters, which launched in and managed for us by employment everyone, regardless of their ethnic October 2017.
Pride in JM is working to origin, age, disability, religion, gender consultancy Korn Ferry Hay Group.
create a network of LGBT role models Overall, we scored 61% for employee identity or sexual orientation.
It also aims to engagement and 62% for employee become an employer of choice, with a enablement, slightly below the industry place in the top 100 index of UK charity average.
These form the baseline for Stonewall with whom we are partnering our sustainable business goal 2. within three years.
53 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Our second ERG is a womens group, our values and demonstrate the highest applied to each risk area.
These risk o Netw rked, launched in Royston, UK in standards of integrity and ethical areas include bribery and corruption, July 2017.
A global group is now being behaviour.
We plan to refresh our existing data protection, export controls and formed with the aims of networking, code during 2018 in line with best practice.
sanctions, conflicts of interest, competition personal empowerment and increasing We have a network of over 85 ethics anti-trust, financial crime including the proportion of women in the company ambassadors who play an important the new Corporate Criminal Offence of to reflect the talent pool in society.
role in bringing our code of ethics to life, failing to prevent the facilitation of tax The groups have been welcomed supporting senior leaders with their evasion, modern slavery see pages 43 by employees vital to both increasing responsibilities for ethics and compliance and 44 and activities regulated by the confidence and awareness of various and promoting a good ethical culture.
groups, in the words of one employee.
In March 2018, we hosted a global Data protection is now subject to Next on our list is the formation of a conference for our ambassadors to share sweeping change in Europe, thanks to the disabilities employee resource group.
experiences, best practices and shared EU General Data Protection Regulation challenges whilst strengthening the GDPR, which came into force in May ethics ambassador network.
We have an ongoing programme Gender pay gap report Within Johnson Matthey we promote of work to ensure that we are in line with In March 2018, we published our first a speak up culture encouraging GDPR.
Upholding high standards of data gender pay gap report, covering UK everyone to speak up when they have a privacy and information security is a key employees.
It showed a median gender concern or are unsure about something.
focus of our business and we will continue pay gap of 9.2%, reducing to 4.7% if pay We encourage individuals to do this building on this to enhance the privacy before any salary sacrifice deductions through their local management, ethics culture throughout our organisation.
for voluntary benefits is considered.
ambassador, or HR or legal function We are part way through a strategic Our figures compare favourably to the wherever possible.
We also provide review of all the third party intermediaries average pay gap for UK companies, employees and third parties with an TPIs JM uses, initially looking at those which is of 18.8%.
independently run speak up helpline that are the highest risk.
Focusing deeply which can also be accessed online on these relationships and, where matthey.
com gender-pay-gap-17 where concerns can be raised.
This appropriate, challenging the rationale for helpline also allows individuals, where them enables us both to mitigate and local law permits, to remain anonymous.
better manage bribery risks associated We are working to close the gender pay The helpline is available to everyone and with using them, as well as realise gap and gender imbalance through our D&I not just Johnson Matthey employees.
commercial benefits from cost savings action plan.
We are also boosting our An Ethics Panel made up of senior leaders and improved direct knowledge of our investment in apprentice and graduate meets monthly to provide oversight of customers and how they operate.
outreach and encouraging more women investigations into all speak ups received.
into these roles in STEM areas science, 6 The panel reports three times a year to Engaging with the community technology, engineering and mathematics.
the board with a particular focus on Over the next year, we plan to roll out We have a long tradition of community identifying themes and opportunities to our unconscious bias training to our ethics engagement.
We work with charities, continually look to improve the way we ambassadors, hiring managers and the HR organisations and schools to help develop do things in JM.
We will also complete our global the local economy, protect the During 2017 18, 144 speak ups were flexible working policy and roll it out.
environment, promote science education received and investigated which, given our and enhance health and nutrition.
size, is in line with the industry norm in Ethics and compliance In 2017 18, we donated 680,000 terms of volume see charts on page 59. to charities, a small decline on the We view the increasing numbers as a A strong culture of doing the right thing previous year.
The major elements of will be critical to achieving our vision and positive reflection of the confidence in our spend were on STEM education and awareness of the process and many strategy.
Our aim is to eliminate ethical and on health and nutrition.
We have a lapses and breaches of compliance and in recommendations arising from policy which entitles all our permanent investigations have been actioned in doing so, turn our reputation for doing the employees to two days of paid leave each right thing to our strategic advantage.
year, during normal working hours, to Everyone within Johnson Matthey Our ethics and compliance strategy support projects and charities in their has two pillars: i promoting an ethical has undertaken training on our global local communities.
Additionally, targeted culture across the company: and ii During the year, our people took implementing a compliance programme compliance training is provided to people 678 paid volunteering days.
Using the whose roles expose them to specific risk underpinned by a framework applied to group average cost of an employee per each risk area.
We regularly review our training day, this is equivalent to 152,000 in and communications materials and One of the main ways we promote in-kind giving to our local communities.
an ethical culture at JM is through our methods for delivery to ensure they 53% of volunteers time was spent remain relevant to the risks our business global code of ethics, Doing the Right supporting STEM education in local Thing, which is central to the way we act and employees face.
schools, 14% was spent working on local In order to have an effective ethics as a company.
The code is available in 22 community development and 12% on languages and contains information and and compliance programme we have contributing to the education of developed, and continue to review, a resources that enable our employees to disadvantaged people.
make the right choices in line with compliance programme framework 54 Now, as part of our sustainable college and JM has supported the cost of the Association for Emission Control by business framework, we are their tuition fees, learning materials and Catalyst, the International Platinum reinvigorating our commitment to transport.
So far, 476 of them have Group Metals Association, the European community investment and hope graduated to their second year.
After Precious Metals Federation, the Platinum to increase the number of sites that their third year of training, these young Group Metals Health Science Research are active in their local community.
women will be qualified to teach in Group of the International Precious We have set ourselves a formal target to primary schools.
During the year we Metals Institute in the US, Eurometaux increase our volunteer work with local donated 28,000 to Plan International which represents the European communities: our 2025 goal is 50,000 in support of this, and other projects.
non-ferrous metals industry and CEFIC cumulative volunteer days goal 6.
We support employees fundraising the European Chemical Industry We are encouraging HR teams and efforts for good causes and match Council.
Shareholders are an important general managers at our sites to promote donations up to 1,000 per employee stakeholder group.
We meet with our employee volunteering and are asking per year up to a total of 70,000 per major shareholders regularly, as described employees themselves to identify annum for the group as a whole.
In in the Corporate Governance Report.
opportunities for local volunteering that the last year, employees raised 38,000 aligns with our strategic aims.
for charities and JM matched their Pages 97 and 98 We have set up a new online system contributions.
These company-matched on our employee intranet, MyJM, to make contributions are included in our total For investors particularly interested it easier for employees to record their company donations figure.
in ethical and socially responsible volunteering activities.
We have also investments, we meet with specialists from updated our Community Investment Communicating with external their organisations to discuss sustainability Policy and Volunteer Guidelines.
stakeholders and corporate social responsibility CSR We have continued to support the issues where applicable and participate in We maintain ongoing communications global childrens development charity, key sustainable investment benchmarking with our external stakeholders and update Plan International.
These include the Carbon them on our activities through regular working on an education programme in Disclosure Project CDP, the Dow Jones publications including this report, Sierra Leone to train women teachers.
Sustainability Index DJSI, FTSE4Good our website, surveys and topic specific In a country where 73% of girls have and Business in the Community.
We outline details of our major dropped out of school by the age of 11 In March 2017, we received an stakeholders on pages 20 and 21. and with 92% of teachers being men, AAA ESG rating from investment index We are also active members of a there is an overwhelming need for provider MSCI for the fifth consecutive number of trade associations which help more female teachers to ensure girls year.
This is the highest possible rating us to understand, inform and contribute are not left behind in their education.
for a companys risk and performance to issues and discussions that are relevant Working with Plan International and the against a range of environmental, social to our stakeholders.
Associations we have Open University, the programme is on and governance ESG factors, and worked with in 2017 18 include the UK track and it is estimated that over one that places us above our chemical Chemical Industries Association, the 120,000 children will directly benefit industry peers.
We are a constituent of Diesel Technology Forum, the Society over the next ten years.
In March 2017, the FTSE4Good UK 50 Index.
of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, 480 women enrolled in teacher training Community investment summary 39% of our sites had a site-specific local community engagement and development plan that was active during the year.
Topics included in the plans were: Investment in 2017 18 % sites including 000 % Community engagement topic topic in their plan Direct expenditure Social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments 23% Environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring 64% Donations to Plan International 28 3% Public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments 23% Other corporate donations 272 33% Local community development programmes based on local communities needs 82% Donations by sites to local charities Stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping 27% and community projects 380 46% Broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include Indirect expenditure vulnerable groups 32% Works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other worker representation Employee volunteering 152 18% bodies to deal with impacts 50% Formal local community grievance processes 23% Total group 832 55 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
