A u e S t l t h a p o t r o e i t i s e e W s p P u i d o r e R e r g g s s u r l r t e a e a t d o k d l r l s o e o h h h 58 GOVERNANCE Stakeholder engagement STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Effective stakeholder engagement enhances our understanding of stakeholder needs and leads to better decision-making and increased accountability.
OUR STAKEHOLDERS Detailed on page 59 is an overview During 2018, a revised template for of our engagement with stakeholders Board papers was developed and We believe that companies with an during 2018 and the outcomes thereof.
this includes a specific section on any engaged community of stakeholders, potential stakeholder considerations will result in a far more successful and The Board have direct engagement and impacts.
This will assist in ensuring that sustainable business.
with shareholders and our people, stakeholder views and potential impacts with management and, as appropriate, We seek to understand the views of are considered and pertinent matters the Executive Directors having direct our stakeholders through effective are identified in the papers.
engagement with our other stakeholder engagement and consider the potential groups.
The Board receives regular This process enables the Board to consider impacts our decisions have on them.
reports relating to stakeholders which potential stakeholder implications and The Board has identified the Companys cover a wide range of topics including views in advance of the meeting.
Directors key stakeholders and classified these into updates on recent engagement, stakeholder can then raise any questions and provide two groups: primary stakeholders and views, details of oversight and potential appropriate challenge at Board meetings, wider stakeholders see the chart below.
trends and initiatives impacting them.
where the items are discussed and debated.
The chart below demonstrates our primary stakeholder groups, consisting of our Clients, Shareholders and People and our wider stakeholder groups which includes the State Authorities, Regulators, Business Partners and Society.
We engage with all stakeholders to ensure an understanding of their views and our impact on them.
Engaging with our stakeholders www.
com e o e l k r B d P a a u a e t s h r i t r s n S n e e y r g s s s r r o a u m p s i t s S r n o P c e i i e l t C y STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 59 CLIENTS STATE AUTHORITIES HOW AND WHY WE ENGAGE HOW AND WHY WE ENGAGE Understanding and anticipating our clients' needs enables us to The State Authorities set the legal and tax frameworks we must provide the solutions they seek.
This helps our clients to meet their operate within.
Our engagement primarily consists of reporting in investment needs and ensures the future success of our business.
compliance with requirements and participation in consultations which impact our business.
We engage with tax authorities in We have a Distribution Team who drive the engagement with our various jurisdictions to ensure the appropriate taxes are paid, clients and, together with our Fund Management Team, hold client in a timely manner, for our business and our funds.
In addition, we provide regular client briefings and podcasts on investment insights to further our clients' KEY OUTCOMES OF ENGAGEMENT IN 2018 understanding of our investment methodologies and broader Various tax registrations and relevant clearances to implement market considerations.
KEY OUTCOMES OF ENGAGEMENT IN 2018 We had strong gross sales of 11.9bn during 2018, demonstrating REGULATORS our effective engagement and a strong alignment of our products with our clients' requirements.
HOW AND WHY WE ENGAGE We are regulated by a number of regulators across the jurisdictions in which we operate, who are responsible for SHAREHOLDERS supervising their respective financial systems.
Therefore, they have an interest in how we run our business, ensuring we act with HOW AND WHY WE ENGAGE integrity and provide effective stewardship of our clients' monies.
Our ultimate duty and accountability is to our shareholders and we rely on their support to deliver on our strategy.
Ensuring that We have a dedicated Compliance team who foster constructive we understand their views and providing regular updates to them relations with our regulators.
This includes regular reporting to on the performance of, and any key impacts to, the business is a regulators in compliance with requirements, seeking approval for key focus of the Board.
any substantive changes to our funds or our business, responding to information requests and maintaining an effective dialogue.
We have an extensive engagement programme with our shareholders including regular meetings between shareholders, KEY OUTCOMES OF ENGAGEMENT IN 2018 Directors and or members of our IR Team, analyst and investor Engaged with the FRC regarding the changes to the 2018 presentations, the AGM and a variety of corporate reporting Corporate Governance Code.
During 2018 we hosted a shareholder dinner with our top Received approval from regulators in a number of jurisdictions, shareholders to discuss business matters in a more informal setting.
to proceed with the required reorganisation to address risks arising from Brexit.
KEY OUTCOMES OF ENGAGEMENT IN 2018 Following an extensive consultation with our key shareholders and investor advisory bodies our revised Remuneration Policy received over 80% approval at the 2018 AGM.
BUSINESS PARTNERS We commissioned an independent investor perception HOW AND WHY WE ENGAGE study, which confirmed shareholders held a positive view Our business partners include our distribution partners funds of of the Companys management and strategic direction.
funds, platforms, financial institutions, advisers, wealth managers and life companies and our suppliers.
All business areas have responsibility for engagement with the PEOPLE business partners they work with.
Our Distribution Team and HOW AND WHY WE ENGAGE Supplier Management function maintain regular contact with our It is critical we engage with our people effectively to ensure key business partners and oversee the development of effective we are able to retain talented employees, who drive the working relationships.
We maintain oversight and control for the success of our business.
activities of our suppliers when they act on our behalf.
We seek views from employees and consult on changes KEY OUTCOMES OF ENGAGEMENT IN 2018 impacting our people, through our employee forum.
We hold Pro-actively worked with a key supplier to assist them in Town Hall meetings to provide staff with an update on business reducing their risk rating.
performance and enable them to ask any questions directly to 27 new relationships with Distribution Partners entered into.
We communicate regularly with management briefings, an internal online magazine and podcasts.
We also undertake an employee satisfaction survey every two years SOCIETY previous survey in 2017.
HOW AND WHY WE ENGAGE KEY OUTCOMES OF ENGAGEMENT IN 2018 We consider we have a responsibility to make a positive Rolled out a revised benefits package offering enhanced family contribution to society.
We engage with different parties, who friendly benefits.
fall within this stakeholder group, through direct contact with Completed a Company-wide staff survey and held group focus our people, our website and other publications we produce.
meetings in order to develop a new purpose statement.
KEY OUTCOMES OF ENGAGEMENT IN 2018 Selected a new partner charity for 2019.
Engaged with local schools and held an introduction day at Jupiter, to provide an insight into the industry.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
