A u e S t l t h a p o t r i o e t i e s e s W P p i u d o R e r e r g g s u s r l r t a e a t e o d d k r l l s e o o h h h 42 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility ACTING RESPONSIBLY IS INTEGRAL TO THE WAY WE WORK Our culture drives accountability and encourages our employees to act in the best interests of our clients and to behave responsibly for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
We are committed to creating AT A GLANCE and sustaining long-term value for our clients, shareholders and CHARITABLE DONATIONS EFFECTIVE STEWARDSHIP other stakeholders.
We deliver this value through investment 139,000 excellence and by ensuring we operate 1,285 Amount of charitable in an ethical and responsible manner.
Number of company donations made by This report details the Groups approach meetings our fund Jupiter during 2018. and initiatives to corporate responsibility, managers voted at which we view from two perspectives: during 2018.
The impact we, as a company, have on our stakeholders.
The impact our funds, as investors in companies, have on driving positive changes in the companies they invest in.
RENEWABLE ENERGY EMISSIONS INTENSITY INFORMATION ON In early 2019, we decided to establish a HOW WE HAVE Group Corporate Social Responsibility ENGAGED WITH OUR CSR Committee which will report 100% -45% STAKEHOLDERS into the Executive Committee.
The CSR CAN BE FOUND IN Of the energy used in our Percentage reduction in Committee will oversee the Companys THE GOVERNANCE offices, is sourced from our Scope 1 and Scope 2 social responsibility initiatives and SECTION ON PAGES renewable sources.
emissions intensity from coordinate with the Stewardship 58 AND 59.
Committee, within fund management to ensure an aligned approach.
com e e o r l k B d P a u a a e s r h t i s t r n S n e e g y s r s s r r a o m u i p r s S s t P o n c e i e i l t y C STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 43 NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION We aim to comply with the Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2016.
A summary of the policies and outcomes, together with references to where further information and KPIs on these areas can be found, is detailed below.
Details of our business model can be found on pages 16 and 17 and our principal risks on pages 32 to 37.
CLIENTS FINANCIAL CRIME Our clients are central to everything we do.
Our key We have multiple policies to prevent financial crime, which policies support the fair treatment of our clients and includes bribery and corruption, money laundering and include Treating Customers Fairly Policy and our Conflicts terrorist financing.
These policies are enforced throughout of Interest Policy.
These ensure we treat our clients fairly the Group and comply with all legal and regulatory and, where possible, avoid situations which could result requirements and best practice.
All staff receive regular in a conflict of interest.
Should a conflict arise the Policy training on these policies and practices and we have a details how this should be managed.
These policies have dedicated team overseeing Financial Crime.
Throughout operated effectively during the year.
the year they have effectively mitigated the risk of our services being used for the purposes of financial crime.
Further information can be found on page 44 Further information can be found on page 45 EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY We operate a variety of policies to ensure the fair Each year we publish a Corporate Responsibility Report treatment of our employees and potential employees.
which includes quantitative and qualitative information on These support their rights, wider well being and personal our environmental and social strategies and practices.
We are committed to promoting diversity environmental policy details our strategy to manage our and inclusion throughout our organisation.
Where direct environmental impacts through the minimisation of employees have any concerns about the operation of our our use of resources and production of waste and to assess business they are encouraged to raise these through our the environmental performance of our suppliers.
We have confidential whistle-blowing arrangements, governed by continued to reduce our direct GHG emissions, however our whistle-blowing policy.
These policies have operated our GHG emissions arising from air travel has increased effectively to ensure the fair treatment of employees.
due to the expansion of our international business.
Our diversity and inclusion statement online www.
com Our Environmental Policy online www.
com Further information can be found on page 45 Further information can be found on page 44 HUMAN RIGHTS TAX STRATEGY We strongly support the protection of individuals human We seek to manage our tax affairs in a straightforward rights and this is embedded in our corporate values.
manner and our annual Tax Strategy is reviewed and Our employment policies and practices are designed to approved by the Board.
This strategy ensures that we protect our employees.
Our modern slavery statement comply with our tax reporting and payment obligations in details the steps we have taken to ensure that there are a timely manner and that we engage with tax authorities in no instances of modern slavery in our workplace or a cooperative and transparent way.
Our tax strategy online www.
com Further information can be found on page 45 Our Modern Slavery Statement online www.
com Further information can be found on page 45 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 44 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued CLIENTS ENVIRONMENTAL Our emissions intensity measure is tCO e 2 per full time employee equivalent FTE.
Jupiters success is predicated on offering Whilst our biggest potential impact to Using Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 products that our clients want, that deliver environmental matters is though our emissions, our emissions intensity in 2018 returns and meet their investment needs stewardship of the companies we invest was 0.92 tCO e per FTE 2017: 1.28 tCO e and by offering high levels of client service.
in, via the funds we manage see pages 2 2 per FTE.
Using Scope 1 and market-based We have an effective product governance 46 and 47, we continue to strive to reduce Scope 2 emissions, our 2018 emissions framework to ensure the fair treatment our direct environmental footprint.
intensity was 0.17 tCO e per FTE of our clients and that our products are 2 We joined The Climate Groups RE100 2017: 0.31 tCO e per FTE.
At the time we committed policies, principles, codes of conduct and CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES to source 100% of our energy in our leased our corporate values all inform our culture offices from renewable sources before During the year we introduced an and seek to align our interests with those of the end of 2017 which we duly achieved.
employee volunteering scheme, whereby existing and potential clients and our staff.
We have continued this commitment employees are given up to two days per On behalf of our clients we exercise throughout 2018. annum to support volunteering activities.
effective stewardship over the companies This makes a direct contribution to our We work with Carbon Credentials to in which we invest, to ensure these communities and enables our employees to measure our carbon footprint and provide companies are managed in a long-term support causes that are important to them.
independent verification of our Scope 1, sustainable manner.
See page 47 for In 2018, we donated 139,000 to charitable Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions, further information.
causes, primarily through our Give As You which can be found in the table below.
Earn Scheme operated by the Charities Aid Our key policies relating to our Our chosen GHG methodology Defras Foundation.
Under this scheme employees clients include: Environmental Reporting Guidelines donate a set amount each month, which Treating customers fairly TCF.
TCF is takes the operational control approach.
is then double matched by Jupiter.
Again a core FCA principle, which promotes We have applied a materiality threshold this is designed to enable our employees fair treatment of clients from product of 5% for the purposes of reporting GHG to support causes of their choice and inception through to marketing and data, in line with market practice for similar means we can support a wider range post-sales support.
As a result, locations with eight or of good causes.
commits us to dealing with clients more staff are defined as material and honestly, openly and competently, not Jupiter also has a partner charity, which included in the disclosure.
In some cases, just as part of regulatory compliance but is chosen based on nominations from missing data has been estimated using as a fundamental guiding principle.
During 2018 this was Teach extrapolation of available data from the First, which focuses on reducing inequality Conflicts of interest.
We take all reporting period or by using 2017 data as in education.
During the year a total of appropriate steps to identify, prevent a proxy.
32,000 was raised for this charity through or manage conflicts of interest that We have achieved a 26% reduction in our a number of events organised by our arise or may arise in the course of Scope 1 and Scope 2 location-based Charity Committee.
Our staff have also providing investment services to clients, GHG emissions, which has primarily been supported Teach First by dedicating their whether between us and a client or driven by improvements in efficiency to time to the charity through mentoring between one client and another.
schemes, coaching and teaching guest circumstances are considered to exist lessons.
For 2019, we are partnering with a that may give rise to a conflict of interest, Our Scope 3 emissions increased by 51% new charity, Autistica, an autism research details will be provided to clients as well in 2018, driven by an increase in emissions charity which aims to improve the lives of as the mitigating procedures.
This is due to the expansion everyone affected by autism.
circumstances are currently considered of our international operations, particularly to exist which require disclosure to clients.
the opening of a new office in Luxembourg.
This has been identified as an area of focus SOCIETY for 2019, as we look at initiatives to reduce In addition to our investment activities and the level of Scope 3 emissions.
the impact this has on our clients, investee companies and wider society, we also Key Performance Indicator 2018 2017 % change have an impact on society through our 1 Direct emissions Scope 1 86.1 tCO e 152.4 tCO e -44% environmental performance, charitable 2 2 activities and protection of human rights.
Indirect emissions Scope 2 : location-based 376.4 tCO e 474.7 tCO e -21% 2 2 Further information is detailed below.
2 Indirect emissions Scope 2 : market-based 0.0 tCO e 0.0 tCO e 0% 2 2 3 Other relevant indirect emissions Scope 3 1,268.7 tCO e 841.5 tCO e 51% 2 2 1 Direct Emissions Scope 1 comprised of building gas combustion, fugitive emissions from refrigeration and air conditioning equipment and owned vehicles.
2 Direct Emissions Scope 2 is building electricity consumption.
3 Direct Emissions Scope 3 comprised of business travel, waste disposal and water consumption.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 45 HUMAN RIGHTS AND MODERN SLAVERY We have numerous policies and procedures POLICY IMPLEMENTATION designed to reduce the extent to which Upholding human rights in our business We ensure the effective implementation Jupiters products could be used in operations is core to our corporate values.
of our policies by: connection with financial crime and a This includes how we treat individuals and fostering a culture of integrity and dedicated Financial Crime Team within how we encourage individuals within the accountability: Compliance.
Group to interact with each other.
clear communication of our policies The issues covered by those policies and We protect the rights of our employees through our employee induction, procedures include: through our employment policies and training, management briefings and our practices, which prohibit discrimination intranet, through which we make our key Financial crime policy: and promote diversity.
At Jupiter, we policies available to our people: Anti-money laundering, sanctions and believe diversity and inclusion are simple our governance framework, including Politically Exposed Persons: concepts to have the right people in our Board, management and reporting Suspicious activity reporting: the right role, regardless of background.
committees with their own terms of Our Equal Opportunities Policy requires Customer, distributor and enhanced due reference, which provide us with a robust all employees and job applicants to be diligence: structure within which we oversee the treated fairly and equally.
Transaction monitoring: implementation of the policies: All of our employee procedures and Compliance monitoring : workforce training programmes, policies are bias-free and we have a Internal audit charter: covering areas such as anti-bribery and zero-tolerance policy to bullying and corruption, money laundering, market Employee vetting: harassment.
Our managers are supported abuse and tax evasion, which employees Market abuse: in embedding an inclusive culture within are required to complete each year: their teams and we are dedicated to Anti-bribery and corruption: our employee handbook, which assists developing a culture of openness so Tax evasion: with contractual terms, expected that any issues or concerns can be conduct and our policies: and Data protection and security discussed.
We have established diversity cyber-crime : and reviewing the majority of our policies representative groups to support diversity annually to ensure they are in-line with across our organisation including a women Whistleblowing.
best practice, meet our regulatory leadership programme and LGBT forum.
TAXATION requirements and are updated with Further information on our initiatives can We do not tolerate tax evasion, nor do we any changes required to ensure their be found in our talent and culture section tolerate the facilitation of tax evasion by effective implementation.
on page 28. any person s acting on the Groups behalf.
Our Compliance department and Internal We have due diligence procedures We seek to manage our tax affairs in a Audit function monitors our success with in place to ensure our suppliers straightforward way, which means that we implementing our policies, principles uphold human rights both in their own comply with our tax filing, reporting and and codes of conduct.
We operate an organisations and, in turn, in those of their payment obligations in all jurisdictions in independent whistle blowing line enabling suppliers.
In particular, we will not tolerate a timely manner.
Our corporate structure our employees to confidentially raise any modern slavery or human trafficking.
and operating model ensure that our tax concerns, including non-compliance with STATE AND AUTHORITIES affairs are easy to explain and transparent our policies and procedures.
We comply with all applicable laws in the countries in which we operate.
Our approach is governed by a Board As an investment firm our policies and approved tax strategy.
We ensure this procedures, designed to combat financial strategy, and the procedures and crime, are of material importance to our controls which underpin our approach, business.
Financial crime includes money are appropriate, monitored and fully laundering, terrorist financing, bribery implemented.
and corruption, tax evasion and fraud.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 46 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES ranked 22 of the largest publicly listed capital goods companies on business readiness for a low-carbon economy transition.
We are engaged supporters of the FSB Task Force on ClimateThe report builds on Jupiters longstanding engagement with related Financial Disclosures TCFD, which aims to promote CDP but also reflects our view that their focus on the Capital a more informed understanding of climate-related risks and Goods sector is particularly timely.
We presented the report at opportunities by investors and others.
We support the TCFD the UK TCFD Preparers Forum, organised by UN PRI, UK Green through our operational activities, engagement with investee Finance Initiative and the City of London, on how climate risk companies and work with partner organisations.
We are information is being used by the finance sector.
We recognize continuing to develop our analysis and response to climatethe challenges highlighted by TCFD, including the variability related risks and opportunities.
of climate-related impacts across and within different sectors GOVERNANCE and markets.
As long-term active investors, helping to develop The Board is responsible for the oversight of the Groups risk thought-leadership that advances the understanding of management and strategy which includes relevant climaterisks and opportunities related to climate change aligns with change financial risks.
The CEO, together with the Executive the commitment to investor stewardship we have made to Directors and Executive Committee, are responsible for the our clients.
management of the Groups day-to-day business and for RISK MANAGEMENT ensuring the implementation of strategy, and, as such, have Identification and management of climate related risks specific responsibility for climate change-related issues.
We have a formal framework for risk management please see During 2018 the Sustainability Review Committee, chaired by page 33, which is designed to identify and quantify all risks the Chief Investment Officer, was responsible for reviewing to our business including climate-related risks.
We collate our and monitoring our engagement, with investee companies, global environmental data and produce quarterly reports on on social and environmental issues.
From 2019 the activities our direct environmental impact, allowing the identification of of this committee will be integrated into the Stewardship climate change risks and opportunities related to our direct Committee see page 47 for further information.
In early 2019 operations consumption and waste.
it was agreed to establish a CSR Committee, reporting to the Executive Committee, to oversee the Companys direct social Our Stewardship Committee will receive information on responsibility initiatives and to coordinate with the Stewardship the environmental, social and governance risks impacting Committee, to ensure an aligned approach.
our portfolios, with a view to understanding the voting and engagement activities around these matters.
Our sustainability STRATEGY specialists and investment teams conduct research in partnership Climate related risks and opportunities identified using a responsible investment analysis platform, RepRisk, sell Within our annual CDP Climate Change response, which can be side reports and CDP data.
This provides our fund management found on the CDP website www.
net, we provide details on teams a greater insight into the climate-related risks within our our substantive regulatory, physical and reputational risks and portfolio holdings.
opportunities relating to climate change.
We have identified METRICS seven risks and seven opportunities related to climate change.
Jupiter has an ongoing target to reduce overall Scope 1 and 2 Impact of climate related risks on the business and its strategy emissions year-on-year by more than 1%.
This year we made a Jupiter is not a significant producer of GHG emissions, and we 26% reduction see page 44 for further information.
consider our direct climate-related risk to be limited.
We have completed in-depth analysis of the carbon footprint of The key aspects of climate change that have influenced the selected Jupiter portfolios as well as analysis of products and or business strategy are climate change opportunities risks services, and climate and transition risk for the highly exposed associated with the assets we manage.
These include energy, auto and industrial companies.
This included scenario increasing climate change regulation, changes in physical analysis for those portfolios.
climate parameters, changing consumer demands, and We have been developing detailed climate impact reports for opportunities to develop business solutions to global challenges.
These fund-level reports, issued to clients, Active ownership focus on the GHG emissions attributable to the underlying We engage with companies on behalf of all our investors and portfolio companies, portfolio alignment with current climate believe a change in company behaviour can be leveraged goals, and a review of other portfolio level environmental risks.
by pressure from active investors.
We monitor climate change We continue to work alongside our industry partners to develop risks and opportunities in our funds investments by hosting or reporting techniques capturing transition risks and opportunities attending meetings with management teams and non-executive more broadly.
directors to question and challenge companies about the issues The ability of companies to manage social and environmental we think may affect their long-term value.
issues can influence the long-term strength of their business During 2018 we have launched new funds within our models and can be a key determinant of returns.
Jupiter Environmental and Sustainability strategy, increasing investment considers how companies respond to changing environmental in the sustainability sector.
We have actively participated on and social conditions and the demands of their employees, an industry level to further develop understanding of transition clients, communities and the other stakeholders who are the risks and opportunities relating to climate change.
For example, key drivers of their long-term financial success.
we supported CDPs sector report on capital goods, which www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 47 STEWARDSHIP SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW COMMITTEE Across all of our One of the key areas in which we drive The objective of the Committee is to investments we look at change for the benefit of our clients and review and monitor Jupiters engagement companies through a wider society, is in the stewardship of the activity with companies on social and lens that considers how organisations in which we invest.
The Committee also provides oversight of the process by which they will deliver value to Effective stewardship is fundamental companies are approved for investment to ensuring the responsible investment shareholders, and also in the Groups ethically screened, of our clients funds.
We engage with to clients, employees socially responsible or environmental companies on a wide variety of issues, solutions funds.
and society at large, including strategy, governance and risk because that is the basis management, corporate responsibility In early 2019 the decision was taken to including environmental and stakeholder merge these committees into a single of long term sustainable issues, culture and values and executive Stewardship Committee in order to performance.
strengthen internal communication on environmental, social and governance Our investment teams and specialist issues.
We view a single committee with governance and sustainability analysts representation from our various asset work together, to integrate effective classes as the most effective way to discuss stewardship into our investment approach.
governance and sustainability issues and All of our fund managers are involved oversee our policy commitments.
in voting decisions and our governance, environmental and social dialogue with We monitor the companies we invest in companies.
This enables us to make by hosting or attending regular meetings decisions based on an in-depth knowledge with their executive management.
These and understanding of the relevant meetings allow us to question and challenge company.
This is often following a period companies on the issues we think may of engagement and ensures that the affect their long-term value.
We also companys individual circumstances are separately engage with company chairmen considered when making any decisions.
This gives us a different perspective on a companys During 2018 Jupiter operated two performance and prospects and helps us Committees to assist with the coordination to drive long-term investment performance, of stewardship across the investment by engaging before problems arise, rather management function and a summary than holding companies to account after of their roles is detailed below.
Committees are chaired by the Chief Investment Officer and other members During the year, we engaged with 217 include the Head of Governance and companies to discuss stewardship matters.
Sustainability, representatives of the This is in addition to the 1,000 meetings Board of Jupiter Fund Management held with company management around plc and representatives from fund the financial calendar.
management and governance and Voting at company general meetings is sustainability specialists.
also an important part of exercising our STEWARDSHIP COMMITTEE stewardship responsibilities.
In 2018, we voted at 308 meetings in the UK and 977 This Committee ensures a coordinated overseas.
We voted against management approach to engagement with our or abstained on at least one resolution at investee companies.
Through this process, 27 UK meetings and 266 overseas meetings.
fund managers gain investment insight to inform decision-making and influence During the year, the UN-backed Principles investee companies where relevant, on for Responsible Investment PRI released behalf of clients.
The Committee is also its Transparency Report for 2018, in which responsible for reviewing Jupiters policies it assessed Jupiters wider approach to the on stewardship and engagement, ensuring PRIs six responsible investment principles.
adherence to the companys stewardship Jupiter once again scored strongly across obligations and providing input to relevant several modules assessed by the PRI.
In industry wide initiatives and consultations.
particular, we were rated A for Strategy & Governance as well as A for both Listed Equity Incorporation and Listed Equity Active Ownership.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 48 GOVERNANCE LE ADERSHIP Delivering effective stewardship of the business www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 49 GOVERNANCE 50 Chairmans introduction 52 Corporate Governance statement 54 Board of Directors 58 Stakeholder engagement 60 Nomination committee report 62 Audit and Risk committee report 70 Remuneration report 94 Directors report 98 Directors responsibility and compliance statements Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
