Strategic report Our People There are now more than 3,600 FTE employees across 13 countries.
As an international organisation, we are The people proud to offer great opportunities to help our employees globally to develop their careers and reach their potential.
delivering Mike Evans Chair, Helen Weir Non-executive Director, and Peter Duffy Chief Customer Officer now acting as Interim Chief Executive Officer joined Just Eat in 2018. oursuccess We are excited to see the influence these key people will have on the development and implementation of our strategy seepages 13 and 14.
No matter who you are, what you look Throughout 2018 we welcomed over 500 new JustEaters like, who you love, where you are from, in the UK.
In addition more than 1,300 joined our teams your religious beliefs or takeaway in Europe, Australia and North America.
preferences, you could find your place Creating an inclusive international business at Just Eat.
We are a diverse and inclusive Just Eat is committed to providing opportunities to workplace that promotes a sense of allour employees.
We provide a working environment belonging, allowing all of our people to thatsupports innovation and collaboration for all our bring their most colourful and complex teamsinternationally.
To support our drive for inclusion and equal opportunities, following on from the success in 2017 of our Women at Inclusion is important to us, especially Just Eat initiatives, we launched our Diversity, Inclusion as we grow and mature we need to and Belonging programme.
The programme is sponsored continue to share different perspectives by our Interim Chief Executive Officer, Peter Duffy.
to enhance our experience as employees During 2018 we invited a range of inspirational speakers and that of our customers and to share their personal and professional experiences with our workforce.
To foster an open culture on all things Restaurant Partners.
inclusion, we have created an online space on ourintranet where employees can talk, ask for advice and speak openly about inclusion from anywhere at Just Eat.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Our People continued Creating an inclusive international business continued The Inclusion programme has led to a number of initiatives We held events for National Inclusion Week, Black with the aim of reinforcing Just Eat as aninclusive History Month, and Mental Health Awareness Week employer.
Technology is an area we specifically targeted where external speakers, from transgender rights in 2017 and have continued that work in 2018.
We chose activists to suicide survivors, shared their personal technology due to the historically male dominated nature stories.
Feedback from these events was that employees of this sector.
Our Chief Product and Technology Officer, felt inspired and motivated to bring their best selves to Fernando Fanton made a commitment to increase work.
Throughout the year we introduced further resources female representation throughout our technology to support our employees, including independent teams.
This led to a rise from 12% of the technology external coaches to provide a space to discuss their workforce being women at the end of 2017 to 22% own personal circumstances.
inatwelve month window to the end of 2018.
To support this commitment we have listened to the teams by running focus groups and listening tours tounderstand how we can contribute to closing the gender divide within the industry as a whole, not just here at Just Eat.
We have also run an inclusive culture programme within the business, to help educate our technology department on how we can ensure Just Eat We endeavour to be an inclusive is an inclusive place to work.
We have been dedicated and supportive workplace with tosupporting the local Women in Tech communities by hosting regular meetups with local groups, along with highly engaged employees inspiring future talent by bringing in coding clubs hosted who are encouraged to be by our employees.
We also regularly review our attraction practices, development opportunities, manager training their best selves everyday.
and promotion processes to ensure we are removing any barriers to success for all employees regardless of Through this we will be better race, culture gender, sexual orientation, disability or any able to deliver our vision: other individual characteristic.
Just Eat has signed up to the Tech She Can Charter, founded by PwC.
This is 'Serving the worlds greatest acommitment by organisations to work together to increase the number of women working in technology menu.
We have broadened this to apply internationally to our technology teams.
In 2018, we also established our LGBT network and became a Stonewall Diversity Champion.
With the support of Stonewall we entered the Workplace Equality Index to understand how we can become a truly inclusive LGBT employer.
We have also held education sessions on LGBT awareness with a focus on language andunderstanding.
We have defined our senior management to be the top two grading levels for roles within the global business.
This is predominantly our Executive Team and their direct reports.
30 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Gender pay gap Both the 2017 and 2018 gender pay gap results for Just Eats two UK based businesses, Just Eat.
co. uk Limited and Just Eat Holding Limited, have now been published and the full reports can be found on our website, www.
Pay gap 2018 Holdings UK Mean 23.5% 13.0% Median 17.8% 1.2% Women in each pay quartile 2018 based on government guidelines The primary reason for the gender pay gap is a higher Holdings UK proportion of men in senior roles and the sector challenge Lower 46.0% 46.1% with the number of men in our technology organisation.
Lower middle 26.2% 43.7% As you will see throughout the Our People section Upper middle 19.0% 52.9% weare determined to address the gender imbalance within the technology sector and our work particularly Upper 22.8% 36.9% to support early careers and corporate initiatives to grow a strong pipeline of female talent will over the The gender pay gap is something Just Eat cares deeply years address this.
As such, we have seen an increase about.
As a reminder the gender pay gap is not the in the number of applications from female graduates same as an equal pay gap.
Equal pay means men and for our tech programme and half of our tech graduates women are paid the same for the same work or work are female.
We are committed to improving diversity of equal value.
We do not believe we have any equal and inclusion at Just Eat which is greater than pay concerns.
We monitor this annually as part of our focusing on gender pay gap alone.
annual salary review process internationally.
We believe in, and are committed to, equal pay for equal work.
com responsible-business gender-pay-gap for 2018 gender pay gap report Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Our People continued Wellbeing annual event in which we shared the strategic Wellbeing at Just Eat is divided into three categories objectives, recognised our exceptional talent through mental health, physical and financial.
In 2018 we made an awards ceremony and coordinated a range of diverse significant progress raising awareness and improving and celebratory activities including building bikes for education and engagement about these categories charity with catering from some of our Local Legends with the aim of maximising the wellbeing of our people.
To support mental wellbeing and raise awareness within We also encourage employees to support causes that Just Eat we held workshops on World Mental Health matter to them.
Under our volunteering policy employees Day, introduced a mental health coaching partner in the can take paid leave to volunteer for a charity of their choice.
UK and held talks and events with prominent industry speakers.
We also trained and introduced 23 fully qualified Mental Health First Aiders along with 13 Mental Health First Aid champions across the UK business.
It is our ambition that a grassroots approach to mental health awareness will remove stigma and foster open dialogue that ensures our employees feel supported through difficult times.
This is the foundation we will build on in2019 to roll-out initiatives internationally.
For physical wellbeing we have great benefits available to employees.
Foremost amongst these is private medical insurance which gives employees quick access to medical treatment.
Inconjunction with this benefit we also offer other health benefits including discounted gym memberships, free fruit in the office, cycle to work schemes and fitness classes in many of our offices.
Engaging our people CASE STUDY: Life at Just Eat Throughout 2018 we evolved our approach to employee engagement with a new global survey platform and Upon completing university, Chloe Spokes knew enhanced surveys which now have questions on culture that she wanted to become a Software Engineer and the experience of working for Just Eat.
We have within two years and was determined to find a Company also seen our eNPS rise by 10 points, with average that would allow her to progress her career in this participation sitting at 76% across three surveys in 2018. way.
Chloe joined Just Eats graduate programme in2016 as a Graduate Associate Engineer.
We have also developed our approach to communicating the survey results and supporting the development of Throughout her two-year programme, Chloe spent action plans which sit at all levels across our six months in four different teams to build a international business.
breadth and depth of knowledge of software engineering and how the work she was doing Roisin Donnellys appointment as the designated contributed to Just Eats success, before she took director for workforce engagement in December has her final placement into a permanent position.
With meant we have started planning global engagement the hard work, dedication and passion that Chloe activities in addition to the existing action planning.
put into each rotation, the support she received Weare looking to bring representatives from the countries from the people she worked with and the training together and further build on the success of these and resources with which she was provided, Chloe initiatives in 2018. achievedher ambition and is now contributing We keep our people up to date on business matters toJustEats growth as a Software Engineer.
through monthly all hands presentations led by our After being recognised by Code First: Girls in their executive leadership team with a trip around the globe 2018 list of Top 30 UK Women in Tech under 30 to showcase, recognise and celebrate the contribution Chloe is determined to help others achieve the our people around the world make.
This is live in our same success as a key member of our Women in countries and is recorded for on-demand access.
Tech community and by helping to teach others In addition, we use our intranet to drive cross-departmental tocode through CoderDojo.
communication and social media to give all employees a platform to share success, best practice and cultural stories.
We invited 1,200 Just Eaters from around the business 17 to our World Meet.
Hosted over two days, on day one the event brought together our global leaders to celebrate Graduates hired in 2018 our achievements, and discuss the strategic pillars.
On day two, 1,200 employees were brought together at our 32 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Careers at Just Eat We have the capability to report across the full suite ofpeople metrics that senior leaders can use to inform Early careers We want to provide opportunities for people entering decision making.
Having consistent international people data in one system has removed the risk of excessive the world of work for the first time and help them learn and grow as professionals.
Our dedicated early careers reliance on anecdote and intuition and enabled a more informed business case approach to people decisions.
team built on their successes and learning from 2017 hiring 17 graduates onto our graduate programme in This ability to report comprehensively on people metrics has unlocked our ability to provide people data insights, 2018.
Our primary focus for graduate investment was in tech talent with 12 of the 17 graduates being hired for maintain our edge in a hugely competitive talent market and helps to support timely recommendations which our technology teams.
2017 was about piloting apprentices into our business and through 2018 we decided to focus can be acted upon no matter which country we need the data in.
on apprenticeship schemes for other parts of the business such as marketing.
We had 11 apprentices join the business to kick start their careers whilst gaining a qualification.
Reward and benefits Reward linked to performance Throughout 2019, encouraging early careers through To support our business drive to provide the best possible helping people find their place at work is something we experience to our customers internationally, throughout will continue to support with outreach programmes 2018 we evolved our annual performance-related bonus with local schools, apprenticeships and graduate scheme to include a customer-related metric.
We will be looking to grow these scheme will continue to be reviewed to ensureit supports initiatives internationally as well.
short-term business objectives whilstrewarding To support the inclusion initiatives with regards to early individual performance.
careers we are actively working to attract, develop and Bonuses for business leaders are determined through promote technology careers.
For example, we have STEM acombination of business and personal performance ambassadors promoting Science, Technology, Engineering which ensures that our leaders are all invested in our and Mathematics STEM subjects at schools.
In addition, we regularly review our we partner with CoderDojo to run coding for girls at compensation packages so that they are competitive our offices supported taught by Just Eat employees.
Talent development Senior leaders are eligible to receive performance Part of our Talent Development Approach throughout 2018 shareawards, which align their interests with those has beento drive engagement via our online learning ofshareholders in linking reward to business and share tools.
We introduced a number of initiatives to help price performance.
focus learning activity which resulted in a 38% increase in the number of logins to these learning tools year on Benefits year.
We have largely moved away from traditional At Just Eat, we are strong believers in creating a positive classroom learning and have been delighted with the and encouraging working environment to support and adoption rate following our move to a digital learning promote the wellbeing of our people.
One of the ways solution to ensure accessibility for all teams internationally.
we promote this is by providing a wide range of benefits that support our employees lives now and in the future.
Management development We have recently launched a new enhanced user-friendly Our people managers play a crucial role in creating high benefit portal in the UK which will encourage greater performing, motivated and engaged teams.
Whether take-up of available benefits.
Our goal in 2019 is to create anew manager is hired in Australia or newly promoted a consistent benefit brand for our employees internationally.
into a managerial role in Italy, we want to ensure our managers have access to the tools and resources they The Just Eat sharesave scheme enables employees to need to be successful people managers.
We run specialised contribute to a regular savings plan to purchase Company training sessions for all our managers to help them and shares.
Since its launch in 2015, this has proved to be a their teams succeed.
In addition, all our managers are hugely popular benefit.
2018 saw a further increase in provided with curated topics that support, educate and the number of employees signed up to the scheme.
The engage them to ensure we drive excellence throughout first sharesave scheme launched in 2015 also reached its our manager populations.
Employees who participated inthis scheme saw a significant increase in share price Evolving our approach to people data between the offer price and the share price on the In 2018 the people team invested in technology and vesting date.
resource into driving a more progressive approach to people systems and data.
This has meant we can leverage and accelerate our ability to provide the business with people insights which drive improvements in the business and process improvements in the people team.
Mira Magecha Interim Chief People Officer 5 March 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 33
