40 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Corporate responsibility Just Going Paperless In one of our key business During 2018 weve put a significant areas, Guaranteed Income effort into reducing the amount for Life, we were printing of paper that we use at Just over 700 pages per day on applications alone.
In total, we estimated that we were using over half a million pieces of A4 paper each year, thats the equivalent of approximately 1.5 acres of forest.
By improving our ways of working and moving to paperless processing, not only are we doingbusiness in a more sustainable and environmentally friendly way, we are also providing a better service to our customers, and creating a more streamlined and pleasant working environment for our people.
Well be continuing this paperless journey into 2019 by extending this approach to other parts of our organisation.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 Year ended Year ended We are committed to GHG emissions data 31 December 31 December Tonnes of CO e tCO e 2018 2017 2 2 reducing our impact on the Scope 1 Gas consumption 163 144 environment, promoting Scope 2 Purchased electricity 700 901 good corporate and Scope 3 Business travel 1,781 1,834 environmental practice Total emissions 2,644 2,879 and doing business the Intensity measurement tCO e per full time employee 2.41 2.64 2 Just way.
Intensity measurement tCO e per m revenue 0.69 1.52 2 Justs Group Corporate Social Responsibility 1.
Approach We use both a financial emissions intensity metric tCO e per 2 policy defines the minimum standards for We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and m revenue and an employee intensity metric tCO e per 2 Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors employee to normalise our data and provide useful managing relevant opportunities and risks.
from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for performance indicators.
Since our revenue is largely relative The Directors believe the direct environmental Company Reporting Standard Set 31 July 2019. to our business activity levels with our clients which in turn impact of Just Groups people and operations is influences our level of business travel and revenue growth, 2.
Organisational boundary relatively low due to the office based nature of these are the most appropriate and useful intensity We have used the financial control approach to identify the measurements for our sector.
GHG emissions for which Just Group have responsibility.
The boundaries of the reported emissions comprise all UK offices 6.
Approach to assurance and building related emissions including business travel, Alphacello Ltd conduct an annual review of Just Groups data We have reported on all of the emission covering car, train and flights long haul and domestic.
collation and calculation processes and provide verification sources required under the Companies Act of their GHG Emissions Statement.
Operational scopes 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports We have identified and measured our Scope 1 and 2 7.
These sources fall within our emissions, and significant Scope 3 emissions with the At present, carbon offsets do not form part of our carbon consolidated financial statements.
support of independent consultants, Alphacello Ltd. mitigation strategy.
The building we occupy in London uses photovoltaic cells to generate renewable energy.
Targets Implementing energy-saving initiatives, updating air Just Group has set annual targets in accordance with the We do not have responsibility for any emission conditioning units, installing energy efficient LED lighting recommendations that are included within our ESOS Energy sources that are not included in our and reducing our reliance on business consumables Pack, which has been submitted to the Environment Agency.
throughout our buildings all help to reduce Justs carbon footprint.
Intensity measurement Greenhouse gas emissions are measured in units of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e which is a standard 2 unit used to express the impact of each different greenhouse CARBON FOOTPRINT 2,544 TONNES gas in terms of the amount of CO that would create the 2 OF C0 E 8% REDUCTION SINCE 2017 2 same amount of warming.
iso 14001: 2015 certified esos 2014 compliant supporting the phase-out global staff travel emissions of single-use Plastics We recognise the risks presented Our operations reflect our We regularly conduct formal We report annually to the by climate change and remain focuson recycling, conserving reviews to make sure our Carbon Disclosure Project, a committed to supporting a resources and preventing activities comply with global disclosure platform healthy and sustainable pollution.
Our facilities planning environmental regulations and allowing us to measure and environment by establishing and processes take into account internal practices.
Weve always manage our environmental policies programmes that environmental considerations been a company that builds for impacts.
We measure our specifically outline how we such as energy consumption, the next generation.
And for performance against conduct business in a safe, travel emissions and efficient those generations, we have a sustainability objectives and environmentally sound manner use of office space.
duty to appreciate, manage and determine progress made to in accordance with relevant protect our earths resources.
reduce our environmental legislation and regulations.
1,164,393 Business miles travelled APPROVAL The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors Chris Gibson-Smith on 14 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Chairman 42 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Governance committed to high standards The Group Board is committed tohigh standards of corporate governance inJust and demonstrates this commitment by the way in which it conducts business andcarries out itsresponsibilities in response to the challenges and opportunities ofachanging market STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 During the year, the Company has applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of the Code during the year IN THIS SECTION 44 Board of Directors 48 Corporate Governance Report 54 Nomination Committee Report 58 Audit Committee Report 62 Risk and Compliance Committee Report 64 Directors Remuneration Report 84 Directors Report 88 Directors Responsibilities
