38 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Our people, values & culture in industry-wide discussions.
Diversity and inclusion is a challenge faced across our industry and we are taking action to promote awareness, change behaviour and embed a truly inclusive organisational culture atJust.
Just In 2018 we reported a median gender pay gap of 37.8%.
The data shows that this gap is not an equal pay for equal roles issue, but is due to the relatively lower proportion of females in senior roles within the organisation compared to males.
Whilst 46% of our colleagues are female, only 20% of our senior leaders great!
including executives and their direct reports arefemale see the table on page 87.
Although our analysis has shownthat there is no gender bias in our recruitment or promotion process, we are working hard and We want Just to be a great taking action to address the many and varied Doing business the Just way causes of the gender pay gap.
We have rolled place to work and we Just is a business with strong values and we out unconscious bias training to all colleagues are a brand recognised for being honest, recognise that passionate across theGroup to raise awareness of bias in moral and upright.
Underpinning all of our theworkplace.
and engaged colleagues colleagues behaviours and customer-focused activities is a principle that we do business We have signed up to the HM Treasury are crucial for our business the right way.
Through a communication Women in Finance Charter and set a 33 to thrive and succeed in programme in 2018 called Doing business by23 target to increase the percentage the Just way we encouraged colleagues ofwomen in senior leadership roles.
We have delivering innovative to think about the short and long-term provided opportunities to accelerate the impact of their decisions, and those of their products and services to development of our female talent, including colleagues, and consider how these decisions leadership initiatives, coaching, mentoring our customers.
create good outcomes for our customers and programmes and events such as Women of safeguard our reputation.
This is aligned to the Square Mile.
In September we co-hosted a set of behavioural principles that reflect Mind Matters Talking Mental Health at During 2018 weve taken actions to drive our purpose, values and culture which are Work, at the Dive In festival for diversity our people and organisation strategy embedded within our appraisal framework.
This festival around three priorities building the right We place high expectations on our colleagues aims to raise awareness of the benefits of organisational culture, strengthening to do the right thing and deliver our purpose.
diversity and inclusion and encourages the our capabilities, and developing an Doing business the Just way is a shared broader industry to take action.
We have engaging employee experience.
responsibility that starts with the Board and also undertaken a programme of activities permeates through the entire organisation.
which focus on the mental, physical and BUILDING THE RIGHT CULTURE financial wellbeing of our colleagues.
We are focused on developing the right culture to support a high performance organisation, where our Group strategy, Diversity, inclusion and wellbeing at business purpose and Just behaviours are our core Promoting leadership communication and universally understood.
We have pledged to build a culture which has engagement diversity and inclusion at its core and we Ensuring that our leaders engage regularly approach inclusivity in its broadest sense, with our colleagues across the Group is from gender, diversity of thought and animportant part of our culture, and we have wellbeing, to how we make our workforce part taken the opportunity to introduce additional of the wider society in which we operate.
formal and informal ways to encourage this.
Our leadership team regularly hold lean Members of the Board are fully engaged and coffee conversations and blog on a variety of actively support our commitment to improve issues.
Our Non-Executive Directors are also diversity and inclusion across the Group.
Our engaged with the wider workforce in sessions Group Deputy CEO, David Richardson, is the of their own ensuring they clearly hear our executive sponsor for diversity and inclusion.
colleague voice and take this insight into David and other executives have engaged in theboardroom.
online and face-to-face forums with colleagues to gather their feedback and perspective on diversity challenges and initiatives, and in addition take part externally STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 CAPABILITY EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE Ensuring we have the right capabilities to Whether they are being hired, or are already support and deliver our business plan is a here, ensuring our colleagues have a great long-term strategic focus.
During 2018 we experience at Just contributes significantly to concentrated on building our leadership our ability to attract, secure, and retain high pipeline and enhancing our commercial quality people for our business.
In developing capacity across the Group.
our employee experience we have adopted aholistic approach from ensuring our colleagues understand our purpose and strategy and how their work supports it, Developing leadership skills through to creating a positive physical We have invested in leadership programmes environment for people to perform at for all of our senior leaders and people theirbest.
A senior leadership benchmarking programme called Enterprise Leadership has enabled ourleaders to better understand their performance and impact, and given the Maintaining good levels of colleague organisation a robust view of its talent.
engagement During 2018 weve taken specific and tangible actions to ensure that Just continues to be a great place to work.
We have good levels of Supporting all colleagues development colleague engagement and have once again We are committed to the continuous maintained our accreditation as One to development of all of our colleagues and we Watch in the Best Companies survey.
We actively support professional development actively encourage colleagues to share what with internal and external events.
Over they think we do well as a business so that we theyear we sponsored over 40 actuaries understand their views, know the areas in through exams with the Institute and Faculty which our colleagues believe we can improve, of Actuaries and over 60 colleagues through and make the necessary changes together to exams with the Chartered Insurance Institute.
We have provided This enables us to retainand develop the regular updates on the actions we are taking particular technical professional skills we need in monthly Just Action updates.
Understanding and supporting the Companys purpose Differentiating our customer experience 835 colleagues from around the Group through understanding vulnerability attended one of 20 Just Be Proud interactive We consider its important for all colleagues events to discuss what makes Just a special across the Group, particularly those in business and what sets us apart from the customer-facing roles, to have an increased competition.
Aligned to our purpose, in the awareness and understanding ofthe summer we asked people to nominate a new challenges facing people who can become corporate charity, andwe announced that we vulnerable at different times in their lives.
We would be supporting Contact the Elderly.
This have designed and delivered a series of is asmall charity that helps combat the training programmes in 2018 from back growing societal challenge of isolation and office teams to members of the Board.
In loneliness in later life.
conjunction with the independent think tank International Longevity Centre UK, we have brought together specialists with experience NON-FINANCIAL of working with vulnerable people and to Developing the optimum working INFORMATION REPORTING provide solutions to some ofthese issues.
environment Using this understanding means we are able Our physical environment and ways of Respect for human rights to give our colleagues the confidence and working are important to peoples overall See page 86 detailed knowledge of specific customer wellbeing, help improve collaboration and Environmental matters needs, enabling them to tailor the Just mean we can spend more productive See page 41 customer experience.
Weve made Employee matters considerable progress in refurbishing our See pages 38 to 39 and 48 to 49 office environment and improving how wedo Social matters things by using new technology solutions and See pages 38 to 39 adopting straight through processing.
Anti-corruption and bribery See page 51
