STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability At Just Eat we believe in doingbusiness responsibly Being a responsible business compostable seaweed-based sauce sachets with ten Our approach to sustainability and social responsibility restaurants across London, stopping approximately isdriven by the recognition of, and the obligations that 40,000 plastic sauce sachets entering London homes come with, the important role we play in the vibrant over the course of the trial.
The sachets were positively takeaway sector.
This includes the business livelihood of received by customers and the trial is being expanded our neighbourhood Restaurant Partners, our customers yet further in 2019. food choices and our peoples working lives.
We are We stopped selling single-use plastic in our UK partner committed to ensuring Just Eat has a positive impact on shop in March 2018, have launched plastic recycling these stakeholders, the communities in which we operate initiatives and are exploring the development of and the societal issues which affect our sector and the compostable packaging.
Additionally, in 2018 we trialled wider world.
At all times we aim to do the right thing.
a pre-ticked box on our app and website to encourage Developing a more sustainable food sector customers to opt out of receiving single-use plastic As a digital business, the impact of our owned operations items this saw more than 20% of customers opt out of on society and the environment is small in comparison receiving plastic cutlery and straws that could otherwise to that of other businesses of our scale and profile.
have been delivered and discarded.
We will roll this out However, we have chosen to broaden the scope of our across the app and website permanently in2019.
Earlier responsibility to our wider ecosystem, using our scale in the year, we also partnered with Eskuta to offer our toinfluence aspects of our Restaurant Partners Restaurant Partners discounts on electric bikes and operations to drive positive behavioural change and scooters to encourage them to embrace low-carbon help create a more sustainable food tech sector.
deliveries and improve urban air quality.
During the year we also soughtto mitigate our impact on the environment We have established an innovation platform to invest by the refurbishment of one of our main UK offices inthe research and development of innovative and tothe Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors SKA practical alternatives for single-use plastics.
initiative in the UK we teamed up with sustainable packaging start-up Skipping Rocks Lab to trial 100% 34 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report At all times we seek to implement learnings and initiatives Developing tech talent that have succeeded in one market into another.
We are actively working to attract and develop technology talent and promote technology careers.
For example, Further details of our greenhouse gas emissions reporting we have 80 STEM ambassadors promoting STEM subjects can be found within the Directors Report on page 141. for schools and Just Eat has signed up to the Tech She Tackling food waste and food poverty Can Charter, founded by PwC.
This is a commitment by organisations to work together to increase the number We have continued our partnership with FoodCycle, a UK charity that combines surplus food, volunteers and ofwomen working in technology roles across the UK.
"Wehave also partnered with CoderDojo to run ""coding spare kitchen capacity to create tasty, nutritious meals for people at risk of food poverty and social isolation."
Over the past two years we helped provide more than Modern Slavery 70,000 meals for communities in need across the UK We are opposed to slavery, servitude, compulsory or through a range of fundraising activities including a forced labour and human trafficking in all its forms sponsored climb to Mount Everest Base Camp.
"We also together, ""Modern Slavery""."
As part of our commitment donated employee time and expertise to support the to tackle and eradicate Modern Slavery, and in support charity with its growth and development.
of our Modern Slavery Policy, in 2018 we ran an awareness In Canada, SkipTheDishes teamed up with the 2018 campaign for all staff across the business with guidance and training on what to do if they suspect any form of Winnipeg Jets Food Drive in support of Winnipeg Harvest.
The initiative garnered 40,286 pounds of Modern Slavery in our business or supply chain.
We also established a Modern Slavery Committee whose mandate non-perishable food donations, in addition to a $10,000 monetary donation.
is to examine and develop the processes we have in place which are designed to help ensure the prevention of We also work with Shift, a charity which uses research Modern Slavery in our business and supply chain and and design techniques to create products and services toidentify and manage Modern Slavery risk.
Further which help address social problems.
In 2018 we worked information is provided in our Modern Slavery Statement.
together to better understand societal issues around fast food in deprived areas, supporting Family Feeds, anew restaurant concept in Birmingham and testing customer reaction to healthy accreditation.
Just Eat Ireland has continued its partnership with the Peter McVerry Trust, a charity which aims to eradicate long-term homelessness.
Each year on National Takeaway Tuesday, 10% of the value of every order is donated to the Trust and this has seen over 50,000 donated over the past three years.
The Trust will house five homeless people with these funds.
Just Eat also delivered pizzas to the Trusts homeless hostels in Dublin city centre on the day.
Raising food hygiene and safety standards We have a constantly growing programme of activity tosupport and educate our Restaurant Partners about Economic impact improving food hygiene and safety standards.
Our aim isto give small, independent businesses access to the We bring additional income to takeaway businesses same food safety tools that big businesses have had on the high street which are an increasingly important foryears such as private consultancy from leading food part of national and local economies.
In the UK alone safety experts and practical advice from environmental the takeaway sector directly contributes 4.5billion health officers.
to the economy each year and employs more than In the UK, new Restaurant Partners are provided free 231,000 people with a further 30,000 new jobs access to food hygiene training and certification, expected to be created in the sector by 2021.
JustEat whichincludes training on food handling, food safety is integral to the success of many of these takeaway management, and food hygiene law.
"All partners can businesses more than 221 million orders were placed also access resources from the Food Standards through the Just Eat platform globally in 2018 and Agency ""FSA"" and NSF, the leading global food safety in the UK our partners receive, on average, 60,000 consultants, through Just Eats Partner Centre."
worth of orders through Just Eat each year.
Source: The Takeaway Economy Report commissioned by Just Eat for the We will also soon display the official food hygiene rating British Takeaway Campaign.
of each of our UK Restaurant Partners directly on our platform both in app and online.
This will make it much easier for customers to make informed decisions about the takeaway choices that best suit them and is supported by the FSA and Chartered Institute of Environmental Health.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 35 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability continued Being a responsible business continued Code of Conduct We have a comprehensive employee Code of Conduct, governing subjects such as conflicts of interest, fraud, money laundering, bribery and corruption and maintaining a professional yet fun work environment.
We also have a separate Anti-bribery and corruption policy and a Gift & hospitality declaration which enables our people to easily notify, and where appropriate, obtain approval for the giving or receiving of gifts or hospitality.
In addition, the Fraud policy sets out our clear aim to prevent, deter and eliminate fraud and corrupt conduct.
It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner and we are committed to acting fairly and with integrity.
Specifically we take a zero-tolerance approach Ristorante Solidale to bribery and corruption and effective measures and systems are in place to counter bribery.
We will uphold Ristorante Solidale was launched to reduce food waste all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in and food poverty in Italy and to help less fortunate all the jurisdictions in which we operate.
communities and families with food donations.
Human rights Starting in Milan in 2017, Ristorante Solidale has Whilst the Group has no specific policy in place regarding now expanded into Turin and Rome.
As part of the human rights, all employment policies and practices are programme, Just Eat Italy works with its Restaurant equally applied to all employees, officers, consultants, Partners in these cities, as well as Caritas Italiana volunteers, interns, and casual and agency workers.
Details and Food Pony, to donate dishes made from surplus of the employee Code of Conduct are discussed above.
Caritas Italiana is a charity committed tosupporting vulnerable people, which Privacy help us to identify communities and families in need.
Our internal and external facing data protection policies Food Pony is a delivery business which supports the and processes including our customer and Restaurant project using its fleet of eco-friendly scooters and privacy policies, together with our Employee data retention bikes to transport the dishes.
As part of the initiative, policy are all designed to govern the way we process during the Christmas period, restaurants can also personal data.
Throughout 2018 our internal Data add an extra meal, called piatto sospeso pending Protection Committee continued to oversee data dishes to their menus, costing between 3and 5 governance and GDPR compliance.
"""Piatto sospeso"" follows the typical tradition and procedures were rolled out across the business in of ""suspended coffees"" from Naples espressos or 2018 as part of our GDPR compliance programme and dishes which are paid for by customers for people in we continue to monitor and develop or improve our need to drink or eat."
So, customers are then able to processes and systems relating to the storage and donate these meals to those in need by including an processing of personal data.
additional dish to their own orders.
So far Ristorante FTSE4Good Solidale has delivered 4,000 meals to more than Just Eat has been independently assessed according to 2,400 people in 30communities across Rome, the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements Milanand Turin.
to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, created by FTSE Russell.
"This is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance ""ESG"" practices."
So far Ristorante Solidale has delivered 4,000 meals to more than 2,400 people in 30 communities across Rome, Milan and Turin.
36 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Non-financial information statement We aim to comply with the new Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The below table, and information it refers to, is intended to help stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial matters.
Reporting requirement Policies and standards which govern our approach Risk management and additional information Environmental matters Constituent of the Sustainability, page 36 FTSE4Good Index Series Establishment of innovation platform Sustainability, page 34 toinvest in R&D for alternatives to single-use plastics Employees Code of Conduct Sustainability, Code of Conduct, page 36 Diversity, Inclusion and Our People, Creating an inclusive Belongingprogramme international business, pages 29 and 30 Whistleblowing Principal risks and uncertainties, How is the risk managed?
: and Key risk indicators, both page 27 Report of the Audit Committee, February, page 52: Key matters, page 53: and Internal controls and risk management environment, page 55 Human rights Code of Conduct Sustainability, Code of Conduct, page 36 Modern Slavery Policy Sustainability, Modern Slavery, page 35 Modern Slavery Statement Sustainability, Modern Slavery, page 35 Privacy Customer Privacy Policy Sustainability, Privacy, page 36 Restaurant Privacy Policy Sustainability, Privacy, page 36 Employee Data Retention Policy Sustainability, Privacy, page 36 Social matters Volunteering Policy Our People, page 32 Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy Sustainability, Code of Conduct, page 36 anti-bribery Fraud Policy Sustainability, Code of Conduct, page 36 Gifts and hospitality declaration Sustainability, Code of Conduct, page 36 Description of principal risks and impact of business activity Principal risks and uncertainties, pages 20 to 28 Description of the business model Our business model, pages 06 and 07 Non-financial key performance indicators Our KPIs, page 19 The Board delegates authority to the Executive Team for policy compliance whilst the Internal Audit and Risk function provide independent assurance in regard to matters of compliance to the Audit Committee.
This is in addition to those specific areas where we have external monitoring, such as the FTSE4Good Index Series, or where the Board isinformed directly of non-compliance issues in the subsequent Board Meeting.
Where a material breach is found, the Board is informed promptly.
"The implementation of ""blueprinting"" inherent risks involves management taking responsibility for understanding their day-to-day processes and adherence to Group policies."
Please see page 20 formore detail in the Principal risks and uncertainties section.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 37
