STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate responsibility report Sustainable growth KAZ Minerals is a responsible developer and operator of mining assets in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
Corporate responsibility is at the core of our strategy and licence to operate.
Our employees, investors, local communities, governments and other stakeholders expect us to develop mineral wealth for the benefit of wider society in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
Our approach to corporate responsibility KAZ Minerals is a responsible developer and operator of mining We are carefully managing the environmental and social impacts assets in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Russia.
We are committed of our activities as we increase production from our new facilities to maintaining high levels of corporate responsibility as we grow at Bozshakol and Aktogay and as we prepare for the next phase our business and share the benefits of natural resource of growth for the Group.
extraction with our key stakeholders.
Our stakeholders, including employees, investors, local Oleg Novachuk communities and governments, expect us to develop mineral Chair wealth for the benefit of wider society, to ensure that employees and contractors are provided with a safe working environment and to minimise the impact of our activities on the surrounding environment and local communities.
The Group employs approximately 1,000 staff in Kyrgyzstan where National context and economic contribution it operates the Bozymchak copper-gold mine, contributing KAZ Minerals is a copper miner based in Kazakhstan and $13 million in taxes paid in 2018.
The Group has recently acquired Baimskaya, a major greenfield asset in Russia which it intends to develop into a large From 2011 to date the Group has invested a total of approximately scale, open pit copper mine by 2026.
$4.2 billion in the construction of mining facilities at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
In addition to their financial contribution, these new mines In Kazakhstan the Group operates the Bozshakol and Aktogay created employment for over 3,000 operational staff who received mines and concentrators, as well as three underground mines and extensive training in the use of modern equipment and production associated concentrators in the East Region, employing techniques.
In 2018 the Group commenced work on the approximately 13,000 staff.
In 2018 the Group exported 106 kt of construction of a second concentrator at Aktogay which will double copper cathode from Kazakhstan to customers in both Asia and sulphide ore processing capacity for a total investment of Europe 2017: 112 kt and 190 kt of copper in concentrate mainly to $1.2 billion, of which $204 million was spent in 2018.
As a result of its economic activities, the Group generated revenues of $2,162 million in 2018 and made a total tax contribution of $368 million in Kazakhstan, including $199 million of MET and $92 million of corporate income and withholding taxes.
com 47 Corporate responsibility report continued Economic value generated and distributed KAZ Minerals considers all fatalities to be avoidable and has a target $ million 2018 2017 of zero fatalities.
There have been no operational fatalities in any of the Groups open pit mining assets at Bozshakol, Aktogay and Direct economic value generated Bozymchak since the mines commenced production, covering a Gross Revenues 2,162 1,938 total of 38 million man hours.
Open pit mining is inherently safer Economic value distributed than underground mining and significant efforts have been made at 1 Operating cash costs 659 523 the new open pit mines to establish and maintain a strong safety 2 Employee wages and benefits 184 170 culture from the outset.
3 Payments to providers of capital 256 222 4 The number of fatalities is on a long-term downward trend.
Rock Taxes paid fall in underground mines has been a cause of fatalities in previous Kazakhstan 321 317 years and in 2018 a ground control improvement plan was Kyrgyzstan 9 7 implemented to directly address this risk, an initiative which United Kingdom 3 continues into 2019.
Work in this area has already shown 5 Community investments 9 10 improvements and none of the fatal incidents in 2018 resulted from rock falls.
Economic value retained 721 689 Additional initiatives in 2018 included detailed health and safety 1 Operating cash costs as disclosed in the Financial review see page 38, being the audits of all mines and Group-wide workshops to implement best difference between revenues and EBITDA adjusted to exclude total employee practice.
Investments have also been made in improvements to costs see note 8 to the financial statements and social spend, as reflected in the table above.
emergency response capabilities and general medical support.
2 Employee wages and benefits represents cost incurred by the Group of the total labour cost and associated social taxes see note 8 to the financial statements.
Injuries 3 Payments to providers of capital represents interest paid on borrowing facilities The Group reports its health and safety performance according to and dividends during the period see consolidated statement of cash flows on the occupational injury and disease classification definitions page124.
published in January 2014 by the ICMM.
4 Taxes paid for each region is reflected in the payments to governments table on page 46 see Financial review and is the total taxes paid adjusted to remove The average TRIFR for ICMM members in 2017 was 3.94 employee and employers payroll taxes, which are reflected within employee wages and benefits for each region and excludes social spend, reflected as 2016: 4.26.
The reporting of minor injuries and near misses are community investments.
important management tools for improving health and safety 5 Community investments represents the social payments as reflected in the performance.
Under ICMM definitions, all injuries including minor payments to government table on page 46. injuries requiring treatment beyond first aid or resulting in the workers inability to perform his or her routine work function on Health and safety the next calendar day, are recordable injuries.
To improve the ability Fatalities of management to take pre-emptive action, a culture of open We are disappointed to report that there were four fatalities at our reporting of minor injuries and near misses has been successfully underground operations in the East Region of Kazakhstan in 2018. implemented at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
The Group is working to One fatality occurred at the Artemyevsky mine and three at encourage a similar reporting culture across all of its assets and Orlovsky.
Following all fatal incidents, operations in the affected area therefore the reporting of recordable injuries and near misses may are suspended and senior management attend the site within a increase in the short term.
short period of the incident occurring as part of a preliminary There were 61 TRI cases in 2018, an increase of 20% compared investigation.
All fatalities are investigated by state authorities and with the 51 injuries recorded in 2017.
Man-hours worked increased following this the Group conducts its own detailed investigation to in 2018 to 35.0 million 2017: 32.0 million, resulting in a 9% increase establish the root causes and identify key learnings.
The main causes of injury were falls 16 and rock falls 12.
Fatalities There were 18 serious injuries out of a total of 61 recordable 18 4 injuries, compared with 13 serious injuries in 2017.
The main causes 17 4 of serious injury were slips and falls six, rock falls four and vehicle related incidents two.
Fatality frequency rate 18 0.11 17 0.13 48 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The SLAM system for hazard observation Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 18 1.74 17 1.60 Total Recordable Cases 18 61 54 115 17 51 38 89 Total Recordable Injuries Total Recordable Diseases Total Recordable Cases Frequency Rate 18 3.28 17 2.79 The Group employs the SLAM system Stop Look Assess Manage as one of several initiatives aimed at Occupational health encouraging identification of hazards prior to commencing a There were 54 new cases of occupational diseases recorded in task, so that risks can be eliminated or controlled.
The majority of new cases in 2018 resulted Employees are provided with SLAM forms and encouraged frommusculoskeletal disorders, neuropathic pain, silicosis and to complete them regularly as well as recording all safety dustbronchitis.
interactions between staff to demonstrate that risk Occupational health problems are usually the result of long-term assessments are taking place.
exposure to risks such as poor ergonomics, vibration, dust or noise.
At Aktogay in 2018, targets of 700 safety interactions and The Group has measures in place to remove or reduce these risk 14,000 SLAM reports per month were set and achieved.
factors where possible, for example by limiting the time that There are 1,500 staff employed at Aktogay, with employees spend in roles which expose them to occupational health approximately 800 on site at any given time.
Annual on-site medical checks have been established to accounting for shift patterns, this represents a target of at ensure timely identification of emerging occupational health least one SLAM report per person per day.
During 2018, the Group established new industrial SLAM reporting is also monitored and has improved hygiene guidance, medical support standards and rehabilitation and significantly during 2018. return to work procedures.
The goal is to get people interacting and talking about The new open pit mines at Bozshakol, Aktogay and Bozymchak safety on a regular basis.
When I see that there have been reported no occupational health issues during 2018.
100 safety interactions on one day, each interaction involves Improving our performance at least two people so that is a minimum of 200 people who In 2017, the Group approved a new three-year health and safety have been talking about safety on that shift, and that can strategic plan to improve performance.
The plan aims to strengthen only be a good thing.
the leadership and cultural foundations for safe and productive We also need to encourage a culture where everyone feels work, as well as addressing specific priority risk areas for workplace empowered to stop someone else if they notice dangerous safety and occupational health.
behaviours or working conditions, and the SLAM system A key health and safety priority in 2019 is to improve knowledge and monitoring of safety interactions encourages this.
and skills through training and development to identify hazards.
Aktogay Manager Once identified, hazards can be illuminated or a call for help made prior to the commencement of the task.
SLAM and safety interactions at Aktogay, 2018 At Aktogay, we will be supervising approximately 2,000 contractors commencing work on the expansion project to construct a new sulphide concentrator.
Our knowledge of the health and safety risks gained from previous similar construction projects and the close involvement of the KAZ Minerals supervisory team is expected to reduce the health and safety risks associated with the expansion project.
Jan 18 Feb 18 Mar 18 Apr 18 May 18 Jun 18 Jul 18 Aug 18 Sep 18 Oct 18 Nov 18 Dec 18 SLAM reports Safety interactions www.
com 49 77 5,884 114 7,137 47 7,780 91 6,628 419 8,462 990 12,120 818 12,910 1,160 14,091 1,043 15,381 976 17,560 1,087 17,639 1,853 18,315 Corporate responsibility report continued The Groups energy efficiency, measured as energy use per tonne Environmental impacts of ore processed, has continued to improve in 2018 as the KAZ Minerals seeks to reduce the impact of its activities on the Bozshakol and Aktogay open pit mines have ramped up production.
environment and to increase environmental awareness amongst its The main drivers of the energy efficiency of the new assets are the employees, contractors and suppliers.
The Group has an efficiencies gained from the use of large scale processing facilities, environmental policy which sets out its commitment to the modern grinding and flotation technology employed in the environmental protection, reduction of emissions and waste and concentrators and the low strip ratios of the Bozshakol and Aktogay efficient consumption of resources such as energy and water.
deposits, where low quantities of waste rock are required to be Thepolicy can be downloaded from the Groups website, removed per tonne of copper ore extracted.
Energy use by type PJ 2018 2017 The Group conducts detailed environmental due diligence prior to the development of new mining projects and continually monitors Electricity 8.63 6.91 the impact of its activities on the environment, publishing key Diesel 1.74 1.66 performance indicators annually.
Where possible, the Group aligns Heat 1.27 1.27 its environmental reporting with the GRI4 framework which is a set Coal 0.00 0.02 of sustainability reporting standards published by the Global Petrol 0.06 0.07 Reporting Initiative GRI.
GRI is an independent organisation established in 1997 to create common standards for sustainability Total 11.70 9.93 1 reporting by companies and governments.
Energy intensity 0.22 0.24 The Health, Safety and Environment HSE Committee is a Board Energy use by asset PJ 2018 2017 Committee which is responsible for oversight of the Groups environmental policies, reporting, standards and compliance.
Senior Bozshakol 4.09 3.71 management are responsible for the Groups overall environmental Aktogay 3.98 2.53 performance.
For more details on the HSE Committee, please see East Region 3.28 3.33 the HSE Committee section in the Governance framework on page Bozymchak 0.35 0.36 91 of this report.
Total 11.70 9.93 Energy use 1 Energy intensity 0.22 0.24 TJ kt sulphide ore processed energy consumption 1 TJ kt sulphide ore processed 18 0.22 Total energy use increased by 18% in 2018 compared with the prior 17 0.24 year, mainly reflecting the increase ore processing volumes which 16 0.46 grew by 28% as Bozshakol and Aktogay ramped up towards their 15 0.86 design ore throughput capacities.
Energy use in the East Region and Bozymchak reduced to 3.63 PJ 2017: 3.69 PJ due to a reduction in the quantity of ore processed.
Whilst overall energy consumption increased, the energy intensity of the Groups activities reduced to 0.22 TJ per kt of ore processed 2017: 0.24.
Corporate Values KAZ Minerals established its five key corporate values in 2015.
These are the principles by which we seek to conduct our business.
They guide our decision making and how we monitor our performance.
By upholding these values we will build a strong internal culture, improve relationships with our external stakeholders and deliver value to our shareholders: Safety Long Term Teamwork Professional Integrity Protect the health Efficiency Take responsibility development Uphold honesty in and wellbeing of all Anticipate for personal and Improve everything that we ofour employees thelong-term team goals, accept competency and do.
Keep promises and contractors consequences of compromise, skills, encourage and admit mistakes and protect the todays actions encourage education and safety of the colleagues and training, share environment appreciate different experience and perspectives knowledge with colleagues 50 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Pre-split drilling and blasting at Aktogay Pit wall stability is a key health and safety risk in any open pit mining operation.
Pre-split drilling and blasting techniques have been employed at Aktogay since April 2018, utilising a D65 drill rig from Atlas Copco.
The rig is capable of drilling angled pre-split holes for the optimum placement of explosives as well as regular production drill holes.
Pre-split blasting preserves the stability of the highwalls in the pit by preventing blast damage.
infrastructure that is used to transport copper concentrate to Electricity Consumption PJ 2018 2017 customers, eliminating the need to transport concentrate using diesel powered trucks.
Bozshakol 3.34 2.95 Aktogay 3.47 2.11 CO emissions 2 East Region 1.64 1.68 CO emissions by type kt 2018 2017 2 Bozymchak 0.17 0.17 Scope 1 431 410 Total 8.62 6.91 Scope 2 2,170 1,733 1 Energy intensity 0.16 0.17 Group 2,601 2,143 1 TJ kt sulphide ore processed Copper production 294.7 258.5 Electricity consumption at Bozshakol and Aktogay increased by 34% CO per unit of copper 8.8 8.3 in 2018 to 6.81 PJ 2017: 5.06 PJ, reflecting the ramp up of sulphide 2 and clay ore processing volumes, which increased by 28% from 41,671 kt in 2017 to 53,250 kt in 2018.
In the East Region and Ore processed 53,250 41,671 Bozymchak, electricity consumption reduced to 1.81 PJ 2017: 1.85 CO per unit of ore processed 0.049 0.051 2 PJ in line with the reduced processing volumes.
CO per unit of ore processed in 2018 was 4% lower at 0.049, from Diesel Consumption PJ 2018 2017 2 0.051 in the prior year.
CO emissions per tonne of copper 2 produced increased slightly to 8.8 tonnes 2017: 8.3 tonnes, due to Bozshakol 0.75 0.75 the expected reduction in average copper grades in ore processed Aktogay 0.52 0.42 during the year.
East Region 0.32 0.33 As operating activities have increased with Aktogay and Bozshakol Bozymchak 0.15 0.16 ramping up, total CO emissions increased by 21% to 2,601,060 2 Total 1.74 1.66 tonnes 2017: 2,142,914 tonnes.
The increase was largely due to 2 Diesel intensity 0.023 0.026 higher ore volumes at Aktogay, where sulphide processing increased 2 TJ kt ore mined by 61% to 20.8 Mt 2017: 12.9 Mt, leading to a 62% increase in CO 2 Diesel consumption increased by 5% to 1.74 PJ 2017: 1.66 PJ as ore emissions at the site.
extraction at Aktogay ramped up during the year.
Diesel Scope 1 emissions mainly relate to mining activities at Bozshakol and consumption at Bozshakol and Bozymchak was in line with the prior Aktogay and heat energy consumption in the East Region.
The Group constantly seeks to improve the efficiency emissions increased slightly in 2018 as planned lower ore and waste of its haul truck fleet, the main source of diesel consumption.
Fleet rock extraction at Bozshakol and Bozymchak was offset by a 60% movements at Bozshakol and Aktogay are monitored in real time increase in extraction at Aktogay.
Scope 2 emissions increased by using an automated remote dispatch system enabling constant 25% and mainly relate to electricity consumption at the Bozshakol adjustments to minimise diesel consumption.
Bozshakol and and Aktogay concentrators, where combined processing volumes Aktogay benefit from close proximity to pre-existing rail were 31% higher in 2018. www.
com 51 Corporate responsibility report continued Trial of light weight haul truck bodies During 2018, a trial of lightweight trays on four haul trucks at Aktogay was successfully completed.
Using lightweight trays allows more ore to be transported per truck journey whilst remaining within maximum truck weight limits.
Fewer journeys are required to transport a given quantity of ore, so diesel consumption, costs, carbon emissions and fleet size are all reduced.
The lightweight trays are a direct replacement for the original Caterpillar 785C trays and are supplied by DT HiLoad Australia.
The maximum ore payload for a 785C truck is increased by 16%, from 125 t to 145 t. Total truck hours can be reduced by approximately 15%.
In August 2018, the Group agreed to acquire the Baimskaya copper CO2 intensity 2018 2017 2016 project in the Chukotka region of Russia, where it intends to Revenue $ million 2,162 1,663 766 construct a new open pit copper mine with on-site concentrators Total CO emissions 2 capable of processing 60 Mt of ore per year, with first copper Scope 1, Scope 2, kt 2,601 2,143 1,473 production expected in 2026.
Electrical power for the construction phase of the Baimskaya project will be drawn from local nuclear CO emissions, 2 facilities and the power for production activities after 2026 is t per $ million revenue 1,203 1,289 1,923 expected to be largely drawn from hydropower sources in the Magadan region.
The Baimskaya copper mine is therefore expected The Groups CO intensity by revenue, as measured by the Carbon 2 to draw the majority of its energy consumption from carbon-free Disclosure Project tonnes of CO per $1 million of revenue, has 2 energy sources, with the only significant CO emissions arising from improved as the major growth projects have ramped up and 2 the use of diesel fuel in mining activities and the transportation of commodity prices averaged higher in 2018, from 1,289 tonnes in copper concentrate to customers.
The ramp up of production at 2017 to 1,203 tonnes in 2018.
Baimskaya from 2026 onwards is expected to significantly reduce Further reducing CO emissions intensity 2 the CO intensity of the Groups activities, further reducing both 2 The Group is committed to minimising the CO intensity of its 2 CO emissions per tonne of ore processed and per tonne of 2 operations as stated in its Environmental Policy.
The Group HSE copper produced.
Committee is responsible for the monitoring of CO intensity.
2 The Government of Kazakhstan, where the majority of the Groups The operations General Directors are responsible for assets are currently located, is committed to increasing electricity implementing efficiency initiatives to minimise energy consumption generation from renewable sources as part of its national at site level.
development strategy, with a target of 30% of power generation by 2030 and 50% by 2050.
Reductions in CO intensity have been achieved through the 2 transition to modern open pit mining.
In the longer term the Group will seek to increase the use of renewable energy sources where possible.
The 0.17 PJ of electricity consumed at the Bozymchak mine comes exclusively from renewable energy sources hydropower.
52 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At Bozshakol and Aktogay, a central thickened discharge method is Waste in use, which is most appropriate for the terrain and conditions at The Group is committed to the responsible management of mineral these sites.
The flat terrain surrounding Bozshakol and Aktogay and waste and other waste products, as set out in its Environmental their remote locations would reduce the environmental impact in Policy.
The Group HSE Committee is responsible for monitoring the event of an issue with tailings storage.
The operations General Directors are In the East Region, active tailings storage facilities are located at responsible for waste management at site level.
Orlovsky, Nikolayevsky and Belousovsky and there is a closed facility Waste rock by asset Mt 2018 2017 at Berezovsky.
At Bozymchak, the Group employs a dry tailings Bozshakol 6.4 6.4 facility where material is filtered before storage to reduce moisture Aktogay 0.5 1.1 content to approximately 14%, before waste is deposited in plastic East Region 0.1 0.1 lined cells by conveyor.
Use of this type of facility is employed at Bozymchak 7.8 6.7 Bozymchak due to the relatively high altitude location of the mine in Total 14.8 14.3 mountainous terrain and the possibility of seismic activity.
1 Waste intensity 50.2 55.3 Tailings waste production is directly linked to ore processing 1 kt waste rock kt copper production volumes and increased from 40.2 million tonnes in 2017 to The largest volume of waste generated by the Group is waste rock 51.8 million tonnes in 2018.
The main cause for the increase was from the mining of overburden, mainly at Bozshakol and dueto the ramp up of the Bozshakol clay and Aktogay Bozymchak.
Generation of waste rock at Bozshakol and Aktogay is .
not considered to be a significant stakeholder issue due to the Water remote locations of the mines and their separation distances from local communities.
Waste rock mining increased by 3% to The Group is committed to reducing water consumption where 14.8 million tonnes in 2018 2017: 14.3 million tonnes due to possible, as set out in its Environmental Policy.
The Group HSE increased stripping activity at Bozymchak in preparation for the Committee is responsible for monitoring water use.
The next stage of the mine plan.
operations General Directors are responsible for implementing efficiency initiatives to minimise water consumption at site level.
Aktogay generated 0.5 million tonnes of waste rock in 2018 2017: 1.1 Mt, compared with 6.4 million tonnes at Bozshakol Sources of water for use in new mining projects are considered in 2017: 6.4 Mt.
Aktogay will continue to generate less waste per unit detail prior to commencement of construction and this analysis of ore mined over the life of the mine due to its lower strip ratio of forms an integral part of any scoping or feasibility study.
The KAZ 0.2 compared with 0.7 at Bozshakol.
The strip ratios at both Minerals projects division, together with senior management and Bozshakol and Aktogay are low compared with industry averages.
the Board, will always consider the availability of fresh water for Tailings by asset Mt 2018 2017 copper processing and any likely adverse effect on local Bozshakol 28.0 24.1 communities or the surrounding environment before approving a Aktogay 20.2 12.6 new development project.
East Region 2.6 2.5 The Group is currently conducting a feasibility study for the Bozymchak 1.0 1.0 Baimskaya copper project in the Chukotka region of Russia, which Total 51.8 40.2 2 includes a detailed assessment of the availability of sufficient supplies Tailings intensity 176 156 of water.
The pre-feasibility study work which was conducted prior 2 kt tailings kt copper production to the Groups ownership of Baimskaya, and a site visit by KAZ The safe and effective management of tailings waste is a high Minerals indicates that sufficient fresh water is available for the priority for the Group.
Operating procedures are in place for the proposed operations and there will be no adverse effects on local monitoring and maintenance of tailings storage facilities, including communities, or other material impacts on the environment regular inspection and testing of nearby groundwater to detect and resulting from the extraction of fresh water for copper processing.
The Group periodically arranges for inspections by independent external experts, with all active tailings storage facilities inspected during 2018.
The Group is required to comply with the laws of the Government of Kazakhstan and the Government of Kyrgyzstan in relation to the licensing, upkeep and maintenance of tailings storage facilities.
State authorities regularly inspect the Groups tailings facilities to ensure compliance with regulations.
There are no significant deficiencies identified in the stability of the Groups tailings storage facilities.
Ongoing work programmes, supported by appropriate external consultants, are in place to develop the tailings dams in line with future production plans and to address any issues identified.
com 53 Corporate responsibility report continued All of KAZ Minerals existing mining and processing sites benefit Water withdrawal by source megalitres 2018 2017 from access to sufficient fresh water and none of the Groups Surface water 25,993 32,775 operations are located in water stressed areas.
The Group seeks to Groundwater 16,911 16,445 conserve and recycle as much water as possible, with the main Total 42,904 49,220 sources of reusable water being from tailings and mine water inflow.
The Bozshakol, Aktogay and Baimskaya sulphide concentrators are Total water extraction of 42,904 megalitres consisted of expected to recycle over 75% of water withdrawn and annual 25,993 megalitres extracted from surface water sources including water consumption at Bozshakol has started to reduce in 2018 as rivers or municipal water supplies and 16,911 megalitres extracted more water is recovered from its tailings storage facility.
The increase in water extracted from operational site uses a combination of surface water and groundwater wells was due to the ramp up of output at Aktogay groundwater sources and seeks to access different water sources to during 2018, where water is drawn primarily from groundwater those used by local communities.
Water withdrawal rates are sources.
The decrease in surface water consumption is due to the monitored and reported regularly to management, the HSE increased water recycling rate at Bozshakol, where surface water is Committee and local authorities.
sourced from the Satpayev canal system.
The total discharge of water back into the environment in 2018 Water withdrawal by asset megalitres 2018 2017 reduced to 1,031 megalitres 2017: 1,745 megalitres.
Discharge of Bozshakol 22,659 29,034 water took place at three locations in the East Region.
Two of these Aktogay 12,075 8,552 locations are at underground mining operations which are situated East Region 7,866 11,356 large distances from the processing plants, making it uneconomic to Bozymchak 304 278 pump the water back for reuse.
The third discharge occurs at waste Total 42,904 49,220 rock dumps adjacent to a retired open pit mine, where acidic drainage water is collected.
At each of these locations the water is Water withdrawal across the Group decreased for the first time in treated prior to release to the environment and the quality of 2018 since the Groups Restructuring in 2014, reducing by 13% to discharged water is monitored.
The main driver of the reduction in consumption was Bozshakol, despite an increase in processing volumes, where greater quantities of process water are being recycled from the tailings storage area, reducing the requirement to draw fresh water from other local sources.
Water consumption at Aktogay increased in line with the ramp up of the sulphide concentrator during 2018, to 12,075 megalitres 2017: 8,552.
Water consumption in the East Region reduced by 31% to 7,866 megalitres, reflecting the lower quantity of ore processed.
3 Water intensity by asset m per t ore processed 2018 2017 Bozshakol 0.80 1.18 Aktogay 0.33 0.33 East Region 2.60 3.59 Bozymchak 0.30 0.28 Total 0.62 0.90 The water intensity of the Groups operations measured as cubic metres per tonne of ore processed decreased significantly in 2018, 3 3 to 0.62 m t 2017: 0.90 m t. The main driver of the reduction in intensity was increased recycling of water at the Bozshakol concentrator, as expected following the ramp up to design capacity and commencement of recovery of material quantities of water from the tailings storage area.
In the first half of 2019, upgrade works are being carried out to increase the water recycling rate at the Bozshakol clay plant.
Aktogay tailings storage facility 54 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Water recycling process At Bozshakol the sulphide concentrator and clay plant The Bozshakol and Aktogay sulphide concentrators are commenced operations in 2016.
The quantity of water designed to recycle more than 75% of water withdrawn drawn from the nearby Satpayev canal increased during the from local sources.
Slurry and waste water from the initial draw phase, as the concentrators ramped up to concentrator is piped to the tailings storage facility where design capacity.
During 2018, significant quantities of water water in the tailings material is reduced to 40%, the have begun to be reclaimed from tailings and the rate of minimum level for maintaining a pumpable viscosity.
The water withdrawal has reduced.
Water intensity, measured tailings are then transferred to the tailings storage facility as m3 of water drawn from external sources per tonne of from where water is reclaimed and recycled for use in the ore processed, has fallen by 48% from 1.42 in Q3 2016 to concentrator.
The only significant water loss in the system 0.74 in Q4 2018.
In the first half of 2019 a programme of is due to evaporation in the tailings storage facility.
upgrades to the Bozshakol clay plant water system is planned to increase recycling rates and significantly reduce the consumption of fresh water.
Surface Copper Tailings Tailings 20% solids water concentrator thickeners pipeline 80% water source 60% solids 40% water Tailings Process water Solids water storage Tailings water facility reclaim pipeline Bozshakol water intensity 2016-2018 The Bozshakol and Aktogay copper concentrators are 1.6 designed to recycle 1.4 1.2 1.0 75% 0.8 0.6 of water withdrawn from Q1 16 Q2 16 Q3 16 Q4 16 Q1 17 Q2 17 Q3 17 Q4 17 Q1 18 Q2 18 Q3 18 Q4 18 local sources Water consumption m t ore processed www.
com 55 Corporate responsibility report continued  mine Mine closure The Group is committed to rehabilitating mining sites after closure, closure as it is required by law in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
The operations General Directors are responsible for the Groups The Group ceased operations at the Yubileynocompliance with closure and rehabilitation obligations.
Snegirikhinsky mine in the East Region at the end of 2016 as mineral resources were fully depleted.
A closure plan was The Group periodically reviews and updates closure plans for each designed and agreed with the local authorities.
of its sites, including calculating the likely costs associated with closure.
Provision is made to cover the costs of closure and Under the rehabilitation programme, it was agreed that the rehabilitation and amounted to $59 million at 31 December 2018. majority of the surface buildings such as accommodation More information can be found in note 26 to the financial blocks, offices, and associated utilities will not be statements on page 149 of this document.
The provision represents decommissioned but will instead be transferred to the local the discounted values of the estimated costs to decommission and government authorities to be re-purposed for use by small reclaim the mines based on the current estimated life of mine of and medium sized businesses.
Structures specific to mining each deposit.
activities such as containers, underground equipment, the explosives warehouse and ore stockpile will be demolished In December 2016, mining operations at  and removed from the site.
The underground mine will be ceased as mineral resources at the mine were fully exploited.
A sealed and allowed to flood, which is a natural process due closure plan is currently being executed by the Group, which to groundwater inflow.
includes the sealing of all mine access points, the contouring of waste heaps, removal of buildings and infrastructure, and management of water run-off.
The site will be returned as closely as possible to its pre-development state as required by legislation.
No significant adverse impacts on the local environment are anticipated 1.
Pit backfill following completion of the required reclamation work.
Environmental permitting and compliance Environmental permits are granted for the Groups operations, setting annual limits for emissions, water use and water discharge.
If levels exceed these limits, charges are applied in proportion to the amount of emissions or usage in excess of the limits.
The Group reports the total charges paid and any material environmental incidents with materiality determined by their nature or resulting in a fine in excess of $100,000 in this report and in the Corporate 2.
Profiling of Slope Responsibility section of its website.
waste dumps angle 20 The Group paid negligible excess emissions charges of less than $1,000 in 2018 2017: $80,000.
Such payments are administrative in nature and are not considered to be fines for breaches of regulations.
Excess emissions charges are not related to any potential risk to the environment or the safe operation of our tailings facilities or other environmental management systems.
Installation of Clay and Other environmental fines amounted to a total of approximately geomembrane and topsoil topsoil coating $300,000 2017: $180,000 for the Group, spread across 12 separate instances none of which are considered material and with Geomembrane no single payment exceeding the Groups quantitative materiality threshold of $100,000.
Reforestation 56 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The overall strategy for the rest of the site is forestry reclamation, to restore the landscape as far as possible to its original condition.
To achieve the reforestation, the original open pit will be backfilled with material from the waste dumps.
The waste dumps will be profiled to fit into the surrounding topography, with slopes at an angle of no greater than 20 degrees.
The surface of the waste dumps will then be covered with an impermeable geomembrane and layers of clay and topsoil to allow the planting of new vegetation.
The reforestation will help to prevent future soil erosion from water runoff from the former waste dumps.
The decommissioning and reclamation of the mining area is due to be completed in 2019 and the reforestation plan is expected to take up to four years.
 mine site area The reforestation plan is expected to take up to 4 years  rehabilitation works www.
com 57 Corporate responsibility report continued reporting line Speak-Up which can be used to raise ethical Employees concerns, for example any concerns related to bribery or The Group seeks to attract and retain skilled staff by offering safe corruption.
The Audit Committee receives a regular update on working conditions, fair remuneration in line with market rates of issues raised using the Speak-Up service and conducts further pay and social benefits packages for its employees and their families.
Policies and due diligence KAZ Minerals respects the right to freedom of association and we The Group has in place a number of policies governing its consult with our employees and trade unions about changes to our relationship with employees, including the Code of Fair business and employment conditions.
All employees are entitled to Employment, and the Diversity and Equality policy.
The Group join a union of their choice.
At the year end, 77% of the Groups periodically reviews the terms and conditions of employment in its employees belonged to one of the three trade unions active in the own operations to confirm that the Code of Fair Employment is mining industry, a decrease compared with 83% in 2017 following being fully applied within the Group.
Due diligence is conducted on the recruitment of new staff with a lower proportion of newly hired employees prior to their employment in the Group.
Consultation and communication Pay and benefits Several communication channels are open to employees to make We aim to provide fair remuneration to our employees and to their views known to senior management and to the Board.
The incentivise safety and productivity.
Operational employee and first point of contact is with an employees line manager and in most divisional manager remuneration comprises base pay plus a cases this is sufficient for addressing employee concerns.
There is discretionary award linked to health and safety performance and also a Direct Line event held every year in which the Chair of the production targets.
Divisional manager remuneration also typically Group answers questions from employees on a live video feed.
The includes an element of discretionary bonus linked to production Board has nominated the Deputy Chair and Senior Independent efficiency and cost control.
The Group takes measures to align wage Director, Michael Lynch-Bell, as Designated Non-Executive Director increases with living cost inflation, in particular for lower paid for the workforce, responsible for liaising with employees, and employees.
All employees are paid above both the minimum wage meetings with employee representatives are to be held twice a year.
and the living wage as defined by the Government of Kazakhstan.
Each of the Groups operational divisions has a Head of Employee Relations whose role is to act as a liaison between employees and In accordance with regulations in Kazakhstan and our employee management.
General Directors hold quarterly town hall agreements, we make payments to employees and former meetings.
Outside of operational or human resources related employees for illness and disability sustained at our operations.
The enquiries, all employees have access to a confidential telephone financial impact of our ongoing illness and disability obligations are covered in the consolidated financial statements in note 25 on page 148.
Employee Direct Line Employee Q&A with Oleg Novachuk, Chair.
Each year a Direct Line event is held giving employees the communications opportunity to put questions to KAZ Minerals maintains strong senior management via a video communications links between link.
The 2018 event was the management and employees, using a Internal website fourth Direct Line, connecting all number of different channels.
'Kaz Minerals info' is a Russian language site of the production, project and used by the Group to share news and administration divisions of the information with employees, their families Group and was streamed live to all and other audiences in Kazakhstan such as internal participants.
communities close to the Groups operations.
The site is also used to conduct surveys.
58 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Attracting and retaining skilled employees safety component that is not recorded separately as health and Employee turnover is actively managed at each of the Groups safety training.
Topics include safe operation of machinery and operations and by the Human Resources team.
Retention of skilled vehicles, electrical and fire safety, labour protection training, physical staff is a key factor in the successful development of the Groups fitness and professional development.
new assets at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
When employees leave the At Bozshakol and Aktogay, training and succession programmes aim Group, exit interviews are conducted to collect feedback.
to transfer skills from senior and experienced team members to a new generation of operators and managers.
In 2019, the Group A Leadership Development Programme is in place to identify intends to establish a technical training centre at Aktogay.
potential future leaders so that full support in the form of training and mentoring can be offered.
Potential successors are identified for key positions and individual development plans are created for those identified as potential successors.
There are more than 60 such key positions at each of Bozshakol and Aktogay.
Part of the annual assessment process for expatriate employees is how well they have been mentoring, coaching and training the local successors.
Progress towards promotion or continued development is reviewed quarterly, and annually in year end reviews.
Training and development Professional development is one of the Groups five corporate values.
We are committed to ensuring that employees continue their professional development, with the aim of increasing productivity, efficiency and safety.
The Group takes a long-term view of building capabilities and leadership qualities amongst its staff which are viewed as critical to our growth strategy.
In 2018, employees each received an average of 62 hours of training 2017: 60 hours typically consisting of 34 hours of safety training, 24 hours of professional education and four hours of additional education.
Operational training includes a significant health and WhatsApp Corporate newspaper A hard copy corporate employee group newspaper is published In 2019, the Group regularly.
This is an important launched a corporate communication channel for any WhatsApp group chat to employees, friends or family keep employees informed who may not have access to of the latest news and the internet.
initiatives and to help TV news and YouTube channel drive traffic to the The Group produces regular news kazminerals.
updates and general information videos Sign-up for the group is for internal audiences which are shown voluntary and over 1,000 at operational sites and online on the employees have corporate YouTube channel.
The most registered to date.
watched videos have more than 20,000 views.
com 59 Corporate responsibility report continued Professional development Apprenticeships and technical college partnership, Aktogay KAZ Minerals is committed to the professional development of its employees and to supporting the training of the next generation of mining professionals inKazakhstan.
At Aktogay the Group has established an apprenticeship programme to give students practical work experience on its mine sites to coincide with their technical education at the local Ayagoz college, with 40 apprentices commencing training in July 2018.
Apprentices benefit from skills transfer and real-world experiences, whilst the Group benefits from establishing a pipeline of future employees with relevant qualifications and an existing relationship with KAZ Minerals.
KAZ Minerals also offers grants to promising students, has funded the renovation of two classrooms at a college for welding and electrical training and provides a health and safety trainer every month to train students in modern safety systems and procedures.
Feedback from the local community on the apprenticeship scheme has been very positive as the Group is opening up valuable employment and training opportunities for the local population.
Diversity and Equality Gender equality Our goal is to employ a skilled workforce that reflects the KAZ Minerals is committed to offering equality of opportunity to all demographic of the regions in which we operate and to create a current and potential future employees, regardless of gender.
The positive, supportive and inclusive culture.
The Group has established Group has a relatively high female representation in its workforce procedures to ensure that there are no instances of discrimination benchmarked against major mining companies, at 23% of total on the basis of age, gender, race, nationality, ethnic origin, family employees.
This is reflected at senior management level, where 23% situation, religion, language, political beliefs, sexual orientation, are female and 25% of the members of the Board are female.
The pregnancy, maternity, paternity or disability.
Any reports of Group is working to increase the proportion of female employees at discrimination or harassment are investigated and managed.
In line with the Groups corporate values we seek to select, recruit The average age of the Groups 3,100 female employees is 36.
Those and promote employees based on merit.
We give equal access to working in production roles account for 59% of the total, 55% are training and career development opportunities appropriate for married and 57% have children.
The Group offers up to three years every employees experience level.
of maternity or paternity leave and re-induction training for employees returning from leave.
A total of 33% of employees on We aim to develop the expertise required for our operations from maternity leave have opted to take three years of leave.
our existing workforce, recruiting locally where possible.
The Group has a leadership programme in place focused on the training The Group regularly reviews salaries to check for equality of pay for and development of national employees to fill key positions in the equivalent roles, to ensure that a gender pay gap does not emerge.
Our operations are located in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan In 2018, the Group Director of Human Resources and the Deputy and in 2018, 98% of the Groups permanent employees were Chair conducted workshops with female employees of varying levels nationals of these countries.
of seniority to assess the career development opportunities and In circumstances where specialist skills are required, we draw on working environment that the Group currently offers to its female international expertise with a view to transferring knowledge and staff.
Feedback from the workshops will be applied in 2019 to best practice in the medium to long term.
The number of continue to build on the successes already achieved.
Other initiatives expatriates at KAZ Minerals is limited and they are largely employed in 2019 will include working with regional colleges to encourage at Bozshakol and Aktogay working alongside local teams who will female students to study for technical mining qualifications and ultimately take over the full management of operations.
At working with schools to build awareness of the mining sector and Bozshakol, following the initial commissioning and establishment of career opportunities within it.
The Group is also lobbying for a change working practices, operational management has been transferred in regulations in Kazakhstan which restrict certain operational roles to from expatriates on fixed-term contracts to permanent employees, male employees only.
A change in these regulations could lead to a with international expertise retained to provide support on specific higher proportion of female employees in the Groups workforce in technical matters.
The proportion of female employees employed by the Group in roles which are not prohibited by law is 42%.
Female employees % of total KAZ Minerals 23% Peer average 15% 60 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ethics, compliance, anti-bribery and corruption Integrity is one of the Groups five core corporate values.
The Women in mining Board is responsible for overseeing the Groups approach to ethics and compliance and is committed to maintaining the highest Two senior female employees from KAZ Minerals were standards.
The Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance recognised in the 2018 100 Inspirational Women in Programme has been developed in line with the requirements of Mining awards.
the UK Bribery Act 2010 across all operations, with relevant clauses included as part of the Groups standard terms and conditions with suppliers since 2011.
See page 83 for a description of the Groups I think diversity in the copper policies and due diligence procedures undertaken in relation to industry is developing in a positive anti-bribery and corruption.
Today, as an example of our company and our country, we The Group maintains an anonymous reporting facility Speak-Up to see no restrictions at any level in encourage employees to report any concerns regarding breaches of the mining industry for anyone, ethics.
A risk assessment is used to identify the categories of whether it is gender, age, employees which require training in anti-bribery and corruption.
In a mine or This includes employees working in procurement, sales, finance and a factory, one must work in unity: general management and individuals who interact with governments all have the same opportunities.
Suppliers The Groups supply chain includes contractors and suppliers providing labour, energy, transport, smelting, equipment, consumables and raw materials required for the production and Madina Kaparova was born in a mining town to a mining family.
In 2018, a total of 59 contracting firms worked at the resources was the obvious choice, but over 20 years, Madina has built a Groups underground mines in the East Region and a further 128 career that is all her own and made an outsized impact not just on her firms were employed at the open pit mines at Bozshakol and company, but on Kazakhstans mining industry.
Aktogay, together employing around 8,000 contractor employees Starting in procurement, Madina advanced her career through high at our sites.
performance and a hunger for learning: She earned an MBA and an MSc in Economics while working, and authored 15 scientific publications along the Suppliers Charter way.
Known for her open-minded and empathetic approach, Madina is a KAZ Minerals is committed to high standards of corporate social celebrated manager, mentor and corporate ambassador for KAZ Minerals.
To ensure that our suppliers understand what standards we require of them, we established the KAZ Minerals Suppliers Charter in 2016.
A copy of the charter can be viewed on the Groups website.
I believe theres no difference between men and women when The Suppliers Charter sets out the Groups expectations in the we consider intellectual ability and areas of anti-bribery and corruption, employee wellbeing, potential.
I am a worthy and environmental responsibility, community relations and human rights.
equally professional employee, Suppliers are encouraged to report all suspected or actual breaches who complies with the of the principles set out in the Suppliers Charter either to KAZ qualification requirements and Minerals management or by using the anonymous Speak-Up system.
performance required All suppliers are required to make a commitment to upholding the regardless of whether I was a standards set out in the Suppliers Charter as a condition of starting woman or a man.
or continuing to work with KAZ Minerals.
The Group also conducts a separate due diligence exercise on new suppliers to ensure that we only work with suppliers who meet our standards.
Bayan Alzhanova fell in love with geology as a child, exploring her small village with her seven siblings and becoming the fide-facto chief identifier of interesting rocks and minerals found along the way.
Graduate and post-graduate qualifications in geology opened up the field to Bayan and introduced her to the subsoil language her lifelong favourite occupation.
Almost 40 years ago, Bayan joined the Zhezkazgan mining and metallurgical plant as a young specialist.
Today, as a multi-award winning Chief Geologist and widely regarded expert, she is engaged in the evaluation of resources and reserves of deposits and proposes potentially productive deposits for both exploration and production.
com 61 Corporate responsibility report continued Green procurement Human rights The Groups Environmental Policy includes a commitment to reduce KAZ Minerals has a formal Human Rights policy, approved by the waste, prevent pollution and minimise the overall impact of the Board and available to view on the Groups website.
See page 84 for Groups activities on the environment.
The Suppliers Charter a description of the policy.
includes commitments from our suppliers to i comply with local KAZ Minerals recognises all human rights as defined in the environmental protection regulations and implement the necessary Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We are committed to actions to limit the impact of their activities on the environment: ii ensuring our operations do not infringe these rights, for instance by promote greater environmental responsibility and the use of goods providing fair, safe and secure working conditions in line with the and services which help to mitigate our environmental impact, as International Labour Organizations Declaration on Fundamental well as better managing and utilising resources such as energy, Principles and Rights at Work.
We respect the right to freedom of paper, water and waste: and iii promote the development and association and consult our employees and trade unions about distribution of environmentally friendly technologies.
proposed changes to our business and employment conditions.
Due Code of Fair Employment diligence undertaken in pursuance of the Groups Human Rights The Group established a Code of Fair Employment in 2016 which policy includes consultation with local communities during project sets out the standards it expects to be upheld in relation to its own development or any major operational changes that may affect employees as well as the employees of suppliers or contractors to them and monitoring of working conditions for our own employees the Group.
As part of the Suppliers Charter, suppliers are also and the employees of contractors and suppliers, as described above.
required to agree to the terms of the Code of Fair Employment.
We respect and protect local heritage and culture.
The Code of Fair Employment can be viewed on the Groups Communities website and contains commitments to prevent forced labour, child Consultation and communication labour, human trafficking and inhumane treatment.
The retention of KAZ Minerals is committed to promoting community development passports or identification documents, taking of deposits, and maintaining lines of communication with communities near its restrictions on freedom of movement and the charging of operations and potential new projects.
The operations General recruitment fees to workers are forbidden.
All employees must Directors have overall responsibility for community relations in their have contracts of employment, be paid above the legal minimum respective areas.
wage, be treated equally and have access to adequate Indigenous peoples and resettlement grievance procedures.
The Groups commitment to respecting the rights of indigenous The Group is committed to the prevention of modern slavery and peoples and its approach to resettlement are contained in its human trafficking in its supply chain and publishes an annual Human Rights Policy, described on page 84.
The areas in which the statement, approved by the Board, in accordance with the UK Group has operated or developed new mining projects historically Modern Slavery Act.
have been sparsely populated and resettlement of indigenous populations has not been necessary.
It is unlikely that future projects Supply chain monitoring will require resettlement, but the Group will always seek to avoid A training programme was carried out for approximately 1,400 involuntary resettlement.
KAZ Minerals is committed to the individuals from procurement teams and managers involved in the protection of culturally sensitive areas.
The aim of the training was to raise awareness of the standards contained within the Suppliers Under the terms of subsoil use law in Kazakhstan, the Group is Charter, in particular those relating to modern slavery and human required to give preference to Kazakhstan nationals during the trafficking.
Staff are expected to monitor suppliers and contractors performance of subsoil use operations and to invest in the training to prevent instances of modern slavery in the Groups supply chain of local workers.
and to report any suspected breaches of the Groups policies through the appropriate channels.
62 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Social projects In 2018, the Group participated in the construction of a new olympic swimming pool complex in Pavlodar, close to Bozshakol.
I can proudly say that we now have a facility that meets olympic standards and the highest profile athletes can train here.
I am so grateful for this excellent facility, it is certain to show results in national and international competitions.
Director of Water Sports Federation, Pavlodar region Damir Meschanov, swimmer These issues are carefully considered in the feasibility stages of Social projects and local procurement planning a new project and in consultation with local communities.
KAZ Minerals supports communities in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan by investing in projects that benefit society close to its operations as Materiality assessment well as national projects.
Social investment payments of $9 million Following a review of external stakeholders priorities, social were made during 2018, including support for the refurbishment of investment and biodiversity have been promoted to 'high' priority.
the Irtysh river embankment in Pavlodar, the construction of botanical gardens in Astana and the purchase of medical equipment Biodiversity Anti-bribery and corruption in the East Region see page 26 for further details.
Emissions to air Contractor safety The Group has a social investment policy and monitors projects GHG emissions Energy use that are funded to ensure they meet the aims and objectives of the Human rights Equality and diversity Group.
The types of projects the Group seeks to support are: i Licence to operate Fatalities projects local to the Groups operations in the areas of healthcare, Safety training Labour relations includes education, infrastructure and sport: ii national projects in the collective bargaining and freedom Social investment Groups countries of operation also in the areas of healthcare, of association education, infrastructure, culture and sport: and iii projects to Tailings management promote the culture and economic profile of the Groups countries Training and development of operation.
Waste management As required by subsoil use law, the Group also prioritises local Water use and management procurement to assist diverse economic growth within Kazakhstan.
Workplace injuries and incidents During 2018, the level of procurement from outside Kazakhstan has Anti-competitive behaviour Occupational health been higher than in the past mainly due to the requirements of the major growth projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay, which employ Business integrity and compliance Pay and benefits modern technology that is only possible to source internationally.
In Contractual integrity Resource use efficiency the East Region local procurement was 65% of total spending Economic development 2017: 77%.
Employees wellbeing Biodiversity Rehabilitation closure The Group is committed to the protection of biodiversity in the Resettlement areas which may be affected by its operations and avoids operating Revenue and tax transparency in areas with high biodiversity value.
Supplier conduct The Groups priority for biodiversity management has been to mitigate any adverse effect that the development of the major growth projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay could have.
Moderate Internal business priorities High www.
com 63 Moderate External stakeholder priorities High Corporate responsibility report continued Non-financial information statement In accordance with the Non-Financial Reporting Directive, the table below shows the location of reporting on key non-financial matters: Reporting requirement Policies and governing documents Associated information, including principal risks Pages 1 Environmental matters Environmental Policy Environmental impacts 50 Green procurement 62 Environmental risks 70 2 Employees Health and Safety Policy Health and safety 48 1 Code of Fair Employment Employees 58 2 Diversity and Equality Policy Diversity and Equality 60 1 Speak Up Policy Code of Fair Employment 62 Employees risks 69 Health and safety risks 69 Diversity 84-85 1 Human rights Suppliers Charter Suppliers 61 1 Modern Slavery Act Statement Modern Slavery Act 2015 84 1 Human Rights Policy Human Rights 84 2 Social matters Social Investment Policy Communities 62 Community and labour relations risks 69 1 Anti-bribery and corruption Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC 83 1 Gifts and Hospitality Policy Ethics, compliance, anti-bribery and corruption 61 Legal and regulatory compliance risks 71 Description of business model Business model 10-11 Non-financial key performance indicators Our strategy 17 Key performance indicators, including health and safety 28-30 1 Available on our website www.
64 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018
