Strategic Report Corporate responsibility CREATING SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC VALUE Good progress has been made on delivering our strategy for a sustainable business Responsible Business, Positive Outcomes.
This supports Vision 2020, our strategy for growth, and helps to create value for Kier stakeholders and wider society.
A sustainability strategy creating Key highlights of this year included: social and economicvalue The Kier sustainability strategy, Responsible Industry-leading AIR Customer Improved BITC Business Positive Outcomes RBPO, was safety score of satisfaction score scoreof launched in 2014.
It supports the Groups strategy for growth, Vision 2020.
RBPO is linked to the Kier business model pages 20 and 21 and ensures thatvalue is created for our customers andother stakeholders.
96 90% 93% 2017: 130 2017: 91% 2017: 91% Detailed information on our non-financial performance is provided in our Corporate Responsibility CR Report which 2018 entrant in the Engaged Appointed isavailable on our website Index Series www.
FTSE4Good 15,000 350 students through Shaping Shaping Your World Your World campaign school ambassadors Successful roll-out of Launched Social impact energy efficiency strategy New health and wellbeing 30 by 30 157m strategy for employees positive social impact and subcontractors recorded 2017: 52m 32 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Requirement for reporting non-financial performance data The table below summarises how we comply with non-financial performance reporting requirements.
Further details on elements of our reporting are available on the Kier website www.
co. uk and in the Kier CRReport 2018, which adopts the Global Reporting Initiative Standards and has an independent assurance statement.
Requirement Governance Performance Greenhouse gas emissions Safety, Health and Environment Committee Page 35, pages 81 and 82, CR Report Human rights, modern slavery and human trafficking Corporate Responsibility Leadership Group Page 34, CR Report Gender pay gap Human Resources Leadership Team www.
co. uk Payment practices reporting Group Finance www.
uk  Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Risk Management and Audit Committee Pages 73 to 80, CR Report Whistleblowing Risk Management and Audit Committee Pages 73 to 80, CR Report Strategy and materiality RBPO was developed around a materiality assessment undertaken with key stakeholders.
This approach, set out in the 2017 AnnualReport and CR Report, ensures our strategy is still fit for purpose.
The following diagram shows how the various non-financial performance measures flow through our strategy and where they are covered in the 2018 Annual Report and CR Report.
Materiality assessment As explained in our 2017 CR Report, three material issues were identified: Business Customer Health, safety ethics experience and wellbeing Kier strategy dashboard The strategy dashboard on pages 28 and 29 selects five non-financial metrics to track progress against Vision 2020: Safety Customer Employee Employee Sustainability experience engagement retention Responsible Business, Positive Outcomes In our CR Report, performance metrics cover twenty areas: Governance People and communities Marketplace Environment Business ethics Health, safety Customer experience Carbon and wellbeing Risk and opportunity Citizenship and community Waste Diversity engagement Stakeholder engagement Water Engagement and retention Sustainable supply chain Reward scheme Biodiversity Training, education and Labour standards and Assurance Environmental incidents apprenticeships human rights Society and community Supply chain Business in the Community The BITC CR Index has been used by Kier for eleven years as the measure for showing improving performance on responsible business matters.
BITC has been a constant in our stakeholder engagement process, providing the role of a critical friend in advising how to improve our adoption of best practice.
Since 2015 the Kier score has improved steadily from 87% to 93%.
BITC will be changing their index model in the next year.
Kier, among other organisations, has volunteered to test the replacement for the CR Index.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 33 Strategic Report Corporate responsibility continued Brexit may also exacerbate this issue as highlighted in the Chief Governance, risk and opportunity Executives strategic review on page 16.
To help tackle this risk, The Corporate Responsibility Leadership Group CRLG is chaired by theShaping Your World campaign and Balanced Business Network the Chief Operating Officer and consists of representatives from BBN, an internal Kier forum, are both key contributors to attracting various Group functions such as procurement, compliance, safety amore diverse range of people to join our industry.
and human resources and senior managers from the operational businesses.
This group reviews RBPO progress and key policy The Shaping Your World campaign, targeting 11-15 year olds, interventions that tackle issues or risks arising and sets the launched by Kier in September 2017, aims to attract young people to principles for how the Group chooses to undertake its business in our sectors by showing them the breadth of roles available.
Other subject matter experts join the group as required.
a network of Kier Ambassadors, more than 15,000 school children have been made aware of the opportunities available in the sector Risks and opportunities monitoring and consultation with and encouraged to undertake work experience.
During the year, more stakeholders take place on a regular basis.
For more information, than 350 Kier Ambassadors participated in the scheme, exceeding please see page 27 of the Kier CR Report.
Topics which generated our 1% of workforce goal.
The diversity of our workforce remains a external stakeholder interest during the year and were discussed priority and stretching targets have been set to improve this.
by the CRLG included: the gender pay gap and diversity: 1 Diversity modern slavery: and Male 78% social impact.
Female 22% Pages 36 to 43 of this Annual Report explain how risk is managed, including non-financial risks that are components of RBPO our strategy for a sustainable business.
Implementation of standards and processes relies on the engagement of our employees.
All Kier employees sign up to the Kier Code of Conduct with this being a condition of their employment.
This Code sets out how employees are to act and behave when working for Kier and The Code is issued to all new starters.
Since its launch, over Male Female 8,100 Kier colleagues have completed the Code of Conduct training.
All employees 12,632 78% 3,653 22% Senior management 312 90% 33 10% People and communities Directors 9 82% 2 18% Delivering value for our customers relies on having a healthy, safeand well-trained workforce and extending these values to Ethnicity of employees oursupply chain partners and the communities served.
White 60% Safety, health and wellbeing The focus of safety, health and wellbeing activities is that every Not stated 35% employee needs to go home safely at the end of the working day.
Black and minority ethnic 5% Due to the nature of the Groups activities, safety is a key non-financial priority.
More information can be found in the Chief Executives strategic review pages 14 to 19, and the SHE Committee summary pages 81 and 82, which discusses our continuing success in reducing the AIR to 96 from 130 last year.
We saw a reduction in UK reportable accidents down to 42 from 57 in 2017.
Reportable accidents are those captured and reported under the Health and Safety Executive Reporting of Injuries, Our BBN plays a key role in making Kier a place that anyone can Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations known as work in, by promoting an inclusive environment where people can RIDDOR.
Our RIDDOR data is independently assured.
feel confident about bringing their whole selves to work and driving As the AIR has improved significantly, our focus has extended to action to deliver real change.
In line with Government reporting the all accident incidence rate AAIR.
This helps to identify trends requirements, the Group published its first external pay report.
so interventions can be targeted and further improvements can be Ourmedian gender pay gap is 20.2%, in line with our industry.
The AAIR reduced to 392 from 492 in 2017.
A new It is worth noting that our reward strategy ensures people are health and wellbeing Strategy has been launched, focused on paid fairly for the job they do.
Our report can be viewed online at employee and supply chain partner physical and mental wellbeing.
It ensures people are fit and healthy to carry out the tasks required Employees in their day-to-day work.
As part of this strategy, a 10% reduction in The companies in the Group are equal opportunities employers.
the cost of sickness absence is targeted by 2020.
TheGroup considers applications for employment from disabled Diversity persons having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities It is important that the make-up of our business reflects the profile of and encourages and assists, whenever practicable, the recruitment, society.
It is estimated that 400,000 recruits are needed in the UK training, career development and promotion of disabled people built environment sector i. e. construction, development and related andthe retention of, and appropriate training for, those who services, every year and this is a significant challenge.
Inaddition, become disabled during their employment.
with the rising popularity of new sectors such as digital and new 1 Data is based on financial year end data and excludes locally employed media attracting todays students, the competition for the best talent overseas.
On 1 August 2018 we announced that Nigel Brook and Nigel Turner is stronger than ever.
Kier recognises this as a risk pages 36 to 43. would stand down from the Board with immediate effect.
34 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Group provides information to employees through newsletters, Kier became one of the first signatories to the Government video addresses, the Groups intranet, social media and formal Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority GLAA Construction and informal meetings with various groups of employees and Protocol giving a commitment to work with the GLAA and other management.
The Group also conducts engagement surveys to signatories to identify and protect vulnerable workers, and to raise obtain feedback on matters of importance to employees.
awareness of the issue of modern slavery with our supply chain partners.
A confidential helpline has been provided so anyone The Group operates sharesave schemes for eligible employees suspecting that they, or someone they know, is the victim of anda share incentive plan for all employees, which includes a modern slavery, can raise the issue.
Through a series of audits share-matching element.
based on the Kier procurement standards, the supply chain has been reviewed for the risk of modern slavery, human trafficking or Social impact issues concerning human rights.
No issues have been identified.
Across our market leading positions, our projects deliver significant social, economic and environmental improvements because of the Environment way the Group chooses to do business.
Social impact refers to Having achieved our 2020 target early for reducing carbon dioxide wider financial and non-financial impacts of projects, including the wellbeing of individuals and communities, social capital and the emissions, Kier launched a new strategy, 30 by 30, with the aim of improving the Groups energy efficiency by 30% by 2030. environment.
The methods to quantifying these impacts are still being refined but the Kier social impact strategy Shaping Our The strategy also aims to reduce construction waste, water consumption and use of plastics.
In 2018 the first three initiatives Communities creates a framework to report and improve on the positive outcomes delivered by projects.
In the year, Kier recorded were launched and it is expected to see financial savings come through in the next twelve to eighteen months.
By continuing to 157m of social impact, a significant increase from 52m in 2017.
This was due to an improved recording platform and a significant reduce our carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, Kier is also having a  impact through a effort on training and awareness.
Work with an independent adviser, Social Value Business, indicates the Group is currently significantly reduced contribution to climate change.
More information on our environmental activity is available in our CR Report.
underestimating the benefits that arise, the hidden value.
This will be a focus area for the current financial year.
Annual greenhouse gas emissions 2017 During the year, Kier undertook a detailed study of projects with a 2016 2017 Emission type: CO e tonnes CO e tonnes contract value of 600m and examined the positive impact 2 2 Scope 1: operation of facilities 0 0 recorded through charitable giving, donation of time and expertise, Scope 1: combustion 108,831 101,781 supporting training and apprenticeships and impact from the appointment of locally based supply chain partners.
Kier had Total Scope 1 emissions 108,831 101,781 recorded 25m of social impact across these projects.
The Scope 2: purchased energy 14,467 10,277 in-depth analysis estimated the impact on communities through Scope 2 total emissions 14,467 10,277 project delivery to be worth 300m.
A summary of this research Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions 123,298 112,058 will be found in our CR Report at www.
Further Greenhouse gas emissions 31.4 t m 28.2 t m information on this study will be published later in the year.
intensity ratio revenue revenue Revenue m calendar year 3,928 3,915 Marketplace CO e Carbon dioxide equivalent There is increased external stakeholder focus on the subcontract 2 supply chain due to market circumstances and topical issues such Our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions is for the calendar as modern slavery and payment practices.
Kier has contributed to year2017 to mirror our reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
those discussions through its trade bodies and directly with Our dataset covers 88% 2016: 94% of the Kier Group operations Government, and works with the supply chain and our customers by revenue.
Our reporting methodology detailing inclusion to ensure that parties work collaboratively to deliver on projects.
exclusion of joint operations and joint ventures is provided in our reporting methodology available at www.
co. uk corporateOur payment terms and prompt payment performance remains an responsibility downloads.
Scope 1 fugitive emissions are not area for focus following the publication of initial data in February included.
Reporting follows the requirements of the Companies Act 2018, which is updated every six months.
Kier uses an early payment 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, process which ensures our supply chain can choose tobepaid at isin line with ISAE 3410, and uses conversion factors published around 21 days and c. 60% of transactions use thisprocess.
The UK Government plans to strengthen the Social Value Act byrequiring commissioners of public sector procurement to demonstrate how awarding a contract delivers positive social impact.
A new Procurement Policy Note, which provides guidancefor all central government departments, requires companies delivering contracts to disclose the amount they spendwith small and medium-sized businesses SMEs, social enterprises and voluntary organisations.
Kier has always had a strong regional presence through its network of local offices, withwell-developed local supply chains.
More than 80% of our subcontractors by number are classified as SMEs, accounting for61% of our subcontract spend.
This is significantly higher thanthe Government guidance on public sector procurement guidelevel of 33% and creates a boost for local economies and secures local employment.
For more information pleasesee our Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 at www.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 35
