Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Safety, Health and Environment Committee report The safety of those on the Groups sites is of paramount importance to the Committee, as are the Groups obligations withrespect to the health and wellbeing of its employees andtheenvironment.
Chair Allocation of time Allocation of time Nick Winser CBE Key incidents SHE performance Other Committee members Progress against Justin Atkinson SHE strategy Constance Baroudel Safety campaigns Kirsty Bashforth and training Health and wellbeing Environmental issues Dear shareholder Committee composition and meeting attendance I am pleased to present the Safety, Health and Environment The names of the members of the Committee are set out above.
Committee report for the 2018 financial year.
This report The Chief Executive, the Executive Director Construction and summarises the activities of the Committee during the year.
Infrastructure Services, the Executive Director Developments, Property and Business Services and the Group SHE Director also Kier is committed to operating a safe and sustainable business, attended the Committees meetings during the year.
prioritising the health, safety and wellbeing of all those who work at and visit its offices and sites.
The Group operates on several The secretary of the Committee is the Company Secretary, hundred sites at any one time, throughout the UK and HughRaven.
internationally, and its projects are often complex, in challenging The Committee met formally four times during the year: details of environments and are not without risk.
As a Committee, we work attendance at those meetings are set out on page 63. towards reducing that risk for the benefit of all stakeholders, principally by overseeing and challenging management to continue Committee effectiveness review to drive improvements in the management of safety, health and 2018 progress against 2017 evaluation environment SHE risk throughout the business.
The 2017 Board effectiveness review identified a need for the I am therefore pleased to be able to report a strong SHE performance Committee to ensure that it set aside sufficient time to focus on in 2018.
The Group achieved an accident incidence rate AIR of 96, health and wellbeing and environmental matters in the 2018 a 26% reduction on the prior year, and made good progress with financial year.
The 2018 Board effectiveness review confirmed that respect to reducing its energy use.
Please see pages 28 and 29 the Committee had increased its focus in these areas.
for details of progress made against the Groups strategic priority 2019 principal areas of focus to operate a safe and sustainable business.
Following the 2018 Board evaluation, the Committees principal areas of focus for the 2019 financial year include: continuing to oversee the development of the Groups safety Role culture, with a particular focus on developing its behavioural safety practices: and The role of the Committee includes: continuing its focus on the management of the health and reviewing the Groups strategy with respect to SHE wellbeing of the Groups employees and environmental issues matters and challenging management to implement it: relevant to the Group.
encouraging managements commitment and accountability with respect to managing the Groups SHErisks: reviewing and, as necessary, approving material Groupwide SHE initiatives, policies and procedures: receiving reports on any major SHE incidents and challenging management to communicate the lessons learned from those incidents across the Group: and monitoring and challenging management on the Groups performance against SHE targets.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 81 Corporate Governance Statement Safety, Health and Environment Committee report continued of 100,000.
The Committee also oversaw managements Principal activities 2018 financial year response to the fire at the Glasgow School of Art site in At each meeting during the year, the following matters were June2018.
standing agenda items: SHE performance the Committee reviewed the Groups SHE Key incidents the Committee reviewed reports about any performance against a number of KPIs.
These KPIs related to material safety or environmental incidents that had occurred.
the AIR and the all accident incidence rate AAIR, visible These included reports relating to the incidents which took place leadership tours undertaken by management, construction at the BFK sites on the Crossrail project in 2014 and 2015 waste, fleet compliance, carbon emissions, sickness absence which resulted in a fine of 355,000 for the Group, a fatality and drugs and alcohol testing.
which occurred at Lidgate on the highways maintenance contract Visible leadership tours the Committee discussed feedback for Suffolk County Council in 2014 which resulted in a fine of from Committee members visible leadership tours undertaken 1.8 million and a heating oil discharge which occurred on the since the previous meeting.
Christchurch hospital contract in 2014 which resulted in a fine During the year, the Committees other activities included: Safety Health and wellbeing Regulatory investigations Strategy Reviewing updates on regulatory investigations into Approving the launch of the Groups new three-year SHE-related incidents within the Group.
healthand wellbeing strategy in March 2018, which Assessing the level of provisioning in the Groups focuses on: accounts for regulatory fines.
pre-employment fitness for work: health surveillance and monitoring: Campaigns mental health issues: and Reviewing the safety-related campaigns overseen by reduction in the cost of sickness absence.
management during the year, including campaigns relatingto: Campaigns the basic components of a safe system of work for Continuing to monitor the Groups health and example, inductions and risk assessments : wellbeingprogramme, which includes a number PPE selection and maintenance: ofcampaigns, including: buried services: and the appointment of health champions: slips, trips and falls.
dry January: heart health: and Business unit presentations mental health and stress awareness.
Inviting members of management to present at Committee meetings on a range of safety issues, including: the Managing Director Highways: the business overallsafety performance: Environmental matters members of the Highways business management Strategy team: the Lidgate incident: and Reviewing progress against the 30 by 30 strategy.
the Regional Director Kier Services Housing Reviewing progress against the Groups environmental Maintenance North : the management of safety risks performance KPIs, including those relating to carbon by the business.
emissions, water usage, biodiversity and waste management.
Campaigns Overseeing managements implementation of a number ofcampaigns, including those relating to: reducing the use of plastic by the business: tree protection: and disposal of gully waste.
Conclusion Following the completion of nine years on the Board, I will not be standing for re-election at the AGM on 16 November 2018.
I will, however, be available to answer any questions you may have about the Committee, our work and how we operate at the meeting.
I would like to take the opportunity to wish my successor as Chair of the Committee, Kirsty Bashforth, every success in the role.
I know that Kirsty agrees with me that the Committee plays an important role in Kier continuing to operate a safe and sustainable business.
Nick Winser CBE Chair of the Safety, Health and Environment Committee 19 September 2018 82 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018
