becoming a truly sustainable company We believe everybody should be able to have a home they feel good about, and this makes sustainability an integral part of our ONE Kingfisher transformation.
For many years we have been working to help customers Our performance in 2017 18 create more sustainable homes.
We have made strong Our sustainable home products help customers progress but want to go further.
Over the last two years create good homes while having a positive or much we have spent time understanding our customers views lower impact on people and the environment.
Our research showed that sustainability these products made up 32% of our sales 28% in 2016 17. issues connect with what our customers really care This contributed 3.8 billion of our revenues 3.1 billion about, but many people find making sustainable choices in 2016 17. too complicated or time consuming.
They want us to make it easy for them.
We applied these insights to Progress towards our four big goals: create our new sustainability plan, our roadmap to 2025.
1: Save money by saving energy and water Our plan has four big goals and 12 targets, which will help We know saving energy and water is a key concern for us further embed sustainability into our products and households across Europe.
By 2025, we will enable services.
It will benefit our business too, stimulating customers to achieve a 50% reduction in energy and growth and innovation, and engaging our colleagues.
water use in their homes through our energy and water Our plan sets out the next stage on our journey towards saving products, services and advice.
One that improves life for customers, employees and communities and has a restorative impact on the environment see the full plan at www.
Our sustainability plan IMAGE REMOVED 30 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 New partnership with Shelter Kingfisher and B&Q have teamed up with Shelter, the UKs leading housing charity, in a new partnership to help people improve their homes and ultimately improve their lives.
Were supporting Shelters DIY Skills Advisers, who help recently rehoused people to improve their new homes.
Shelters clients are often in very difficult circumstances and may have been homeless or escaping IMAGE REMOVED domestic abuse.
The DIY advisers assist with the practical aspects of home improvement, teaching their clients new skills and, in the process, boosting their confidence.
Around 570 people have benefited from the service in the first nine months of our partnership.
In our business, we have cut our absolute carbon footprint Human rights by 16% since 2010 11 10% in 2016 17.
A breakdown of We respect human rights and aim to positively promote our carbon footprint is shown in the Directors Report and support the human rights of our colleagues, workers on page 95. in our supply chain and others affected by our business activities.
We updated our Human Rights Policy in 2017 2: Live smarter by getting more from less, and this sets out our commitment to regularly review re-using or using longer human rights risks and to implement controls to mitigate Our customers want quality products that are longrisks.
We have now set up a Modern Slavery Working lasting, create less waste and are easy to recycle.
We now Group, which meets three times a year, to oversee due have three product ranges or services that help customers diligence and disclosure on human rights and modern and our business get more from less, reuse or use longer slavery.
It has agreed an action plan for improving our our easyGrow and ProGrow garden products and our pallet due diligence, including internal training, supplier ethical reuse initiative.
We aim for 20 such initiatives by 2025. risk assessment and audit.
97% of wood and paper in our products is responsibly Our key focus is on human rights issues in our supply sourced 96% in 2016 17 and were now applying the chain.
As we transform our business to become ONE lessons learned from this work to other materials and Kingfisher, this enables us to build closer relationships product ranges.
with a smaller number of suppliers who share our values and ethical standards.
We are rolling out a programme of 3: Create a healthier home and connect with nature ethical audits for high-risk production sites which supply There is great potential for homes and gardens to us with finished goods.
1,178 production sites have had an improve well-being.
Our research shows a strong desire ethical audit in the past two years.
We are also involved in among customers to connect with nature and to create a number of initiatives promoting responsible sourcing in a healthy, toxin-free home.
Yet people often do not know the wider supply chain, such as the Tropical Forest Trust how to go about doing this.
We are a member of a European DIY Retail Association EDRA working In 2017 18, 6% 5% in 2016 17 of our sales came from our group, which aims to develop a collaborative approach to products that help customers create a healthy home or responsible sourcing within the home improvement sector.
Examples of these include low volatile organic compounds VOC paint and pollinator-friendly For further details, see our Modern Slavery Act plants.
This statement is updated annually in June.
4: Be part of a community that helps millions more people improve their home Governance of sustainability and non-financial risks For people in difficult circumstances those living in Our Group Sustainability Committee GSC leads and poverty or who are isolated or vulnerable having a oversees delivery of our sustainability strategy, monitors good home can seem impossible.
We want to improve performance against our plans and targets, and reviews homes for people in need through our charitable sustainability risks and opportunities.
It is sponsored by giving and volunteering and are developing major our Chief Customer Officer.
The GSC includes senior new partnerships at a company-wide and local level.
executives from our functions and operating companies, and meets at least twice a year.
During 2017, we began by launching two strategic partnerships with the Red Cross in France, Poland We review our sustainability policies annually.
All policies have and the UK, and with Shelter in the UK.
been updated to align with our sustainable growth plan, and new policies introduced on animal welfare and deforestation Our community investment was worth 2.4 million in see www.
More information will be available in our Sustainability Report, published in June 2018. www.
