people: realising ourambition Our colleagues are of paramount importance to us as we work towards our ambition of becoming the leading home improvement company.
In doing so, we aim to become a company of choice for future talent.
Just as we are unifying our product offering to To enable this for our store colleagues, we have been customers, we are also unifying our people policies looking at how we give them the expertise to fully and processes.
We are doing this to ensure equality and understand the needs of our customers and their home improvement projects.
We have piloted the first initiative fairness, consistency and effectiveness across the board, and to achieve efficiencies where we know that working in this area the Home Improvement Academy which will together makes more sense than working separately.
In provide relevant product training and project knowledge conjunction with a wide range of stakeholders, including to help colleagues provide great service to our customers.
colleagues from each country in which we operate, we The pilot session was launched in 2017, focusing on are continuing to review and develop our reward policies Bathroom ranges.
Programmes for other product ranges and practices, to ensure that they are simple and will roll out in 2018, starting with Outdoor.
In future, we hope transparent, and that our 78,000 colleagues are to provide similar resources to customers both in-store remunerated in a fair and meaningful way.
and through our digital channels.
It is important that our colleagues feel valued, respected Colleague engagement and recognised for what they do and how they do it, Each of our colleagues has a role to play in our wherever they work in our company, and we all want transformation.
Their views and how we act on them are to work in a place where we can be at our individual best vital in shaping what we do and how we do it.
This year and be ourselves.
In the last year, we have paid particular we introduced a new Colleague Experience Platform a attention to facilitating cultural change within our common approach to colleague feedback and measuring leadership teams.
engagement that is open to everyone.
Our engagement score this year was 78 out of 100 above the retail Colleague experience 1 industry benchmark of 66.
We now have the opportunity The nature of work is changing, with new expectations put to further improve engagement, thanks to the honest, on employers: people dont simply want a job, they want a open feedback we have received.
Home Improvement Academy In September 2017, we brought colleagues together from all over Europe for the first Home Improvement Academy, focused on our new, unified Bathroom range.
Colleagues participated in seminars, practical sessions, and situational role plays, both in person and through digital channels, to become range ambassadors and take information and ideas back to their stores.
IMAGE REMOVED Its great to think about customers in this way we have lots of different customers but ultimately they have the same fundamental needs!
Customer Advisor, Brico Dpt Spain 28 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Colleague Experience Platform Using our new Colleague Experience Platform has given colleagues a simpler, more timely and relevant feedback mechanism to share their thoughts on life at Kingfisher.
For managers and HR teams it has given a more immediate way of taking the pulse of life at Kingfisher and acting on that feedback.
The platform gave me the confidence that not only are we are listening to our IMAGE REMOVED colleagues, but that we are proactively seeking ways in which to help them consistently be at their best.
Stephanie Sykes Store Manager, B&Q Castorama Polands Leaders School prepares Diversity & inclusion colleagues for Store Director or Administration and We value difference within our company and the benefits Logistics Director roles.
Its Captains School is aimed gained from it.
We are committed to equal opportunities, at preparing colleagues for Department Manager roles.
diversity and inclusion in everything we do.
We want to ensure we are able to attract and retain high calibre Antibribery and corruption colleagues and ensure that decisions on appointments Kingfisher is fully committed to conducting its business and advancement are free from bias and based on merit.
The core component of We published our first gender pay report in February 2018 the companys compliance programme is our Code of see www.
We Conduct, which is applicable across all our Operating became members of the 30% Club, and are committed Companies and global functions and contains a clear to its principles of better gender balance at all levels position on bribery and corruption: the offering, of companies.
paying, authorising, soliciting or accepting of bribes is We are also actively working to ensure succession plans unacceptable.
Kingfisher has an external whistleblowing reflect the international nature of our business.
Further channel, available in all countries where the company information on diversity across Kingfisher can be found operates, and which is communicated to our colleagues on page 65. and suppliers.
As part of our Governance Framework, the company also has antibribery and corruption policies Learning and development and standards.
The policies include a gifts and hospitality We want our colleagues to learn and to grow with us, and policy, a whistleblowing standard, and antibribery and we offer a range of programmes to support their career corruption provisions, which are included in all relevant development.
Some of the store-based programmes in supply contracts.
2017 18 included: Aligned with the companys continuous improvement B&Qs Rising Stars programme leads to a Retail Team commitment, and following the relevant provisions of the Leader Level 3 Apprenticeship equivalent to 2 new French anticorruption law Loi Sapin II coming into A-Levels.
277 colleagues took part during the year.
force in 2017, we have been reviewing and strengthening Screwfixs 1st Steps and Fast Track to store its internal procedures to ensure adherence with all management programmes are accredited with City & relevant antibribery and corruption laws.
A new, Guilds and the Institute of Leadership and Management comprehensive antibribery and corruption compliance Level 2, 3 & 4, with approximately 778 colleagues on the action plan has been approved by Kingfishers Group programmes last year.
Executive and Board and is being implemented in 2018.
It includes enhancement of the companys internal Castorama and Brico Dpt France work in partnership procedures to ensure consistency and increased with universities and business schools to recruit transparency across the Operating Companies and global apprentices for store-based undergraduate and functions.
In 2017 18, 734 apprentices were recruited across both businesses.
It is expected that by the end of the 2018 19 financial year, all fundamental elements of the Kingfisher Brico Dpt Iberia has two programmes aimed at Compliance Programme will have been reviewed and manager and non-manager store colleagues, offering improved.
This will include the implementation of new opportunities to be promoted when vacancies arise.
policies and procedures, including an enhanced ethical due diligence on third parties covering the relevant areas of exposure in terms of bribery and corruption.
In 2017 18, we changed our colleague feedback platform provider to Glint.
The methodology and model used is different from that of the previous provider, so there is no year-on-year comparison available this year.
The retail industry benchmark as set by Glint is based on their database of over 40 international retail companies.
