As always, there were some areas highlighted for improvement.
These included the performance Social review Our customers management system, which a number of We work with a diverse mix of businesses respondents feel is too narrowly focused on KPIs and organisations, from global corporations rather than behaviour.
And some respondents We use our experience and international consumer brands to local feel there has been a lack of clarity in terms of brands and businesses, fast-growing tech career development opportunities.
This may tohelp people thrive, companies and an array of other enterprises reflect where we are in the market cycle, with a from our customers, and organisations.
number of major projects coming to an end and the possibility of job role changes for affected communities and Understanding and meeting customers employees.
Both of these issues will be priority needs is at the heart of everything we do.
areas for the HR team in the year ahead.
We employees to those We anticipate peoples evolving expectations asked employees about their understanding and requirements and consider future market working for our partners.
of reward packages and whether our reward scenarios carefully.
Ensuring high levels of framework drives the right behaviours.
Responses customer satisfaction is one of our KPIs and related to reward were down slightly on our last we carry out annual surveys with customers full survey in 2015, which we believe reflects the Our economic contribution to assess our performance and gain insight.
relatively high level of bonuses paid that year.
totheUK The reputation of Landsec, and the trust and This year, for the first time, we set out to confidence of those with whom we deal, is vital measure the full impact of our assets and Our employees to the sustainability of our business.
Here are some of the key findings: Most of our people are in professional and committed to high ethical standards in the managerial roles.
Once again weve carried conduct of our business and to ensuring our out an employee engagement survey to ensure behaviour and practices maintain our integrity.
we understand sentiment within the business.
We have a Business Ethics and Anti-corruption 13.2bn While the overall engagement score of 88% policy which sets out how our employees are remained the same, weve seen an improvement Total contribution to the UK economy each expected to behave towards each other and all in most dimensions of engagement.
In particular, year from people based at our assets third parties including occupiers, shareholders, we saw a significant improvement inresponses suppliers, advisers, agents, competitors, the to I have the tools andresources required to government and regulators.
Adherence to the do my job effectively a great endorsement policy is a condition of continuing employment of the tools weve provided as part of our move 5.7bn with Landsec.
Our ten-year contribution to the economy Creating Experiences through property development Some of the other key findings from our most We have developed and delivered a training recent employee engagement survey in programme for all employees to help strengthen October2017, which was sent to everyone our customer experience-led culture.
This is withinthe business: anessential part of making the business fully 153,000 Our overall engagement score remained at fitto thrive in ever-evolving markets and a Number of people working at our assets 88% positive outperforming the Towers fast-changing world.
and employed through our activities over Watson national norm by 11 points and the Our objective was to help employees understand the last decade norm for high performance companies what our new brand means in terms of how we by 6points.
We continue to outperform the can enhance experience for all our customers.
high performance benchmark in most areas Our definition of customers includes our occupiers 87% of respondents believe that Landsec but also their employees, shoppers, visitors, local isabetter employer than others 61,000 communities, partners and our colleagues.
91% of respondents would recommend Jobs created in construction through our Landsec as a good place to work development activities over the last decade Launched in September 2017, the first phase ofthe Creating Experiences programme was 90% of respondents are satisfied working inspired by some simple principles: forLandsec Our employees by numbers It should include all of our people, from all 98% of respondents fully support our values sites and all levels 96% of respondents believe that Landsec Employees should attend in mixed cohorts isaresponsible company and has strong sothey get to work outside their teams and sustainability performance 615 broaden their perspective on the business There was no significant difference in the scores Total headcount It should showcase our new office to all when analysed by ethnic group.
Encouragingly, employees responses from black and Asian colleagues were It should be clearly supported and facilitated slightly more positive than the Landsec norm.
by the top 25 senior leaders within the business There was a small but discernible difference 19.4% The content and design of the events should in engagement levels between genders, with Employee turnover 14.7% resignations be innovative, empowering and collaborative: female scores marginally lower.
Were exploring make good use of technology: and provide the reasons behind these small but important practical tools and insights discrepancies.
47:53% Overall male:female ratio femalerepresentation down 1% 46 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Progress against our stated diversity targets at March 2018 Target Progress Ensure that Landsec continues to meet all the Out of a total population of 32, 13 are female 41%.
voluntary targets set by the Hampton Alexander We continue to meet the voluntary target Review 33% of Board, Executive Committee and direct reports are female Improve female representation at Leader level 24.4% of our Leader-level colleagues are now female, to 30% by 2020 an improvement of 1.4% since December 2016 Improve the engagement scores for Black and Black and Asian colleagues made up less than 10% Asian colleagues bringing them in line with of the sample, but their responses were slightlymore employees overall by 2018 positive than the Landsec norm in most categories Feedback after the events has been very positive.
19 colleagues identifying themselves as other were less positive and this requires further investigation Its clear that in general our employees know who their customers are, now work more Improve the transparency of our reporting We are seeing a slow increase in those who are collaboratively, and have a genuine appetite for of alldiversity data, including the accurate willing to disclose disabilities and sexual orientation change.
The second phase of the programme, measurement and tracking ofother specific A significant proportion still prefer not to say which started in April 2018, will see senior groups including LGBT and disabled leaders and leaders deliver one-day sessions colleaguesby 2018 fortheir teams, where they agree how they will utilise the tools, skills and mindset they have learnt about to create great customer Gender by role % of total population Chart 26 experiences.
This should help to further embed Board & Executive our brand inwhat we do and how we do it.
Business Development Diversity Comms & Sustainability We strongly believe in the benefits of having diversity at all levels within our workforce and Development this is supported by our employee engagement Engineering & Surveying survey results.
A diverse range of people, skills Finance and capabilities amongst our employees means Health, Safety & Security that we can make better decisions for our business and have a better place in which to Human Resources work.
Our commitment is to make measurable Information Systems IS improvements to the profile in terms of Leasing gender, ethnicity and disability of our employee mix.
Legal & CoSec Marketing This year we continued to be active supporters Operations & Facilities Management of Real Estate Balance, an association run by a group of female and male leaders in real estate PA, Secretarial & Administration determined to address the gender imbalance Portfolio & Investment inour sector.
Our Chief Executive, Robert Noel, Project Management has signed up to its CEO commitments.
Our Research & Insights Group Human Resources Director, Diana Breeze, has been a very active member of the Talent Risk & Internal Audit and Development Committee, which has Tax, Treasury & Insurance pooled the collective capability of the sector to provide a series of development events Female Male 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 aimed at mid-career females.
Gender split % Chart 27 Gender by level % Chart 28 Gender by ethnicity % Chart 29 Female 53.5% Non-Executive Male 46.5% Executive Senior Leader Asian Leader Black Manager Other Race Ethnicity Professional Not Recorded Support White Grand Total Grand Total 0 20 40 60 80 100 0 20 40 60 80 100 Female Male Female Male Landsec Annual Report 2018 47 Gender pay The definition of pay shown is an hourly pay rate Social review Last year, the UK Government introduced for each relevant employee as at 5 April 2018, continued legislation requiring employers with 250 or more reflecting base salary and certain allowances.
UK employees to disclose information on their The bonus figures shown includes total variable Over the past 12 months, we further extended gender pay gap.
Landsec was one of the first pay over the previous 12 months bonus paid our Landsec female mentoring programme companies to report on gender pay, publishing plus any proceeds on exercise of SAYE, ESOP and now have over 20 active partnerships.
our data in last years annual report.
The data orvesting of LTIP awards.
Although this programme was designed to below therefore represents the second year of support development of women in our business, disclosure, based on amounts paid in April 2018. the programme is open to all our employees.
As well as the mentoring itself, weve given mentees access to specific professional Table 30 development activities and resources such Pay gap as London Business Forum and Real Estate year-onBalance events.
Our Group-wide celebration year % % change of International Womens Day, supported Male Female difference Male Female difference % points by our CEO, further promoted our focus on Pay Element April 2018 April 2017 workplace inclusivity.
As part of the campaign, Mean hourly salary 45.52 28.33 37.8 43.26 28.86 33.3 4.5 eight senior women across Landsec shared Median hourly salary 34.98 21.73 37.9 33.36 21.27 36.3 1.6 their experience of working in an industry thats perceived by many to be male-dominated.
Proportion of employees 83.6% 75.5% 79.0% 77.1% receiving a bonus In the area of disability, our focus has been Mean bonus 38,336 13,838 63.9 42,894 14,282 66.7 2.8 on mental health.
Within the business Median bonus 10,969 4,376 60.1 12,741 12,741 62.5 2.4 weve set up a network of mental health first aiders: enhanced our training around stress, In our relatively small sized organisation, with The following table shows how the mean hourly resilience and mindfulness: and run a series voluntary employee turnover sitting at around rate and bonus awards compare by quartile.
15%, it is unsurprising that we have seen some Aswas the case last year, the gap is much swings in our data this year.
As the table wider in the upper quartile, where we have the above shows, while the gap between median lowest proportion of females, indicating that male and female hourly pay has remained the keyissue is one of female representation broadly static, the gap on a mean basis has, in senior roles.
Huge progress has been disappointingly, broadened by 4%.
Conversely, madein the property industry, and more encouragingly, the gap in both mean but there are still times when and median bonus awards, although still large, has narrowed slightly.
Iattend large meetings and Imthe only woman.
Thats As at April 2018 Table 31 jarring in 2018.
Its also evident % at some networking events.
Male Female difference % % mean mean in hourly Landsec, however, doesnt Quartile Split Number Male Female hourly rate hourly rate rate Lower 138 21.7 78.3 16.07 15.68 2.5 feelold-fashioned.
More needs Upper 138 72.5 27.5 75.37 68.35 9.3 tobe done, though, and Encouraging more females into leadership roles The differential in bonus awards appears stark itdoesnt just sit with the has been a key priority for us and, as reported at a headline level, although it is slightly lower women menneed to be elsewhere, we are starting to make progress than last year.
However, the figures include almost 25% of our Leader roles are now women onmaternity leave, and part-timers, partof theconversation.
occupied by women, and female representation whose bonus payments are pro-rated.
Of our Alex Chitty has risen to 41% at Board, Executive Committee total permanent female population, 17% are Development Manager at Landsec and the level below.
Both these figures are an part-time compared with no part-time males.
However, it will take Published data as required under The Equality time for this progress to bereflected in headline Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information pay statistics and, like others in our sector, we Regulations 2017. still find it challenging tofill our senior roles with female candidates, particularly in the core property and technical disciplines.
This has been borne out by an analysis of our recruitment activity over the course of the year, although there are some notable and pleasing exceptions.
48 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Cumulative total number of jobs secured Chart 32 Jobs and opportunities 1,200 Addressing social mobility 1,149 We believe people shouldnt be defined by where 1,000 they were born or live, yet we know someone 962 800 from an area classified as disadvantaged has 779 less chance of succeeding than someone else.
600 Our goal is to offer opportunities to the people 583 who live in the communities where we operate 400 426 so that every individual has a fair chance of 200 reaching their potential.
206 105 0 Our Chief Executive, Robert Noel, was recently 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 invited to sit on the newly formed Inclusive Economy Partnership IEP, a collaboration Jobs Target between government, business and civil society whose aim is to address key societal challenges facing lowand middle-income Education Weve been looking hard at how our assets can families.
The IEP is focusing on three key Many young people, especially those from support education.
Thats the drive behind our areas: financial inclusion, mental health disadvantaged backgrounds, face barriers Made in programme, which sets a businessand transition to work.
that stop them accessing jobs in our industry.
related challenge for students in the context Through our education programmes we: ofone of our centres.
This year, for example, Community employment weran a Made in Portsmouth challenge at Inspire young people about career Our commitment is to help a total of 1,200 Gunwharf Quays that saw students challenged opportunities in property and construction disadvantaged people secure jobs by 2020. to design a product representing the local area.
Give young people the skills they need Since 2011, 1,149 disadvantaged people have Finalists pitched their ideas to a panel of tosucceed gained work through our nationwide Community Landsec experts with the winning team due to Employment Programme, including 187 this Enable our employees and partners to sell their creations in the centre later in the year.
Were now setting new ambitious targets volunteer their expertise We also continued to run our popular Girls Can for the business beyond 2020.
Do It Too programme, which helps to tackle the Our work encourages more students from a gender gap in construction, engineering and The programme targets those furthest from wide range of backgrounds into our industry, property development by challenging young the job market, including homeless people, the making businesses like ours more diverse.
It also womens perceptions and making them aware long-term unemployed, veterans, ex-offenders ensures our assets are more representative of of opportunities.
Working with our partners, their local area, which inturn makes them more local authorities, charities and specialist training appealing tolocal people.
providers, we help people prepare for and find Since April 2017, weve engaged over 1,000 students opportunities in construction and customer between the ages of 12 and 18, particularly in service usually at one of our assets.
schools where a higher than average proportion During the year, we placed particular emphasis of children receive free school meals.
We also on creating opportunities in customer service grew our collaboration with Ahead Partnership, and facilities management.
In our Nova, SW1 a social enterprise that connects communities development, for example, we helped our with businesses through its school-specific customer D&D find employees through the programme Make the Grade.
programme, working with partners including Bywaters, Not Just Cleaning and Corps Security.
At Westgate Oxford, we supported 15 candidates back into employment through our Community Employment Programme.
This year we also extended our work with prisons.
In addition to offering a dry lining and scaffolding centre at HMP Brixton, weve launched an additional facility at HMP Isis.
Wewill launch a vertical and aerial cleaning academy at HMP Isis in June 2018.
Two of our offender charity partners, Bounce Back and The Right Course, estimate that their projects have cut reoffending rates to less than 12% compared with a national average of 60%.
Students taking part in our Girls Can DoItToo education programme.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 49 Fairness The Modern Slavery Act came into force in 2015.
Social review Our commitment is to ensure the working As part of our ongoing review, during the year continued environments we control are fair and that we carried out a modern slavery and human everyone who is working on our behalf trafficking risk assessment across the business.
Charity partnerships within an environment we control is paid We believe the risk of slavery or human We partner with local and national charities at least the Foundation Living Wage by 2020. trafficking in the recruitment and engagement tohelp support people from disadvantaged of our employees is low.
To ensure it remains Fairness is partly about paying people a fair backgrounds into work: support and educate low, we have provided training on modern wage.
Its also about upholding their human young people: and respond to local issues such slavery for our HR team and taken steps to rights, celebrating their individuality and as rising homelessness.
Our retail destinations make sure our staff and supply chain partners making sure they feel safe and respected and larger sites work with at least one local are aware of the Act and its requirements.
Being fair helps us attract, charity partnership, in addition to our national motivate and retain great people.
In September 2017 we issued our second Slavery charity partner.
We support charities through: and Human Trafficking Statement and are fundraising, volunteering, offering pro bono We are an official Living Wage Employer, working with employees and suppliers to tackle support and opening our spaces up for accredited by the Living Wage Foundation.
slavery-related issues across the supply chain.
This recognises that everyone in our business We also took part in the global Workforce is paid at least the Foundation Living Wage Our current national charity partner is Disclosure Initiative WDI.
This is a new 10.20 an hour in London: 8.75 outside Barnardos, the UKs largest childrens charity, programme that brings together institutional London, except interns and apprentices who with whom we are working to support young investors to request comparable workforce data are exempt from the Foundation rates.
We ask people particularly those not in education, from listed companies, including data covering supply chain partners to pay the Foundation employment or training.
This year we raised employees in companies direct operations and Living Wage intheir own supply chain and over 100,000 for Barnardos.
We also continued in their supply chain.
WDI has recognised Landsec check this is happening on our behalf.
In the our work tackling homelessness across the UK.
for good practice based on our methods of London Portfolio, our strategic partners have Forexample, in Oxford, weve partnered with identifying risks and opportunities in our direct confirmed 100% ofthose working on our behalf Homeless Oxfordshire.
In London we continue to operations and our supply chain.
within an environment we control are paid support the work of The Passage and Cardinal at least the Foundation Living Wage.
In Retail Hume Centre, this year raising just under theres more to do but were confident well 20,000 for the Cardinal Hume Centre and meet our commitment by 2020.
In future well moving over 50 people, who are homeless require all contractors to measure and report or atrisk of homelessness, back into work.
on the percentage of their employees paid the Living Wage.
And this year well survey our largest partners to confirm the Living Wage is being paid at our sites and in construction.
Landsecs approach to working with charities, authorities and others to offer people from disadvantaged backgrounds work experience and job opportunities is making arealdifference.
Caroline Dinenage Minister of State for Health and Social Care Raising funds for ournational charity partner Barnardos atWhite Rose.
50 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Our move into new headquarters has created a more agile working environment where people Sustainability training can collaborate more easily.
Weve supported programme this with enhanced health, safety and security training for employees.
We continue to include our One Best Way standards in tenders and have a robust assessment process, ensuring 213 that all partners are clear on our expectations Number of employees trained and requirements.
during 2017 18 Our physical and cyber security is supported byrobust processes, policies and governance, together with mandatory training for employees in relevant roles.
We continually 31% prepare the business to anticipate and respond Employee knowledge increase to incidents and we take part in a number of after the training cross-industry forums.
And we integrate security architecture into the way we design buildings.
During the year we strengthened our team Health, safety and security with the appointment of a Group Security Our commitment is to maintain an exceptional Protection Manager.
standard of health, safety and security in all the Sustainability Matters working environments we control.
The effective This year we continued our award-winning management of health, safety and security is sustainability training programme for fundamental to the productivity, culture and employees, Sustainability Matters, which reputation of our business.
Our priorities in this was launched in 2016.
This company-wide area are: training isdesigned to ensure that all employees Health: to treat health like safety across all understand our sustainability commitments our activities, with both physical and mental and their specific role in delivering these.
In 2017 18 alone, weve delivered 15 workshops Safety: provide safe and secure places for across the business, training 213 employees our employees, customers, partners and over a third of our workforce.
Consisting of three levels awareness, Security: to raise and maintain awareness understanding and application the training of physical and cyber security, in our own is tailored to our different teams, covering a organisation and across our industry.
range of topics from masterclasses on energy This year we reported 26 incidents at our analysis and measurement to workshops for managed portfolio and construction sites our Leasing and Marketing Teams on how under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and sustainability helps create experiences and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013, a value for our customers.
decrease on the previous year.
We believe our Our programme was recognised at the 2018 strong health and safety culture and ongoing CIBSE Building Performance Awards where programme of education with employees and we won the Learning and Development Award.
partners are having a positive effect.
Once again we maintained our OHSAS 18001 certification, the benchmark for health and safety management systems, across 100% of our sites.
Following the tragic fire at Grenfell Tower, we reviewed the cladding on every property in the current portfolio as well as those sold within the last ten years.
Our review identified three properties thatrequire some remedial work and this is in progress.
Our Health and Wellbeing Customer Improvement Group helps ensure we give health the same billing as safety, with mental health as important as physical health.
As part of the Health in Construction Leadership Group, this year we actively supported Mates in Mind, a mental health programme for the construction industry.
We continue to play a key role in industry initiatives, including HSEs Helping Great Britain work well strategy.
