Strategic report Creating a responsible culture Our values and principles define our belief that businesses must behave responsibly in order to be successful.
Responsibility and financial success go together and cannot exist independently of each other.
Our approach to inclusive capitalism takes our belief in responsible behaviour and extends it into investing in communities and cities to change peoples lives for the better.
Our purpose is to improve the lives of our customers, build a better society for the long term and create value for our shareholders.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Please visit: legalandgeneralgroup.
com CSR 32 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Creating a responsible culture We have three behaviours at the Straightforward heart of our culture which inspire How we communicate Building trust by doing what we say and saying us to act responsibly towards our what we mean.
We are fair and transparent, customers and everyone whose open to feedback and always seek to communicate in a fair and genuine way.
Collaborative How we work together Working together constructively: seeking out originality in ideas and valuing the diversity in our teams.
We engage our networks and stakeholders to shape our ideas and manage the impact of our decisions.
Purposeful How we deliver Balancing performance with principles to do whats right for the business and our customers.
We work with pace and energy, always taking ownership and demonstrating excellent execution.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Our culture means that we place corporate and social responsibility at the heart of our business.
There are four key areas we focus on for corporate and social responsibility.
We have linked these four areas to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Leading the transition Making society 1 3 to a low-carbon economy more resilient Projected global temperature increases will We support the UNs Sustainable profoundly impact peoples lives.
In order to Development Goals on alleviating poverty minimise the most damaging consequences, andreducing inequality by providing financial global leaders have agreed to take action to safety nets for millions of people.
We are limit temperature increases to 1.5C to 2C committed to improving social mobility and above pre-industrial levels.
Our strength as an have a responsibility to ensure that we investor means we can influence companies marketour products and services to the and people to adopt more sustainable widest set of social and economic groups methods of generating and consuming aspossible.
energy, in favour of low-carbon alternatives.
Creating new investments 4 Running our business for the future economy 2 to a higher standard We take action to develop mainstream We focus on understanding and measuring our sustainable investment solutions.
Its culture, using a range of metrics and actively important that customers and shareholders managing a programme of initiatives in each clearly understand the areas where we invest business area.
This ensures we embed a positive their money.
Many key emerging areas need culture, based on our business principles and to be funded over the long term in an behaviours which celebrates our successes economically viable, socially useful and and recognises individual contributions.
We can environmentally impactful way.
also address areas for improvement, strengthen corporate governance and sustainability policies, and ensure our people embrace diversity and inclusion.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Strategic report TCFD Recommendations Governance As a truly long-term investor, its essential for our business to monitor and respond to issues like climate change.
Supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy has been one of the groups four strategic priorities since 2017.
Our Board reviews progress against this strategy and targets annually.
Overall responsibility for climate change and environmental performance is held by the Group CEO, Nigel Wilson.
Consideration of group market risk including the risk of climate change is the responsibility of the Group CFO, Jeff Davies.
Jeff is also the TCFD Sponsor on behalf of the Board.
He has established the Group Carbon Investment Steering Committee, bringing together members across three of our governance committees.
Reporting directly to the Group Board, Jeff ensures that TCFD activities are co-ordinated across all group businesses.
Strategy We strongly support the aim of the Paris Agreement of limiting global temperatures to well below 2C above pre-industrial levels.
We support this objective, firstly, through the positioning of our own investments.
We have set a strategy for decarbonising our balance sheet traded assets, moving away from high-carbon investments and into low carbon.
We recognise the opportunity presented by the energy transition and are funding developers of clean energy solutions with potential to be disruptive on a global scale.
Secondly, LGIM is a major global institutional investor and has established a climate engagement programme aimed at some of the worlds largest companies: the Climate Impact Pledge, leading to voting and investment decisions.
Drawing on this expertise in working with companies, LGIM has also been developing low-carbon investment products in the Future World range.
Designed with mainstream investors in mind, we believe the funds can help accelerate the low-carbon transition.
Covering different asset classes and strategies, the funds have already seen significant capital committed from group level.
More details on these complementary approaches can be found in the two TCFD reports to be issued alongside the 2018 accounts, one identifying group strategy and the other focussing on LGIMs asset management strategy.
Risk management Our formal framework for risk management policies sets out approaches to managing different types of risks and defines the minimal control standard over the short, medium and long term.
More specifically, we see climate change as posing two types of risk.
First, physical risks, driven by extreme weather intensifying.
Consideration of some issues such as the exposure of real estate assets to flooding is already integrated into our investment process.
However, it is currently difficult to model physical risk for all our individual holdings, as uncertainty grows with time.
In line with improvements in climate science, we have been working with external consultants and data providers to understand more about the implications of different scenarios of warming.
Second, transition risks, as changes in policy, technology and consumer preferences affect the value of high-carbon investments.
While its speed is uncertain, we recognise the transition is likely to be far-reaching.
The power sector is already witnessing disruptive change from clean energy.
We want to be able to anticipate how other sectors can meet the challenge of decarbonisation.
For example, we have been conducting modelling on what it means for our property portfolio to achieve carbon neutrality.
Were expanding our risk management toolkit by integrating data on carbon emissions, fossil fuel reserves and green revenues into ESG metrics, and by conducting long-term thematic analysis around the energy transition.
On the flip side of risk, we recognise the opportunities of the energy transition.
We have been making direct investments into: clean energy generation renewables, batteries and heat pumps, smart grids transport and mobility electric vehicles and supporting charge infrastructure housing moving towards zero carbon homes Metrics andTargets There are four key areas where we capture information as a business to influence our strategy and policies: 1.
Energy usage and carbon emissions.
By 2020 we want to reduce carbon emissions per policy by 20% based on 2013 baseline.
Use of natural resources within our commercial property portfolio.
We set reduction targets and monitor through our managing agents.
Our own balance sheet investments.
We are committed as a long-term investor in UK renewables and have a target to increase investments into UK energy infrastructure that support the transition to a low-carbon economy over the next three years.
Our influence as an investor, working with companies and policymakers to drive the agenda and provide sustainable investment solutions.
We have committed to develop science based targets to ensure we reduce our carbon emissions in line with a 2C world.
Our mandatory carbon and headline data is included on page 236 of this report.
Measuring our commitment to society outlines our key carbon emission reduction targets and performance 34 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Creating a responsible culture Leading the transition We continued to invest in renewables such Running our business 1 2 to a low-carbon economy as onshore windfarms, solar photovoltaics to a higher standard Climate change action and digital software solutions for the energy Our vision for diversity and inclusion We encourage public policies, investment grid.
We have total commitments or direct An inclusive culture is key to attracting, practices and corporate behaviour that address investments in clean energy of around retaining and enabling all our people to thrive.
the long-term risks associated with the impact 260 million.
Its important to us that our workforce reflects of climate change.
our customers and the communities they live We took a strong position on integrating in, so were committed to creating a more Task Force on Climate-related climate strategy into the investment process diverse and gender-balanced organisation for Financial Disclosures and product range across all assets and the benefit of our people, the businesses and As a signatory to the Task Force on Climateclients with a particular focus on company the communities we work with.
related Financial Disclosures TCFD through engagement and voting.
LGIMs Corporate LGIM, were fully committed to disclosing our Governance team received the 2018 ICSA Our focus on gender diversity initiatives has approach to the risks and opportunities award for Best Investor Engagement for resulted in a positive impact on the recruitment presented by climate change.
In 2018, 44% of all new starters in middle and senior management We have produced two TCFD reports.
Firstly We took steps to measure our own were women.
Well continue our efforts to a consideration of climate change asset risk carbon footprint.
In 2018 the carbon ensure women are represented at all levels in to the groups balance sheet and secondly emission intensity of the balance sheet our business and take a broader approach to LGIMs report on managing climate-related was 370.22 tonnes CO e 1m invested 2 make Legal & General a place where talented risks for external customers.
down 24% from the previous year.
When people can thrive, whatever their identity applied to the 69 billion of equity, bonds Climate change-related activities or background.
and property components of the investment We were ranked 4th globally among the portfolio to which shareholders are directly When employees feel included and have worlds largest insurers for their approach to exposed, this gives a carbon footprint of a sense of belonging, they perform better climate risk and opportunity, by the Asset 26 million tonnes of CO emissions.
59% of our people feel 2 Owners Disclosure Project AODP.
that they belong: thats a solid foundation on We have deployed more than 1 billion We utilised our carbon footprint data to which to improve.
We will continue investing in renewable energy infrastructure.
develop a strategy to shape our investments in development and wellbeing to create an We expect to continue deploying into below a 2C pathway.
inclusive culture, where we embrace and renewable energy and power grid leverage differences and all our people are LGIM continued to assess and engage with infrastructure as our infrastructure product engaged and empowered to meet their goals.
organisations to encourage climate offering grows.
Were also developing an resilience.
Certain companies which failed to ESG scorecard that would assess the We have focused on making changes to how meet minimum thresholds were placed on a climate change impacts of all potential we recruit, raising awareness with debate and no investment list.
In 2018, eight global infrastructure investments.
dialogue, creating a gender diverse talent companies were removed.
pipeline and creating an agile and flexible In 2019 we will: work environment.
In 2018, our total greenhouse gas emissions Increase our investment into new increased from approximately 45,000 tonnes Weve made systemic changes to our technologies, including renewable energy.
of CO emissions tCO e to around 49,000 recruitment processes that will help us tap 2 2 tCO e, as a direct result of our growing Roll out standardised and focused into talent pools we may not have previously 2 housing business: for example our newly carbon-related clauses in our Investment reached.
Focusing on recruitment and acquired CALA Homes business emissions Manager agreements, both with LGIM ensuring that we have diverse shortlists for equal 6,600 tCO e. and external managers.
senior roles has resulted in an increase in 2 women joiners.
We have also invested in LGIMs Real Assets team continued with Agree a carbon trajectory and associated more training for our managers to help them their industry leading ESG performance.
carbon-related targets with the Group Board, build inclusive team environments.
For the sixth year in a row, all 14 applicable allocating to business divisions.
property funds received GRESB Green We know that we must do more to retain Continue to engage with LGIM Future Stars, with three funds receiving the and engage our female talent.
highest accolade of five Green Stars.
of leavers who were women fell from 51% Continue to consider climate risk within our in 2017 to 48% in 2018.
Last year, we Solvency II-compliant Internal Model.
developed our Career Returners framework, a programme of enhanced development Utilise the SBTi guidance, when available, support for employees coming back into the to set science based targets to help us to workplace in permanent roles.
We recruited bring our emissions in line with a 2C world.
four career returners in 2018 and are Establish how homebuilding has changed expanding the programme in 2019. our carbon reduction strategy.
We will now work with our new and fledgling housing businesses to set up governance and The LGIM TCFD report can reporting structures, with the aim to be found on our website minimise carbon from the housing stock.
com uk en capabilities We aim to provide further disclosure corporate-governance around housing emissions.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Strategic report We continue to work with leading diversity Our focus in 2019 The actions we are taking to increase gender campaigns to help us achieve our goals, Were making progress, to move towards a diversity in our organisation will help us widen including the 30% Club, the Diversity Project more inclusive environment.
In 2019 we aim to the talent pool from which we recruit, remove and the Women in Finance Charter.
We have weave inclusion into everything we do, and all barriers to progression and create an inclusive some way to go to reach our Women in our people processes, so that employees feel culture where anyone, whatever their Finance target of 40% female representation included, engaged and valued at every step.
background or gender, can thrive.
in senior roles and our aspiration of gender We will continue widening the talent pool from We are pleased that the actions we outlined balance at all levels, but our actions are now which we recruit and challenging our hiring above are having an impact and that our gender making a difference.
managers to think differently about how they pay gap has reduced over the last 12 months.
Beyond gender bring talent into our business.
However, they are part of a long-term plan and Weve taken steps to ensure that we are we acknowledge there is a long way to go and A priority in 2019 is to ensure leaders creating a positive, flexible and inclusive work we will continue to take action to close our understand what we expect of them and what environment for everyone, not just women.
gender pay gap for more information on our it means to lead inclusively.
We will review our action plan please see the full Gender Pay Gap We have introduced agile working, providing leadership behaviours and our leadership narrative on our website.
many employees with more flexible working development programmes and interventions.
Improvements in technology Ensuring leaders are equipped with the right Gender Pay Gap are enabling our employees to be more agile skills to create inclusive team environments 2018 2018 2017 2017 in terms of where they work, with many no and get the benefits from diversity.
Mean Median Mean Median longer fixed to one office location.
Gender diversity Hourly Pay 27.6% 29.0% 30.5% 31.6% Female Male We have strong family-friendly policies Bonus 61.0% 49.1% 65.6% 51.9% including a parental leave coaching programme Board Directors 4 8 and emergency back-up care.
Our people can Executive Committee 4 11 These percentages show the differences access nannies, childminders, nurseries, Managers 1,102 1,861 between pay and bonuses paid to men holiday clubs, or eldercare specialists at short 1 and women.
All employees 3,867 4,114 notice with two days a year paid for by us.
Excludes employees of CALA Homes.
Our L&GBT network has successfully We have a positive culture that were proud of, partnered with LGBT Great to raise awareness The above diversity figures are as at but we want to evolve into a more inclusive of LGBT inclusion in the investment 31 December 2018. organisation, where all our people can thrive.
Their success has We want to give our people a voice and ensure resulted in awards for both the network chair Actions to close our gender pay gap they are heard.
Advances in digital technology and its business sponsor.
In 2018, we saw a 2.6% reduction in our provide us with a unique opportunity to gender pay gap.
Gender pay gap data helps us In 2018 we provided mentoring and become healthier, smarter and more efficient highlight the problem, understand its causes sponsorship programmes to our female, at responding to our people.
and take action to improve it across our UK LGBT and ethnic minority talent, focusing businesses.
It is just one part of our efforts In 2018, we moved to a new methodology on career development needs.
Over 25 of to improve our culture and drive inclusion.
for measuring employee engagement from our pipeline talent took part.
a traditional annual survey to more frequent Like many organisations, our gender pay gap We responded to the BEIS Ethnicity Pay Gap digital listening.
Its easier for our people to is driven by having more men than women consultation, welcoming the greater use, and managers receive real-time in senior positions across our businesses.
transparency on pay, recognition and information and focused action plans through Our organisation is evolving, but we face diversity this brings.
We know can make the right decisions based on the the direction we need to be moving in, and needs of their teams.
Its already delivered weve developed a sustainable strategy to some important strategic insights and we help us get there.
Our action plan to improve believe it will create a better dialogue.
gender diversity, and diversity and inclusion more broadly, is focused on three areas: Attracting a more diverse pool of talented people to join our organisation Focusing on our employee experience so people feel like they belong Enabling our talent to realise their potential whatever their role or background.
Gender Pay Gap report Our complete report will appear onourwebsite Please visit: legalandgeneralgroup.
com media-centre reports 36 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Creating a responsible culture Employee wellbeing Its important that our employees are emotionally and physically well to perform at their best.
Were committed to our employees wellbeing and aim to provide the right support to enable this.
We measure engagement and wellbeing on a regular basis, through tailored local wellness activities and communications, provision of a suite of support to employees and their managers, including our Employee Assistance Programme, and mental wellbeing and resilience training.
Our wide network of mental health first aiders supports colleagues across our locations and we now have 159 trained employees.
Our successful Not a Red Card mental health campaign encourages more conversations in the workplace about mental health, and we continue to work closely with Not Time to Change and City Health Mental Alliance to drive good mental health practices in the workplace.
Learning and development To support our long-term strategy, were identifying the skills and capabilities that we need today, tomorrow and for years to come.
Our people can take responsibility for their own career development, with relevant, easy to access and tailored support from us.
Many of our training programmes are available online allowing our people to learn anywhere and The Bank of Mum and Dad anytime.
In 2018, we delivered programmes 44% The need for the Bank of Mum and around digital skills to encourage new ways Dad illustrates intergenerational of new starters in middle of working for all of our people.
Its a major force in the and senior management out comprehensive training ahead of the housing market, with 27% of buyers were women implementation of the FCAs Senior Managers receiving help from friends or and Certification Regime.
We also committed family, up 25% from 2017.
The volume of transactions depending to mental health first aid training and on BoMaD funding keeps on unconscious bias sessions, helping us to growing, as parents find it harder foster the behaviours that make Legal & to provide money for a house General a place where everyone can thrive.
This is neither a positive trend, or a sustainable one.
Modern Slavery We need to take action and open up We continue to increase the depth and Human Rights affordability for all.
Were making a breadthof our knowledge and work on Our responsibility is to respect all human positive difference in the supply of addressing modern slavery risk in our supply rights.
Our proactive approach reflects our affordable residential housing as chain.
Through deepening our understanding ethical commitment and helps to establish well as the towns and cities in of the potential risks, we now use indicators and maintain successful relationships with which the homes are built.
as well as traditional supplier management all stakeholders.
Our actions encompass all techniques to help ensure we have the most of our stakeholders in all group businesses.
effective responses to that risk.
Key areas of Anti bribery and corruption focus for 2019 are collaborations with other We will not tolerate any person acting on organisations to do more to eradicate modern behalf of the company participating in any slavery and focus on our indicators, scorecards form of corrupt practice and we will not either and supplier-provided data to better assess accept or offer bribes.
Our financial crime risk business risk within supply chains.
In 2019, policy applies across the group and seeks to we will deploy new procurement and supplier ensure that controls are put in place to prevent management tools which will also help provide such activity including the control and approval more transparent data on suppliers and provide of giving and receiving gifts and hospitality.
more holistic and faster insight into our wider supply chains performance and risks.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Strategic report Making society 3 more resilient How we help our local communities Our employees give their time to volunteering and fundraising.
By giving employees at all levels a new purpose we are able to help provide positive differences towards mental health and wellbeing.
Employees and volunteering We have a long history of supporting charities and good causes.
By listening to our employees, we explore new and innovative ways we can support communities and charities close to their hearts.
Employees volunteered their time and donated to charities through our payroll giving scheme.
In 2018, the cash contributions made by our employees, together with the benefit of cash-matching, volunteering and our operational costs amounted to 3.45 million in the UK and 0.97 million in the US, making a groupwide total of 4.4 million.
Financial education We have a long-term commitment to financial education, with three different schemes: Every Day Money: provides real life choices to 14-16 year-olds, getting them ready for the world of work.
We originally set out to reach over 200 teachers and 3,000 pupils, with an aim to train teachers and provide resources for them to continue to educate their pupils.
We succeeded in reaching Creating new investments Investing in small businesses 4 nearly 4,000 pupils and over 130 teachers.
for the future economy In addition to SME Finance provided by The UNs Sustainable Development Goals Legal & General Capital, our SE-Assist fund RedSTART: a charity that provides financial We have a responsibility to help achieve continues to grow in supporting early stage education training to children.
We help host the aims of the United Nations Sustainable social enterprises.
We have over 800,000 and run educational training days for primary Development Goals SDGs.
We can help out on loan in Wales, Croydon and Sussex school children at our London offices, with end poverty, protect the planet and ensure to social enterprises.
This fund provided a goal to train one million school children prosperity for all.
The SDGs guide us, our nearly 172,000 in new loans to seven in personal finance by 2025. customers, our employees and society social enterprises in 2018.
We also invested KickStart Money: a ground-breaking financial towards a brighter, sustainable future.
We 50,000 into crowd funding in 2018. education programme for children delivered have analysed which SDGs we can focus on by the MyBank charity.
Over the next three that align closely with our strategic priorities.
years the target is to provide around 18,000 We support all 17 of the Sustainable primary school children between the ages Development Goals.
These include specific of seven and 11 with financial education.
goals which help create better lives for people The aim is to influence attitudes towards in our communities by investing in managing money at an early age.
Further details of our activities can be found in the Investing and Annuities section on pages 18 and 19.
4,000 school students reached by our financial education programme.
UNs sustainable developmentgoals We have produced a film about our activities which support the UNs sustainable development goals.
com watch?v qtpcUTQx4QI 38 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Creating a responsible culture Our commitment Focus on corporate governance As a responsible investor, the integration of to action on activeownership environmental, social and governance ESG climate change As one of the largest asset managers in the data into our investment process deepens.
world, we want the markets we invest in to do In 2018, we have developed ESG metrics for In the US in 2018, as well as they can.
This is why we are active thousands of global companies.
The new LGIM opposed more resolutions on owners, using our size and influence to bring Future World funds launched throughout the executive pay and about real, positive change.
year use the metrics to allocate capital across supported more different asset classes and strategies.
In 2018, we have continued to engage with resolutions on climate regulators, companies and other investors We also continue our public policy advocacy, change disclosure than any of the worlds around the issues that matter to our clients.
in order to have impact not just at individual ten largest asset Do companies have the right skills and the companies, but across entire markets.
diversity of thought needed to succeed in the strengthening the fiduciary duty of investors future?
Do they have a strategy to prepare for in the UK and EU, to upgrading corporate the low-carbon economy?
As a long-term governance and stewardship codes in Japan, investor, we will challenge companies France and Germany, LGIM has been working constructively to show they deliver value.
with policy-makers and regulators to raise the bar.
In 2018, we have participated in around To view some significant outcomes that we 20 policy consultations around the world.
contributed to, please see LGIMs annual Our ESG metrics are aligned with our active ownership report: engagement and voting across LGIM, in order Oil major Shell, adopting industry-leading to speak with one clear voice in the market.
emissions reductions targets linked to pay We minimise abstentions worldwide, so our clients can be sure that we are working and Consumer goods giant Unilever, abandoning engaging on their behalf.
its plans to move headquarters Our voting can be a powerful tool to hold companies to account.
An independent report found that in the US in 2018, LGIM opposed more resolutions on executive pay and supported more resolutions on climate change disclosure than any of the worlds ten largest asset managers.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39
