08 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our external environment We operate in an increasingly dynamic market Operational impacts of the UKs exit Economy Regulation from the EU present risks for some of our customers businesses.
With the future trading Highlights Highlights arrangements between the UK and EU Given our UK focus, the Groups prospects The UK financial services sector is expected unlikely to become finalised for a few years, are closely linked to the fortunes of the UK to remain highly regulated businesses investment decisions are more economy difficult and postponement of investment There is increasing clarity on impending may weigh on future growth capacity of the The economy faces significant uncertainty regulation although new regulation and economy.
Uncertainty is also challenging around the UKs departure from the EU.
market reviews continue to be issued the UKs attractiveness to foreign investors, With the expectation that the UK leaves in although many qualities that have attracted Market dynamics an orderly fashion, the economy should be investors in the past remain.
A number of key regulatory changes have able to grow in 2019 at a similar pace to 2018 been implemented in the last 12 months More widely, the global economy is Our low risk business model and focus on including ring-fencing and GDPR.
The key transitioning away from the exceptionally efficiency positions us well irrespective of areas of focus for 2019 are as below: low interest rates in place in most advanced macro conditions, but if the UK economy economies since the financial crisis.
This sees significant sustained deterioration this Open banking process will not always be constant, with is likely to impact Group performance Open Banking regulation was implemented different countries at different stages of in January 2018 with the aim of increasing their economic cycle, and unwinding of Overview competition by enabling customers to quantitative easing may increase volatility in As the largest provider of UK banking view personal financial data from different financial markets.
The widespread trend to services, our prospects are closely aligned providers in one place.
Although currently just increasingly populist politics, of which the USto the outlook for the UK economy.
In the relating to current accounts it will be extended China trade war is a prime example, poses a period following the decision to leave the to other products in 2019 and beyond.
challenge to appropriate economic policy.
EU, the economy has been resilient.
Growth Customer data protection is integral to this Barring sudden shocks stemming from these has slowed only slightly below its trend rate, with new EU wide technical standards PSD2 challenges, the UK economy is expected the unemployment rate has continued to fall due to be implemented by September 2019. to grow through 2019 to 2021 at a pace to a 43 year low, and property prices have similar to that of the past three years, around continued to rise slowly.
This resilience is Customer treatment 1.5percent.
The unemployment rate is expected to continue in 2019 and the next A number of specific product reviews are expected to rise only a little from its current few years, barring any sudden shocks to currently being undertaken by the regulators 43 year low, and further mild increases business or consumer confidence particularly to ensure product clarity and pricing in house prices are expected.
The Bank in connection with the UKs exit from the EU transparency.
These include reviews of the Rate is expected to rise only slowly, as the during 2019. mortgage market, overdraft charging and uncertainty drag on the economy fades.
Market dynamics Growth in many of our markets is expected Households spending power has been to pick up, although the consumer credit Capital regulation improving in recent months as pay growth has market should continue to slow after its strong The Group continues to prepare for a begun to pick up and outpace inflation, which growth through 2014 to 2017.
Impairments are number of regulatory capital developments is falling back towards the medium term target expected to increase in 2019 as we continue with uncertainty remaining around the of 2 per cent.
Inflation adjusted pay is now to see lower write-backs and recoveries but implementation and impact of the final slightly above its previous peak in early 2016. remain at relatively low levels.
This improvement is expected to continue Our response through 2019, supported by a reduction in Other Given our UK focus, the Groups prospects are A number of other regulatory initiatives planned fiscal tightening announced in the closely linked to the performance of the UK 2018 Budget in November and the end of are currently in the pipeline, which seek to economy.
Our low risk, stable business model address, among other things, vulnerability, the cap to public sector pay growth.
The and focus on efficiency positions us well to improvement in spending power should help access to services, customer treatment and continue to support customers irrespective of choice, and competition.
support growth in consumer spending and macro conditions.
borrowing, whilst also increasing growth in Our response households savings.
As a Group we always seek to comply with all Link to principal risks The UK housing market has been broadly related regulation.
Credit flat in 2018 in aggregate, although weakness Given the Groups simple, low risk business Capital has been centred around London and the model, it is well placed to meet these Funding and liquidity South East where high prices are constraining requirements and welcomes the positive Market affordability.
Improved households spending effect that they will have on the industry, its power should support the housing market Link to strategic priorities customers and other stakeholders.
in 2019, as would resolution of uncertainty Maximising the Groups capabilities about the immediate political and economicconcerns.
Link to principal risks Conduct Governance Operational Regulatory and Legal Capital Link to strategic priorities Delivering a leading customer experience Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09 Customer Technology Competition Key messages Key messages Key messages Customer behaviours continue to change, The pace of digital adoption continues to Competition within UK financial services with an increasing focus on personalised surpass expectations and is likely to increase remains high customer experiences and convenient, further in the coming years The competitive landscape is changing instantly accessible services, with these Harnessing new technology is enabling with new entrants such as fintechs and tech developments enabling customers to exert us to respond to customers' needs more giants continuing to increase disruption greater control over their finances than rapidly and efficiently through innovation, while incumbent banks everbefore continue to re-focus Cyber security and the protection of Evolving demographics and life patterns customer data are increasingly important are changing the financial needs of our Market dynamics factors in retaining customer trust customers, in particular increasing focus on Our competitive landscape continues to financial planning for retirement evolve.
A number of domestic incumbents Market dynamics The pace of digital adoption continues to are intensifying their focus on the UK market, Market dynamics as a result of restructuring post-financial surpass expectations and this trend is likely The needs and expectations of our customers to accelerate further, transforming the way crisis and ongoing regulatory changes.
In continue to evolve, driven by changing addition we are seeing increasing competition in which customers interact with banks.
New demographics and life patterns along with entrants to the financial services market are from smaller non traditional and technology increased choice, both in terms of provider focused companies, some of whom are increasing disruption through the innovative and channel.
The increasing use of digital has use of technology and data, often specifically partnering with large, traditional banks provided more brand choice for the customer to build scale and drive efficiency.
Tech targeting small, profitable niches.
These across a number of sectors, with technology new entrants have also been increasingly giants also remain a future threat to the developments also raising customer financial services sector, given strong brand collaborating with incumbent banks, while expectations for control of their finances, both loyalty, access to significant customer data established peers have more recently in terms of seeing their accounts in one place and a focus on delivering great customer launched their own standalone propositions and monitoring transactions.
As we continue to see in a number of other Security and resilience remain important Looking ahead, competition is likely to remain industries, incumbents who do not respond factors, with the ability to respond to high, increasing focus on innovation and to changing customer preferences and heightened cyber and fraud risks key placing pressure on earnings across thesector.
behaviours are at the greatest risk.
to retaining customer trust in a digital environment, particularly given the introduction Our response Our response With customers becoming more empowered of Open Banking and API-enabled propositions We have a proven track record of providing which are changing the manner in which as a result of greater choice than ever before, products and services that our customers we must continue to be responsive to their customers are able to share their data.
value but it is imperative that we keep pace changing expectations and ensure that we with market developments in order to Our response continue to offer products and services they maintain relevance with our customer base.
As the UK's largest digital bank, we are value.
Theseexpectations are likely to be embracing technological developments to Our multi-channel offering, including the increasingly influenced by non-traditional enhance customer experience.
The increasing largest branch network and digital bank in competitors in other industries as they use of intelligent systems provides an the UK, enables customers to interact with continue to raise the bar for innovation.
opportunity to respond to customers growing us in whichever way they prefer.
In addition, Our leading cost position, combined with expectations for personalisation, relevance our customer data provides the Group with oursimple business model, provides us and control, while the automation of simple a wealth of information that we are now with the operational flexibility to compete transactions increases our capacity to focus using to facilitate greater personalisation, effectively.
However, we are going further on complex, value adding transactions.
In while ensuring we meet all of our customers to respond to these threats and our current addition, the use of technology provides evolving banking and insurance needs.
strategic plan should equip us well to combat organisational benefits in terms of efficiency, these challenges.
Changes to customer expectations and our ability to respond quickly to an evolving behaviour, demographics and life patterns While greater competition increases choice operating environment, as well as aiding risk mean that we cannot be complacent.
for consumers and reinforces the need to taking decisions and mitigating fraud.
While we have a number of competitive further improve the customer experience, the We remain focused on further enhancing the advantages in the current environment, breadth of our multi-brand and multi-channel customer experience and building on our including our differentiated multi-channel offering along with our market leading market leading efficiency position through the and multi-brand propositions, securing efficiency and customer focused business use of technology, supported by a significant and enhancing the relationships with our model means we continue to compete from a increase in investment over this strategic plan.
customers will be paramount to our future position of strength.
In doing this, we must ensure that we continue success.
to respond to innovation and meet the needs of our diverse customer base whilst ensuring Link to principal risks Regulatory and legal Link to principal risks system resilience and security.
Regulatory and legal Conduct Operational Conduct Link to principal risks Operational People Conduct Operational Link to strategic priorities Link to strategic priorities Regulation and legal Delivering a leading customer experience Delivering a leading customer experience Link to strategic priorities Maximising the Groups capabilities Delivering a leading customer experience Digitising the Group
