16 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders Our Board actively engages with our stakeholders Our aim is to be the best bank for customers, Customers Shareholders colleagues and shareholders.
As the UKs leading financial services provider we We aim to treat our customers fairly, making The Group has the largest shareholder operate in, and support, communities it easy for them to find, understand and base in the UK and we undertake a across the country and help British people access products that are right for them, comprehensive shareholder engagement and businesses prosper.
We have around whatever their circumstances.
programme with regular feedback to 26million customers, 2.4million shareholders management and the Board.
Engaging The Group is focused on doing the right and responding to all our stakeholders thing for customers and the Board receives Investor Relations has primary responsibility is fundamental to the way we operate regular updates and reports on progress.
In for managing and developing the Groups and maintaining the highest standards of particular the Board reviews the Customer external relationships with existing and business conduct is vital to our corporate Dashboard results on a quarterly basis, and potential institutional equity investors culture and the long-term success of the approves the annual customer plans and analysts.
With support from senior Group.
This therefore remains a major focus management, they achieved this through The Group also looks to benchmark for senior management and the Board.
more than 400meetings in 2018, covering performance among customers and uses approximately 800 institutions in various One of the primary tasks of the Board is to this insight from a range of internal and locations including the UK, North America, develop a strategy which can achieve longexternal research, including net promoter Europe and Asia term success and generate sustainable returns scores NPS and the GFK customer index, and this is only possible if we engage, consult to improve services The meetings were primarily aligned to and act on the needs of stakeholders.
results and included discussions on strategic Our new strategy launched in February2018 progress and financial and operational To enable this and ensure stakeholder with the aim of meeting customers performance.
Feedback from meetings is considerations are at the heart of all corporate needs more effectively in a digital world.
passed directly to senior management decision making, various papers relating to The Board was heavily engaged in its different stakeholder groups are presented development and ensuring the customer During 2018 senior management increased regularly at Board.
In addition all Board papers was at the heart of strategic investment their investor engagement with over submitted are required to consider the impact 300investors seen during the year.
In The real focus on customers is not just of proposals on key stakeholder groups.
addition to the Group Chief Executive evidenced by the regularity of presentations On occasion, some decisions may not provide and Chief Financial Officer, an increasing but also by the existence of the Group a positive outcome for all stakeholders number of other executive committee Customer First Committee.
This is a however we aim to act in the best interests of members undertook investor meetings in sub-committee of the Group Executive the Group and all stakeholders and be fair and the year Committee which focuses on Group balanced in our approach.
customer experience, customer targets and Various members of the Board have engaged We engage with stakeholders in many plans and best practice externally with shareholders through the year, including different ways and this section outlines the key the Chairman, the Senior Independent To ensure Board members truly understand stakeholder Groups, how we are interacting Director and the Remuneration Committee the needs of customers, a series of branch with them and how they inform strategic Chair.
The Remuneration Committee Chair, visits and customer events were undertaken decision making.
in particular, held numerous meetings with during 2018 enabling direct feedback investors to gain feedback following the We aim to treat all customers fairly and have remuneration resolution outcome at the 2018 specifically looked to ensure vulnerable Annual General Meeting AGM customers are not disadvantaged.
Our More information on the 2018 AGM websites and mobile banking apps advisory vote can be found on page 03 are being accessibility accredited by AbilityNet and we have provided more In October, the Chairman and a number than 90,000hours of vulnerable customer of Non-Executive Directors hosted a training this year.
We are the UKs largest governance lunch with various major provider of basic bank accounts, opening institutional investors covering key topics around 33 per cent of all basic bank such as responsible business, remuneration accounts in 2018.
We also work with many and risk enabling us to provide an update support organisations to remove the on progress whilst enabling investors to barriers to accessing banking services provide feedback on these subjects We recognise the importance to customers In addition to these meetings the Group of both their data and their money being communicates with its shareholders In January 2019 we launched Lend a Hand, safe, and we use advanced technology through regular results and strategy specifically designed to help address the to protect them, including systems that announcements and has a comprehensive biggest challenges that first time buyers face prevent fraud and detect fraudulent website on which detailed company whilst getting onto the property ladder.
Lend payments in real time.
We are continuously information is available.
To ensure effective a Hand mortgage removes the need for a first improving our cyber defences and also communication with all shareholders, the time buyer deposit - with this instead coming educate customers to improve their own Group Chief Executive specifically writes from savings from family or other supporters.
security by championing public awareness to all shareholders, updating them on Owning a home remains the number one life goal for 18 to 35year olds, but half say saving campaigns, including Take Five.
Colleagues progress every six months also receive appropriate, ongoing training for a deposit is the biggest barrier.
and support, such as anti-bribery training to help them protect our customers 30bn lending to first time buyers by 2020 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Investor Relations also provides regular We hosted regular breakfasts and informal Colleagues reports and feedback to the executive dinners with the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
These took place in various hub team and the Board on key market issues Our colleagues take pride in working for an locations and invitations were extended to and shareholder concerns.
This includes inclusive and diverse bank and with their contingent workers and suppliers working a six monthly update on reputation and support we are building a culture in which within these locations an annual presentation by our corporate everyone feels included, empowered and brokers on market dynamics and corporate inspired to do the right thing for customers.
The Group held its biggest ever live perception communication event, Helping Britain We are committed to making the Group Prosper LIVE, which was attended by The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders a great place to work and believe that our 4,000colleagues.
This event, hosted by the to hear directly from the Board on the colleagues are crucial to the long-term Group Chief Executive, Chairman and key Groups performance and strategic success of our business.
We believe it is members of the executive leadership team, direction, and importantly, to ask questions.
important that the Board engages actively provided the opportunity for our colleagues In 2018 with colleagues and understands the views to see first-hand how we are Helping over 200 shareholders attended of the Groups diverse workforce and does Britain Prosper every day.
Speeches were this in a variety of ways, as outlined below over 70 per cent of total voting broadcast live on our intranet and sessions rights voted were run in five key hub locations to Ensuring all colleagues act in the right way is provide opportunities for members of our key to embedding a customer focus culture.
All institutional shareholder letters are colleagues in those locations to experience Our Code of Responsibility outlines the discussed at the Board Nomination and the event values and behaviours which colleagues Governance Committee to ensure Board should follow.
Colleagues review the We held meetings throughout the year members are aware of investor sentiment code annually during mandatory training, with our recognised unions, attended by and concerns alongside Anti-Bribery training based on the Chair of the Remuneration Committee The Group has a significant retail our Anti-Bribery Policy.
We have a zero and the Group ChiefExecutive.
Key topics shareholder base and a team dedicated tolerance approach to bribery, and expect included the Living Wage, which applies to engaging with retail shareholders who, the same from all colleagues and third toour whole workforce with support from the Companys registrar parties providing services for, and on behalf The Board participated in the transforming Equiniti Limited, deliver the Groups of the Group.
Any non-compliance with ways of working labs, providing them with codes, policies or standards will result in shareholder service strategy, including colleagues facing disciplinary action the opportunity to see first hand the activity the AGM.
Further work is progressing underway in support of changing the way to enhance engagement with retail During the year we communicated directly we work and improving the colleague shareholders in 2019.
Group Secretariat with colleagues detailing the Group's experience provide feedback to the Board and performance, changes in the economic appropriate Committees to ensure the The Board reviewed the results from annual and regulatory environment and updates views of retail shareholders are received surveys: Banking Standards Board BSB on our key strategic initiatives.
We also and considered survey and cultural assessment colleague hosted regular Ask Me Anything sessions engagement survery, and agreed specific providing the opportunity for colleagues actions as a result and contingent workers to ask questions and receive real time responses directly We are committed to improving the from members of the Board and senior transparency of workforce disclosure and colleagues across all departments for the first time in 2018 participated in the Workforce Disclosure Initiative Members of the Board visited several Group offices, including our new Halifax During 2018, the Board discussed how flagship branch in London, and the best to engage with the wider workforce: MBNA offices in Chester, providing the permanent employees, contingent workers opportunity to meet key functions in and third party suppliers that work on the our supply chain supporting our IT and Groups premises.
From the second quarter transformation labs and customer call of 2019, the Board will receive quarterly handling insight into workforce related activity and support key decision making We offer a competitive and fair reward package.
Colleagues are eligible to participate in HMRC approved share plans which promote share ownership by giving employees an opportunity to invest in Helping Britain Prosper LIVE Group shares.
Further information can was a fantastic experience, be found on page 98 in the Directors which I felt lucky and grateful to Remuneration Report.
I left the day feeling inspired and excited to see how the Group will evolve in the next three years Lloyds Banking Group colleague 4,000 colleagues attended Helping Britain Prosper LIVE with around 14,000 watching remotely 18 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders continued Suppliers Communities and environment Regulators and government Given the size of our organisation we are As the largest retail and commercial bank We have a good relationship with our in the UK, we have representation across reliant on external suppliers for a number of regulators and other government authorities key services.
Dealing with suppliers in the the country.
We specifically invest in local and liaise regularly.
communities across Britain to help them right way is important for future success.
prosper economically and build social During 2018 we had regular meetings with Our supply chain is crucial to the way cohesion by tackling disadvantage.
our various regulators at different levels we serve our customers, and through of the organisation from Board to senior Board members are directly involved with it our reach is considerable.
We use a management multi brand approach to deliver specific our considerable community engagement Individual meetings took place between the and environmental focus.
Our Responsible products and services.
We work with PRA and members of the Board during the around 3,500 suppliers of varying sizes, Business Committee, a committee of the year to discuss subjects such as the Audit Board, provides oversight and support for most in professional services sectors such and Risk Committees, IT Resilience and as IT, cyber, operations, management the Groups Helping Britain Prosper Plan, and Cyber and ring-fencing the plans for delivering the aspirations to be consultancy, legal, HR, marketing and communication.
In 2018 our supplier seen as a trusted and responsible business FCA contact during the year with members expenditure was 5.8 billion with 95 per cent of the Board focused on governance, The Groups Helping Britain Prosper Plan of our direct suppliers located in the UK culture and strategy is reviewed and approved annually by All material contracts are subject to rigorous the Board to ensure it focuses on what The newly appointed ring-fenced bank matters most to people, businesses and cost management governance and updates Directors went through a rigorous approval on key supplier risks are provided to the communities in the UK process including interviews with the PRA ahead of appointment to ensure they met Board The Responsible Business Committee is regulatory requirements also responsible for overseeing the Groups We assess how significant each supplier is to our operations across the various approach to responding to global issues From a tax perspective in 2018, we paid of environmental sustainability, including components of our extended supply chain 2.6billion in tax, one of the largest and we conduct an annual programme measurement and reporting.
Following contributors to UK tax revenues.
We are also a 2018 Board review of our sustainability a major tax collector, gathering 2billion of assurance reviews based on the risk criticality the supplier represents.
We approach we have developed a new in 2018.
We have a clear Tax Policy which sustainability strategy, read more on is part of our Board-approved Group Risk require suppliers to adhere to relevant Group policies and comply with our Code page24 and 25 Management Framework.
We comply with HMRC Code of Practice on Taxation of Supplier Responsibility.
This defines our Our four independent charitable expectations of responsible business and for Banks and the Confederation of British Foundations are key to our vision of Industrys Statement of Tax Principles.
You behaviour, underpinning our efforts to share tackling social disadvantage.
Sara Weller, and extend best practice can read more about our Tax Strategy Non-Executive Director and Chair of the online www.
com The Group supports the UN Declaration Responsible Business Committee joined our-group responsible-business reportingthe Lloyds Bank Foundation for England of Human Rights, and the International centre Labour Organisation ILO Fundamental and Wales as trustee during 2018 for an initial term of three years Conventions, whilst complying with all relevant laws.
We also support several We recognise the importance of supporting voluntary standards, including the UN communities beyond our own banking Guiding Principles on Business and services, and over five years we have HumanRights invested 5 million to support the Credit Unions sector.
We signpost to local credit This year we made further enhancements to address the risk of Modern Slavery in unions when we cannot support customers borrowing needs our supply chain and provided training on human trafficking and modern slavery for In partnership with Macmillan, our Cancer specialist colleagues Support Team has helped support 3,100 customers and identified 411,000 in In 2019, we will lend up to benefits from a range of products and 18 billion to businesses services, to help them reduce the financial across the UK.
During impact of a cancer diagnosis.
We are also these uncertain times, it is raising awareness of financial and domestic important that our customers abuse through our Acknowledge, Respond, Refer campaign, developed with support have financial support and from the Lloyds Bank Foundation for expert guidance to navigate England & Wales, and working closely with the challenges they may face.
Business in the Community and UK Finance Whatever the future brings, Read more on Responsible Business, our we will continue to support Helping Britain Prosper Plan targets and UK businesses as part of our how we have supported the UK on page 20 commitment to Help Britain Prosper.
18bn Antnio Horta-Osrio, lending to UK businesses in 2019 Group Chief Executive
