Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Responsible Business We have served Britain through our products and services for more than 250years, across every community, and millions of households.
Our success is interwoven with the UKs prosperity and we aim to Help Britain Prosper by operating as a responsible, sustainable and inclusive Group.
This underpins our purpose and the way we deliver our strategy.
We recognise that we have a responsibility We are one of the UKs largest corporate to help address the economic, social and donors and use our scale and reach to environmental challenges that the UK faces.
tackle some of societys more complex challenges through our independent Our approach to responsible business ensures charitable Foundations that colleagues are equipped to make the right decisions supported by our values-based We have taken a leading role in culture, and the way we embed responsible championing diversity and mental health, business in our policies, processes and training.
setting public goals for increasing Black, Asian & Minority Ethnic BAME Our areas of focus representation at all levels We can only help with the unprecedented levels of change in Britain today by staying Each year we gather stakeholder views Our ambition is to take a leading role true to our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper.
In 2018, in supporting the UKs transition to a Operating responsibly is fundamental to they identified demonstrating responsibility sustainable low carbon economy everything we do, from lending to first time at our core as a key priority, including how we buyers to tackling disadvantage in areas such keep customers data safe, support vulnerable Responsible business as mental health.
Every colleague has a part customers, lend responsibly, support to play, and every part of the Group has its businesses and work with suppliers.
Read of the year own action plan for supporting customers, more on our stakeholders on pages 16 to 18.
Lloyds Banking Group has been voted while involving colleagues in our work in Stakeholders also identified building Responsible Business of the Year 2018 communities.
capability and digital skills as a key issue, by Business in The Community, which We believe we can make a substantial alongside tackling social disadvantage, highlighted our Helping Britain Prosper contribution to Britains social and economic inclusion and diversity and sustainability.
We Plan, commitment to delivering social prosperity.
Were developing a Skills believe that the way we are addressing these benefits through digital transformation Academy, initially focusing on Digital Skills, in issues places us in a unique position to Help and support for the lower carbon pilot in the North West of England.
Euromoney magazine has also our charitable Foundations we support ranked us Best Bank in Western Europe for We are using our own capabilities in digital thousands of charities working with groups Corporate Responsibility 2018. banking to help develop the skills of people, on issues such as domestic abuse and businesses and charities homelessness.
As sustainability becomes more of a priority for us all, we have a role to play in supporting a lower carbon economy, the UN's Sustainable Development Goals and the UK Government's Clean Growth strategy.
Sara Weller Non-Executive Director and Chair, Responsible Business Committee We are working with thought leaders to build our understanding of operating responsibly, and to help drive change across industry, in how responsible business is considered.
We are in the early stages of this The Centre for Responsible Business exciting collaboration between Lloyds CFRB is a unique joint venture between Banking Group and the University Lloyds Banking Group and the University of of Birmingham.
Moving from an Birminghams Business School.
This initiative initial idea, to challenge-centred combines research with business, exploring how all businesses can work in an ever research and engagement, exploring The Lloyds Banking more responsible and ethical manner.
The how businesses can be rewired outputs of this approach will have impacts responsibly to inform, shape and Group Centre for across a range of industries, benefitting the energise Responsible Business.
unique opportunity to explore best Responsible Business The CFRBs work aligns with our purpose to practice, and inform the evolution Help Britain Prosper, and our support for the of responsible business decision UNs Sustainable Development Goals.
The making, underpinning Lloyds Banking Centre was established to help learn lessons Groups pioneering initiative, Helping from the past and to help us and others work in a different way going forward.
It has been some play a pivotal role in ensuring the worlds of journey so far, laying down the academia, business and policy-making work foundations for future success.
together more effectively to drive change.
Professor Ian Thomson, Director One area of focus will be exploring the Lloyds Banking Group Centre regulatory, operational and ethical barriers to for Responsible Business the implementation of artificial intelligence.
