STRATEGIC REPORT People and culture At Man Group we believe in the importance of a meritocratic and collaborative environment, where success is based on talent, commitment, diligence and teamwork.
By celebrating diversity, we seek to challenge consensus and foster healthy debate, which we believe makes us a better and more innovative business for our clients.
We seek to attract and retain the best people, and to ensure everyone at Man Group has the opportunity to reach their full potential: nothing should get in the way of that.
Robyn Grew Chief Administrative Officer international experience via short-term Recruitment, retention and Employees placements and permanent relocations.
development During 2018 we also built out a dedicated The acquisition, development and retention 1,435 Talent function with presence in the UK and of talent at all levels and across all functions US, offering a range of global programmes and regions continues to be a long-term at 31 December 2018 and initiatives which develop skills and business goal, and therefore will always support enhanced performance these be a key focus area for our executive team.
Internal transfers include internal coaching capabilities and We continue to source high quality people strategy consulting.
entry-level talent via a number of graduate 150 Voluntary turnover remains low across the and intern programmes within investment firm, supported by our ongoing retentionmanagement, sales and finance operations.
during 2018 focused activities, including regular A successful hiring campaign during 2018 performance evaluations, active succession will see us on-board our highest number of Nationalities working at Man Group planning processes, and a commitment to investment management trainee analysts to promoting career development and internal date in 2019. transfers and promotions.
Our experienced hires are sourced through 64 Feedback is actively provided and sought a range of channels.
We have a strong at 31 December 2018 throughout the firm, on an ongoing basis as presence in the recruitment marketplace and well as via structured year-end processes.
our recruitment teams in London and New Employee turnover The senior Executive Committee have York seek to maximise direct hiring across regular discussions about our workforce, a range of roles.
We also have an internal its development and our succession plans, search team based in London but with a 10.8% supported by the HR and Talent teams.
This global remit this enables a proactive and facilitates a rigorous approach to identifying targeted approach to talent acquisition in 2018 and nurturing key talent in order to mitigate for senior and key front office positions.
any key person and or continuity risk.
The retention and development of our We continue to offer development to our workforce is of paramount importance and workforce via training programmes online we strive to make internal appointments and classroom based, seminars, workshops wherever possible to maximise career and professional qualifications.
Where progression and in turn maintain good appropriate we also offer external coaching, retention levels.
Our global presence creates as an alternative to our internal coaching opportunities for our people to gain capability, as well as structured mentoring.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 34 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Employees are empowered to take Employee engagement People by function % ownership of their own development, To ensure that Man Groups employees are including selecting appropriate training aware of business priorities and the latest opportunities, as well as taking up developments across the firm, they receive opportunities to gain broader experience a range of communications and information.
outside of their Man Group roles.
For 37 We share a daily internal newsletter with example, we actively encourage staff 50 2018 all employees, run a programme of members to speak at relevant industry presentations from executives across the conferences and seminars, or accept firm the Business Education Series and invitations to participate in panels, in order 13 host regular town-halls.
In addition, when to expand their expertise and engage as travelling across our international office experts in their fields.
network, Executive Committee members The decision to invest $15 million in our regularly host employee update events, investment management and technology maximising the opportunity to engage 29 capabilities means that Man Groups total with staff members with whom they may headcount, including contractors and not have regular in-person contact.
53 2013 consultants, has increased from 1,325 at In accordance with our business principles, 31December 2017 to 1,435 at 31 December we are dedicated to ensuring that Man 2018.
The ratio of support function 18 Group is a great place to work, where employees to front office employees remains people know that success and approximately one to one, which we believe achievements are based solely on merit.
is in line with industry best practice.
Our Employee Recognition Awards for those Our remuneration policies and practices are Investment management individuals who go above and beyond their designed to enable us to remain competitive Sales and marketing day-to-day responsibilities in service of the in the increasingly global markets in which Infrastructure and support business, continue to be well-received.
we operate and are benchmarked annually.
The award winners are recognised in a Remuneration includes combinations of firm-wide announcement from Luke Ellis salary, annual performance bonus and and are invited to a meeting so he can People by geography % deferred share or fund awards, alongside personally recognise their contribution.
The bonus deferral In 2018, we placed a particular focus on arrangement is a key mechanism for aligning 6 6 employee well-being activities, running our employees with Man Groups long-term a number of events and implementing performance, and so aligning their interests 20 changes in order to enhance our offering with those of our clients and shareholders.
Across the firm, we recognise During 2018, we once again offered our the pressures of juggling work and personal UK-based employees the opportunity to 68 commitments so have introduced various participate in the Man Group Sharesave supporting initiatives including mindfulness Scheme at the maximum limit and discount sessions, healthy eating seminars, onsite allowed by HMRC and saw a good uptake cancer checks, a childrens wellbeing from staff.
11 workshop and benefits roadshows as well See pages 6789 for the Directors as access to a range of webinars on topics Remuneration report.
14 such as managing stress, sleep & wellbeing and building resilience.
In the US, we 2013 undertook a large-scale review of our 8 benefits broking arrangements which 67 resulted in a change of broker and a marked improvement in the wellness offering for staff.
We also offer flexible working arrangements, and take steps to enable this through technology.
United Kingdom United States Switzerland Other MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35 STRATEGIC REPORT People and culture continued 2018 also saw us introduce a new global enhanced gender neutral parental leave policy, which offers all new parents 18 weeks fully paid leave.
Alongside this policy, we have made specific provision for those who have premature babies and those who are foster parents, recognising the importance of family responsibilities and work-life balance for staff engagement and motivation.
We are pleased to report that our 2018 employee survey recorded an improved engagement score of 7.8 out of 10 with an encouraging 83% response rate.
We sought feedback from across the firm and use this information to inform the initiatives we undertake to continually enhance ManGroup as a place to work.
Our senior management team were able to access the feedback directly on a real time basis, enabling them to see detailed comments and drill down for deeper analysis of the results, and Group level results have been presented to the Board and Executive Committee.
Following completion of the During 2018, Marina Ebrubah and Cliodhna Murphy were recognised as finalists for the Unsung survey in October, we have already seen Hero Award at the Investment Weeks Women in Investment Awards which celebrates women significant engagement from business in infrastructure who have gone above and beyond to encourage diversity in the workplace.
leaders with respect to action planning They were joined by Deborah Kester, Global Head of Human Resources.
and communication of results, with further activity planned for 2019.
Diversity and Inclusion mission is to advance Man Groups efforts in Successful Drive events this year have promoting inclusion and valuing diversity in included a neuro-diversity workshop, Man Groups culture is based on mutual all forms including gender, sexual orientation, paediatric first aid training and celebrations respect for others, a commitment to ethnicity and disability.
Its activities include for both International Womens Day and prioritising diversity and inclusion, and a zero events, training, resources and peer International Mens Day.
We have been tolerance approach to discrimination of any engagement across the firm.
We also fortunate to host a number of inspiring kind.
By celebrating diversity in all its forms, conduct diversity training at the senior speakers who are passionate about and building a consciously inclusive working management level.
We connect regularly inclusion, and who work across the environment, we believe that we encourage with peer organisations to host joint events worlds of elite sport, law, government and original and collaborative thinking, and so and share knowledge.
We run regular lunch & learn position ourselves to deliver the best Groups Chief Administrative Officer and sessions covering a range of topics from possible results for our clients.
General Counsel also chairs Alternative career progression to the challenges Alongside our existing senior Diversity and Investment Management Associations associated with being a working parent Inclusion D&I steering group, we have now AIMA diversity group, giving us external carer.
We marked Black History Month introduced a larger D&I working group in the presence in this space.
with an awareness campaign, and delivered UK along with smaller regional working various D&I focused sessions including a 2018 has seen the successful launch of a groups in our other offices, with the intention seminar to mark Autism Awareness Day as number of staff networks under the Drive of further driving the implementation of D&I well as regular lunches to celebrate cultural banner, each sponsored by a senior leader initiatives.
Both groups are focused across diversity with themes including Diwali, within the business.
We are delighted to the diversity spectrum, and we have also Chinese New Year, Cinco fide Mayo and Eid.
have the following networks, which consist united our activity in this area under the of both members and allies, actively running umbrella of Drive, which is the global events and supporting our workforce: internal D&I network, run by our employees and sponsored by the senior management BEAM Network Black Employees at Man team.
Drive is designed to inform, support FAM Network Families at Man and inspire our people.
The networks PRIDE Network LGBT MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 36 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION As part of our commitment to D&I, we are We have a number of other partnerships Staff by gender focused on achieving a better balance in place which feed into our broader D&I between male and female employees across agenda.
In the UK, to increase our access Total workforce the business, and particularly at senior to candidates from under-represented 2017 levels.
Overall gender balance across the backgrounds, we work with SEO London, 952 371 business and at all levels of seniority remains an organisation which provides educational a challenge for us, as it does for many other support and career access, and Bright 2018 organisations within our sector.
Network, a career network of bright students 1,019 416 from a range of backgrounds.
We continue Man Group is supportive of the requirement to see increased diversity in our graduate for employers in the UK to calculate and Senior managers and internship applications as a result of publish their gender pay gap, and we have 2017 these collaborative efforts.
In the US, we again published our figures within our annual 152 39 partner with the Young Womens Leadership D&I report.
The data still demonstrates the Network in New York and Girls Who Invest.
lower representation of females in investment 2018 management and senior roles, but we are Apprenticeship programmes continue to 147 41 committed to addressing this, and continue be a way for us to show our commitment to make significant efforts to do so.
Initiatives to tackling youth unemployment in London Board of Directors range from hosting events to encourage the and broadening our access to young people 2017 pipeline of female talent at the firm and in the who may not otherwise have considered a 9 2 broader industry, to mentoring for women career in financial services.
Through offering within the firm and our partnership with apprenticeships, we provide young people 2018 Women Returners to support those returning with an opportunity to complete a qualification 9 2 to work following a career break.
While we whilst gaining valuable work experience.
do not see a gender pay gap across similar Our partnership with City Gateway in this Male roles, we recognise that this isnt enough area has flourished since 2013 and we Female to attract and retain talent and we must currently have our fifth cohort of apprentices take further action, through the initiatives on board working within our technology, articulated in this section, to foster better investment marketing and talent teams.
gender diversity particularly in senior and Man Group is committed to providing front office roles.
equal employment opportunities, and We have seen ongoing progress in terms discrimination on the grounds of age, of gender balance within our graduate disability, gender, race, religion, sexual recruitment during 2018 and consequently orientation or educational background is our 2019 investment management intake is not tolerated.
Full and fair consideration evenly split.
We continue to work proactively is given by Man Group to all employment with schools and education providers to applications, including from disabled people, promote our industry to those studying considering their aptitudes and abilities.
courses from which financial services firms The Company ensures that disabled persons do not traditionally hire.
For a number of are fairly treated in respect of training and years, Man Group has also sponsored the career development.
For those who become UK team at the European Girls Mathematical disabled during their employment, Olympiad and activities such as the reasonable adjustments are made and NSPCCs Number Day, the largest ongoing support is provided as required, nationwide numeracy event for children to enable the individual to continue working.
and young people in the UK.
See page 66 for the Boards diversity policy.
During 2018, we were proud to sign up to the Women in Finance Charter and have set ourselves a target of 25% female representation in senior management roles by the end of 2020.
Additionally both our Chairman and CEO are now members of the 30% Club, a cross-business initiative aimed at achieving better gender balanced boards through voluntary, business-led change.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 37
