STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is an essential At the same time, we introduced a firm-wide element of our business proposition.
It sets RI exclusion list, a list of designated sectors out the standards we believe are appropriate that will be excluded from the Companys and necessary in meeting the needs of our RI-integrated or RI-dedicated funds.
In practice, this covers the way proprietary list of excluded sectors is in line we conduct our business and interact with our with international standards and global is to pursue the people, investors, clients, suppliers and the consensus, and includes: wider communities in which we operate as 1 Controversial weapons companies highest standards well as mitigating our environmental impact.
involved in the production of anti-personnel mines, cluster munitions, chemical, of behaviour, both Responsibilities to our industry biological weapons, depleted uranium At Man Group, we recognise that weapons and or nuclear weapons: corporate and responsible investment RI is fundamental to our fiduciary duty to our clients and 2 Tobacco companies that are involved individual, which beneficiaries.
We understand the importance in the production of tobacco or are suppliers of sound stewardship in managing investors of significant components of cigarettes: underpin our capital, and our approach to RI closely 3 Production of coal and coal-based energy aligns us with the values of our clients, reputation and companies where the production of coal shareholders and other stakeholders.
or provision of coal-based energy represents maintain the trust Accordingly, 2018 marked a pivotal year more than 30% of revenues.
for Man Groups approach to RI.
Having As part of our commitment to stewardship and loyalty of developed frameworks for policy, organisation and corporate governance, Man Group and education the last several years, Man our clients and is in the process of moving proxy voting Group formalised RI as a core function in 2018. providers, as well as moving into an stakeholders.
Man Group appointed Jason Mitchell as ESG-focused policy.
This new policy will Co-Head of Responsible Investment mean we are more active when it comes Robyn Grew alongside Steven Desmyter.
Reporting to to sustainability issues and we will look Chief Administrative Officer and Man Group CIO Sandy Rattray, Jason works to impress standards upon the companies General Counsel, Man Group across the firms investment engines to we invest in.
The Man Group Stewardship ensure that investment processes and and Active Ownership team will also maintain policies identify and integrate operational, a list where Man Group is engaging with governance and strategic risks.
He is also the companies, issues and process of responsible for directing the development engagement.
of impact, thematic and norms-based ESG data has matured over the last decade, investment strategies, as well as the broader and we believe that we are entering a phase integration of environmental, social and where the data has both a long-enough governance ESG criteria across asset history and broad-enough coverage to make classes and multi-asset solutions.
it potentially useful to quantitative investment We also formalised our funds within the firms.
However, ESG data is qualitative, ManGroup RI Fund Framework.
Indeed, the to establish a baseline requirement of ESG ESG data we obtained from vendors typically standards, we believe this framework will has a short history and is often retroactively help ensure credibility and consistency in our collected.
This is an area in which Man approach to RI, while also accommodating Numeric is applying its unique skillset to for the diversity of strategies across our improve the collection and analysis of ESG different investment engines.
We believe that by spending the time to understand the nuances of each vendors methodology and properly handling their data quirks can lead to a unique, alphagenerating dataset.
Man Group is firmly committed to promoting integrity and transparency within the investment management sector, and ensuring that we hold ourselves accountable to the highest standards of ethical conduct and responsible investment.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 38 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Awards Man Groups commitment to responsible investment earned recognition this year.
Man Group was awarded Best ESG SRI management company in the Hedge Fund Review European Performance Awards 2018.
Signatories United Nations-supported Principles for As a founding signatory of the Standards Board for Responsible Investment PRI is the worlds Alternative Investments, of which Luke Ellis, CEO of leading proponent of responsible investment, Man Group, is a Trustee.
The SBAI provides a powerful aiming to support the integration of ESG mechanism for creating a framework of transparency, factors into the investment and ownership integrity and good governance which improves how decisions of investors.
the alternative investment industry operates.
The UK Stewardship Code, published by the Financial Reporting The Local Government Pension Scheme LGPS Council, seeks to strengthen the quality of engagement between Code of Transparency, requires investment managers investors and investee companies by providing a framework of best to provide transparent and consistent investment cost practices for asset managers to be active and engage in corporate and fee information.
governance in the interests of their shareholders.
Joint signatories The Open Letter to Global Index Providers sponsored by Swiss The New Plastics Economy Global Commitment sponsored Sustainable Finance calls for global index providers to exclude by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation builds on and reinforces controversial weapons from their mainstream indices in order to the G7 Plastics Charter the EU strategy for plastics in a circular align their produces with what has become standard practice or economy, the Commonwealth Blue Charter and the UN-established expectation among institutional and individual investors.
The Letter to IOSCO International Organization of Securities Commissions highlights investors growing need for consistent and comparable disclosure of corporate ESG information.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued We believe our systematic investment approaches give us an advantage in understanding ESG data.
Jason Mitchell Co-Head of Responsible Investment Perspectives towards a sustainable PRI reporting framework Most recently, Man Group hosted the PRIs future 2018 marked the first year that Man Group London Climate Forum.
Man Group CIO In 2018, Man Group launched Perspectives reported and was scored at the Group level Sandy Rattray opened the forum with a Towards a Sustainable Future, a podcast on its Principles for Responsible Investment keynote, where he said: At Man Group, about what were doing today to build a more PRI Transparency report.
Man GLG and we like many of our peers recognise the sustainable world tomorrow.
We are excited Man Numeric have been PRI signatories fact that we are undergoing a necessary, to launch the 2019 programme schedule since 2012 and 2014, respectively.
structural expansion in our understanding which will examine themes including: climate of risk.
Where the investment industry has Man Group is proud to have earned strong security, climate risk in a monetary dimension, traditionally defined risk by its political, scores at the firm strategy and governance impact investing, Australasian approaches to economic and financial characteristics, level, as well as demonstrating consistent responsible investment and many other topics.
we now know that climate change improvement over the last several years represents an altogether greater risk.
The podcast profiles organisations, leaders within the Listed Equity, Active Ownership and academics who are examining all facets and Fixed Income modules.
For our part, we are making significant of sustainability, from climate change and efforts to embed more sophisticated That said, Man Group sees significant migration to governance and global norms.
competencies both across our investment opportunities in future improvement within The idea is to provide an open, educational strategies as well as for Man Group, a listed these categories, as we organise the firm resource to anyone particularly students FTSE-250 company.
We believe the within the Man Group RI Fund Framework interested in exploring approaches to incorporation of ESG factors reinforces as well as enhance our ESG integration sustainable, responsible investment.
The our role as a fiduciary and as a responsible and stewardship activities.
audience includes global institutional steward of our clients assets.
investors, Non-Governmental Organisations, Responsible investment involvement 1 multilateral organisations, policymakers, Man Group is proud to have played host to academics and, of course, students.
several events in 2018, including the PRI and CAIA-sponsored Quant at the Intersection of Responsible Investment Symposium, which examined the diversity of approaches and challenges that systematic strategies are providing in the RI ESG space.
1 A multilateral organisation is one which is organised by, and receives its funding from, multiple nations to work on issues.
For example, the UN, EU and the WTO are multilateral organisations.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 40 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Man Groups emissions by scope Our policies and practices Tonnes of CO e emissions 2 Anti-bribery and corruption Year ended Year ended Man Group operates in multiple jurisdictions globally and as such 31 December 31 December is either subject to or is required to comply with various anti-bribery Scope Source 2018 2017 and corruption laws and regulations.
Man Group takes its antiScope 1 Natural gas 223 265 bribery and corruption obligations very seriously and has a GroupScope 2 Electricity 6,144 7,105 wide anti-bribery and corruption programme designed to comply with all applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations Scope 3 Air travel 3,678 3,308 including the US Foreign Corruption Practices Act 1977 and the Total 10,045 10,678 UK Bribery Act 2010.
The programme includes policies, procedures and controls designed to prevent and detect bribery and corruption, The emissions we are reporting have been calculated using an including: know your customer: due diligence and enhanced intensity metric which will enable us to monitor emissions independent due diligence checks: procedures to prevent, detect and report of activity.
As Man Group is a people-related business, we expect that suspicious activity: training employees and issuing red flags: and any changes to headcount will impact the property space we occupy undertaking politically exposed persons PEPs screening.
and the amount of business travel we use.
Therefore, emissions per Risk factors that are considered include country, business activity, employee are the most appropriate metric for our business, as shown adverse information, adverse media and sanctions.
Man Group is in the table below.
The average number of employees in 2018 was committed to conducting its business with honesty and integrity and 1,376 2017: 1,313, as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements.
complying with all applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws.
Man Emissions per employee Group accordingly also expects those who provide services to us Tonnes of CO e emissions 2 or who work on our behalf to have the same commitment, wherever Year ended Year ended in the world they are doing business.
31 December 31 December Scope 2018 2017 Slavery and human trafficking Man Group is committed to ensuring that modern slavery does not Scope 1 0.2 0.2 exist within our supply chains or any part of our business.
ManGroup Scope 2 4.5 5.4 has a zero tolerance approach to slavery and human trafficking and Scope 3 2.7 2.5 we expect all those in our supply chain to comply with those values.
Man Group will not support or deal with any business knowingly Emissions per employee 7.4 8.1 involved in slavery or human trafficking.
Please refer to our website for our full Modern Slavery Transparency Statement.
Decreases in electricity emissions Scope 2 are largely due to the centralisation of our London resources into one location in late 2017.
Protecting our environment Air travel emissions Scope 3 have increased in 2018 due to an As a firm, Man Group seeks to take all practical measures to increase in air mileage.
conserve and reduce energy consumption at our offices around the world.
We strive to deliver clear and transparent reporting that makes Methodology sense of the measurable elements within our control and respond For practical reasons, most of the emissions data was gathered for to external risk and expectations.
We monitor our impacts using the first nine months of each year and, as appropriate, extrapolated Carbon2018, an energy services consultancy, which helps us in order to calculate the full year emissions.
Based on the nature minimise cost, mitigate risk and reduce carbon.
We are also of our emissions and the consistency month on month, we believe taking steps to protect the environment through the impact of our this is an appropriate representation of the annual emissions.
We are members of Climate Action 100, a five-year In order to compile the reportable emissions data from our offices, initiative led by investors to engage with the worlds largest corporate electricity and gas meter readings have been obtained from our greenhouse gas emitters to improve governance on climate change, energy suppliers.
For some of our smaller offices we are not charged curb emissions and strengthen climate-related financial disclosures: for energy usage separately as these costs are incorporated into and the World Bank-supported Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, the service fees for our premises.
These emissions have not been which aims to expand the use of carbon pricing.
included in the reported total above, due to the data being unavailable, Carbon emissions reporting and relate to offices for the use of 32 employees 2017: 23 employees.
The information below details our mandatory reporting of Where Man Group is the landlord of a property, and electricity costs greenhouse gas emissions for the year pursuant to the Companies are incurred on behalf of sub-tenants, these costs are on-charged Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. to the sub-tenants as the users of the electricity.
Accordingly, no emissions data for energy usage incurred on behalf of sub-tenants Around 63% 2017: 69% of our overall emissions relate to purchased is included in Man Groups reportable emissions above.
electricity and gas usage across our various geographical locations, with the remaining 37% 2017: 31% relating to air travel.
All emissions Disclosures of emissions related to business travel are restricted to are reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents CO e. 2 flight costs as a result of the CO e emission convertible data relating 2 to other means of transport e. g. taxis not being available.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued Lydia Bosworth, Regulatory and Technical Contributing to our Manager at Man Group and Chris Pyper, communities Chief of Staff, Infrastructure.
We are conscious of the impact our Employee volunteering and engagement organisation has on the community, and continued to increase in 2018, through the aim to give back and contribute positively firms ManKind community volunteering to those around us.
Our charitable efforts programme, which enables UK employees Registered charity no: 275386 globally are focused on promoting literacy to take two additional days paid leave per and education, underscored through the annum to volunteer with charities supported Man Charitable Trust established in 1978 and by the Man Charitable Trust or a charity of Featured grant our sponsorship of the Man Booker Prizes their choice.
Participation again rose with and the charitable activities of the Booker The Man Charitable Trust awards 24% of full time employees utilising this Prize Foundation.
Man Group is also involved grants to charities that work towards benefit.
Volunteering campaigns over in charitable initiatives and volunteering raising the levels of literacy and summer, in the lead up to Christmas and opportunities local to the firms offices numeracy in the UK.
Examples of the in conjunction with City Giving Day in globally, through its ManKind Programme.
charities awarded a grant in 2018 September were successful in promoting included: additional use of this allowance.
As evident Charitable Trust through the growth of our relationships with Discover Childrens Story Centre The focus of the Man Charitable Trust Trust the charities we support, the positive social Discover Childrens Story Centre is an continued to evolve in 2018.
We focus on benefits that stem from employees skills, interactive literature venue for children how we can support charities to make the experience and knowledge can make a aged 0-11, families and teachers most impact in the communities in which real difference to our local communities.
The Centre they, and we, operate, while also enhancing Volunteering also provides a highly valuable promotes literacy through an employee engagement.
method of achieving positive learning and extensive community education In 2018, the Trust recognised the value development benefits for our employees.
programme targeting vulnerable and its relationships can have on the charities disadvantaged children.
This work As Man Groups business and footprint it supports.
The value of the Trustees focuses on developing literacy, oracy continues to grow, there has been a and employees time, experience and and listening through stories and significant effort to reflect this in the firms involvement has increased the impact childrens literature.
This year, we launched that the financial contributions have on the the Man US Charitable Foundation under the The Trusts donation will support the charities, as well as enhancing employee stewardship of previous UK Trustee, Colin Catching Words project, a literacyengagement with charitable activities.
Bettison, Head of Operations, Man Group focused intervention programme Through these relationships, pro bono Americas.
In 2019, we hope to include delivered in a range of schools.
experience has been provided and literacy and numeracy grants in New York Catching Words focuses on reading, computers and software have also been and a similar ManKind programme in 2019 writing, speaking and listening to donated to some of the supported charities.
raise childrens aspirations, The Trust is led by a group of seven confidence, attitude and attainment The Trust provided $377,602 in charitable Trustees, comprised of: Teun Johnston, in literacy.
The programme engages donations and employee engagement Chairman of the Trust and CEO of Man GLG: professional writers, storytellers and programmes over 2018.
In the UK, the Steven Desmyter, Global Co-Head of Sales poets, who work with children over projects supported by the Trust benefitted and Marketing and Co-Head of Responsible a nine week period.
thousands of vulnerable children, young Investment at Man Group: Antoine Forterre, people and adults living in disadvantaged Vision for literacy business pledge co-CEO of Man AHL: Keith Haydon, neighbourhoods, providing them with the Man Group is also a signatory of the Chairman of Man FRM and CIO of Man essential skills they need to succeed in life Vision for Literacy Business Pledge Solutions: Carol Ward, COO of Man GLG: and make a positive contribution to society.
2017, having also signed the 2016 Pledge.
The Vision for Literacy Business Pledge galvanises the business sector behind the literacy On 29 November 2018, Steven challenge, with signatories committing Desmyter hosted a group of to taking practical action that will students from the Refugee deliver tangible benefits in helping Support Network, where they to raise UK literacy levels.
Signing the enjoyed presentations from Pledge once again demonstrates our various areas of the business and commitment to tackling the literacy enthusiastically engaged in an open Q&A session with many challenge by taking action within the of the Sales team across a lunch.
workforce, the local community and at national level.
Copyright Refugee Support Network, used with permission.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 42 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Finally, we would like to thank all the employees at Man Group who supported our charitable programmes during the year and to those who donated via their Give As You Earn accounts.
We would also like to congratulate all those who independently fundraised for charities of their choosing and whose donations were proudly matched by the Trust, up to the value of 1,000.
We look forward to building on the successes of 2018 throughout 2019, as the Trusts footprint continues to grow, both internally and in the many communities we are a part of.
In the coming year, the Man Charitable Trust intends to continue to provide support to charities that are able to evidence their ability to improve literacy and numeracy education and focus on increasing employee engagement in volunteering and charitable activities.
The Man Booker Prize 2018 The Man Booker International Prize 2018 The Man Booker Prize for Fiction, awarded Man Group has sponsored the Man Booker Man Groups literary annually to a novel written in English and International Prize since its inception in 2005. sponsorships published in the UK or Ireland that year, is Awarded each year on the basis of a single considered the leading literary award in the book translated into English, the Man Booker Man Group sponsors two major literary English-speaking world.
Anna Burns won International Prize aims to encourage the prizes the Man Booker Prize and the Man the 2018 prize for her third full-length novel, publishing and reading of quality fiction in Booker International Prize, both of which Milkman, becoming the first Northern Irish translation, and the 50,000 prize is divided play an important role in recognising literary author and the 17th woman to claim the equally between the author and the translator.
In the week The 2018 Man Booker International Prize The Man Booker Prize celebrated its 50th following the winner announcement, sales was awarded to the novel Flights, written anniversary in 2018, making this year a of Milkman increased by 983%, the highest by Polish author Olga Tokarczuk and particularly significant one.
Over the past volume sales for any winner in the Nielsen translated by Jennifer Croft.
In the month five decades, the prize has changed the face BookScan era, selling nearly 19,000 copies.
following the winner announcement, sales of literary fiction it has brought some of The novel has gone on to sell 350,000 of Flights increased by 692%.
The novel the leading names in world literature to the copies in the UK since.
Is now in its tenth printing and is, by far, attention of the reading public, uncovered Set in an unnamed city during the Troubles publisher Fitzcarraldo Editions bestselling extraordinary new voices, and championed in Northern Ireland, Milkman focuses on an title of all time.
novels that have explored the great unnamed protagonist as she navigates her challenges of our time.
Flights is a novel of linked fragments, way through rumour, social pressures and from the 17th century to the present day, At Man Group, we understand that to be politics in a tight-knit community.
Drawing on connected by themes of travel and human well-informed investors, we need to be her own experiences, Burns portrays a world anatomy.
Through these narratives, well-informed human beings.
This is why, as that allows individuals to abuse the power interspersed with short bursts of analysis devoted readers and as a global investment granted by a community to those who resist and digressions on topics ranging from business, we have sponsored the Man the state on their behalf.
Milkman is a tale of travel-sized cosmetics to the Maori, Flights Booker Prize.
Following a careful review gossip and hearsay, silence and deliberate guides the reader beyond the surface layer of our funding initiatives, we announced in deafness.
It is a story of inaction with of modernity and towards the core of the January 2019 that Man Group will end its enormous consequences, through which very nature of humankind.
sponsorship of the Prizes and refocus these Burns shows the dangerous and complex resources to develop our Paving the Way outcomes of what can happen to a woman campaign, which focuses on enhancing coming of age in a city at war.
diversity and inclusion in the industry, and on expanding the firms global charitable initiatives, including those supported by the Man Charitable Trust.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 43
