STRATEGIC REPORT Market environment and industry trends A number of key trends are driving changes in the asset management industry.
Our commercial differentiators and client focused business model mean we are well positioned to address these trends.
Global and macro themes Our response Continued macro uncertainty Man Group has planned for plausible Brexit Global indices 2018 % Risk assets started 2018 in a strong position, scenarios that may impact its business or its particularly in the US following tax reforms 0 clients, including a no-deal Brexit.
As of the and strong growth forecasts but most major beginning of 2019, Man Group has received indexes ended the year down significantly, regulatory approval to upgrade the driven by a particularly volatile last quarter of -5 regulatory permissions of its long standing the year as shown in the chart opposite.
The Irish entity and has opened a physical office Federal Reserve continued increasing rates in Dublin, with seven employees initially in the first quarter of 2018 following concerns which we have been able to resource with -10 over inflation and raised rates four times in -8.7 -9.5 existing Man Group staff.
Sitting alongside total during the year.
This coincided with the -10.6 Man Groups existing regulated entity in start of what would be a year-long theme of Liechtenstein, this enhancement to Man uncertainty surrounding trade sanctions and -15 Groups European footprint is likely to be negotiations between the US and China.
-14.6 further developed in 2019, with EU branches -16.0 Higher US interest rates and a strong US of Man Groups Irish entity established in dollar weighed heavily on Emerging Markets, -20 certain EU Member States.
This ensures that especially Turkey and Argentina.
In Europe MSCI MSCI MSCI Topix FTSE Man Group will remain able to service its the main themes were Brexit, weak earnings World EM NR Europe TR All Share existing European clients and to access new and weak growth forecasts, all culminating NR USD USD NR EUR JPY TR GBP business in the EU.
in reduced investor risk appetite.
We are also committed to ensuring that we Looking forward to 2019 there is much to be Brexit provide every support to those members of resolved on the political landscape.
Markets The two-year period to determine the terms our workforce who are EU nationals working will be shaped by the outcome of the US of the UKs exit from the European Union in the UK.
During 2018, we ran advisory and China trade negotiations and Brexit.
As a result of the sessions at both individual and group levels It is also clear that markets are attempting ongoing political processes, UK investment for EU citizens, and will continue with our to anticipate the end of the cycle, and the managers face continued uncertainty as to ongoing programme of assistance to our EU ensuing market turbulence.
the future regulations post-Brexit which may national employees and their families.
We are Our response impact their ability to access markets, make active participants in various industry forums, We are not focused on the value or timing investments or enter into legal agreements liaising closely with the UK Government and of the exact peak or trough of any economic within the EU.
closely monitoring immigration updates in cycle: that is the way to miss opportunities relation to their potential impact on our in the present.
Instead we ensure that our workforce.
We support the UK risk management maintains high standards Governments stated goals of allowing EU so that if markets do deteriorate sharply we citizens and their families to remain in the UK are able to react swiftly.
Man Group exists when the UK leaves the EU, and ensuring to deliver alpha through sophisticated, active that it is straightforward for them to apply for management and we believe that 2019 settled status in the UK.
offers us the opportunity to demonstrate this Man Group will continue to monitor the core skill.
political and regulatory developments closely in 2019, and will take all necessary steps to ensure that the impact of Brexit on its business, clients and employees is minimised, whatever its form.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 10 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Industry trends Active versus passive Margin compression Technology There are two major trends impacting flows The average margin across the industry has The use of technology, in particular the use in our industry.
At one end of the spectrum been reducing over time as clients allocate of artificial intelligence, has been a key theme there is a move to passive investments towards cheaper products or seek to and industry discussion point over the past such as index trackers for investors wanting renegotiate fees.
This theme is one that will to just follow the market at low cost.
At the continue into 2019 and for years to come.
Our response other is a move to highly active products that The rate of improvement in both software Most of the reduction in fee margin at the provide genuine alpha and manage portfolio and hardware shows little sign of slowing Group level over recent years has been due risk by seeking returns uncorrelated with and staying at the forefront of this evolution to a change in business mix from retail general market movements.
will continue to differentiate asset managers.
focused guaranteed products to diversified Our response alternative and long only strategies sold to Our response Although passive investments have a lower institutions.
Fee pressure has impacted At Man Group, we use innovative financial headline cost, they are charging only for beta certain areas of our business where price technology and quantitative techniques and not alpha.
At Man Group we are focused competition is more intense but our clients across our business, and believe this on high alpha strategies with higher than continue to pay full fees for innovative enables us to deliver better results for clients.
average active share long only or target products with a strong track record and Man Our quant assets have grown 18% on a returns alternatives.
We have successfully Group has a solid history of product compound basis over the last three years delivered alpha for our clients by more active development.
We also believe there are a with around half of the Groups FUM management than most competitors and number of opportunities to work profitably managed by our systematic managers: Man expect continued growth as a result.
With a for our clients on larger scale business, at a AHL and Man Numeric.
We are committed tougher market backdrop as we enter 2019, lower basis point fee, which is still attractive to being a leader in this area, and have firms targeting superior risk adjusted returns to shareholders such as the infrastructure hundreds of researchers and technologists should prevail.
In addition, we do not just offer mandates and client solutions within Man and decades of experience.
a limited menu of funds in which to invest, FRM or collateralised loan obligations CLOs It is, however, not just our systematic instead we work closely with our clients who within Man GLG.
managers that use machine learning.
value alpha generation to develop the products In 2018, Man GLG hired a number of they feel are missing from their portfolios.
quantitative researchers as part of our ongoing effort to provide our discretionary 1 1 Global AUM split by product % Global revenue split by product % portfolio managers with better tools and $31tn $39tn $71tn $79tn $108bn $168bn $262bn $275bn techniques to support their analysis and 3 4 5 6 9 trade execution processes.
Machine 11 18 20 Learning techniques have been researched 28 22 21 39 at Man Group for a number of years and it 46 9 10 35 5 33 is a natural part of what we do.
We do not 57 4 generally view it as a replacement for talented 20 23 21 human researchers, but as a tool to enable 14 14 25 9 people to tackle problems where the amount 6 19 19 19 43 or structure of data or nature of patterns are 42 40 19 29 hard to address by other techniques.
15 15 15 9 2003 2008 2016 2017 2003 2008 2016 2017 Alternatives Active specialities Solutions LDI balanced Active core Passive 1 Some column totals may not total 100% due to rounding Source: Boston Consulting Group BCG, Global Asset Management 2018: The Digital Metamorphosis report MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11
