% % % 2 2 2 2 7 4 09 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PEOPLE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ENGAGEMENT SCORE GENDER PAY GAP MEAN MARKS & START PLACEMENTS 81,000 82% 12.3% 3,600 M&S has a longstanding tradition of on participative style of trading.
BIG is a network of elected employing excellent colleagues and help of Julian Richer, one of Britains top colleagues who feed up to a National creating an engaging and motivating entrepreneurs, we are launching a new committee that works directly with the working environment.
Even today we retain suggestion programme and revitalising leadership team.
The Chair of National extraordinary operating talent in our stores two-way colleague communication.
In the BIG personally attends the main Board and many long-serving colleagues, with first week of the Suggest to Steve project meetings twice a year, ensuring that great technical skills.
However, behind the over 1,000 colleague suggestions went to colleague involvement is at the centre of indifferent financial performance of M&S the CEO and are all receiving responses the Board process.
As we navigate difficult over the last two decades lies an inability from Steve.
and sometimes painful changes, BIG to change, borne out of a slow-moving provides a powerful format for consultation, We relaunched our Your Say Survey which organisation and bureaucratic culture.
This is ensuring that we engage colleagues fully has very high levels of response.
Despite a consequence, in part, of the organisational on the process.
the difficult trading conditions and store structure which has been built around very closures, this produced an 82% engagement M&S always used to be a University of Talent strong functional silos, resulting in a loss score, up slightly from 80% last year.
But for the retail industry.
As we make changes of accountability and a staff led decisionthere was unsurprisingly strong feedback it is important to attract new talent to fuel making process to which too many people about the need to improve enablement, the exciting programme of change at all are involved, and there is not enough speed with a score of 78%, and increase the speed levels.
We are therefore entering new and commerciality.
This top-down silo of decision making and change.
recruitment partnership arrangements, structure has been compounded by a very including with MBS, the recruitment agency strong sense of hierarchy which often As we reshape the business and drive and we are reinvesting in our industry means that ideas and challenges do not productivity we are managing considerable leading graduate programme, recruiting feed back to the leadership and the value change at store colleague level and within 136 graduates last year.
of our passionate store management talent our distribution network.
Most notably: does not get exploited.
Although we retain a gender pay gap, it is We streamlined our IT function and lower than many of our competitors at a Our transformation therefore depends transferred 165 roles to TCS, our 12.3% mean compared to an industry on simplifying this old culture and putting technology partner: average of 16.4%.
Diversity and progressive in place the fast-moving, participative We consulted with 311 colleagues working practices are at the heart of our organisation which is close to stores and about store closures at six initial belief system and we are moving all of the the customer that our own colleagues want closure stores in the financial year central team to open-plan Smarter Working to see.
That is why we have already moved resulting in five redundancies: and offices, enabling working from home, and towards our family of businesses model have launched a new diversity forum using in which accountability is driven down to As we completed our exit from ten our BAME, LGBT and other network groups.
strong business leaders and their teams.
owned international markets and moved At the centre we will retain a streamlined to our new franchise model we reduced top level team concentrating on strategy, c. 1,800 roles, almost all outside the UK.
SMARTER WORKING finance, the consumer branding, and the To help manage these changes M&S digital customer communications that operates a unique employee participation bind the businesses together.
At the same model through our Business Involvement time we are moving towards a more hands We continue to move forward with our EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AS AT 31 MARCH 2018 Smarter Working plans, where improved use of space, technology and different Total employees Total senior managers Total Board Female 58,119 Female 49 Female 2 ways of working will create a more agile Male 22,668 Male 67 Male 7 and enabled workforce.
The changes enable our people to work more collaboratively from any location whether in store or from the office or home.
In December, a poll showed 87% 80,787 9 116 of employees believe Smarter Working will enable them to work more flexibly.
% % % 8 8 8 7 5 2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
