s r e t s i c l n i h p t p e E u m S e g a g n e e e y o l p C m R y t s e e e C C E f n e u a v s r o s i y d r o t o o m o Corporate responsibility Recognising our responsibility As a progressive, global technology company, we acknowledge our responsibility to shareholders, customers, suppliers, our employees and the wider community to conduct our operations safely, responsibly and sustainably.
The responsible and sustainable development of our business is essential for our continued long-term success.
A highly focused approach to corporate responsibility helps us manage our business more efficiently, mitigate risks, reduce costs and better support the communities in which we operate creating value for Meggitt and our stakeholders.
Our principal areas of focus are health and safety and our people, the environment, ethics and business conduct including anti-corruption and supporting the communities in which we operate.
We review our values and commitments in these areas regularly and they are set out in our Corporate Responsibility Policy CR Policy available at www.
com and overseen by our Corporate Responsibility Committee CR Committee.
Policy Our focus areas and governance We are committed to: upholding sound corporate governance principles and applying the UK Corporate Governance code: supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, relating to human rights, labour, the environment and anti corruption: upholding our employees human rights: encouraging dialogue with employees: supporting our local communities: minimising the environmental impact of products and processes and maintaining internationally accredited environmental Board management systems: conducting business relationships ethically and responsibly: complying with the antislavery and humantrafficking legislation: acting as a responsible supplier and encouraging our contractors and suppliers to do the same: and building a more diverse and inclusive Meggitt and complying with reporting obligations including gender pay gap reporting and data submitted to the Hampton Alexander Review.
Meggitt PLC 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 n l n f a p m m h m e t m r e n i r l a t E o t s e t H t c e e e r i D e v i t u c s e i e t i n x u s E m r m - e o n d c l l o o a Strategic report c h N o l e d r a n a h y S t e i c o S Our people deliver solutions for the most challenging environments in ways others cannot.
Our technology and products are relied upon by customers worldwide.
Our customers trust us to enhance lives and enable safe, costeffective and environmentally responsible flight, power and defence systems.
Action Governance and compliance For our stakeholders Ultimately, the Board is responsible for The CR Committee will also oversee the this means: the implementation and performance Boards approach to implementing complying with relevant national of our Corporate Responsibility Policy.
sections of the 2018 UK Corporate laws and regulations: In 2018, we allocated the daytoday Governance Code and UK Companies providing a supportive, rewarding responsibilities of the Board and the Act 2006 relevant to stakeholder and safe working environment: Chief Executive in relation to the engagement.
Key stakeholders identified delivering comprehensive training Corporate Responsibility Policy in the by the Board during 2018 were our for employees: following way: employees, shareholders, customers developing communication and and suppliers.
collaboration tools: the Group Operations Strategy maintaining modern, safe and Director now has functional Previously, the Ethics and Trade efficient operational practices: responsibility for health, safety and the Compliance Committee reviewed Trade contributing to the social and environment: Compliance, but in 2018 the Executive economic enrichment of local the Group HR Director led initiatives Director, Commercial & Corporate Affairs communities, focusing particularly focused on culture, diversity, inclusion regularly reported on this directly to on activities related to education: and employee engagement: the Board.
having effective risk identification the Group Company Secretary has and mitigation across all areas of functional responsibility for ethics and The Board has also agreed that Nancy the business: business conduct: and Gioia will perform the role of Non conducting independent audits the Executive Director, Commercial & Executive Director responsible for in compliance areas: Corporate Affairs and Group Company Employee Engagement.
The Board adopting robust internal and Secretary have responsibility for charity discussed and agreed a detailed role external reporting and controls, and community activity.
brief with Nancy and they are planning and ensuring financial probity: and activities for 2019 see page 62. supporting Business in the Group support is provided to ensure we Community, the British business fulfil the requirements outlined in our We have also formed a new Diversity and community outreach charity, Corporate Responsibility Policy, and Inclusion Council to share learnings and where members work together to divisional presidents and site directors coordinate diversity and inclusion tackle a range of issues that are take responsibility for implementing initiatives across the Group.
essential to building a fairer Group policies and procedures locally.
society and a more sustainable In addition to financial KPIs, the Group future.
During 2018, the Ethics and Trade has a nonfinancial KPI on health and Compliance Committee became the safety see pages 66 and 67, and we also Corporate Responsibility Committee CR include further data to help assess our Committee, maintaining oversight of performance in key areas, such as ethics and business conduct, and adding employees, environment, and charity and further responsibility for oversight of community, provided in this report and in environment, charity and community the Nominations Committee report activities.
Meggitt PLC 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility continued Corporate Responsibility Committee As Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Nancy Gioias role is to ensure that we oversee the Groups important activities in the areas of ethics and business conduct, environment and charity and community.
The Committee has oversight of ethics Investors shareholders extensive and business conduct, environment, engagement already exists in this charity and community.
It also ensures area and we describe our investor that the Board meets its responsibilities engagement activities on page 84. under the 2018 UK Corporate The CR Committee will continue to Governance Code and UK Companies monitor this engagement to ensure it Act 2006 on stakeholder engagement, is appropriate, but the Group does and other reporting requirements such not propose any specific additional as on greenhouse gas emissions, Modern activities for 2019.
Slavery Act 2015, gender pay gap and supplier payment practices.
Customers extensive engagement already exists in this area, and the During 2018, the Board identified key Strategic Report includes an update stakeholders as employees, shareholders, on our markets and key customer customers and suppliers and in 2019 we activities.
The CR Committee will will report back in more detail on the way continue to monitor this engagement we engage with those stakeholders.
The to ensure it is appropriate, but the CR Committee will monitor the Boards Group does not propose any specific engagement in these areas and suggest additional activities for 2019. additional activities as appropriate: Nancy Gioia Suppliers Meggitts approach to NonExecutive Director Employees executive management supply chain management is evolving, engage regularly with employees, using with a targeted reduction in the cost employee engagement surveys, direct and complexity of our supply chain.
feedback and discussions, site visits, The Chief Procurement Officer town halls, our intranet, and regularly presented to the Board in May 2018 cascaded communications, which also and will provide a further update in give the opportunity for employees to 2019.
Conferences for larger suppliers feed back and ask questions.
We also took place in 2018 and 2017, and have a whistleblowing hotline and a full more active engagement exists with ethics programme see page 72.
The CR Committee Gioia was also appointed by the Board will review this area in 2019. as NonExecutive Director responsible for employee engagement and activities Diversity and inclusion continues to be for 2019 will include reviewing detailed overseen by the Board and Nominations data from our employee engagement Committee.
Health and safety is overseen surveys, visiting a number of sites, by the Board.
holding skip level meetings during site visits to ensure a cross section of employees are engaged, and Board discussions on site culture including attendance of a high performance culture session with employees in 2019.
Meggitt PLC 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Key stakeholders: Employees Customers 34% 71,000 reduction in Total Recordable civil and military aircraft with Incident rate Meggitt products installed 2,000 138.3m leaders trained on High total R&D expenditure Performance Culture Shareholders 34% of employees have over 16.65p 10 years length of service dividend per share 1m 34.2p investment in employee underlying earnings training and development per share 6.8m 33% total value of Share of executive remuneration Incentive Plan shares linked to achievement of strategic priorities Wider benefits Environment to society: -6% greenhouse gas emission reduction relative to revenue -14% greenhouse gas emission reduction relative to 2015 baseline 130m investment in new world class manufacturing facility site at Ansty Park, UK Meggitt PLC 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility continued People Headcount by division Number of employees & contractors 2018 highlights: Continued promotion of our safety culture through behaviour-based safety training across all of our sites, and an improvement in our total recordable incident rate TRIR of 34% in 2018 Aircraft Braking Systems 1,224 Control System 2,096 Roll-out of High Performance Culture to over Polymers & Composites 3,484 2,000 leaders and managers across Sensing Systems 3,086 the organisation Equipment Group 1,238 CrossGroup functions 611 The Board approved our Diversity and Inclusion Policy, and we launched a Group Diversity and Headcount by region Inclusion Council Number of employees & contractors A 4% increase in employee engagement We recognise that our people are the driving force of Meggitts progress.
Our focus areas are on our duty of care to our employees to promote their health and safety, foster a high-performance culture that values diversity and inclusion, and an environment in which people can work free from bullying and discrimination.
We seek the feedback of our employees directly and anonymously with Group-wide employee engagement surveys in 2017 and 2018 to understand whether our employees feel engaged, empowered and satisfied in their work.
UK 2,763 Rest of Europe 1,226 of 2020 we plan to have reached all Culture USA 6,410 Culture is important to us, which is why employees with our unfreezing sessions.
Rest of World 1,340 We hope that HPC will deepen it is one of our strategic priorities: culture engagement, teamwork and improve is the way we do things at Meggitt.
Headcount by length of problemsolving across our new Embedding a highperformance culture service years customeraligned divisions.
Unlike other will ensure that we meet the demands of Number of employees & contractors our customers, improve our performance programmes of this kind, we decided at the outset to recruit employees to deliver and make Meggitt a great place to work.
the sessions to other employees as a Our values reference how we should work result we have a dedicated and together and the behaviours that are passionate group of facilitators for our integral to our drive for success see opposite page.
Our colleagues relate to workshops delivered by colleagues, who have a shared understanding and To accelerate our progress towards appreciation of our culture, our history becoming a truly integrated global and our future.
business, we initiated a High Performance Culture HPC across the Group in 2017, Embedded within our culture and values with the first wave of training targeted are diversity and inclusion.
The Board, at senior leadership teams across the executive management, and leaders organisation.
In just a couple of months Less than 5 5,927 across the Group recognise that a diverse more than 700 leaders in Meggitt Between 5 and 10 1,962 participated in our HPC workshops.
and inclusive workforce is critical to Between 10 and 15 1,576 running a sustainable and successful We launched wave two unfreezing Between 15 and 20 817 business.
To reinforce our commitment to workshops in 2018, targeting an Between 20 and 25 558 creating a diverse and inclusive additional 1,500 managers.
By the end Over 25 899 Meggitt PLC 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Our values Male Female headcount Teamwork At Meggitt, we support each other and recognise Board of directors outstanding contributions.
By working together, we bring extraordinary technology to our customers.
We build great relationships with all of our 30% stakeholders, providing the support they need to succeed.
We build highly skilled teams passionate about what we do and how we do it.
Executive team Integrity At Meggitt we do the right thing, in the right way 18% wherever we operate.
Our colleagues, customers and the communities we are part of can count on Senior executives us to act with integrity, honesty and respect.
We form lasting positive relationships built on open communication, understanding, fairness and impartiality.
We conduct ourselves with integrity and 10% the highest standards of ethical behaviour across the business.
Total headcount Excellence We enable the extraordinary at Meggitt.
Were good 29% at what we do and thats why customers come back to us.
We are constantly working to improve our processes and attention to detail.
As a result, we deliver the most ambitious technologies, products and services safely, efficiently and costeffectively to Percentage of female employees as at date our customers.
of signing the accounts environment, in 2018 the Board approved During 2019 we will encourage employee a Diversity and Inclusion Policy.
We also engagement in topics related to diversity created divisionallevel diversity plans, and inclusion and seek employee and established a Groupwide Diversity feedback on our progress in our annual and Inclusion Council.
will provide overall guidance and a framework to help roll out Employee Resource Groups to facilitate discussions and initiatives on diversity and inclusion.
The aim of our Diversity and Inclusion Policy is to state our commitments at Boardlevel to making Meggitt a diverse and inclusive organisation, which in turn will support a successful and sustainable business.
We should employ a diverse workforce that reflects the diverse communities within which we operate and always foster an inclusive culture where people are valued, respected and supported.
Meggitt PLC 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility continued In 2018, our graduate programme Employee engagement received 2,000 applications for 15 places and feedback a third of those places were allocated to We recognise that our future success Case study females.
depends upon our shared sense of purpose and it is important that we find In 2018, we have launched the Meggitt out from our employees what they think High Performance Culture Corporate Apprenticeship Programme in about Meggitt and how they feel about Switzerland the UK: recruiting two cohorts, totalling the work that they do.
We continue to work with Continuing to develop a high performance the Warwick Manufacturing Group culture is important to our site in Fribourg, The results of our 2018 annual WMG Academy to encourage females Switzerland.
Collaboration and inclusivity employee engagement survey showed have always been a key to the success of between the ages of 14 to 17 to take up a 4% improvement in engagement since this business, in a site where 26 nationalities engineering as a career and help improve 2017 and reflected the effort made in a work together to support the growing gender diversity in our industry.
number of areas under engagement, aerospace industry and the fastpaced alignment and agility.
Health and safety will invite all employees to participate in In 2018, 92 employees around 20% of our The Board, executive management and employee forums to further understand workforce went through unfreezing all leaders across Meggitt are aware of the engagement results and create action sessions and around 20 volunteered to be plans for improvement.
We will continue their responsibility to ensure that culture champions.
The culture community employees work in a safe, supportive and at the site meet every four to six weeks to to facilitate annual engagement surveys reinforce the concepts, discuss their healthy workplace.
We work continuously and pulse surveys.
personal commitments and the challenges with our employees to raise their they face at individual or team levels.
In awareness of potential risks in the As well as encouraging employee June, the Executive Committee visited our feedback and engagement, in the UK we workplace and promote our health and site and met with the culture community, safety policy and programme to help encourage investment in Meggitt through exchanging ideas on the application of high performance culture in day to day activities.
individuals safeguard themselves, their participation in the UK employee share colleagues and visitors.
We achieve this ownership schemes.
The total value of Here are some examples of how we have by encouraging employees to take steps share incentive plan SIP shares held by applied high performance culture concepts UK employees is 6.8m.
to prevent injuries in the workplace.
at our site: Feedback: all the employees at the site Risk awareness is an everevolving Investment in employees through and visitors carry a feedback card on process that requires everyones ongoing training and development their access badge that has behaviours participation to demonstrate continually to be actively promoted and those to be We invest time and energy into ensuring through their actions that safety in the discouraged.
we attract, develop and retain the best workplace is a core value that we will talent to ensure people succeed based Appreciation: employees can nominate never compromise.
We will continue to on their skills, behaviours, knowledge and their colleagues for a Living our focus on this in 2019 and beyond.
We recognise that a skilled Values award which is handed out integrate health and safety measures into quarterly at Town Hall meetings.
We workforce will help Meggitt achieve Daily Layered Accountability meetings also recognise and thank individuals and better results.
During 2018 we invested and implement industryleading health teams for their engagement and great over 1million in our employees through and safety practices at sites by issuing work as part of Leader Standard Work training and development.
Meggitt health and safety procedures on LSW, which is part of the Meggitt Production System.
We continue to develop employees leadership capabilities and during the The site has also invested in developing coaching skills.
Starting in 2017, all year implemented formal programmes to leaders have been through a multiday raise capability in functional teams, coaching programme which has had a including procurement, project and great impact on developing people, programme management.
creating respect, mutual trust and a sense of belonging.
Find out more online at www.
com Meggitt PLC 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report In 2018, we conducted a number of In 2018, 55% of our sites achieved a safety stand downs, which involved Platinum Safety Star, which is the highest Safety employees taking a break from level awarded under this programme.
production to focus on specific risks.
performance In April 2018, cuts and lacerations Our continued efforts to raise awareness became the first area of focus, as the at sites about risks saw further increases most frequent injury type that our sites in the number of unsafe and near miss Reduced the Total Recordable reported.
We issued tasks to all sites, conditions and behaviours reported and including detailed discussions at daily addressed by our employees in 2018, Incident Rate by morning safety meetings to review ways improving all safety metrics as shown to reduce hazards, evaluation of safer opposite.
cutting tools, conducting detailed risk 34% assessments on cutting operations, and We aim to achieve best in class health issuing new safety posters in areas that and safety performance through our Reduced the Lost Time pose the greatest risk of these types of continued focus on injuryprevention injuries.
This initiative resulted in an measures and by implementing industry Incident Rate by average of 40% fewer cut and laceration leading health and safety practices by the injuries reported across the Group.
27% We have continued to implement our bespoke behaviourbased safety BBS Reduced the number of days training programme, which is designed to lost due to injury by train employees on how to identify risk in the workplace that may not be apparent and to take immediate action to stop the conditions that may lead to injury.
We 78% anticipate that continued focus on preventing unsafe behaviours through BBS will help drive improvements in the TRIR and other health and safety key performance indicators.
We monitor the performance of our sites continually through our annual rolling audit programme.
Our manufacturing facilities are reviewed for their compliance with applicable health and safety regulatory requirements as well as compliance against industry best practice standards, as required by our health and safety procedures.
We also have health, safety and environmental professionals available to support sites and help to share best practice across the Group.
Our external auditing programme and use of thirdparty consultants supplements our internal monitoring and support teams.
We encourage excellence and our Safety Star programme, recognises outstanding health and safety performance.
It is based primarily on leading indicators, including the reporting and resolution of unsafe conditions and behaviours, and nearmiss incidents.
Additionally, we include safety training and education as one of our key metrics and consider this when determining Safety Star level.
Meggitt PLC 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility continued Environment 2018 highlights: Case study on UHBR Thermals Investment in environmentally responsible products that challenge existing technologies in the aerospace industry As engines become more efficient they are Consolidation of sites to reduce our getting smaller and more powerful, but running ever hotter.
Removing waste heat environmental footprint and optimise our and recycling it into useful energy is where manufacturing sites Meggitts thermal systems excel: our solutions are 20 per cent smaller and lighter Investment in building centres of excellence than comparable solutions, and also recycle 50 per cent more energy.
Continued monitoring of environmental metrics We have developed our solutions using and site clean-ups wholesystem optimisation, where we design and complete solutions using advanced modelling and optimisation methods to find the very best solutions.
Together with our university research and technology partners, a dedicated team of subject experts from across the business designed our system, based at our Advanced Research & Technology facility We are committed to be proper stewards in the communities in which we in Coventry.
operate and to minimise the environmental impacts of our products Our experts played a critical role in and operations.
introducing a radical heat exchanger design for ultrahighbypass ratio UHBR engines In 2018, we became an Industrial Member Our Portfolio developing to reduce heat exchange by 15%.
Our of the Manufacturing Technology Centre differentiated technologies innovative new technologies will enable the MTC located at Ansty Park, Coventry.
As a global leader in braking systems, design of increasingly lighter and smaller The MTC was established as part of the thermal management solutions to maximise fire detection, sensing and control engine performance and reduce fuel burn.
UK governments national manufacturing systems, thermal management and engine This will enable our customers to do more strategy, with the aim of bridging the gap composites, we help to reduce weight, with less and ultimately have a positive between academic discoveries and drag and fuel consumption, and minimise environmental impact.
Through maintenance and the use of raw materials.
our partnerships with the UKs leading By developing innovative, cuttingedge aerospace research bodies and institutions technology and enabling the we can help to develop new products that extraordinary, we help our customers to are more efficient and that are do more with less to reduce their environmentally compatible.
As part of our annual review of our Our footprint investing environmental performance in 2018, in operational excellence we carried out a highlevel review of our During 2018 we have expanded a number technology and products to assess their of our facilities to meet organic growth environmental impact.
Carbon brakedisc requirements, including in Mexico, manufacturing is the largest contributor Vietnam and San Diego.
We made to our carbon footprint.
Carbon improvements at other sites, such as the manufacturing at Coventry, Danville and refurbishment to our North Hollywood Akron facilities accounts for approximately facility, and reduced other footprint 40% of the Groups energy consumption through disposals and planned site and carbon emissions.
manufacturing is the most significant area of focus for the Group in the pursuit of Find out more online at reducing our carbon emissions.
com Meggitt PLC 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report As part of our footprint consolidation employees and their representatives.
In August 2018, we opened our programme, we plan to design all new It is our largest global infrastructure significantly expanded San Diego site, buildings constructions to meet high investment.
The facility will position the prior to being awarded a $750m contract levels of energy efficiency performance business strategically for future growth by Pratt & Whitney.
This new facility was and best practice: and will serve as a hub for next designed on lean principles, eliminating Outside of the USA, we aim to achieve generation aerospace innovation and waste and complementing our high at least Very Good Green Building R&D and act as a catalyst for worldclass performance culture.
In 2016, a cross Sustainability Standard under the operational performance.
The 440,000 functional team were selected in San BREEAM rating system for new square foot facility aims to combine a Diego to design the new facility using our buildings.
range of operations and will be the new Production Preparation Process 3P to lay In the USA, all new buildings will be location for our global headquarters out each production line to eliminate required to meet at least Silver LEED within a worldclass aerospace waste in the form of footprint, walking certification LEED certification levels engineering and technology distances and material travel.
The new are similar to the BREEAM ratings environment.
facility includes efficient production referenced above.
lines and environmentally controlled For existing buildings that are Plans for the site include an engineering manufacturing space.
In addition to part expanded, modified, or newly leased, and manufacturing Centre of Excellence flow, teamwork is enhanced by locating we will use BREEAM and LEED InUse for future aerospace thermal management production support functions on the sustainability standards to assess technology already supported by the product lines and establishing an operational efficiencies that are UK Aerospace Technology Institute ATI.
openconcept office designed to foster available for those buildings.
Also, we This planned new facility, adjacent to the communication, teamwork and a high will replace fluorescent lamps, motors Manufacturing Technology Centre and performance culture.
The San Diego and machinery equipment with Advanced Manufacturing Training Centre, MPC location is now a Meggitt Group highenergy efficient replacements marks a major advance in the Centre of Excellence for complex, as needed.
development of our global manufacturing molded aircraft engine components footprint and positions us strategically for and structures used in extreme In 2017, we announced a 130 million sustainable growth.
Its expertise is in high investment in our Ansty Park facility in class innovation and operational delivery volume components for engines and the UK, bringing together a number of together on this site we will accelerate our adjacencies, missiles and munitions, our existing operations.
We plan to make ability to meet the current and future and structural components on the the new facility operational from 2020, needs of our customers worldwide.
industryleading civil and defence following full consultation with aviation platforms.
Site expansion in 2018, at San Diego, USA.
Meggitt PLC 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility continued In 2018, our auditing programme Water consumption increased slightly Our site initiatives assessed 40% of our sites for compliance on an absolute basis due primarily to an As a manufacturing business, we are committed to ensuring that all of our with applicable regulatory requirements, increase in cooling water used at our as well as compliance against industry Rockmart facility: our largest water sites operate in full compliance with all best practice.
All of our facilities consumer.
Notwithstanding, our water applicable environmental laws and certified successfully to the ISO 14001 consumed normalised to revenue showed regulations, and we reinforce this through international standard were recertified to a 5% decrease.
Numerous water savings our Environmental Policy and Corporate Responsibility Policy.
We also require our the updated ISO 14001:2015 in late 2017 projects were completed in 2018.
Despite numerous name one, our North Hollywood site manufacturing sites to maintain an inspections by environmental authorities implemented a system that improved the environmental management system during 2018, our compliance record efficiency of their cooling towers saving certified to the ISO 14001 international indicates no fines for breaches of approximately 1.3 million gallons of standard.
In addition to taking steps to achieve We have measured our sites against our Site disposals in 2018 resulted in a our strategic goals successfully by new performance targets.
decrease in absolute waste generated consolidating sites and investing in as well as waste generated relative to energyefficient technologies, many of our sites implemented a number of revenue.
Our waste sent to landfill as Performance a percentage of our overall waste energysaving projects, including Table 1 shows our performance for key generated did increase slightly by 1%.
upgrading facilities to energyefficient environmental metrics and Table 2 shows However, there were some examples of LED lighting and installing occupancy our progress on achieving internally set good waste management practice: our and machine sensors and timers.
Heatric and North Hollywood locations purchased reusable water bottles for all In particular, our MDS Irvine facility We experienced an absolute increase of their employees which resulted in an approved a project to install a battery in our GHG emissions, however, when approximate 99% reduction in plastic bank that will enable it to store electricity normalised to revenue our performance and Styrofoam cup waste.
purchased in cheaper, offpeak improved.
We also decreased our consumption times for use in highpeak waste generated and water consumed All of our manufacturing facilities are consumption times.
Importantly, this normalised to revenue as shown in required to have environmental project will allow for quicker and easier Table 1 opposite.
management systems certified to access to planned future solar projects.
ISO 14001 and to develop localised We achieved a 6% reduction in GHG In 2019, we will remain focused on waste minimisation plans to identify emissions relative to revenue versus a opportunities for waste reduction as operating more efficiently by targeted 2.5% year on year decrease.
consolidating our businesses and investing in modern energyefficient This was largely due to footprint Our Portland, Oregon location has been technology.
Our sites will also continue to reduction activities occurring in 2017 minimise their environmental footprint.
recognised as a Leader in Sustainability and 2018.
However, these activities were from their County Sustainability partly offset by an increase in our Department and achieved silver level production of NuCarb which requires Our Environmental Performance certification for reducing consumption an extra densification step in the carbon In 2018, the Board reviewed and of natural resources, generation of waste manufacturing process.
As such, our approved an update to our Environmental and emissions of harmful substances to absolute GHG emissions increased year Policy available on www.
The location is well on which helps to reinforce our commitment on year.
Notwithstanding, we have their way to achieving gold level achieved a 14% reduction in GHG as an organisation to protecting the certification in 2019. emissions relative to revenue as environment.
compared to our baseline year of 2015.
Meggitt PLC 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report 1 Environmental metrics Table 1 Environmental 2018 Change 2017 Utilities performance Electricity gWh 206 201 MWh per m 99 -4% 103 GHG reduction relative Natural gas gWh 197 186 1 MWh per m 94 -1% 95 to revenue 1 Greenhouse gas emissions CO e tonnes 114,626 113,738 2 Tonnes per m 54.8 -6% 58.1 Waste tonnes 10,780 12,056 -6% Tonnes per m 5.16 -16% 6.16 Water cubic metres 721,650 710,905 GHG reduction from Cubic metres per m 345 -5% 363 2 2015 baseline Internal targets Table 2 Target Ten and five year improvement -14% performance over Achieved Baseline periods performance as at 1 Based on yearonyear comparative data year financial years period 31.12.2018 as reported in line with DEFRA guidance.
GHG Emissions 2015 To 31 December 2025 -25% -14% 2 Performance against internal 10year target.
Water consumption 2016 To 31 December 2021 -10% -3% Waste to landfill 2016 To 31 December 2021 -10% 1% 1 2 Reportable GHG emissions data Table 3 2018 2017 Tonnes of Tonnes of CO e CO e 2 2 3 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 36,573 34,448 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 78,053 79,290 114,626 113,738 Intensity measurement: Emissions reported above, normalised to tonnes per m revenue 54.8 58.1 1 GHG emissions are restated annually to use the most up to date conversion factors.
Revenue figures for 2018 reporting use 2017 exchange rates.
Emissions from overseas electricity are calculated using conversion factors published in the IEA Emissions factor 2018.
2 Table 3 shows the GHG emissions data for the Large and MediumSized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulation 2013 the Regulations.
The sites reporting GHG data are the same as those consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
3 Does not include GHG emissions generated from Meggittowned and operated vehicles or refrigerant gases as these emissions are not material to the Groups emissions.
Meggitt PLC 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility continued Ethics Ethics and business conduct 2018 highlights: Ethics policies Ethics and business conduct training provided to all employees Ongoing active management of our whistleblowing hotline Continued commitment to reduce the number of commercial intermediaries in our supply chain to mitigate against potential risks of corruption and bribery Drives programme content Ongoing compliance with modern slavery and priorities requirements and supplier payment practices We recognise that acting with integrity, honesty and respect for others in all of our business relationships is critical for our success, including those with customers, suppliers and our employees.
Leading to annual allThroughout 2018, we continued to Employees are entitled to a thorough employee training promote our ethics programme through investigation of concerns raised and training issued to all employees, more receive feedback whether the issues targeted training delivered at specific are substantiated or not.
Our high sites, and also briefings delivered to our performance culture concepts are Ethics Champions.
Our training reminds strongly supportive of our ethics employees about ethics and business programme with their focus on how we conduct, and we provide examples of treat each other which is the main area how to apply the principles laid out in for calls received on our Ethics Line.
Every employee receives a printed Ethics Guide on joining the We also continued to take steps to Group, which is also available on our reduce the number of our commercial website.
intermediaries to mitigate potential risks Impacts interaction with of corruption and bribery taking place each other, our customers Our programme is supported by our within our business.
As part of our Group policies, including our Ethics and suppliers commitment to acting as a responsible and Business Conduct Policy, Code of supplier, we commit to abstaining from Conduct and AntiCorruption Policy the practices such as slavery, human latter of which the Board reviewed and trafficking, forced labour and child updated in 2018. labour.
We also commit to take all reasonable measures to ensure that our Each Meggitt business site has a suppliers and other entities acting on designated Ethics Champion who is our behalf do not engage in practices available to assist employees with that violate applicable laws and questions or concerns, and we operate an regulations relating to slavery, human Ethics Line that enables employees to trafficking, forced labour and child raise questions or concerns anonymously labour.
Our statement made in and confidentially, 24 hours a day, 7 days compliance with the UK Modern a week from anywhere in the world.
Slavery Act is available on our website.
Meggitt PLC 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Social Local communities and charitable donations Examples of our ongoing 2018 highlights: STEM activities: Appointment of STEM ambassadors in the UK to Links with the University of encourage initiatives focused on promoting Sheffield and sponsorship of the science, technology, engineering and annual prize for the best Science mathematics education and Engineering Foundation Year student in the Automated Controls Continued support of the local communities and Systems Engineering where our sites are based department.
The Arkwright Scholarship, which supports future engineers by facilitating work experience, mentoring and providing technical guidance on projects and advice on university selection and applications.
Our sites contribute to the communities in which our employees live and work, Our involvement in encouraging to enhance the well being of people living in our communities.
We reinforce this students to take up engineering as through our Charitable Giving Policy.
The policy includes our commitment to a career through the Institution of activities and fundraising to benefit the health and welfare of defence personnel Engineering and Technologys and to support education initiatives, scholarships and competitions in science, Engineering Horizon Bursaries, technology, engineering and mathematics STEM subjects.
which offers support to students who have faced obstacles or Each site is ultimately responsible for national events such as the Cosford and challenges and require financial agreeing and administering its own Farnborough air shows.
These workshops support as well as work budget for charitable donations and and events give students the opportunity placements.
sponsorships to ensure they have a to meet inspirational and cuttingedge Sponsorship of the Schools positive impact on the local community engineers from different backgrounds Aerospace Challenge, which offers or support sectors in which their business and at different stages in their careers.
shortlisted 16 to 18 year olds the operates.
Annual reports reveal the chance to experience what the exceptional generosity of many We are also encouraging engineers who aerospace world has to offer in employees who give time and money have left engineering for whatever reason a fiveday Summer School at to a wide range of national and local to resume the career they trained for in Cranfield University.
For example, we have a groundbreaking programme showing STEM forms the basis of everything we careerbreak returners that we value do at Meggitt, from manufacturing our those skills that they have gained whilst NuCarb brakes to analysing the systems out of the industry.
The programme that keep our intranet running.
Having an is open to men and women in Find out more online at active STEM programme within Meggitt Hertfordshire and Leicestershire, UK and www.
com is something that we value highly as we surrounding areas, who have taken any seek to create an innovative, engaging, length career break, as well as those that inclusive and highperforming culture.
wish to transfer sectors but lack the relevant work experience.
In 2018, we encouraged UK employees Strategic report to become STEM Ambassadors.
This This 2018 Strategic report on pages targeted STEM programme is aiming to 2 to 73 is hereby signed on behalf of increase the diversity of the Meggitt the Board.
workforce by engaging with schools and university communities and encouraging people from all backgrounds to apply for roles within Meggitt.
Our investment in STEM outreach in 2018 has seen our Tony Wood employees support school science clubs Chief Executive and enrichment activities and attend Meggitt PLC 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
