Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Melrose supports and monitors the Corporate Social Responsibility 01 02 Employment matters Community and policies, practices page 60 charitable matters and initiatives across page 62 its businesses.
Reflecting the decentralised nature of the Group, responsibility for the adoption of policies, practices and initiatives sits 03 04 at a divisional level.
This ensures that Gender diversity The environment rigorous and targeted policies and page 63 page 64 procedures are implemented that meet local regulatory requirements and guidance, whilst also taking into account the size and nature of the business.
The information set out in this Corporate Social Responsibility Report focuses on 05 06 the initiatives taken during 2018 by each Health and safety Supply chain assurance of the five divisions that now make up the page 66 page 68 Melrose Group.
The policies, practices and initiatives set out in this report are indicative of the approach taken with any new business Melrose acquires.
07 Human rights and ethical standards page 69 Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued Employment matters Employment policies As part of the Groups decentralised The Group recognises its responsibilities approach, each of Melroses businesses is responsible for setting and measuring its own for the fair treatment of all its current employment and employee related KPIs and, as such, these can vary throughout the and potential employees, in accordance Group.
However, such measurements will with legislation applicable to the generally include absenteeism, punctuality, headcount and employee relations issues.
territories within which it operates, Any concerns or adverse trends are responded to in a timely manner.
together with relevant guidance on Equal opportunities for appropriate training, good practice where appropriate.
career development and promotion are available to all employees within the Group regardless of any disability, gender, religion, race, nationality, sexual orientation or age.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully and fairly considered by the Group and are considered on merit, with regard only to the job-specific requirements and the relevant applicants aptitude and ability to carry out the role.
Furthermore, as a Group-wide policy and so far as particular disabilities permit, Melrose and each of its businesses will, where practicable, make every effort to provide continued employment in the same role for employees who are disabled during their period of employment or, where necessary, provide such employees with a suitable alternative role, together with appropriate training.
60 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report issues.
Regular appraisals, employee GKN Automotive has focused on surveys, notice boards, team meetings, investment in its future workforce suggestion boxes and newsletters are also bystandardising its global graduate used to communicate and engage with programme with reinforcement of the employees, and to solicit their feedback importance of development, mentoring, on issues of concern to them.
performance management and Corporate Social Responsibility.
During 2019, the Board established a GKN Automotive has increased workforce advisory panel WAP in order its total number of graduates to 24, to further promote effective engagement aquarter ofwhom are female.
with, and encourage participation from, its GKN Powder Metallurgy has a number workforce.
Given the Groups decentralised of employee training programmes.
nature and Melroses strategic business Inparticular, GKN Powder Metallurgy model and frequent turnover of businesses, offers engineering development the WAP comprises of the Chief Human programmes, as well as various Resources Officer or equivalent from leadership training programmes.
each business unit and a Melrose Group Inorder to adapt to changing market representative.
Each member of the WAP trends and to help foster talent, some is responsible for promoting workforce ofthese programmes are in the engagement, collating the voice of the processof being reviewed.
workforce and demonstrating how that voice is fed into executive discussions The SST division continued its for their respective business unit.
This emphasis on improving its products and information is then fed back to the Board services through the employee invention for consideration in its discussions and process.
The Innovation Committee decision making.
meets monthly to review employee submissions, the committee consisting Extensive training is available to all staff and of internal counsel, external patent is actively encouraged to ensure that high counsel, senior engineering leadership, standards of skills are maintained across and the inventors themselves.
Inter-departmental training Incentives are in place for employees programmes are also put in place across to submit their invention ideas, including the Group to ensure that skills are shared financial incentives if a submission between operations.
The importance of results in applications filed and patents training extends beyond on-the-job training granted.
In 2018, the Innovation It is the Groups policy that in recruitment, and also focuses on enhancing personal Committee heard 52 invention training, career development and promotion, development.
In addition, apprenticeship idea presentations by employees.
the treatment of disabled persons should, programmes help to assist with training At present, 22 of these invention as far as possible, be identical to that of anew generation of employees and to ideas are in various stages of either ensure knowledge is retained within the other employees.
Melrose is proud to be business development or drafting businesses.
Employees across the Group a member of the Business Disability Forum, of a patent application.
are encouraged to think innovatively a not-for-profit member organisation that Brush HGI has partnered with Toyota and to have regard for both financial and works with the business community to Manufacturing UK and has enrolled economic factors affecting the Group.
understand the changes required in the two HGI staff onto the Toyota workplace in order that disabled persons The Group regards employee engagement, Engineering apprenticeship scheme.
are treated fairly, so that they can contribute training and advancement as an essential The apprentices will be based at both to business success, to society and to element of industrial relations.
HGI and Toyota Manufacturing UK economic growth.
for the duration of their 44-month Employee initiatives Employee involvement, apprenticeship, where they will train at During 2018, a range of employee-related consultation and development Toyotas world class training facility in initiatives were implemented across The Group places great importance Derby and they will be taught by some the Group: on good labour relations, employee of the UKs leading trainers, who will GKN Aerospace piloted and launched engagement and employee development.
help develop, support and guide them Talent Assessment and Development The responsibility for the implementation into HGIs engineers of the future.
Centres which focus on career and management of employment practices Not only will this apprenticeship bridge development in addition to individual rests with local management, in a manner the gap between education and the assessment.
The transition centres appropriate to each business.
workplace, it will also help HGI address are offered at two levels: those current and future engineering A culture of clear communication and individuals wanting to become a leader skills gaps whilst focusing on the employee consultation and engagement and those looking to move from being development of younger people is inherent across the Group.
Employee a leader to leading other managers.
briefing sessions with employee The assessments cover a range of representatives are held on a regular basis psychometric testing, real-life to communicate strategy, key changes, simulations and in one of the financial results, achievements and other centres, a coaching academy.
important issues to employees, and to receive feedback from them on these Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued The funding will be available to support In Filton, near Bristol, where GKN the Groups Aerospace and Automotive Aerospace has a manufacturing site, divisions, but will also be available to proposals have also been put forward for a higher education colleges to create new Global Technology Centre, a Digital Training opportunities for young people and help Centre and Proving Ground where local foster the next generation of great British communities can be trained to better utilise engineers.
In order for this Fund to operate the digital capabilities our country needs.
effectively, Melrose is currently conducting As the technological world around us a Training Needs Analysis to understand accelerates, it is important that the UK has what skills are needed and for whom, where the digital literacy to remain not just globally operational inefficiencies lie, and speaking competitive but emerge as a global leader Community and charitable matters to potential partners across business, and this is the vision behind this Centre.
In addition, Brush is setting up a Skills Proposals have already been suggested Development Fund.
This Fund will identify todevelop the GKN Innovation Centre in internal and external development needs, Abingdon, near Oxford, as a global centre engage and collaborate with partners and of excellence for eDrive technology, ensure that sustainable development is at composites and additive manufacture.
the heart of its business.
Melrose has also identified potential From the creation of STEM programmes, Melrose Skills Fund university partners, high value apprenticeships and degrees, to investment In 2018, Melrose committed to setting up manufacturing catapults, and developed in manufacturing hubs, digital skills, and the Melrose Skills Fund, with the ambition relationships with institutions including employee development, Melrose is to create a supply chain of high calibre the Institute of Mechanical Engineers.
equipping the UK with the future skills engineers for the whole of the UK.
This Inparticular, this Centre will be sponsoring ourcountry needs.
forms part of Melroses wider ambition to select teams who are building electric create an engineering and manufacturing powertrain cars for Formula Student, powerhouse for the UK.
Melrose is aprestigious educational engineering contributing 10 million to the Melrose competition.
This Centre would be at the Skills Fund over five years.
The Fund forefront of creating highly skilled jobs for will operate in collaboration with NGOs.
In addition, employees of the Group continued to support a number of worthwhile charities and community projects during 2018.
Here are a few examples of the great contributions that have been made.
Samarthanam, India Sea turtle conservation American Cancer Society Since 2016, GKN Aerospace in India has Employees at GKN Automotive in Thailand HVAC held several fundraising activities worked alongside the Samarthanam Trust joined a sea turtle conservation programme for the American Cancer Society, a US to develop a five-year plan to support with the aim of creating awareness voluntary health organisation that is 450children with disabilities and from amongst the younger generation of the dedicated to eliminating cancer.
As part of endangered nature of sea turtles, whilst activities included participating in the Relay their commitment, GKN Aerospace has teaching children about how they can for Life team fundraising cancer walk and a established a computer-based resource better protect them.
The employees, Pink Day that was held at the Dyersburg centre at Samarthanam to help the children together with school children, created plant in October 2018.
The Dyersburg plant gain essential skills and play an active role nesting areas on Kerachut Beach in has raised over US$28,000 to date for the in society.
The centre also provides training Penang National Park for the sea turtles by benefit of the American Cancer Society, to improve their job prospects.
So far, GKN planting Merambung trees to attract the and employees are looking forward to Aerospace has funded 1,824,500 Indian turtles to the area so that they can safely participating in the Relay for Life in 2019.
hatch their eggs away from predators.
62 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Total Group Employees Male 49,058 81% Female 11,850 19% 60,908 Board Male 7 78% Female 2 22% 9 1 Senior Managers Male 315 89% Female 39 11% 354 Melrose Central Male 29 60% Female 19 40% 48 Aerospace Male 12,601 76% Female 4,069 24% 16,670 Automotive Male 20,464 87% Diversity Female 2,937 13% 23,401 The charts to the right show the total number of males and females working within the Group Powder Metallurgy as at 31 December 2018.
Male 5,981 83% Female 1,183 17% Melrose is a meritocracy and individual Melrose is a participant of the Hampton- 7,164 performance is the key determinant in any Alexander Review and also notes the appointment, irrespective of ethnicity, recommendations of Lord Davies review, gender or other characteristic, trait or Women on Boards.
Melrose continues to Nortek Air & Security orientation.
The Board recognises the encourage gender diversity throughout the importance of diversity throughout the Group.
Although not appropriate to set Male 4,961 67% workforce and the Board is committed to specific gender diversity targets at Board Female 2,444 33% 7,405 equality of opportunity for all employees.
level or throughout the Groups workforce Further details on the Groups Diversity due to Melroses strategic business model Policy can be found on page 91 of this and frequent turnover of businesses, Annual Report.
Melrose is actively engaged in finding Other Industrial ways to increase the Groups diversity.
The Group currently takes into account Male 5,022 81% a variety of factors before determining Female 1,198 19% 6,220 suitability for vacancies, including relevant skills to perform the role, experience and knowledge.
The most important priority, however, has been and will continue to be ensuring that the best candidate is selected.
1 Senior Managers include the Melrose senior management team and, as required by s414C of the Companies Act 2006, this figure excludes the Board of Melrose Industries PLC and includes Melrose subsidiary company directors.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 63 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued The Group ensures that its businesses entered into a Strategic Energy understand the importance of monitoring Management Agreement whereby it the impact of their operations on the has committed for two years to identify environment, although there are no energy savings measures, with an standardised environmental KPIs currently ultimate goal of reducing 2019 usage used within the Group.
A range of KPIs are by 5% with a 1% reduction already used as environmental measures, including achieved by the end of 2018. energy consumption, CO emissions, water 2 ISO 14001:2015 accreditations were consumption, water contamination, waste retained by all GKN Automotive sites, disposal, solid and liquid waste generation, with 13 14 European plants being The environment recycling and volatile organic compound certified within ISO 50001.
These KPIs are then used to all of the Driveline plants were The Melrose Board plan for ongoing improvements.
Campaign, which aims to improve use of energy, During 2018, the Company continued to fully understands the and we implemented over 100 energy comply with the ongoing annual reporting efficiency activities.
The energy savings importance of the requirements of the UKs Carbon Reduction projects in the European sites alone Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Groups environmental saved over 1.3 million kWh in 2018.
Environmental initiatives Inaddition, the business managed to responsibilities and is During 2018, a range of environmental achieve its landfill reduction target of 10%.
initiatives were implemented within the committed to ensuring All GKN Powder Metallurgy sites Groups divisions.
Some of these are successfully finalised the transition to that the operations of listed below: ISO 14001:2015 and completed a its businesses have comprehensive third-party compliance GKN Aerospace remained committed audit during the second half of 2018. to further environmental improvements the minimum possible To continue its focus on environmental across the business.
By the end of protection and energy efficiency goals, 2018, 84% of GKN Aerospaces sites adverse effect on Hoegenaes Corporation Romania, achieved ISO 14001 certification.
recognized as one of the highest energy addition, the businesss first certification consumers in the business, successfully to ISO 50001 was achieved at its site in obtained a third-party Stand-Alone Munich, Germany.
The site at El Cajon, Certification for its Energy Management California, US as part of a consortium of System according to ISO 50001. six large industrial facilities in San Diego, 64 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report In addition, the business achieved light and air system in the plant, which The year-on-year like-for-like emissions a 3.7% global reduction in energy resulted in reduced energy usage and a were down by around 10% mainly due resulting in savings of 25,000 MWh US$20,000 rebate on lighting.
All GKN to continuing significant reductions in vs. 2017 and a 9.3% global reduction Wheels & Structures sites undertook reported energy usage at the Brush in landfill waste equalling 242 tons an independent environmental audit in Loughborough, UK and Czech Republic vs. 2017.
2018 to help identify opportunities for sites, and the Nortek Saskatoon, Canada further improvement.
and Shenzhen, China sites and the closure HVAC continues to look for opportunities of the Mississauga, Canada site and a near to reduce its environmental footprint: its Brush continued to focus on making 20% reduction in the Ergotron group Montreal, Canada facility reduced the further energy savings.
These have outweighed an use of wood packaging by approximately across the Blackwood, UK, Ridderkerk, increase in process related emissions US$48,000 in favour of recyclable The Netherlands and Brisbane, Australia at the Brush Blackwood and Brisbane materials for interplant shipments.
In sites continue, with the installation of LED sites and a 12% increase in emissions Tualatin, the conversion to LED lighting is lights in the factory and surrounds, which across the HVAC division.
approximately 60% complete and the will deliver an annual CO reduction and 2 business received a three-year Silver generate savings for the business.
The GHG reporting period is aligned Green Business Certification.
Further, TheBlackwood site also completed to the Companys financial reporting year.
in 2018 the business procured an its transition to ISO 14001:2015 and The data has been prepared in accordance enterprise-wide software that will enable recycled 100% of its mixed wood waste with the principles and requirements of the tracking of hazardous waste generation, in 2018.
A paper reduction initiative was Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Revised Edition, recycling of cardboard, paper, metals, also introduced in Brisbane, which saw ISO 14064 Part 1 and the Department for electricity and water use by site by paper consumption reduce by more than Environment, Food & Rural Affairs DEFRA month with future plans to track 50% over the year.
guidance on how to measure and report on CO emissions.
2 Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions, as first published AQH launched the Hartford Energy The Group is required to measure and in 2013 and subsequently updated.
Team with support from WPPI, a local report its direct and indirect Greenhouse electric utility, and Focus on Energy, a We have reported on all emission sources gas GHG emissions in the UK pursuant state-wide programme in Wisconsin, required under the Companies Act 2006 to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic US, which have built a robust energy Strategic Report and Directors Reports Report and Directors Reports Regulations consumption model to understand Regulations 2013.
The reported emissions cover all current consumption of electric power entities over which the Group had financial All material emissions from within the and natural gas and to review the control over for a period of at least one year organisational and operational scope and impact of energy reduction projects.
Emissions from boundaries of the Group are reported.
The AQH has also implemented measures entities acquired or disposed of during the emissions from owned vehicle transport to look for reduction opportunities reporting period i. e. disposed of before i. e. Group owned cars and vans, lorries and and to identify and quickly correct 31 December 2017 or acquired after fork lift trucks and the emissions associated leaks inits compressed air system.
1 January 2018 are not accounted for in with refrigeration have been excluded from Thebusiness has replaced fluorescent the report.
Note the emissions associated the report on a fide minimis basis.
bulbs with LED tubes at certain facilities with the purchase of the GKN group and remodelling projects now use only Given that the Melrose business model midway through 2018 have not been LED lighting.
As a result of the above is to acquire and divest businesses over a included in the report as per the GHG activities, AQH qualified for US$60,000 three to five-year time frame, there may be accounting procedure, and will be included in rebates in 2018.
In addition, the GBIS significant year-on-year changes in the in next years reporting period and lead Huizhou site maintained its ISO reported emissions data, which may not to a significant increase in the overall Group 14001:2015 registration.
reflect the underlying GHG performance emissions GKNs last reported emissions of the Groups businesses.
The SST sites continue to ensure that for 2017 amounted to 1.29 million tonnes.
they either meet or exceed the Universal Waste and Recycling regulations, as Global GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2018 31 December 2018 well as maximising their recycling 1 tonnes CO e unless stated 2 efforts.
In order to reduce electrical 2 Emissions sources 2018 2017 Change consumption and Universal Waste 3 category reductions, the use of Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities scope 1 23,261 23,680 -2% fluorescent bulbs was eliminated and UK electricity 1,718 3,236 -47% replaced with LED lighting at two Overseas electricity 29,592 33,273 -11% facilities, as well as implementing energy 4 Total purchased electricity scope 2 31,310 36,509 -14% efficient exterior LED fixtures at another.
4 Other purchased energy scope 2 1,801 2,027 -11% The new Carlsbad, California, US site Companys chosen intensity measurement: was developed with bioswale storm Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes water collection subsequent recycled per 1,000 turnover 0.030 0.030 0% water distribution for all site 1 CO e carbon dioxide equivalent, this figure includes Greenhouse gases in addition to carbon dioxide.
2 The 2018 emissions data does not include the GKN businesses as they were acquired part way through that year.
3 Our scope 1 estimates include emissions from fuel used on premises, transport emissions from owned or controlled vehicles, All GKN Wheels & Structures sites losses of refrigerant, and process and fugitive emission.
retained their ISO 14001:2015 4 Our scope 2 estimates include emissions from electricity and heat purchased by the Groups businesses.
Scope 2 emissions, and total Greenhouse gas emissions, are calculated using Market based methods.
The Armstrong, US site installed a new interface to control the Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 65 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued All divisions in the Group have the health Each division is responsible for setting its and safety of their workforce as a key own detailed arrangements concerning priority.
Each business unit uses data health and safety policies and procedures, collection methods of comparable scope, in accordance with local health and safety frequency and quality.
We have been legislation and as is appropriate to the working with the GKN businesses to activities undertaken at each facility.
As a conform their KPIs to those reported general rule, the Board regularly directs by the non-GKN businesses, and can divisions to strive to achieve best practice now confirm that all businesses are in terms of what is suitable and practical for reporting in accordance with the the size and nature of their operations.
Defined and business-specific health and safety key performance indicators are also The Group has a policy in place, which is used.
Reports detailing each divisions supported by regular top-down monitoring performance in relation to three health and and bottom-up reporting and continuous safety KPIs major accident frequency rate, improvement procedures, to ensure that accident frequency rate and accident the Directors are made aware of any severity rate are presented to the Board and serious health and safety incidents reviewed at each quarterly Board meeting.
wherever they occur in the world without The year was overshadowed by the tragic delay and enable suitable investigative, accident at Telford and efforts have been preventative and corrective actions to be redoubled in order to avoid any recurrence.
Current events and issues As would be expected, health and safety relating to health and safety matters are remains the primary focus and there were also discussed at quarterly Board meetings no consistent or repeated material issues of the Company in consultation with the or concerns identified by the Board during divisional health and safety leads.
Behaviour-based safety programmes an urgent or high priority matter arises, the and reinforcement training remain at the Melrose senior executive management forefront of all business divisions health and team will monitor and discuss it on an safety initiatives, with additional focus on expedited basis to determine a responsive strengthening near-miss and hazard action plan for implementation by the awareness programmes to maintain a relevant divisional management team.
culture of safety awareness, informed risk Tragically, a fatality occurred at the GKN mitigation, regular workplace training and Wheels & Structures facility in Telford, reduction of hazardous behaviours in Shropshire, UK at the end of 2018.
incident remains under investigation by the UK Health and Safety Executive and the For more information on the Groups health business is cooperating fully whilst and safety KPIs, see the key performance implementing its own health and safety indicators section on pages 18 to 19 of the action plan.
During 2018, the recently acquired GKN Any fatal incident is one too many and businesses introduced a number of the Company has responded to this targeted safety-enhancing initiatives in incident by closely supporting and respect of hazard identification, working at monitoring the divisional management team height, manual handling and ergonomic in implementing a comprehensive detailed safety.
Reported attendance at the relevant action plan for corrective and improvement information and training sessions was high.
measures without delay, which include Safety awareness amongst employees actions related to the accident as well as a continues to grow and be reinforced as part wider health and safety review at the Health and safety of the quarterly ThinkSAFE training, with relevant facility.
The business has extended different topics being aimed at groups its support to the family involved and those The Board is committed ofemployees based on their business working at the plant who have been function.
Monthly refresher sessions are to minimising the health affected by the incident.
In line with the held on specific topics such as personal Groups commitment to health and safety and safety risks that protection equipment and the manual excellence the Board continues to impress upon divisional management teams the handling of parts, all within the facility each Group employee importance of maintaining high levels of environment on a localised basis and is exposed to by health and safety awareness that align not tailored to the requirements of each site only with regulation, but also good industry where appropriate.
promoting the effective practice and site-specific risk profiles.
The Group emphasises to all divisional use and management management teams that health and safety of business-specific performance and vigilance must be prioritised at all sites, with focus placed on policies and procedures.
those sites that contain production facilities.
66 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Within the Automotive division which award for several years of zero lost time At HVAC, behaviour-based observations, makes up over 35% of the total Group accidents in the workplace and an award job safety analysis and personal protection workforce the major accident frequency from the New Jersey Governors Counsel equipment assessments continued.
rate and total accident frequency rate in recognition of zero work-related injuries.
ANortek Safety Executive Council was decreased compared to 2017.
This followed formed and the Dyersberg, US facility Brush continued to focus on enhancing increased prominence of specific practical received the Safety Award from the State employee engagement and hazard safety initiatives such as machine risk of Tennessee for having an outstanding reduction across its facilities, with its UK site assessments, safety in setting and safety programme.
continuing to see good performance and changeover assessments, safe working Facilities within the Group generally hold the the Czech Republic facility implementing on high-voltage automotive systems and ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications additional initiatives including increased workplace transport risk assessments where appropriate with a number of sites visual inspections of key constructions and the latter seeing a concurrent reduction planning to roll out ISO 45001 next year.
lifting devices, and replacement of manual in the number of risks that were identified machines for CNC machines.
In the UK, in the Automotive division relating to the Following these initiatives, among others, Czech Republic and The Netherlands, ISO interaction between employees and fork the Group has recognised the benefits of a 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards lift trucks.
Safety awareness continues to workforce engaged in matters of health and continue to be maintained and the transition be conducted in a targeted manner.
safety, management teams committed to from ISO 9001:2008 to ISO 9001:2015 was the continuous improvement of health and The Automotive divisions US plants in completed across all facilities.
In the UK, safety standards throughout the Groups Alamance, Rockwell and Sanford received Brush was awarded the ROSPA Gold businesses to keep the workforce safe.
Award in Health and Safety, signalling safety excellence awards from the US industry recognition for its high standards Department of Labor in acknowledgement of in health and safety.
their injury reduction and risk management.
Other notable site-specific initiatives include Brushs behavioural safety programme the implementation of a behaviour-based has continued to improve the strong health safety improvement model at the Aerospace and safety culture within the business.
site in Pune, India which saw a reduction of The programme focuses on developing 81% in the total incident rate at that facility.
aproactive approach among Brush employees to increase responsibility and The Powder Metallurgy divisions Sinter accountability for their own and their Metals Conover facility in North Carolina, working groups actions, whilst ensuring US received an award from the North that employees intervene at the earliest Carolina Department of Labor recognising opportunity to stop hazardous acts or the sites outstanding health and safety correct any unsafe conditions.
The Hoeganaes Cinnaminson site in New Jersey, US received an MPPA Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 67 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued The security, assurance and ethical As part of its supplier focus, as well as compliance of business supply chains working to ensure its on time payment, are very important to Melrose and its GKN Aerospace and GKN Automotive businesses.
Responsibility for the launched a joint global procurement implementation and management of all transformation plan to drive business supplier-related policies rests with local improvement, which seeks to optimise its management.
Such policies are used 1.4 billion of spend on indirect products in a manner appropriate to the size and and services.
This involves partnering with complexity of the business and also take suppliers for indirect products and services into account the nature and geographical across these divisions.
Preferred suppliers Supply chain assurance representation of key suppliers.
A supplier are in the process of being selected for approval process exists within all business these indirect products and services, Each business is divisions, which is linked to specific and including consumables and non-OEM responsible for the tailored supplier assessments and due parts.
Concurrently, all businesses are diligence requirements utilising third party working to achieve similar improvements management of its resources and the implementation of with their direct commodity suppliers.
appropriate terms and conditions for the supplier base, including Steps have also been taken to improve protection of the Group.
In particular, the application of the A number of initiatives were undertaken Melrose has funded the significant appropriate policy, during 2018 to improve supply chain in light investment required to achieve the of the acquisition of GKN.
With Melrose necessary operational improvements which best suits the support, the GKN divisions have renewed fundamental to securing this their focus on improving their performance improvedperformance.
geographical and and delivery, particularly in critical supply operational diversity chains.
This requires a focus, on both its own suppliers, as well as delivering of the Group.
68 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Finally, the Companys Modern Slavery Statement is available on the Companys homepage at www.
The Group has taken steps to implement effective and proportionate procedures to ensure that there are no forms of modern slavery in the Groups business or supply chains.
This has included ensuring that all businesses have implemented a robust policy regarding the prevention of modern slavery and human trafficking and that online training has been made available to employees as the businesses have determined to be appropriate.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 10 to 69, has been approved by the Board.
On behalf of the Board Simon Peckham The decentralised nature of the Group Chief Executive means there is no over-arching policy 7 March 2019 currently in place with regard to human rights: however Melrose is committed to good practice in respect of human rights.
Employees across the Group are required, at all times, to exhibit the highest levels of integrity and to maintain the highest ethical standards in business affairs.
The full text of the Melrose Code of Ethics, which all Human rights and ethical standards employees of the Group are required to familiarise themselves with, can be found Sound business ethics on the Companys website at: www.
net about-us and integrity are core governance code-of-ethics.
to the Groups values In addition to the Melrose Code of Ethics, and a high importance each Group business is expected to have its own code of ethics dealing with matters is placed on dealings such as human rights.
All business-specific employee policies are prepared locally with all employees, within each business in order to ensure customers, suppliers compliance with local laws and standards as a minimum.
Responsibility for the and other stakeholders.
communication and implementation of such policies rests with the relevant senior managers within the Groups businesses.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 69
