48 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ACTING RESPONSIBLY, TAKING CARE MERLINS COMMITMENT AND STRONG SOCIAL CONSCIENCE DRIVES OUR APPROACH TO BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD.
THIS IS REFLECTED IN HOW WE TREAT AND CARE ABOUT OUR VISITORS, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SUPPLIERS, OUR PLANET, THE ANIMALS WE LOOK AFTER AND THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE.
Governance Merlin has robust governance standards and practices that extend throughout the business.
This starts at the top with an experienced Board that is structured in line with best practice and supported by appropriately rigorous Board Committees.
The reports on the activities of these Committees in the year can be found on pages 66 to 89.
This approach then extends to how we run the business.
For example, in the critical area of health and safety, the core mission to maintain the safety and wellbeing of our guests, employees and contractors is supported by a series of robust strategic initiatives and the regular monitoring of certain key performance indicators.
More details on how we approach health and safety can be found on pages 50 to 51.
Non-financial reporting We set out below our approach to the five specific areas required under the non-financial reporting requirements set out in the Companies Act.
Further information can also be found on Merlins website and the websites of our partner charities.
Turning the London Eye green for Green GB Week 2018 Environmental We recognise that our attractions have an impact upon the environment.
Merlin engages in a number of activities in this area under the oversight of the Executive Committee and Chief Executive Officer, as well as partnering with the SEA LIFE Trust charity.
The Groups environmental policy is published on our website and the We care about our planet section on pages 52 to 53 contains more information.
This includes our greenhouse gas reporting, where we target annual reductions in our carbon intensity of 2%.
Employees Our worldwide team of skilled employees is one of the key elements of our long term business model.
We constantly keep them up to date with the business through the My Merlin intranet, a quarterly groupwide newsletter The Wizard, as well as using TV screens and noticeboards in staff rooms and other areas.
Further details of how we engage with and develop our employees, together with employee and gender diversity statistics can be found in the People section on pages 42 to 47.
This includes the results of our employee engagement survey and our employee engagement score, a key non-financial performance indicator.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 49 Beach clean arranged by SEA LIFE Porto We make no differentiation between able bodied persons and persons with disability in terms of recruitment, training and career progression, and will make every effort to continue the employment and training of those persons who become disabled while employed by the Group.
For details of how we manage the risks of people availability and their expertise, see page 38.
Social matters Our strong social conscience informs how the Group operates, including with regard to both the people and creatures connected to our business.
This is exemplified by areas such as our ethical animal husbandry activities, our work with children faced with the challenges of serious illness, disability and adversity, and how we approach visitor accessibility.
More details can be found on pages 52 to 57.
For details of how we manage the risks regarding animal welfare, see page 39.
We also have a responsibility to the workers in our supply chain and seek to ensure our products are made in an appropriate environment and the Were delighted to break new ground in products we source are produced in accordance with international laws and marine animal welfare with the creation legislation.
More details on this area are available on our website.
of the worlds first sanctuary for beluga Human rights whales.
This is a pioneering solution to Merlin has implemented a Human Rights Policy, guided by the International how the aquarium industry can reshape Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work together with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
the futures of whales and dolphins in captivity.
This policy and Merlins Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement can be found on Merlins website.
James Burleigh Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters Divisional Director, Merlins approach regarding the management of anti-bribery and corruption risks is set out on page 40.
Merlin has a zero tolerance approach in this Conservation Welfare and Engagement area, with regular reports on whistleblowing being provided to the CWE Audit Committee.
50 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS WE KEEP PEOPLE SAFE AND SECURE MERLIN IS DEDICATED TO DELIVERING BEST IN CLASS HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY HSS STANDARDS THAT ARECLEARLY UNDERSTOOD AND IMPLEMENTED ACROSS THE GROUP.
Mission and strategic initiatives Our mission sets out the Companys philosophy with regard to ensuring the safety and wellbeing of our guests, employees and contractors.
To support this mission, the Company has also set out its core HSS strategic initiatives and how these must direct and focus all efforts in a manner that is both systematic and progressive.
What we do Safety leadership walks on-site walks, both in visitor areas and back of house, by senior leaders in the business where dedicated time is spent talking with staff about HSS matters and understanding what more can be done.
Training rigorous training and instruction are fundamental to Merlins approach to HSS across the business, with mandatory new starter training for all employees and safety leadership training formanagers.
Risk assessments Feasibility Risk Assessments and Operational and Use Risk Assessments now provide a more structured methodology for risk identification, elimination or control for new rides and hotels.
Fire safety proactive fire engineering surveys of our hotels have helped ensure that we continue touphold the highest of physical and procedural controls at all of our hotels.
Ride inspections thorough inspections conducted at least annually by independent inspection bodies on each ride complement our internal Food safety we adopt the best practice system of Hazard Analysis and maintenance and inspection regimes.
We ensure traceability and assurance over food produce sources and support our guests in their choice of products Construction best in class standards are maintained across all Merlins global based on their specific dietary and allergy requirements.
The new Bear Grylls Adventure attraction in the UK along with new hotels at LEGOLAND Japan and LEGOLAND California are Maintenance robust maintenance systems and procedures comprise daily, examples of safe projects achieved through rigorous HSS standards.
weekly, monthly and annual maintenance programmes across Merlins rides, buildings, facilities and estates.
Auditing our Triple Lock audit programme was further enhanced in 2018 with a new software system that allows for integrated reporting.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 51 How we monitor HSS performance HSS performance, including near-miss and incident reporting, is regularly reviewed by each attraction, each Operating Groups senior leadership team and the HSS Committee, with best practice learning shared throughout the HSS management community.
All attractions undergo three types of routine health and safety reviews annual self-audits, independent internal audits and periodic independent external audits, in addition to pre-opening assessments and tactical ad-hoc audits.
A comprehensive food safety audit programme is also undertaken by third party specialists.
We have two types of performance metric that we report on below: Leading indicators these monitor the activities we undertake as part ofour HSS governance and monitoring processes.
Our approach includes arrangements by attractions for near-miss unsafe condition reporting, trendanalysis and corrective action management.
Lagging indicators these capture incident rates for both guests and employees.
Our strategic initiatives comprise the following six core aspects: Leading indicators Leadership and Engagement 1 Safety Inspection Certificates Rides 100% Requiring our leaders to exhibit visible, proactive and unwavering 2 leadership towards HSS, supported by our people who are fully Safe Operating Procedures Rides 100% engaged with this shared responsibility.
3 Food Safety Audits 95% 4 Safety Culture Survey Results 87% Competency and Culture 5 Fostering a positive, proactive and fair safety culture, with competent HSS Committee Meetings 100% and talented people focused on the effective management of HSS risks.
Lagging indicators 6 Medical Treatment Case Rate Guests 0.03 Assessment and Control of Risk 6 Identifying, understanding and controlling HSS risks effectively so that Medical Treatment Case Rate Employees 0.07 the greatest effort and resource is placed on our most material risks, whether existing or emerging.
1 Safety Inspection Certificates are issued annually by independent ride examiners following the thorough inspection and testing of every theme park ride in Merlin.
This % score indicates the percentage of rides Standards and Procedures that have Safety Inspection Certificates issued.
2 Each theme park ride in operation in Merlin must have Safe Operating Procedures in place covering the Developing and rigorously implementing clear and suitable standards ongoing use of the ride.
These procedures must state what the necessary risk controls are for each ride.
and procedures for safe design, construction, maintenance and This % score indicates the percentage of rides that have Safe Operating Procedures in place.
operation of assets and equipment.
3 Merlin commissions an independent specialist to audit attractions for compliance with its Food Safety Manual.
This % score represents the average compliance score.
Where opportunities for improvement to local practices are identified, these are discussed with local management and plans implemented to Assets and Equipment address them.
Managing our assets and equipment to ensure they are fit for purpose 4 Merlins annual The Wizard Wants to Know employee survey features a series of questions relating to throughout their life-cycle such that no unacceptable or uncontrolled health and safety and this % score represents the overall safety engagement score.
5 Through the HSS Committee the Board provides strategic direction and performance scrutiny of HSS matters within the business.
Additionally, each Operating Group has its own HSS Steering Committee.
These forums are intended to meet quarterly and this % score indicates compliance with thisexpectation.
Monitoring and Assurance We note that the December HSS Committee meeting for the LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group was Assessing and critically reviewing our performance, in a balanced and rescheduled to early January 2019 for logistical reasons.
objective manner, in order to understand, improve and sustain our 6 A Medical Treatment Case MTC is defined as an injury which requires external medical treatment i. e. ambulance attendance to the site or hospital visit directly from the site.
The rates referenced are the HSSperformance.
number of MTCs relative to either 10,000 guest visitations or 10,000 employee hours worked.
To help communicate these to our key internal and external stakeholders, the Company has published a new informative brochure called Protecting the Magic a Guide to Health, Safety and Security at Merlin Entertainments.
This document is available via our corporate website and the Protectingthemagic.
Additional HSS news items and features are also published throughout the year on the Companys Backstage website.
52 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS WE CARE ABOUT OUR PLANET WE RECOGNISE THAT OUR OPERATIONS IMPACT UPON THE ENVIRONMENT AND THAT EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT, IN LINE WITH OUR STRATEGIC BUSINESS GOALS, IS ESSENTIAL FOR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS SUCCESS.
WE ARE COMMITTED TO MINIMISE THE POTENTIALLY HARMFUL EFFECTS OF SUCH ACTIVITY.
Strategy and governance Climate change The Executive Committee is responsible for setting strategy, policy, principles The Group has identified the following issues related to climate change, which and guidance for attractions.
Ultimate responsibility for our sustainability are set out below together with Merlins approach in the relevant area.
strategy rests with the Chief Executive Officer, supported by management, to Energy use the risk that using fossil fuel energy contributes to climate ensure that strategic policy is implemented and that our sites sustainability change.
Merlin is investing in on-site zero to low carbon technologies such objectives align to our corporate sustainability objectives.
Each attraction has a as installing solar photovoltaic and combined heat and power assets.
sustainability champion who is responsible for the delivery of our sustainability Energy price the risk of fluctuation in the global energyprice.
Merlin is objectives at a local level.
More details can be found on the sustainability page investing in systems to reduce the amount of energy we use, for example at on our website.
Madame Tussauds London where a new building management system monitors carbon dioxide levels around the attraction and adjusts energy Compliance and environmental management usage accordingly.
We participate in the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC energy Weather the risk of distortion inweather patterns.
Merlin operates a efficiency scheme and other applicable environmental regulations globally.
balance of both outdoor theme park resorts and Midway attractions which Specific budgets are made available each year to test and implement are generally indoors.
Waste, recycling and the use oflandfill Merlin is diverting waste from landfill where possible through recycling and generating energy from waste.
For example, our four largest UK theme parks recycle and recover all their waste for energy generation.
We Care about our Planet annual event Merlin teams all over the world participated in ourannual We Care about our Planet event to support Merlins commitment to sustainability.
Awide range of activities were undertaken by ourglobal teams including beach cleans, collecting plastics and other waste, staff cycling and walking to work and around ourattractions to raise awareness.
Staff cycling at Gardaland Resort STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 53 Table notes: Report boundaries Financial control all facilities under the Groups Scope 1 refers to direct emissions natural gas, LPG, direct financial control have been included.
heating oil, refrigerants, diesel, petrol.
Consistency with This report covers the 12 month period from Scope 2 refers to indirect financial statements 1 December 2017 to 30 November 2018 in emissions purchased comparison to our financial year of January to electricity, purchased heat andsteam.
Scope 2 market based include GOs for HeidePark and Methodology The WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: REGOs for our A Corporate Accounting and Reporting UKoperations.
Standard Revised Edition applying emissions Our annual carbon reduction factors from IEA CO emissions from fuel target is measured based on 2 market based emissions.
combustion 2018 edition and emissions factors from DEFRA 2018.
Intensity ratio Emissions per 1 million of revenue SEA LIFE Porto volunteers removing litter from the beach Scope 1 22,768 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 2017: 25,560 tonnes Scope 2 109,923 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 Localised based 2017: 111,911 tonnes Scope 2 102,691 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 Market based 2017: 104,672 tonnes Group gross emissions 125,459 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 2017: 130,232 tonnes Intensity baseline 1,688 million revenue 2017: 1,594 million Emissions intensity 74 tonnes of CO equivalent per 1 million of 2 revenue 2017: 82 tonnes Greenhouse gas GHG reporting were lower compared to 2017 due to a reduction Commitment to plastics reduction The Company is required to report each year on in the use of coal for energy generation.
This As a responsible business and an advocate for its carbon dioxide emissions, which are set out in contributes 5.6% to the reported reduction.
Our marine conservation, Merlin is committed to the table above.
The reported emissions intensity underlying carbon emission intensity reduction was working towards removing the use of single-use is affected by the impact of foreign exchange therefore 4.7%, ahead of our annual target which is plastics, and 2018 has seen a number of initiatives movements on the revenue figure that forms the to reduce our carbon emission intensity by 2.0% in this area.
This has reduced the reported yearonyear.
9.0% intensity reduction by 1.3% and accordingly In the summer of 2018 we partnered with the reduction on a constant currency basis would Coca-Cola Great Britain to encourage more be 10.3%.
Carbon emission factors used in 2018 recycling through state of the art vending machines.
Unique Coca-Cola Great Britain reverse vending machines Unliketraditional vending machines that dispense drinks, the unique machines rewarded those who deposited their empty plastic bottles with a 50% off entry voucher to 30 of our attractions.
The scheme followed, and reinforced, research by Coca-Cola Great Britain which revealed that 64% of British people would recycle more if they were instantly rewarded for doing so.
It is estimated that 26million tonnes of plastic pollution ends up in the oceans each year and beach cleans help to prevent harmful materials from posing a danger to marine life, entangling and poisoning creatures that live on or near the beach.
The year saw one of our biggest beach cleans with over 350 volunteers collecting 280 kilogrammes of rubbish in their annual event at SEA LIFE Porto.
Every year SEA LIFE aquariums across the globe host beach cleans to clear up litter and help prevent ocean pollution in their local area.
Finally, by the end of the year we had ceased the use of plastic straws within all our owned attractions as part of a number of initiatives to reduce plastics from the business.
We will focus even more effort in the coming years on our single-use plastics policy and actively seek out environmentally responsible businesses throughout our supply chain.
54 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS WE CARE ABOUT ANIMAL CONSERVATION AND WELFARE WE OPERATE TO WORLD CLASS WELFARE STANDARDS THROUGH OUR ANIMAL CARE NETWORK AND SUPPORT THE WORK OF THE SEA LIFE TRUST IN ITS MISSION TO PROTECT MARINE LIFE AND HABITATS ACROSS THE WORLD.
SEA LIFE Conservation, Welfare and Engagement The newly named SEA LIFE Conservation, Welfare and Engagement team will continue to help SEA LIFE to focus on delivering world class animal welfare throughout our animal care network, where we look after around 160,000 animals, as well as developing new exciting guest experiences which will inspire future generations to care for our oceans and all marine life.
The team will ensure that inspiring conservation is at the heart of all our projects and new guest developments.
They will also communicate all the great conservation work SEA LIFE undertakes and supports around the world including the activities of our pioneering marine conservation partner charity, the SEALIFETrust.
SEA LIFE Trust 2018 saw a real step change in the SEA LIFE Trusts mission to protect marine life and habitats across the world.
Through the Team Turtle campaign, millions of SEA LIFE visitors have had the opportunity to learn about the threat plastic pollution poses to these amazing animals and how they can make simple changes in their own life to help protect sea turtles from this.
In March, the Trust took on its first marine animal sanctuary the Cornish Seal Sanctuary in the UK.
This sanctuary rescues, rehabilitates and releases sick or injured seal pups every year with over 80 being helped by our expert team over the most recent pup season.
In June, the Trust announced the construction of its second sanctuary and a world first.
The SEA LIFE Trust Beluga Whale Sanctuary in Iceland will provide a new, more natural home for two beluga whales currently housed in an aquarium in China.
The funds required to build the sanctuary were in the main part donated tothe Trust by Merlin and the sanctuary will be ready to welcome its first residents during 2019.
It is hoped that more belugas currently housed in aquariums across the world will join the first two over the coming years providing a brighter future in a more natural home for these amazinganimals.
org WILD LIFE Chessington World of Adventures Resort in the UK, WILD LIFE Sydney Zoo and WILD LIFE Hamilton Island in Australia all maintained their long-standing commitment to animal breeding or managed species programmes.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 55 Picture above: Little White and Little Grey Picture right: Preparations for the journey Picture below: Klettsvik Bay, Heimaey Island, Iceland 56 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS WE CARE ABOUT PEOPLE WE HARNESS THE ENTHUSIASM OF OUR EMPLOYEES TO DEMONSTRATE AND REINFORCE OUR CORE MERLIN WAY VALUES, ESPECIALLY HOW WE CARE.
Merlins Magic Wand In 2018 our partner childrens charity Merlins Magic Wand MMW celebrated its tenthbirthday, with Merlin teams across the world getting involved in birthday themed Fun Festival activities.
MMW continues to enable children faced with the challenges of serious illness, disability and adversity to experience the magic of Merlin.
Since the charity began we have provided days out to over 600,000 children and their families over 100,000 in 2018, launched 46 Magic Spaces projects globally, and taken the magic of Merlin on tour to children in hospitals all over the world.
org Accessibility In addition to our commitments to employees with disabilities, we are focused This new play area has on improving the accessibility of our attractions.
At Merlin we care about creating memorable experiences for all of our guests including the many guests removed barriers to play and with disabilities who choose to visit us each year.
This includes making access that our children and necessary reasonable adjustments to our facilities to ensure guests with different requirements can experience the magic.
We understand our their families face every day.
obligations and we care about continuously improving accessibility.
In order to We are so incredibly grateful ensure that we continue to meet the needs of all of our guests, we are to your teams for making this committed to listening to feedback and reviewing our facilities and the way we do things to make them better for everyone.
We work with over 200 children and families each In 2018 we have remained active members of the Members of Business Disability Forum, working closely with their expert team to drive continual year and are delighted that the improvements and support for guests with disabilities.
new play area will be a happy and fun place for our children and their siblings, friends and wider community to enjoy year after year.
Picture far right: MMW Fun Festival at LEGOLAND Billund Resort Yorda Adventures STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 57 Guests can now explore the Sensory Space in Heartlake City at LEGOLAND Windsor Resort.
The calming space has been specifically designed for those with additional sensory needs, and is a permanent feature for guests to enjoy.
This is the first dedicated sensory facility of its kind in our theme parks and is an open space full of interactive sensory experiences, with vibrating bean bags, soft seating, interactive projections, bubble tubes, infinity tunnels, tactile panels and soft lighting, all designed to create a calm space to relax in for those who need it.
The feedback has been overwhelmingly positive: Many autistic children love trips to theme parks where they can have fun and socialise.
But unfamiliar places, especially popular attractions, can increase their anxiety levels and overload their senses.
This is why we were delighted to hear about LEGOLAND Windsor Resorts new sensory facilities.
Supportive spaces like these play an essential role in opening up the world for autistic children and their families.
Spokesperson for the National Autistic Society My family appreciate having this space now available and well placed too.
Because we had anice cool 30 minutes in this area, my relaxed kids could then manage another hour enjoying LEGOLAND, where normally wed have had toconsider heading home.
Visitor to LEGOLAND Windsor Sensory space at Heartlake City, LEGOLAND Windsor
