42 42 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 PE O PLE TEAM MERLIN WE KNOW THAT THE MORE ENGAGED OUR EMPLOYEES ARE, THE BETTER OUR GUESTS EXPERIENCE WILL BE.
THATS WHY EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT CONTINUES TO BE A KEY AREA OF FOCUS, AND WHY WERE SO PROUD THAT OUR ENGAGEMENT LEVELS CONTINUE TO BE SIGNIFICANTLY AHEAD OF GLOBAL BENCHMARKS.
We value our people employee engagement Employee engagement continues to be a key focus area for Merlin.
Our annual employee survey, The Wizard Wants to Know WWTK, is the perfect opportunity for Team Merlin to tell us how were doing, how they are feeling and what they need to feel more engaged and happy at work.
Ourlatest results confirm that our levels of employee engagement remain significantly above the global benchmarks.
Were very proud of this, especially the 95% response rate, with overall engagement remaining at 86%.
We constantly want to improve though and each team has created their own action plan focusing on improving the areas that are most important to them.
Additionally, each of our businesses has a Your Voice Counts YVC forum fordiscussing local issues which would benefit the attraction.
With the introduction of the Employee Voice as part of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance requirements, from 2019 these local forums will now have the opportunity to discuss important topics with a member of the Board on an annual basis with the establishment of the UK Your Voice Counts information sharingmeeting.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 43 WWTK our employee survey 95% RESPONSE RATE 94% I ENJOY WORKING HERE We recognise the contribution our people make to our success We understand the importance of recognition and encourage local attractions to ensure they are recognising their teams appropriately.
Our STAR recognition programme continues to be our global programme for recognising behaviour and performance that truly embody our values.
This year almost 96% 140,000 STARs were sent across the globe, contributing to more than 800,000 STARs that have been sent since the scheme was launched seven I AM ENCOURAGED years ago.
TOMINIMISE RISKS AND We also innovate in this area.
In 2018 the LEGOLAND Florida Resort ENSURE A SAFE WORKING launched You Earned It, a platform resort employees can use to recognise ENVIRONMENT FOR colleagues for performance and behaviour linked to our Merlin values by COLLEAGUES AND sending them points which can be redeemed for customised rewards.
There is a real-time activity feed enabling colleagues to amplify anyones post by adding CUSTOMERS a High-5, as well as Behaviour Bonuses which are for specific challenges or goals, either for the whole attraction or at department level.
LEGOLAND Florida saw an increase in a number of recognition based questions in the 2018 Wizard Wants to Know survey with comments from employees such as You Earned It has so far been an awesome incentive tool, You Earned Itmakes 95% me feel the company cares about creating a fun environment and I AM CLEAR ABOUT YouEarned It has helped create a most positive working environment.
WHATI AM EXPECTED TOACHIEVE IN MY JOB 86% ENGAGEMENT INDEX We embrace diversity and inclusivity Offering an inclusive working environment, where difference is valued, is a crucial part of our strategy, so we are committed to ensuring that diverse groups are fully and properly represented at all levels of our organisation.
We strive to ensure we have the best people for every role, regardless of gender, race, disability, sexual orientation, or any other factor.
At Board level we are achieving a good level of diversity.
A recent report by Hampton-Alexander ranked us seventh out of FTSE 250 companies for Board gender diversity, with 44% of our Board members being women.
Our Board members are also made up of a number of nationalities, reflecting our geographical spread, and bring a range of experience over industry sectors.
44 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 PE O PL E TEAM MERLIN C O N T I NUE D Weve also made progress this year at the Executive Committee level with three of our 12 Executive Committee members now being women.
Of our management positions General Managers up to and including the Executive Committee 157 37% are female and 268 63% are male.
This is an increase from 2017 when we had 137 34% women.
We have once again increased the percentage of female permanent employees by 2% to 50% 2018: 4,532, 2017: 4,182.
Although improvements have been made, we want to increase the percentage of female staff in all areas and at all levels.
Gender pay gap During the year Merlin completed its first gender pay gap report for UK employees, under the new UK gender pay gap reporting rules.
This identifies differences in pay between men and women.
For the latest available reporting period to 5 April 2017, Merlins mean gender pay gap calculated as the difference between the average hourly pay of men and women as a percentage of the average hourly pay of men was 16.55%.
The median gender pay gap, the difference between the hourly pay of an employee in the middle of the range of male wages and an employee in the middle of the range of female wages, was 2.60%.
Both figures were better than the UK average.
The key reasons behind our gender pay gap are: lower numbers of female representation in senior, higher paid roles: relatively large populations of employees in traditionally male-dominated roles, forexample, engineering staff and electricians: and a large proportion of females taking up roles with greater flexibility in working hours, such as housekeepers.
We are proud of the inclusive environment we create for all the people who work at Merlin and are actively encouraging and promoting more females into senior roles.
This has included Board level sponsorship of Merlins women leadership programme Women@Merlin.
Where possible, we encourage greater female participation in occupations such as engineering where there are proportionally fewer female employees, and host a number of initiatives to educate and inspire career progression within Merlin among female staff.
Managing inclusively During the year, we introduced a new development programme for managers called Managing Inclusively, designed to recognise biases, understand their effect on employees and provide direction on how to deal with bias in the workplace.
Managers across the UK, USA, Dubai and Europe attended, and we plan to extend this within our Asia Pacific sites in 2019.
We have seen positive responses to the question I can be myself at Merlin asked as part of The Wizard Wants to Know survey, which increased from 78% in 2017 to 82% in 2018.
A great example of our efforts in this area comes from our Midway attractions in Australia and New Zealand.
Our employees there are proud to work where diversity and equality are recognised and embraced, so they celebrate this for a specific week each year in March.
Employees take part in a number of initiatives such as International Womens Day and international food fairs to acknowledge and celebrate the contributions different groups make to the workplace and society more broadly.
In some years the week culminates in Merlin entering a float in the annual Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras Parade where the teams raise awareness and funds for Merlins Magic Wand and Positive Kids Camp Goodtime, a charity which supports children whose lives have been affected by HIV.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 45 We develop potential Our New Openings division is now structured We inspire careers across multiple continents, supporting the business We are extremely proud to have many success wherever it is required illustrating that for the stories which demonstrate how we are right talent, regional and global careers dont have working towards being a truly global employer.
to be restricted by where you live.
The depth and breadth of roles within our attractions, our creative teams and our central Developing our people has always been a real functions give many opportunities for focus to ensure we deliver memorable experiences our employees.
for our guests and support our growth ambitions.
Encouraging individuals to take ownership of their own development is a critical part of their career journey.
Our role is to provide the direction, the tools and the opportunities to learn and grow as they build their Merlin careers.
At a Group level, the focus in 2018 has been on Sandra Hazel enhancing development in two key areas.
In The Group Head of our Being a Force for operations, our programmes are targeted towards Good responsibility initiatives reports directly the General Managers of the future with a series of to our Group HR Director, having started her global, interactive webinars, projects and activities career on the Merlin graduate programme which focus on the key areas of a high performing before gaining experience in operational roles.
Our Marketing the Magic the Merlin Way programme continues to support our marketing community through understanding the Kathy Bagshaw specific capabilities needed for success.
We have Following a number of positions in now engaged general management and other entertainments and operations before moving groups with this programme, to further expand on to operational leadership roles across both our marketing capability across the organisation.
the UK and USA, Kathy, our recently appointed We have also introduced two functional Group Product Excellence leader, reports development programmes in two key directly to the CEO.
She is based in California, commercial areas: illustrating the cross-functional, cross-border Finance for Non Finance Managers a virtual journey you can undertake in our organisation.
programme to focus on improving the financial understanding of our current and future leaders.
Project Management uses a virtual platform to focus on improving acore capability required in our ever-changing and evolving organisation.
These online programmes show the direction for future career development at Merlin, enabling the delivery of more effective, real-time learning over the coming years.
Accelerate Graduate programme We are really proud of our Accelerate Graduate programme which has been a source of great talent for Merlin over the last 13 years that it has been running.
The focus in 2018 was on developing the latest intakes skills in their current work streams, which has had great success, seeing our graduates fast track their career across Merlin and in many instances taking up placements within some of our new brands.
The current intake will rotate into their final placement in March 2019 before securing permanent placements later in the year.
Accelerate alumni go from strength to strength with many of them now in general management and marketing management positions.
We share ownership Merlin is strongly committed to ensuring our employees have an active interest in the Company by having the opportunity to buy shares.
We therefore provide multiple opportunities to access employee share schemes.
Of our permanent employees, 32% participate in at least one of our Sharesave plans, with many contributing to more than one.
We are extremely proud of this uptake.
During 2018 we also made more than 500 share awards to colleagues at executive, senior and middle management levels under our long term incentive plans.
This included 76 exceptional awards recognising outstanding contributions to the business.
46 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 PE O PL E TEAM MERLIN C O N T I NUE D Promoting wellbeing Love Your Work.
Work Your Magic Following its launch in 2017 our BeWell programme is now embedded within We love what we do, no matter where we work in Merlin.
More than that, every region of our business.
We believe the success of the programme is each and every one of us has the opportunity to use our personal set of skills evident from the positive responses in our staff survey to thequestion Merlin to make brilliant things happen and deliver memorable experiences for our does a good job of promoting health and wellbeing with employees where the guests the world over.
We thought it was time to share this with the outside score was 72%.
During 2018 we conducted a global campaign for employees world to help us to attract, recruit and retain the very best talent, so we have to volunteer to be an ambassador for wellbeing at their attractions.
As a result, developed a new employer brand and value proposition that embodies who 157 Wellbeing Warriors have been appointed who all work towards we are and what its like to work at Merlin.
maintaining and nurturing a healthy and happy workforce.
To inform this process we spent time talking to our employees around the As part of their local BeWell programme, our London attractions have been globe to find out what matters to them in their daily working lives and working with Mind, the UKs national mental health awareness charity, to concluded that the following key propositions are common to Merlin people facilitate mental health awareness training programmes for their management around the world: team.
This was followed by sessions to discuss more complex mental health That Fun Comes First at Merlin issues and how best to manage these in the workplace.
The Midway London That most days give them a Guess What I Did Today?
moment team has since developed its own Mental Health Awareness programme to That they can Make Magic Their Way raise awareness of mental health issues for line managers responsible for large And that as a Merlin team we are on The Ride of Our Lives operational teams.
It has given them more confidence to deal with situations that often are not managed or managed poorly due to lack of knowledge The new Love Your Work.
Work Your Magic employer brand really and understanding.
showcases our employees and their experiences, while our new global MerlinCareers website provides access for prospective employees to apply Midway London was also the first division to train individuals across its for any one of our roles worldwide.
attractions to be Mental Health First Aiders.
Eight selected managers are now qualified in mental health first aid in the workplace, gaining specialised skills in The People Portal dealing with mental health issues within their teams.
This initiative has proven In 2018 we started the implementation of the first modules of a new global our commitment to understanding and supporting those with mental health cloud based HR system, known internally as The People Portal.
Once fully conditions, ensuring that we have trained, qualified employees who can implemented, this will deliver a single, comprehensive HR system supporting all proactively deal with any issues that may arise and manage them appropriately Merlin businesses globally and in local languages, increasing the speed and and sensitively.
quality of HR delivery and at the same time reducing costs compared to legacy systems.
In 2018 the recruitment, core HR and learning modules were made available to employees across Europe and North America.
In 2019 we will complete the global implementation by implementing these modules across Asia Pacific as well as extending functionality globally to include performance, talent and compensation.
The People Portal is driving standardisation of our HR processes, reducing HRadministrative costs, and driving efficiencies in recruitment and talent management across the organisation.
The learning management capabilities provide a platform to introduce new methods of training and increase the visibility of our compliance, with mandatory training for certain roles in areas such as health and safety.
The solution also provides many benefits to our employees, enabling interaction through personal mobile devices, delivered in all local languages.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 47 To deliver memorable experiences for our guests, we plan to hone in on the people agenda in order to: deliver structured and exciting career progression: drive productivity: Natalie Bickford Looking to the future develop robust succession and Natalie Bickford, our Group HR Director, is anticipating an exciting fewyears ahead for Team Merlin and our peoples role in delivering workforce planning: memorable experiences for our guests.
pr ovide an inclusive environment where every employee has the opportunity to be heard and to contribute: and communicate transparent and motivational rewards.
