ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUMMARY Applying our AMAZEING values to everything we do Creating and maintaining FANS is at the heart of everything Materiality matrix we do, so our approach to environmental, social and Medium materiality High materiality governance ESG policy at MetroBank is simply about Our FANS doing the right thing.
We focus on putting FANS first, making MetroBank a great place to work, supporting our Our colleagues communities and managing other impacts such as on the environment.
Our AMAZEING culture is aligned to this and of Our planet course we are open and transparent about our responsible Our communities business activities.
Low materiality Medium materiality Our priorities In 2017 we worked with Deloitte to assess our material ESG Data privacy priorities to inform our reporting on responsible business, and security and to highlight potential risks and opportunities that might Our suppliers inform the decisions we make.
The priorities for this year remain unchanged: priorities description More info 1 our FanS Providing excellent service each and p. 46 Relevance to Metro Bank every time 2 our Creating FANS by providing excellent p. 47-48 The ESG landscape is evolving rapidly and we will need to colleagues service to each and every customer adapt proactively in order to remain a sustainable business.
3 our Engaging with the communities we p. 49 Oversight of ESG is at a Board and Executive team level, who communities proudly serve approve the policies and procedures by which we operate.
Protecting our customers data just as 4 Data privacy p. 50 Inaddition, the Board is responsible for setting the Banks and security we do their money strategic direction, which has a major impact on our ESG priorities and how we manage them.
5 our planet Being aware of our impact on the p. 50 environment Ultimately, our AMAZEING behaviours underpin our belief 6 our suppliers Working with suppliers whose values p. 51 that we should act with integrity, putting our customers and behaviours are aligned to ours andstakeholders first, whilst being the most professional bankers.
We know that by living by our AMAZEING behaviours, we will continue to do the right thing by ourstakeholders every single day.
44 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 Importance to stakeholders STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS How we engage with our stakeholders Our long-term success depends on creating value for our customers and wider stakeholders.
Knowing what matters to stakeholders helps us to evolve our vision and approach, keeping them at the heart of what we do.
In light of incoming statutory reporting requirements and the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, during 2019 we will review the stakeholder engagement activities we undertake, how we use this information in Board decision-making and our reportingon stakeholder engagement.
Stakeholder group Why they are important to us How we have engaged with them during 2018 our business model depends upon attracting Voice of the customer surveys Customers and the customers and turning them into FAns.
our expressions of dissatisfaction responses communities we serve reputation and creating FAns is at the core of andanalytics our values.
new store grand openings Money Zone, our educational programme networking and community events days to AMAZe volunteering As a fast-growing business we constantly need Voice of the colleague surveys Colleagues to attract new talent.
We also want to ensure our Have your say caf, colleague meetings existing colleagues are happy and engaged.
withleaders online Q&A with leadership Yam Jams Internal news revolution updates MetroBank university our equity and fixed-income investors are Annual General Meeting Investors fundamental to our growth.
they continue to Quarterly results meetings support the Bank, helping us bring the revolution Investor roadshows and conferences to more and more FAns.
proxy adviser and institutional investorsmeetings Governance breakfasts Annual report Following our regulators principles, rules and Meetings with the prudential regulation Regulators Guidance helps us to make sure we put Authority, Financial conduct Authority, customer outcomes at the heart of everything payment systems regulator and Bank we do.
ofengland We pride ourselves on doing the right thing and procurement Suppliers maintaining the highest values in everything Meeting with suppliers wedo and this extends to the suppliers we site visits workwith.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 45 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUMMARY CONTINUED OUR FANS At MetroBank we are committed to customer service and We monitor our customer service through our Voice of the creating and maintaining FANS is at the heart of everything Customer survey and analytics programme to make sure we we do.
We offer simple products that meet the personal and are surprising and delighting all our FANS and delivering the business needs of our customers.
best customer service every single day.
Our business is built on our FANS recommending us to their We want all our customers to be FANS and we recognise and friends, family and colleagues, so its really important to us value our diverse customer base.
We support our vulnerable that we provide great service every day.
This year MetroBank customers and we work hard to train our colleagues to make was proud to achieve the top spot in the Competition and sure they give the best advice and support, with customers Market Authoritys CMA Service Quality Survey among at the heart of everything we do.
personal current account holders for its overall service.
Wealso came second among business current account customers for overall service quality and were ranked in thetop five for all qualifying business and personal services.
46 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR COLLEAGUES Our culture and our AMAZEING behaviours are at the heart The networks hold a variety of internal and external events of our business.
It is so important that its the first thing our that provide support to network members and raise colleagues learn about when they join the Bank in our awareness across our business.
For example: MPride held an two-day cultural immersion programme, Visions.
event on LGBT Myth Busting: MBrace held one on Why is diversity in the workplace important?
: and WOW held a We want MetroBank to be a place where everyone can be at number of Confidence in the Workplace events.
their best, and our inclusive approach celebrates diversity.
Our colleagues represent the communities we serve and the Each network is supported by an Executive Sponsor, providing locations where were based.
This year we are proud that a link between the inclusion networks and senior management.
Glassdoor announced that we were the best bank to work Our Inclusion Committee oversees the activities of our three for in the UK and that we ranked in the top 25 of all UK inclusion networks and facilitates an intersectional approach businesses.
Glassdoor also named Craig Donaldson as toour diversity and inclusion activities.
oneof its top 10 UK CEOs of 2018, as part of its Employees ChoiceAwards.
Through the work of MPride, weve received a number of awards and nominations.
Most recently we have been: Colleague networks shortlisted for Most Inclusive Organisation, British LGBT Our colleague networks, include Women on Work WOW, Awards 2019 Mpride for our LGBT colleagues and Mbrace for our Black, shortlisted for National Top 10 LGBT Network, British Asian and Minority Ethnic BAME colleagues.
All groups are LGBT Awards 2019 open to all colleagues, regardless of race, gender or sexual orientation and all have the aim of helping everyone be their Ethnic diversity at MetroBank very best.
Asian British 24.5% Mixed Other 2.3% Asian Other 7.1% White British 41.0% Our AMAZEING behaviours Black British 8.1% White Irish 0.7% Black Other 2.2% White Other 8.6% Mixed British 2.4% Undisclosed 3.1% Attend to every detail A Gender representation by grade Make every wrong right M Directors Senior all managers colleagues Ask if youre not sure bump it up!
Z 10 83% 5 62% 2,109 54% Exceed expectations E All figures are as at 31 December 2018.
Senior managers consists of colleagues who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling MetroBank or a strategically significant part of it.
We define this to be members of the Executive Leadership Team excluding Executive Directors who are included within the Director figure.
Inspire colleagues to create FANS!
I We are a signatory of the Women in Finance Charter and areworking towards achieving a target for 35% of our senior Nurture colleagues so they grow N management population to be female by 31 December 2020, in line with the Hampton-Alexander review.
Variable remuneration at MetroBank features incentives linked Game-change because this is a revolution G to the diversity of our senior management population.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 47 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUMMARY CONTINUED During 2018 we published our gender pay gap figures for the Also in 2018, we partnered with leading business school first time, in line with the Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Cranfield University, to launch an MSc in Retail and Digital Information Regulations 2017.
Further information on our Banking, which provides the Chartered Banker Diploma gender pay gap figures can be found in the Directors oncompletion.
We are thrilled to be supporting over Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 97.
30colleagues from across the Bank to complete this qualification as well as continuing to support the We have a range of initiatives focused on supporting women apprenticeship programme already on offer at MetroBank.
As well as our Women on Work This programme has seen over 70 apprentice cashiers join network see above, we run mentoring programmes and since we became an accredited Employer Provider at the leadership training and provide diverse candidate lists to end of 2017. hiring managers.
We also offer flexible working arrangements and 14 weeks parental leave for all new By empowering colleagues and creating the conditions for parents, regardless of gender.
them to exceed customers expectations, we allow them tothrive.
Our latest Gender Pay Gap Report can be found at metrobankonline.
co. uk Rewarding and retaining our colleagues We know that our colleagues are integral to growing our Listening to colleagues business.
Our reward principles, which reflect this and apply We work hard to understand how our colleagues feel about to all colleagues, are designed to reward our colleagues for MetroBank as an employer, as a place to work and as a high performance and retain the talent upon which our provider of banking services.
Every year we run a Voice of business depends: the Colleague engagement survey.
In our 2018 survey, over Pay fair salaries and offer strong career and growth 90% of colleagues took the time to share their views.
We use opportunities in an AMAZEING culture the results to help us to continuously improve our Make everyone an owner, aligning them to the Banks colleagues experiences.
long-term vision We partner with a text analytics company to give us deep Reward colleagues based on MetroBanks culture and insight around the free text questions we ask every performance and how they behave and deliver, both as colleague as part of the survey.
part of the team and as an individual Keep reward as simple as possible, with one approach Headlines from this years survey: forall 94% of colleagues feel MetroBank is an inclusive Take a retail approach to variable reward: no excessive employer and that they can be themselves at work cash bonuses or linear incentives which can skew 96% of colleagues understand how their role contributes behaviours and encourage unnecessary risk taking to the overall success of MetroBank 95% of colleagues feel encouraged to escalate an issue, Health, safety and wellbeing orbump it up All colleagues benefit from health and safety training whenthey join MetroBank.
Colleagues are encouraged to 96% of colleagues think that MetroBank is a good place participate in mental health awareness training and also have to work access to Employee Assistance and the independent and confidential Bank Workers Charity contact line that provides We also hold regular Have your say Caf sessions to allow information, advice and expert support services.
colleagues the chance to raise any concerns they have with senior members of the Bank.
During 2019, we intend to Our Health and Safety policy protects our customers and review our workforce engagement activities to ensure we are colleagues and ensures we are compliant with our statutory engaging with the workforce, and using colleague feedback duties and responsibilities.
in a manner consistent with the relevant principles and provisions of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Policy The Boards Nomination and Remuneration Committees set Developing careers policy and monitor implementation relating to their areas During the year, we created over 800 new jobs and ofresponsibility.
Were committed to supporting colleagues and investing in their careers, and Our Whistleblowing Policy ensures that all colleagues are over the past 12 months have helped 90 new leaders Learn encouraged to raise any concerns they may have about the to Lead, supported over 280 colleagues on fast-track conduct of others in the business or the way in which the schemes and specialist studies, and enabled 445 colleagues business is run in good faith and without fear of unfair to gain professional banking qualifications.
This protects our colleagues and customers both of whom are integral to the continued success of the Bank.
48 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR COMMUNITIES We are proud to be an integral part of the communities we We are passionate about working with the kids in our serve.
Stores are key to our unique model and we strive to communities.
As well as hosting free Halloween, Easter and make a positive difference: through the local colleagues we Christmas craft events, we also engage with kids through our employ, the local businesses we lend to and the causes we free financial education programme, Money Zone.
By helping our communities thrive we believe our Zone introduces pupils to financial skills, helping them business will do too.
understand how money, saving and banking work.
Our sessions are incorporated into the school curriculum, and are This year MetroBank has opened 10 new stores, contributing linked to the wider government curriculum guidelines.
In 2018 to the revitalisation of high streets and their local over 41,000 young people have been through the scheme.
communities in the UK and giving customers access to face-to-face banking, while our competitors are MetroBanks official charity partners for 2018 are progressively closing their branch networks.
Our colleagues have opens each new store with a grand opening, where we invite taken part in various fundraising events through the year, the local community to come and see our new store and raising over 140,000, and our customers have helped us meet our colleagues.
We believe that Kids Rock!
and Dogs support these charities through donations via our Magic Rule!
and we want to make sure everyone can come and visit Money Machines.
us in store, so we have customer toilets with baby changing facilities in every store as well as dog treats and water bowls We also clocked up hundreds of hours of volunteering in our for our canine FANS.
Days to Amaze, where our colleagues give time out of their working day to support the causes close to their hearts.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 49 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUMMARY CONTINUED Were continually looking for ways to reduce our energy consumption as we open new stores.
Some of our DATA PRIVACY initiativesinclude: new store designs, featuring additional solar filament AND SECURITY toreduce heat gain, thereby reducing the need for air conditioning: Protecting our customers data, just as we do their money, implementing a tool to reduce the power usage of iscentral to building the trust of our customers and creating desktop computers if they are left on overnight: FANS.
Our business is built on our FANS recommending us installing energy efficient LED lighting in our stores: totheir friends, family and colleagues and we know how turning some store signage off overnight: important trust is to them.
adjusting store door heating: and We do everything we can to keep our customers details safe operating a small fleet of company vehicles, the majority and to reduce the risk of financial crime, both against us of which are hybrids.
This includes using market-leading technology, which gives us confidence we are speaking We also have a number of initiatives seeking to reduce levels to a genuine customer.
of waste and water usage, including: engaging a supplier that sends zero waste to landfill to We worked hard to make sure we were ready for the handle over 90% of our waste: implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation installing hand dryers in store washrooms and installing on 25 May 2018 and this included a full review of the single-leaf dispensers to reduce paper waste: and MetroBank Data Policy.
installing percussion taps, where possible, in bathrooms to minimise water usage.
Fraud prevention At MetroBank we take the protection of our customers, their As outlined on pages 8 and 9, enabling our FANS to manage money and the bank extremely seriously.
We apply a multilayered approach to fraud controls in the majority of areas.
their finances online, on our app and over the phone, is integral to our business model.
The development of these An example of this is where we have invested heavily in leading technology to allow the risk assessment of sessions services has not only reduced excess waste by enabling paperless banking, but also has reduced the need to come for our Remote Channels, providing strong protection.
into stores to access our services, thus helping to reduce the carbon footprint of our FANS.
To raise fraud awareness with our FANs weve undertaken anumber of campaigns to share how they may be targeted We believe our straight-forward business model increases by fraudsters and the actions they can take to protect themselves.
We continue to support the Take 5 industry-wide our resilience to climate-related risk.
Our focus on supporting small and medium-size enterprises, exclusively fraud campaign.
based in the UK, helps to mitigate our exposure to material international environmental risks.
We consider a variety of issues when working with new customers, including exposure to high-risk industries.
Such industries include mineral extraction, where for example, any decision regarding the account would require further investigation and escalation to management.
OUR PLANET We nonetheless recognise that the transitional risks posed by climate change will impact our FANS and the markets we operate in.
We are committed to undertaking further work tounderstand the risks and opportunities for MetroBank We know that climate change will bring unprecedented change for our FANS and the global economy.
Thats why arising from climate change.
wewant to make sure that we make it easy and convenient for our FANS to reduce their environmental impact and Weve reported on our emissions in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and minimise our own impact on the planet as we bring the revolution in British banking to more and more FANS.
As weve increased our network of stores and more FANS have joined us, weve seen a 2.7% increase in absolute GHG scope 1 and 2 emissions in 2018 from the baseline year, 2016 see below.
But this hides the improvements weve made on carbon intensity: our emissions have reduced by 34.7% per full-time equivalent employee over the same period.
50 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Summary table for GHG emissions We use FSQS to conduct due diligence on our suppliers before contracting, on a risk basis, as appropriate.
2016 CO2e 2018 2017 baseline We also protect our customers and the Bank by setting out GHG emissions CO2e CO2e year and regularly training our colleagues on our Anti-Bribery Scope 1 emissions 2,306 1,312 1,160 andCorruption Policy.
This helps us to make sure all our Scope 2 emissions 4,064 4,668 5,044 colleagues are conducting business in an honest and ethical manner, which reflects our zero-tolerance approach to Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions 6,369 5,980 6,204 bribery and corruption.
Full-time employees FTE 3,803 3,002 2,417 Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions per FTE 1.67 1.99 2.57 Modern slavery Our philosophy is to conduct all business in an appropriate manner.
Slavery, servitude, forced labour and human The assessment period is aligned with our financial year trafficking modern slavery is a crime and violation of 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. fundamental human rights.
We have zero tolerance of modern slavery and continue to be committed to acting Details of the reporting criteria can be found in our separate professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business ESG document which is available at metrobankonline.
co. uk dealings and relationships wherever we operate, including We selected operational control as our consolidation enforcing appropriate systems and controls to ensure, on approach, and our boundary includes all entities and arisk basis, that modern slavery is not taking place in our facilities either owned or under our control.
The table above includes restated figures for our total annual During 2018 we continued to follow and progress our emissions for 2016 baseline year.
These figures were processes to support our Modern Slavery Policy, including: published correctly in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, publishing MetroBanks second Modern Slavery but then restated in 2017 Annual Report and Accounts using Statement, approved by the Board and signed by 2017 emissions factors.
The figures published last year in CraigDonaldson, CEO, on our website in June 2018 relation to 2017 are unaffected.
We have restated these metrobankonline.
co. uk : figures here to accurately reflect our emissions in each period.
delivering the first report of the Modern Slavery Champion, to the Board in May 2018, updating on progress against the Modern Slavery Statement and theAction Plan established in 2017: further developing FSQS to conduct due diligence onsuppliers before contracting, on a risk basis, as appropriate.
In addition, through FSQS, we are engaging with suppliers to identify those who have modern slavery OUR SUPPLIERS guidelines in their policies and standard terms, those who conduct regular risk assessments in relation to modern slavery, those who undertake modern slavery training and seeking attestation that they have not been investigated Our business model is built on creating FANS, and actions by or convicted of activities relating to modern slavery.
our suppliers that are not in keeping with our values expose As a result, during 2018, we identified 85 suppliers with us to reputational damage and risk through association.
We revenue in excess of 36 million and, of those, 51 who had manage this by reviewing the controls put in place by our published a Modern Slavery Statement and six who intend suppliers to prevent and detect bribery, corruption, modern to publish one.
In 2019 we will start the process of slavery, child trafficking, unfair wages, unacceptable working following up, on a risk basis, with those suppliers who conditions and labour rights abuse.
have not yet published a statement: and MetroBank is committed to introducing responsible signing up to the Home Office contact database for business practices that make it easier for our suppliers to do modern slavery reporting guidance and resources in business with us.
We are a member of the Financial Services November 2018.
Supplier Qualification System FSQS, a collaboration between UK financial institutions buyers to provide a Our Modern Slavery Statement is available at metrobankonline.
co. uk standard and simplified process for suppliers to give detail about the control environment they operate.
FSQS helps our suppliers by reducing duplication of effort in responding to buyer due diligence requests, and benefits us by sharing resource and best practice with other buyers.
Anti-bribery and corruption We are committed to maintaining the highest standards ofethics and integrity.
Any act of bribery or corruption isunacceptable and we take the same approach with oursuppliers.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 51 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUMMARY CONTINUED Policy Description eSG Priorities the policy reflects our goal to create FAns through the delivery of Treating Customers Fairly 1 2 consistently AMAZeInG outcomes.
this philosophy is embedded in our culture and is an integral part of our business model and strategy.
our zero tolerance for unfair customer outcomes is underpinned by our conduct risk framework which was approved by the Board.
the policies make sure that were lending in the right way.
Lending Policies including 1 residential mortgage, retail unsecured finance, private banking credit, commercial, arrears management the policy sets out the systems and controls to identify, assess, monitor Anti-Money Laundering 1 2 andmanage financial crime risks and the procedures in place to assess Counter Terrorist Financing theireffectiveness.
the policy means that we treat our colleagues fairly.
It sets out our Diversity and Inclusion 2 3 commitment to having a diverse workforce which reflects our customer baseand to employment policies which follow best practice, based on equalopportunities for all colleagues.
the policy relates to all recruitment-related activities and is relevant for all Recruitment and Selection 2 colleagues and any third-party recruitment partners.
the policy outlines responsibilities for hiring aligned to our company objectives ethos and in accordance with the relevant legislation and regulation.
the policy sets out our commitment to diversity and inclusion for the Board.
Board Diversity 2 Which is based on our knowledge that a diverse Board, appointed on merit, with a broad range of skills, backgrounds, knowledge and experience, will be a more effective and responsible Board.
the policy protects our customers and colleagues.
It recognises our Health and Safety 2 statutoryduties and responsibilities under the relevant Health and safety andWelfare legislation.
the policy encourages colleagues to disclose information, in good faith and Whistleblowing 2 without fear of unfair treatment, when they suspect any illegal or unethical conduct or wrongdoing affecting the Bank.
the policy outlines our approach to managing the risk of bribery and Anti-bribery and Corruption 2 corruption and to ensure we conduct business in an honest and ethical way, with a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
the policy provides consistent practical guidance to all relevant parties in Conflicts of Interest 2 relation to the identification, recording and maintenance of actual and perceived conflicts of interest.
the policy makes sure we are able to continue delivering services to our Business Continuity 1 2 3 4 6 customers at acceptable levels if something unexpected were to happen.
Itaddresses impacts to the continuity of critical business activities in the caseof man made disasters, natural disasters or other material events.
the policy sets out our objectives and expectations in managing data and Data 1 2 4 data governance practices.
It makes sure that data is managed, governed, accessed, protected, utilised and disclosed appropriately.
It also focuses onthe quality of key data elements and their ongoing maintenance.
the policy ensures that when we rely on a on external supplier for key Procurement & Supplier 1 6 processes and activities, we take the reasonable steps to identify, monitor Management andmitigate the external supplier risks.
the policy describes our approach towards preventing slavery, servitude, Modern Slavery 3 6 forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking in any of our operations or at any of our suppliers and, through them, our supply chains.
1 Our FANS 2 Our colleagues 3 Our communities 4 Data privacy and security 5 Our planet 6 Our suppliers Learn more about our policies in our separate ESG document, which is available at metrobankonline.
co. uk 52 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-Financial Information Statement This is our Non-Financial Information Statement, prepared in order to comply with sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
We explain here where you can find further information on how we make sure we do the right thing inrelation to wider society and the environment and how we seek to do the right thing in terms of our impacts.
A description of our business model and strategy, as well as the non-financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs relevant to our business can be found on pages 8 to 11.
Additional KPIs in relation to each of the matters listed in the table below have been disclosed in the corresponding section of the Environmental and Social Summary, where we believe this will assist in demonstrating the outcomes of our policies and activities during 2018.
Where to find further information necessary for an relevant policies reporting requirement understanding of our business and our impacts, please see page 52 for a description of each policy including outcomes of our activities our planet, page 50 our comprehensive risk management processes and esG Environmental materiality assessment see below have not identified matters environmental matters or climate change as a principal risk for the business.
so, at present, we do not have a bespoke environmental policy.
We do, however, recognise the need to minimise our impact on the environment and manage any material impacts from climate change on our business.
As disclosed in the our planet section of this summary, wehave successfully driven progress in our environmental performance to date without the need for a bespoke policy.
We will continue to review the appropriateness ofthis approach.
our colleagues, page 47 diversity and Inclusion Employees recruitment and selection the chief executive officers statement page 3 and the Health and safety description of our business model page 8, articulate Whistleblowing how our colleagues are an essential component of oursuccess.
conflicts of Interest and related parties our communities, page 49 As outlined in the communities section of this report, we are Society and proud to be an integral part of the communities we serve.
Communities Atpresent, we do not pursue a bespoke policy regarding our activities with the wider communities but stores are key to ourunique model and we strive to make a positive difference: through the local colleagues we employ, the local businesses we lend to and through the causes we support.
By helping ourcommunities thrive we believe our business will do too.
our suppliers, page 51 Modern slavery Respect for outsourcing Human Rights our suppliers, page 51 Anti-bribery and corruption Anti-Bribery and Corruption Management of principal risks and due diligence for ESG policies We manage risk through a comprehensive governance and control framework, as described in our Risk Report on pages 28 to 43.
The Risk Report also describes the principal risks to our business.
Our risk management policies and controls are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions, regulations and our activities.
Through regular training and additional standards, guidance and procedures, we aim to develop a robust and effective control environment in which allour colleagues understand their roles and obligations.
The policies disclosed on page 52 form part of our wider risk management approach.
All colleagues are responsible for managing risk as part of their day-to-day role and our AMAZEING culture is all about our colleagues doing the right thing for our FANS and the business.
As such, everyone at MetroBank plays a role in risk management.
Management exercises an appropriate level of due diligence over the policies and activities referenced in the Environment and Social Summary and this Non-Financial Information Statement.
Our reporting on environmental and social matters is subject to the oversight of the Audit Committee.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board and was signed on its behalf by: craig Donaldson chief executive officer 10 April 2019 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 53
