30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As an international hotel business operating in so many distinctive To raise awareness of key operational risks and ensure we meet our countries and cultures, we remain committed to delivering service compliance requirements, our global online compliance training excellence and to operating our hotels in a responsible and sustainable platform continues to deliver training on anti-bribery, anti-money way.
laundering in certain jurisdictions and competition law.
In 2018 further training was provided on modern slavery and the new EU General Data We understand the importance of the role we can play in making Protection Regulation.
a difference to our stakeholders, through initiatives that promote a sustainable environment, now and in the future, by being a preferred Anti-bribery and anti-corruption employer of choice and by supporting the local communities in which The Groups anti-bribery policy has been developed in line with the we operate with our charitable and other activities.
requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and is routinely reviewed, with the last update having taken place in April 2016.
A risk assessment is We made strides on all of these fronts in 2018 and this work was made conducted to identify those categories of employees who require training possible due to the hard work and dedication of our colleagues across the on bribery and corruption, including colleagues in higher-risk functions globe.
This report describes some of the progress made over the course of such as procurement and sales.
The Group also maintains a confidential the year.
hotline and e-mail account that allows employees to report concerns about illegal or unethical behaviour directly to a group function, GOVERNANCE generally the Company Secretariat or Internal Audit team.
Such reports Board responsibility are made free from reprisal.
The Board of Directors of the Company has overall responsibility for the Groups corporate responsibility initiatives, with the Interim A Group-wide anti-bribery compliance guide sits behind our anti-bribery Group Chief Executive Officer taking the lead from a management policy and is also made available to all employees.
Underpinning our commitment to sustainability, the Board key operational activities and countries where corruption is perceived to supports a number of policies and procedures, collectively referred to as be a high risk and sets out a number of procedures for managing these Responsible Hospitality, which are designed to recognise and manage risks, including procedures for conducting due diligence on business the Groups wider impact on the environment and the communities associates and counterparties, operational risk assessments and escalation in which we operate.
These policies are reviewed regularly and are mechanisms.
They are also translated into multiple languages where appropriate.
Key policies can be found at https: investors.
We take breaches of these policies seriously and, if necessary, will millenniumhotels.
consider disciplinary action for non-compliance by our employees.
In the reporting year, we are unaware of any staff being disciplined or dismissed Compliance due to non-compliance with our anti-bribery policy.
Within our operations, we are fully committed to meeting our legal and regulatory compliance obligations.
We strive to adhere not only to the Ethical operations letter of the law, but also the spirit of the law.
Beyond our legal and regulatory compliance obligations, the Group is committed to maintaining the highest standards of ethics and integrity In 2018 we did not receive any material fines or penalties associated with in the way we do business.
Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct non-compliance with any laws relating to the environment, human rights Code of Ethics sets out the minimum standards we expect from all violations, labour standards, anti-bribery or taxation.
employees in their dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to ensure that our business is conducted responsibly.
In addition, we endeavour to report transparently on tax policy and We also expect our suppliers and business partners to follow the management, more information of which can be found in this Annual standards set out within our Code of Ethics and other related policies Report and Accounts.
including, for instance, our Anti-Bribery and Business Hospitality and Gifts policies, over which the Board has oversight.
As mentioned, these No donations were made by the Group for political purposes during the policies are translated into other languages where appropriate, including year 2017: nil.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 31 Throughout our operations globally, we respect the human rights of Singapore government.
Often advanced certificates or professional or our colleagues and others, including customers, suppliers and business specialist diplomas will be awarded to the participants upon completion.
We have in place a human rights policy that reflects our commitment to certain fundamental principles, which are aligned with In order to fulfil our commitment to developing, supporting and those of the International Labour Organisation and the UN Guiding retaining our employees, we are developing mechanisms to help us Principles on Business and Human Rights and include freedom of learn more about the needs of and communicate with our workforce.
We recognise the important role communication has in fostering good working relationships and we seek to inform employees about matters In accordance with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, relating to their employment, the organisation more widely and the the Company regularly undertakes a review of its supply chain.
Last year business in general.
At the same time, we actively seek feedback and we proposed a number of improvements to our compliance framework ideas from our people in order to improve our operations and, where as outlined in our formal slavery and human trafficking statement, appropriate, provide forums to allow employees to voice their views.
which is available at https: investors.
For instance, in the As part of these efforts, a formal workforce advisory panel framework UK we implemented regular training exercises with law enforcement is being implemented within the Group in line with the requirements agencies to better train our hotel teams to spot the risks of modern under the revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code that slavery and human trafficking.
In addition, our standard contracts have, took effect on 1 January 2019.
Further information relating to this where relevant, been updated to include provisions regarding compliance framework can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on with the Groups human rights policy.
Our European supplier intake page 87 and will be reported on in more detail in the Companys 2019 forms include questions about the policies and procedures our suppliers annual report and accounts and beyond.
have in place to prevent slavery and human trafficking, and we take their answers into account when selecting reputable suppliers.
This In addition, we continue to have in place a global Outstanding Service area remains a priority for the Board and we will look to make further Excellence training programme where employees are empowered to improvements to our processes in 2019. adapt and deliver a tailored service to each guest.
This inspiration-based approach is designed to engage both our colleagues and guests on a OUR PEOPLE personal level, encouraging a genuine connection and creating true fans As a service business, it is our people, and their attitudes and skills, which of our brands.
set us apart from our competitors.
We are committed to developing all of our colleagues, identifying and nurturing future leaders, and enabling Diversity and equal opportunities everyone within the business to perform to their true potential.
We believe that having a diverse workforce brings different perspectives, backgrounds and ways of thinking to our business and allows us to better Learning and development understand and interact with our guests.
That is why we launched, on We ensure that our colleagues around the world are suitably skilled a global basis, a new diversity and inclusion policy in 2018, in order and qualified to meet the operational needs of the business.
The Group to cultivate a more inclusive work environment that embraces the recognises that successful hospitality businesses must deliver excellent engagement and development of a diverse workforce.
We are committed service and we are committed to developing, supporting and retaining to treating all employees fairly and offering equal opportunities in all the right staff to provide this.
Our aim is to offer opportunities for them aspects of employment and advancement regardless of age, disability, to develop and grow through effective succession planning processes.
gender reassignment, marital or civil partner status, pregnancy or maternity, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion Our hotels also help young people who are interested in the industry, or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
More details of our diversity and including those from disadvantaged backgrounds, by providing inclusion initiatives can be found in the Corporate Governance employment skills training and vocational opportunities.
For example, Statement starting on page 57 and in the Nominations Committee our North American and European regions have introduced internship Report on page 88. and apprenticeship programmes within various functions, often in partnership with local universities and training providers.
In Singapore, As at 31 December 2018, the Group employed 11,504 people worldwide a talent development initiative was launched in collaboration with the operating in over 26 countries 2017: 11,602.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED For added assurance, quarterly reports covering health and safety matters DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES BY GENDER MALE FEMALE are presented to the Audit & Risk Committee.
These provide updates on Directors 7 0 incidents, changes in relevant legal requirements and other health and 1 Senior managers 187 105 safety matters in all of our operating regions.
Other employees 5,932 5,280 PRESERVING OUR ENVIRONMENT 1 T his is based on the participants in the Groups 2018 bonus pool and excludes 36 subsidiary Directors who were external appointments, of which 29 were male and 7 female.
We recognise that as a global hospitality company, we have a responsibility to help protect and preserve our environment.
The The number of employees employed by the Group excluding the industry in general consumes a significant amount of energy and Companys Directors at the end of the year, analysed by category, was as produces a significant amount of emissions globally and as more follows: and more people travel, the need for action will increase.
In light of 2018 2017 this trend, over recent years we have sought to minimise our impact NUMBERS NUMBERS by actively focusing on reducing energy and water consumption in particular.
Hotel operating staff 8,853 9,020 Management administration 1,478 1,439 In 2018, we prepared and circulated a sustainability questionnaire to Sales and marketing 492 461 each of our owned and operated hotels around the world in order to Repairs and maintenance 681 682 determine the current state of our sustainability efforts.
We found that 11,504 11,602 many hotels were pro-actively engaging with their communities and implementing innovative practices to help reduce our impact on the A safe working environment environment.
We then compiled the data, assembled the best practices The health, safety and welfare of our employees, guests and all those and developed best practice, practical guidelines which could be who visit the Groups hotels and offices, as well as those who carry out implemented by our hotels, on a voluntary basis, depending on local work on behalf of the Group is of paramount importance to us.
Indeed, conditions and legal requirements.
These guidelines, which are part of this is a principal risk that is overseen by the Companys Audit & Risk our Responsible Hospitality regime, will help to unify the Groups Committee.
Policies, procedures and training programmes are in place approach to sustainability practices and will provide us with a means to ensure compliance with relevant health and safety legislation and to better track the initiatives being undertaken by our hotels and how enhanced risk assessment, management and monitoring measures are successful they are.
We expect this work to grow over time as initiatives being developed and rolled out, with the overriding goal of making our are tested and refined.
sites safer and ready to deal with emergencies as they arise.
Energy efficiency In the UK region, for example, we have put in place policies and Energy efficiency is a key component of our sustainability strategy.
procedures that are certified to OHSAS 18001 externally audited by Each of the Groups operating regions work to identify energy savings the British Standards Institution.
Management continues the process opportunities through operational efficiencies, upgrading plant and of transitioning from OHSAS 18001 to the new standard ISO 45001 equipment and other initiatives.
In 2018, our hotels continued to focus and aims to roll out the ISO 45001 occupational health and safety on retrofitting LED lighting and upgrading HVAC systems, where management system across the whole of the UK portfolio.
These efforts appropriate, which will help to improve the electricity efficiency of our are supported by compliance management software, resulting in tighter estate.
Also, a number of our hotels implemented an environmental control of mandatory activities, inspections and the creation of audit management system that is aligned with the requirements of ISO 14001, trails.
which requires each hotel to have in place a framework to identify and mitigate its environmental impact, as well as processes for identifying We continuously work to improve our proactive and reactive risk relevant environmental legislation and ensuring compliance.
management plans, in conjunction with local and national law enforcement authorities as necessary.
We strive to regularly test and audit Our data set for the Groups 2018 greenhouse gas reporting included the plans from time to time to ensure that they remain robust and fit for 75 owned and operated hotels over which we had access to data for the purpose.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 33 1 reporting period.
Energy consumption by these primarily consisted of verified by an independent third party, Carbon Credentials Energy electricity from grid, natural gas, diesel, purchased steam and chilled Services Limited, in accordance with ISO 14064-3: 2006 Standard.
The Groups overall energy consumption for the year decreased A copy of the verification statement can be found at https: investors.
by 3%, on an absolute basis, compared to 2017, mainly due to the millenniumhotels.
2018 data set containing a lower number of operating hotels as a result of refurbishment projects.
At the same time, the Groups 2018 To calculate our emissions, we followed the Greenhouse Gas Protocol energy intensity, which measures the energy consumed per hotel room, Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard methodology GHG remained consistent with 2017, increasing by 1%.
Protocol and the operational control approach to determine the properties to be included within the data set.
Franchise hotels and In 2018, carbon equivalent emissions associated with our energy use investment hotels that were managed by third party operators were not decreased by 5% and the carbon intensity per room decreased by 1% included.
In line with the latest guidance provided by the GHG Protocol as compared with the previous reporting year.
This decrease largely with regard to Scope 2 accounting, this year we also included marketresulted from the Group purchasing electricity from suppliers with a based emissions as well as location-based emissions in order to provide higher percentage of renewable energy in many countries with respect a clearer picture of the nature of our electricity consumption.
Deriving to electricity provided by the grid.
Whilst shifting to the use of cleaner emission factors from contractual instruments, market-based calculations energy may not result in decreased total energy consumption, it does allows the Group to account for the real nature and consequent carbon help the Group to reduce its carbon emissions.
intensity of the electricity purchased.
It should be noted that for the purpose of year-over-year comparisons, location-based emissions will The 2018 energy consumption of our owned and operated hotels is continue to be used, as these provide a more accurate reflection of shown below.
the emission changes associated with the Companys internal energy efficiency initiatives.
2018 2017 ABSOLUTE PER ROOM ABSOLUTE PER ROOM Details of our total carbon footprint are summarised in the table below: KWH KWH KWH KWH GLOBAL TONNES OF CO E 2 492,783,538 22,358 507,724,416 22,195 2018 2017 1 Greenhouse gas reporting Scope 1 48,218 50,024 2 The Groups greenhouse gas reporting covers the period from 1 October Scope 2 Location-Based 140,018 144,190 3 2017 to 30 September 2018, similar to previous years.
This period has Scope 2 Market-Based 135,809 147,267 been chosen to allow sufficient time to gather and review emissions Carbon intensity tonnes of CO e room.
2 data ahead of the year-end and to ensure that verification of the data is Includes scope one, two and three emissions 10.75 11.13 4 5 5 completed in advance of the reporting deadlines.
of rooms 22,041 22,876 Last year we reported that we had successfully achieved our target of Total gross emissions Location-Based 236,885 254,572 reducing our absolute Scope 1 and 2 operational carbon emissions from Total gross emissions Market-Based 232,676 257,649 energy use and refrigerant losses by an aggregate amount of 10% based on a 2015 baseline year over the period between 2015 and 2017.
This 1 D irect emissions from activities owned or controlled by our organisation that release emissions target was set in 2016 and we met it ahead of schedule.
As a result of this into the atmosphere.
encouraging start, over the course of 2018 we worked with an external 2 I ndirect emissions that are a consequence of our organisations activities but which occur at sources we do not own or control.
sustainability consultant, EcoAct formerly Carbon Clear, to set a new 3 S cope 2 market-based emissions reflect emissions from electricity that the Group has long-term target, a Science-Based Target SBT, to reduce the Groups purposefully chosen.
4 O ther indirect emissions that are a consequence of the Groups activities, but which occur at carbon emissions.
SBTs are greenhouse gas reduction goals aligned with sources that are not owned or controlled by us and which are not classed as Scope 2 emissions.
the latest science on minimising climate impact.
We submitted our 5 I ncludes emissions associated with water use, energy consumed by third party laundry, waste, business travel and well-to-tank and transmission and distribution.
proposed target to the Science Based Target initiative, the organisation in charge of validating SBTs, in January 2019 and hope to receive a response in the second quarter of the year.
The Groups Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, as well as the underlying energy, refrigerant, waste, water and travel data, have been externally 1 Excludes franchise hotels and investment hotels that were managed by third party operators.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Relative: Carbon Emissions by Source kgCO2e m2 tCO2e Room 13.2 13.0 180 14 12.3 11.5 160 11.1 10.9 10.9 10.7 12 165 10.1 161 140 150 10 141 120 130 130 127 8 118 100 116 80 6 60 4 40 2 20 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Floor Area kgCO2e m2 Room tCO2e room During the reporting period, absolute location-based emissions decreased by 7% compared to the same period last year, mainly due to a decrease in the number of hotels within the data set, greater energy efficiency as a result of a series of initiatives implemented at site level and a widespread decrease in the carbon intensity of the electricity grids in the countries in which we operate.
Consequently, emissions per room also decreased by 3%, to 10.75 tonnes of CO e room.
Whilst this has resulted in an increase in the The amount of waste being sent to landfills is an increasing concern in amount of waste defined as landfilled, it also provides a clean baseline the hospitality industry.
We have been implementing waste minimization from which we will be able to track our progress in waste reduction initiatives across the Group, including recycling paper, metal, plastics, going forward.
For example, in 2019 our UK region will be performing cardboard, glass bottles, cooking oil, printer cartridges, wet amenities, an audit with a third party supplier to review its waste management soap, wine corks: food waste donation and composting: and the donation contract across the UK.
The audit will determine waste streamlines of used items, such as furniture, fabric and electronic equipment.
We also such as who collects, how often and where the waste goes.
The aim of strive to reduce organic waste and other consumables as appropriate.
the audit will be to receive advice on areas such as segregation of waste, preventing production of waste in the first place and helping hotels to be The Groups London hotels continued to work closely with their UK better prepared to efficiently and responsibly dispose of the waste that is waste contractor to improve recycle facilities in the back of house areas generated each day.
For example, glass bottles for drinking water 2018 2017 are now provided in the guest rooms and function rooms, thereby ABSOLUTE PER ROOM ABSOLUTE PER ROOM eliminating the use of plastics.
By introducing this system, we have TONNES TO TONNES TO TONNES TO TONNES TO reduced our annual plastic waste and the carbon emissions associated LANDFILL LANDFILL LANDFILL LANDFILL with the production, transportation and recycling of plastic water bottles.
13,351 0.61 10,436 0.46 We are also driving change through our goal of eliminating single-use Water use plastics.
This initiative currently is being rolled out at our Singapore The availability of clean, accessible water is essential to the services hotels and they are expected to achieve this by mid-2019.
We anticipate we provide and critical to the health and economic vitality of the that the rest of our owned and or operated hotels will follow this communities in which we operate.
We also recognise that our hotels are practice, which in turn will allow us to improve resource efficiency across water intensive, particularly where we operate spa facilities.
As such, we all of our properties.
The Group set out to improve the quality of its waste volume reporting We understand that water is a scarce resource and that demand is in 2018.
As a result, the reported volume of waste generated by the hotels likely to surge over the next few decades: we therefore actively strive within the data set increased by 32% on an absolute basis and by 37% and encourage our colleagues to conserve water usage throughout our on a per-room basis, largely due to better reporting of our waste.
Where business, particularly where we operate in water-stressed regions.
data on recycling was not available for the period, we have assumed that all such waste was brought to a landfill in order to account for the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 35 Based on the World Resources Institutes analysis of future water stress, In further recognition of the Groups sustainability practices, a number we have identified that 8% of the Groups current operations are located of our hotels in Singapore maintain Green Mark awards, an initiative in Singapore, a country which is set to be facing extremely high water set up by the Building and Construction Authority BCA of Singapore stress by 2040 World Resources Institute 2015.
Additionally, two of to encourage environmentally friendly buildings.
Three of the hotels our hotels operate in regions set to undergo the greatest drop in water have attained the BCA Green Mark Platinum Award, the highest tier for security between 2020 and 2040.
To reduce our water footprint, we continued to execute a series of water RESPONSIBLE SOURCING conservation strategies throughout 2018, including investing in water Another key area where we can make a difference is with our supply efficient technologies, process improvements and reusing and recycling chain.
With all procurement decisions, whilst it is important that our water.
This work targeted kitchens, laundry areas, gardens, spas and hotels are able to purchase the goods and services they need to operate heating and cooling systems and is ongoing.
We also continued to retrofit effectively at the right price, we also must ensure that robust due motion sensors and low flow fixtures in common areas, back of house diligence is performed on our suppliers so that we can understand and areas and guestrooms.
address any social or environmental issues.
Central to our water conservation plan is to increase the amount of We work closely with our local and international suppliers to ensure water that we can recycle and reuse, using alternative methods to provide that their products and services meet the demands of our operations cooling to our chiller systems whilst maintaining high system efficiency.
and the expectations of our guests and other stakeholders.
Moreover, This is best implemented at the design stage or in conjunction with we expect our suppliers to demonstrate effective management of energy major system or property renovations.
For example, the Millennium use, greenhouse gas emissions, water use, waste, pollution, resource use Buffalo hotel in New York installed a rain monitor on its irrigation and biodiversity.
We also question whether suppliers have appropriate system to prevent automatic irrigation from happening during rain.
Our corporate governance arrangements in place to operate in an ethical and Grand Hyatt Taipei uses recycled treated grey water from the pool and sustainable manner, whilst encouraging diversity and equal opportunities feeds it into the cooling waters.
At the Copthorne Hotel and Resort Bay throughout their business.
of Islands in New Zealand, ground water and water collected from the greenhouse roof are used for irrigating the landscaping and vegetable Our selection process for suppliers is stringent and we request and review gardens at the hotel.
The Millennium Hotel Chengdu in China has information on their reduction of packaging, environmental policies and implemented a water conservation plan and carries out water balance sustainable transport plans prior to contracts being signed.
Within our tests to ensure there are no leakages in the pipe network.
Europe region, we have established processes to assess all new suppliers based on their environmental, labour, anti-bribery and human rights Water consumption data is as follows: practices.
The system provides transparency and allows us to employ a 1 strict audit and review process.
It also allows us to manage our suppliers 2018 2017 centrally and it increases our visibility over their product sourcing and ABSOLUTE PER ROOM ABSOLUTE PER ROOM 3 3 3 3 transportation.
M CONSUMED M CONSUMED M CONSUMED M CONSUMED 4,445,746 202 4,582,223 200 Wherever practical, we purchase products made from local renewable and ethically sound sources.
Specific focus is placed on using suppliers 1 W ater consumption data was collected from 75 hotels that were owned or operated by the Group and has been independently verified by Carbon Credentials Energy Services Limited.
that reduce emissions and air pollution from food miles and our aim is to use suppliers with a demonstrable commitment to sustainable production AWARDS methods.
To demonstrate our commitment to sustainable and ethical Since 2011, M&C has reported to the CDP sourcing, we have implemented a number of initiatives, including our formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure commitment to eliminate the use of caged eggs from our UK supply Project, an independent non-profit organisation chain by 2020 and the use of wall-mounted dispensers in bathrooms to that analyses and rates the environmental replace small plastic amenity bottles at various hotels globally.
CDP data is used by various stakeholders, including by investors when making ethical investment decisions.
In 2018, the Company successfully maintained its prestigious Aleadership rating, which places the Group among the ambitious companies that are taking meaningful measures to reduce emissions and is a clear indicator of the Groups advanced sustainability efforts.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES bone cancer, disbursing grants to families to help with expenses such as We care about our neighbourhoods and making a positive contribution transport costs or costs associated with accessibility renovations.
Since to our local communities and the people who work and live there.
We 2014 hotel colleagues have raised over 10,000 for the charity through a do this through fundraising activities and community engagement, often combination of various initiatives and festive raffles.
donating not only needed goods and money, but volunteering our time as well.
Below are some of the initiatives with which our colleagues were engaged during the year, in order to help build brighter futures for their communities.
Grand Copthorne Waterfront, Singapore On 15 March 2018, over 10 hotel staff took time off their busy work schedules to bring warmth and laughter to residents at the Red Cross Home for the Disabled in Singapore.
Staff paired up with residents one-to-one for an art therapy session, called Dancing Colours, Bridging Love, where they created paintings and bonded with the residents.
Copthorne Hotel Newcastle, UK The Copthorne Hotel Newcastle continued to support the Henry The Copthorne Newcastle team, with General Manager Mr Ken Ellington in blue tie, presenting the cheque to Henry Dancer Days Charity Founder and Manager Ms Jane Nattrass.
Dancer Days charity, which supports children and youths with primary The hotel has cumulatively raised 10,000 for the charity since 2014.
The Red Cross Home for the Disabled is a residential home for people with multiple disabilities serving over 100 adult and child residents.
Staff from Grand Copthorne Waterfront with the residents from Red Cross Home for the Disabled and their finished masterpieces.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 37 The Lakefront Anchorage, USA On 12 May 2018, hundreds of Alaskans arrived at The Lakefront Anchorage to walk the 4.2-mile 6.76km loop around Lake Hood, the worlds largest and busiest seaplane base.
The walk was for Anchorages edition of the national fundraiser, Walk MS, for people affected by multiple sclerosis.
The hotel was proud to be an official community sponsor for the fifth year in a row and provided the venue for the event, which saw over 350 attendees.
Employees actively participated in the walk and raised close to US$1,000 for the important cause.
A total of over US$52,000 was raised for the event.
In appreciation of the hotels continued efforts to support and raise awareness for the cause, the National Multiple Sclerosis Society Greater The Lakefront Anchorage Director of Sales and Marketing Ms Brandi Cooper and General Northwest Chapter presented The Lakefront Anchorage with an award Manager Mr Greg Beltz at the fundraising walks finish line at the entrance of the hotel.
Copthorne Palmerston North, New Zealand The Copthorne Palmerston North took part in the Kind Hearts Movement Charity Cake Auction for the first time in July 2018.
The bake-off saw thirty-two businesses and organisations in the Manawatu district in New Zealand create innovative cakes and parade them in a cake walk for an auction.
The members of the hotel team, who were proud to have achieved a second-place standing, helped the charity raise NZ$410 from the auction of the cake.
The goal of the organisation is to inspire a kinder world through acts of unconditional kindness.
We must continue to balance our commercial priorities against our responsibilities to the environment and our communities.
Our colleagues around the world continue to instil pride by demonstrating their commitment to doing the right thing.
Looking ahead, we will continue The cake walkers: L-R Copthorne Palmerston North Front Office Receptionist Ms Zara Murrihy: Ava, daughter of Executive Chef Mr Jono Mawley: and Food & Beverage Duty to step-up our corporate responsibility efforts with the knowledge that Manager Ms Nikki Walker.
this is a long-term pledge that will help to keep us on the path to creating a more sustainable and responsible future.
