Corporate social responsibility Food sourcing We have a responsibility to our guests to ensure that the food we source Brands has been produced in a sustainable and ethical manner, having due regard for high standards of animal welfare.
Our Sourcing Policy has been developed to ensure that the procurement of all meat, poultry and finfish used within our business is carried out in people trust accordance with the Companys ethical standards that operate across all our brands.
Working closely with our suppliers, we aim to optimise animal welfare standards to meet business needs and satisfy guest requirements.
Guest insight research that we conducted has highlighted key areas that matter to our guests in terms of animal welfare, environmental impact and social equity.
Our Sourcing Policy addresses these issues and confirms our approach to the achievement of the optimal standards possible for each of our brands.
Led by a cross-functional team, reporting directly to the Executive Committee, the Sourcing Policy continues to evolve and is reviewed on a regular basis, to incorporate any changes in legislation, procurement policies or business needs.
Our key achievements in FY 2018: Browns continues to serve guests with 100% British Red Tractor Farm Assured beef, produced through their very own Browns Integrated Beef Supply programme.
This initiative takes calves from known Red Tractor Farm Assured dairy farms, which are reared on specialist calf units, through to the finishing stage on selected assured farms, contracted to supply Mitchells & Butlers.
In recognition of the great quality beef produced from this scheme, Browns has won Silver and Bronze awards at the World Steak Challenge in 2017 and 2018.
Updates to the Farm Animal Welfare and Sourcing Policy have been shared with our core food suppliers at the Companys annual food and drink supplier conference, most recently held in April 2018.
The Mitchells & Butlers Antibiotics Policy has been updated to prohibit the prophylactic use of antibiotics.
Food and drink We are gathering data from all our suppliers who procure eggs, liquid eggs or egg derivatives for inclusion within our products, to ascertain the production system in place for laying hens.
The information gathered We have committed to Public Health Englands Sugar Reduction allows Mitchells & Butlers to assess how we can progress to a 100% cage programme for our family brands Harvester, Toby Carvery, free status for laying hens.
This assists Mitchells & Butlers in delivering Sizzling Pubs and Stonehouse.
its objective of extending the procurement of shell on eggs from cage We are a national sponsor of Best Bar None, an accreditation free hens, to include egg products, and to complete this transition by scheme promoting responsible management.
2025, subject to product availability and commercial negotiations.
98% of our businesses have been rated good or very good Mitchells & Butlers continues to engage with Compassion in World for food hygiene.
Farming CIWF and Farm Animal Investment Risk and Return FAIRR on matters relating to welfare and antibiotic usage, as well as holding Browns continues to serve 100% British Red Tractor Farm Assured preliminary meetings with The Humane Society and the National beef through its Integrated Beef Supply Programme.
Farmers Union on our sourcing strategy.
100% of our shell on eggs are produced from free range hens.
After attending the CIWF forum on the Better Chicken Commitment, Mitchells & Butlers is holding further meetings with its poultry suppliers and CIWF, to assess the impact of this initiative on current production models.
More details on our food Sourcing Policy can be found at www.
com responsibility goodfood 32 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Nutrition Salt We continue to look for the most effective way to present nutritional Over three years ago, our brands replaced standard salt used in salt information to our guests across our portfolio of brands.
By using our shakers on tables, and to season food back of house, with a mineral salt guest insight to understand better our guests preferences and priorities, which contains 15% less sodium than standard salt and which is high in we can develop our nutritional messaging to ensure it remains effective.
This change has helped us deliver on our commitment to We believe our focus should be on communicating about ingredients, the Government Responsibility Deal pledge to support and enable healthy cooking techniques and the freshness of our food as well as consumers to reduce their dietary salt intake.
providing healthier options to enable our guests to make informed Sugar choices when eating with us.
We continue to engage actively with Public Health England PHE We publish the nutritional information for our menus on our websites for and our suppliers to meet the sugar reduction targets set by PHE in 2017.
All Bar One, Ember Inns, Harvester, Premium Country Pubs, Toby Carvery, This year we have reported our Year One data and are working towards Suburban Pubs and Vintage Inns.
For example, this year we launched a further sugar reduction in our top selling desserts for 2019. specific menus in All Bar One for Veganuary and a wellness campaign.
This year we have committed to Public Health Englands Sugar Reduction We have invested significantly in technical processes and systems to Programme for our family brands Harvester, Toby Carvery, Sizzling Pubs incorporate the requirements of Regulation EU No.
We are focusing on reducing sugar in some of our provision of food information to consumers.
We follow both regulatory higher sugar desserts through dish reformulation.
Whilst we make these and best practice advice, to ensure the information is as accurate as changes we aim to support our customers in making healthier choices possible and helps our guests make the most informed choice to suit by providing a choice of dishes, including lower sugar and calorie options, their dietary needs and preferences.
and by providing nutritional information on many of our brand websites.
It is a mandatory requirement for all suppliers to Mitchells & Butlers This year, in line with the introduction of the Government Soft Drinks to provide nutritional information for every food product, and to follow Sugar Levy, we have proactively reduced the number of sugary products Company policy on the provision of accurate nutrition data.
This enables in our soft drinks ranges and introduced additional healthier soft drink our chefs to have the detail required to design and improve dishes that choices.
Working closely with our suppliers, we have replaced many meet the specific nutritional requirements of our guests.
added sugar soft drinks with new low and no sugar reformulations.
Over 90% of our soft drinks are exempt from the levy.
We will continue Allergens to offer our guests choice from a selection of soft drinks.
Where our We are committed to ensuring that customers who suffer from allergies products incur the levy, we will pass it on to the customer, to encourage are provided with the information they need to make an informed choice consumers towards healthier alternatives.
about the suitability of the food we serve for their own circumstances.
We provide allergen information on our brand websites and include filters to help customers find the dishes which do not contain any filtered allergens.
We continually review our service cycle and retail staff training on allergens to improve the customer experience.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 33 Corporate social responsibility continued Signposting healthier options Mitchells & Butlers is fully engaged with the Food Standards Agency In partnership with Campden BRI, an independent food and drinks and supports the Regulating Our Future initiative.
We continue to remain research service, we developed a guide to help position our brands involved with the Food Standards Agency and their development and as leaders in the industry for healthier options and to enable guest shaping of the future of regulation and food safety enforcement in communication that is on trend, truthful, substantiated and England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The Company supports the development of the UK Hospitality Assured Several of our brands have increased their range of healthier options, Catering Scheme and wishes to see a robust, fair and sustainably funded and supported these with nutritional and health information, to make scheme that informs Food Hygiene Ratings standards.
them easily identifiable to the health-conscious guest.
Examples include Health and safety Toby Carverys signposting of a range of menu options which are low in The well-being of all employees and guests is of paramount concern saturated fat and contain 500 calories or fewer, and All Bar Ones range to Mitchells & Butlers.
The continuous cycle of improvements has been of calorie-controlled options, with the energy content published on the maintained and we continue to deliver an industry leading RIDDOR menu copy, whilst dishes high in protein, omega-3 and lighter options Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences are also signposted.
Regulations position in respect of our guests and our employees.
Responsibility Deal partnership Serving alcohol responsibly We are committed partners of the Governments Responsibility Deal, The responsible operation of our pubs and restaurants is central to which is now under the remit of Public Health England, and remain the culture of our business.
Our Alcohol and Social Responsibility Policy focused on delivering our pledges relating to artificial trans fats has now been in place for over a decade, and lays down best practice and salt reduction.
about serving alcohol responsibly in England and Wales, and Scotland, Childrens menus including team training, responsible pricing and promotions.
In response to the growing concern over childhood obesity, we developed Mitchells & Butlers operates the Challenge 21 policy in all our businesses our own Childrens Food Standards that were implemented across all across England and Wales and a Challenge 25 policy in our Scottish brands from Spring 2016.
We continue to optimise our childrens offer businesses.
The policy requires that any guest attempting to buy alcohol and updated the standards with new public health guidance following who appears under the age of 21, or 25 in Scotland, must provide an the Governments Childhood Obesity Plan.
acceptable form of proof of age ID to confirm that they are over 18, The standards incorporate best practice and recommendations from before they can be served.
This policy forms part of our regular training leading health charities such as The Soil Association and have been for our employees on their responsibilities for serving alcohol.
developed in consultation with the School Food Standards, Government We strongly support local Pubwatch schemes and crime prevention Buying Standards and established dietary recommendations for children.
initiatives and aim to participate fully in the drive to promote responsible drinking.
It is Company policy for all managers to join and support a local Food safety Pubwatch scheme if one exists.
We also actively support our managers We place great importance on the Food Hygiene Ratings Scores of our in participating in local Best Bar None schemes and are an official sponsor pubs, bars and restaurants and we have made a commitment to increase of Best Bar None nationally.
Best Bar None is a national award scheme the number of our businesses that achieve a 4 or 5-star Food Hygiene supported by the Home Office aimed at promoting responsible Rating, taking a zero-tolerance approach to anything below.
It is pleasing management and operation of alcohol licensed premises.
that at the year end, 98% of our sites were rated either good or very good We are a major funder of Drinkaware Trust, the aim of which is to promote for food hygiene, a further improvement on our strong performance responsible drinking by finding innovative ways to challenge the national last year.
In turn, this helps reduce alcohol misuse and minimise alcohol-related harm.
34 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Mitchells & Butlers is a well-balanced business and overall there is a broadly even split between males and females across our employee base.
Our gender pay gap is primarily a result of there being a greater proportion of men in senior management roles, as well as in roles that attract higher salaries or bonus payments.
The 2018 reduction in the mean pay gap is predominantly due to increases in base pay rates for hourly paid retail team members, where there is a higher proportion of female employees.
The pay increases applicable to this group were higher in percentage terms than for more senior salaried roles and accounted for 0.4% of the overall reduction.
The remaining reduction in the pay gap is due to the impact of leavers and joiners with females joining at higher pay rates than those leaving.
To ensure we continue our focus on creating a diverse workforce we have been working on several initiatives: We have established a Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group to develop, promote and monitor our overall diversity and inclusion agenda: We are reviewing our business practices, policies and procedures People to further enhance flexibility and inclusivity in the workplace: We have hosted a Careers & Development Marketplace for our Named Best Place to Work at HR Distinction Awards.
Retail Support Centre colleagues to ensure we are empowering We saw an all time high in Mitchells & Butlers Your Say employee our employees to understand and explore the job roles and training engagement survey with engagement scores improving or being opportunities available to them: and sustained across all survey groups.
We have developed our employee value proposition, known as our At Mitchells & Butlers Group level, our overall median Gender Pay People Promise, to support our wider recruitment strategy.
The People Gap has reduced to 4.7%, from the 5.2% level we reported last year.
Promise is an explanation of what is unique and special about Mitchells & Butlers offering as an employer, based on feedback and insights Winner of Best Youth Engagement and Employment category from our employees about what they value the most.
Our full Gender Pay Gap report can be found at: We celebrated our 1,000th apprentice completing the programme.
com investors businessconduct  Diversity As one of the largest managed pubs, bars and restaurant companies in We are committed to providing equal opportunities for all of our the UK, we have a huge range of career opportunities on offer.
Our employee Diversity Policy ensures that every employee, our people strategy we strive to attract, develop and retain the best without exception, is treated equally and fairly and that all employees talent.
Everything we do as a business is built on the enthusiasm and are aware of their responsibilities.
The policy confirms that there will be no direct or indirect discrimination Listening to our people in respect of age, disability, religious belief, gender, sexual orientation, Our annual employee engagement survey Your Say is an integral race, colour, marital status, political belief or nationality, or any other part of our calendar.
It enables our employees to share their views and category defined by law in all aspects of employment including demonstrates how much we value their feedback.
recruitment, promotion, and opportunities for training, pay and benefits.
This year we saw an all-time high in our results, with engagement scores The following table sets out our diversity balance as between men and improving or being sustained across all survey groups.
We continue to women at the end of FY 2018. see a huge step forward in how much our employees see our PRIDE Passion, Respect, Innovation, Drive and Engagement values are living Men Women across Mitchells & Butlers.
Our colleagues also told us that they value Directors 10 1 flexibility, work life balance, being a valued member of their respective Other senior managers 26 10 teams, and working in a fun and friendly environment as important factors All employees 21,434 23,252 in driving engagement.
Following the survey, employees in each business or department create an action plan specific to their team results.
Reward and recognition Gender pay gap We acknowledge the importance of rewards and how important these At Mitchells & Butlers we work hard to ensure that everyone across the tools are in recognising the hard work and dedication of our people.
We remain committed to attracting and Pickaperk, our benefits platform, continues to be popular with our retaining the very best talent and believe in creating job opportunities for employees, with a spend on discounted goods of 1.92m in FY 2018, everyone regardless of gender.
As a result, we continue to build a culture an increase of 310k from the previous year.
that values our differences and embraces them as strengths, to drive our Many of our employees continue to rate the Dine with Us programme business forward and nurture a workplace where our people can love as their favourite benefit, where they can access their employee discount every moment.
digitally when they eat in one of our businesses.
This remains at 33% for At Mitchells & Butlers Group level, our overall median Gender Pay Gap the employee and up to five of their guests.
has reduced to 4.7%, from the 5.2% level we reported last year.
We have a mean pay gap of 7.4% versus last years gap of 8.1%, both of these figures comparing favourably with the national average median pay gap which stands at 18.4% and the national average mean pay gap of 17.4%.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 35 Corporate social responsibility continued Over 14,000 employees have received an award recognising their service to the business.
Awards are made to employees for achieving service milestones between one year and 45 years.
Around a further 1,700 have been recognised across the year with specific, ad hoc acknowledgements for their contribution for a job well done.
During the year, our Reward team has been focusing on developing and broadening our Wellbeing programme.
Several members of the Reward team completed the Mental Health at Work First Aid course and work is ongoing to develop this initiative throughout the wider business.
Additionally, we are developing a Wellbeing Hub at our Retail Support Centre as a space for employees to use for a variety of activities such as a book swap, peaceful space and mindfulness.
Our Health Age programme will be rolled out further to help support our employees understand their own health age and provide proactive information for the employees to make changes to their diet and lifestyle if they wish.
Finally, we have launched a benefit with Neyber, who provide financial wellbeing support to our employees.
Communities Nurturing and developing young talent We have continued to expand our successful apprentice programmes Over a three year partnership we have raised over 34,000 over the last year.
In addition to offering apprenticeships nationwide in the for Birmingham Childrens Hospital.
majority of our managed pubs, bars and restaurants, we have extended our programmes to include intermediate and higher-level apprenticeships On Armed Forces Day Toby Carvery donated over 6,270 meals in our Retail Support Centre for our corporate employees.
We have to military personnel.
developed a series of learning pathways, which mean our apprentices All Bar One donated over 49,000 to homeless charity, Shelter.
can gain a nationally recognised qualification, transferable career skills alongside on and off the job training.
Hospitality is one of the few industries where you can very quickly progress from an apprenticeship We are committed to being a good neighbour and a responsible into a management role, thereby helping us develop a talent pipeline and contributor to society, locally and nationally, by supporting our apprenticeship scheme to support our business today and for future years.
We support our employees and businesses across a spectrum of charitable activities and fundraising, enabling us to build In recognition of our apprentice activity and its impact, the Company strong relationships with our guests, our colleagues and our neighbours was recognised by winning a British Institute of Innkeeping National while giving back to the communities in which we trade.
Innovation and Training Award and the Best Youth Engagement and Employment category at the HR Excellence and HR Distinction Awards.
Employee donations programme The employee donations programme helps individual Mitchells & Butlers Our Chefs Academy is our primary apprenticeship programme employees and retired employees support a personal charity event or to develop culinary skills and it continues to grow in both reach and challenge of their choice.
This year we have donated around 14,000 reputation.
In total, 222 chefs have commenced their learning in FY 2018 through this initiative, to a large number of local and national causes making Chefs Academy one of the largest workshop supported commis including Aidans Elephants, MIND, British Heart Foundation, Macmillan chef apprenticeship schemes in the UK.
Now in its second year of Cancer, Shelter, MS UK, Alzheimers Society and many more.
delivery, the business is feeling the benefits of the programme, with many graduates already being promoted into Kitchen Manager or Head Payroll Giving Chef roles and with a number being awarded divisional accolades such We have re-launched our Payroll Giving programme with a new provider, as Head Chef of the Year.
The business has also now launched an which enables employees to donate to their chosen charity direct from Advanced Chefs Academy programme which aims to further develop their pay.
The Company has committed to paying the administration fee culinary skills and also focuses on the managerial and leadership to process each employees donation, so each charity gets the benefit of capabilities needed to run a highly professional and successful kitchen.
Employees receive tax relief on the donation.
Of the total number of learner starters this year, 39 have commenced Big hearted brands, proud to serve those who serve this advanced programme.
In June, Toby Carvery showed its support for the armed forces by In addition, a further 800 young people have joined our business offering all military personnel a free carvery meal on Armed Forces Day.
on hospitality apprenticeships this year and over 1,200 of our current The offer was open to all military personnel, from serving troops and employees have enrolled onto one of the apprenticeship opportunities reserves to veterans and cadets and over 6,270 meals were donated open to them.
We are also delighted to see over 625 employees by Toby Carvery teams across the country.
successfully complete their first apprenticeship in 2018 and we celebrated Again the RNLI and Nicholsons pubs joined forces to promote the charitys our 1,000th apprentice completing the programme.
Mitchells & Butlers Respect the Water campaign.
Nicholsons helped to spread the safety now has c. 1,800 active apprentices within the organisation and we are messages as well as donating 50p from every Ocean Fish & Chips dish aspiring to add a further 3,000 apprenticeship starters in 2019. sold, to the RNLI to generate over 35,000 of fundraising for the charity.
Mitchells & Butlers now offers apprenticeship opportunities from Level 2 through to Level 7, which allows a 16-year-old school leaver to join us on an intermediate apprenticeship and progress through a range of qualifications culminating in a BA Hons degree.
We understand that there is not one learning pathway which fits all and, therefore, we are confident that we offer a true alternative to a traditional academic route: and that we have the building blocks in place to help produce our leaders of the future.
36 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 With millions of people every year struggling with bad housing or Smart meters are installed in almost all our businesses, along with heat homelessness, All Bar One has been working with Shelter since 2016 recovery units which have been fitted in a number of our cellars.
This has to help support the charitys work offering advice, support and legal not only allowed the recovery of heat, but also reduced maintenance costs services.
All Bar One supported Shelter by donating 50p from every by allowing other equipment in the cellars to operate in cooler conditions.
special Shelter dish sold on its Christmas and Breakfast menus.
We also use free cellar air cooling systems, which draw in cool air from This has resulted in over 49,000 being raised for Shelter so far.
outside when temperatures drop below 8C and turn off the traditional cellar cooling process, saving a huge amount of energy every day.
Once again, we supported the Royal British Legion Poppy Appeal selling poppies to raise funds for thousands of serving and ex-Service people.
This year we have focused on enhancing the reporting of our consumption Toby Carvery has also made the Royal British Legion its official charity of gas and electricity allowing us to better monitor and reduce energy partner and have raised over 38,000 via donating 25p from every consumption.
Each site receives a weekly report outlining half hourly Jam and Coconut Sponge pudding sold.
energy consumption from the previous week, enabling our managers to make informed decisions on how to best manage their energy usage.
Support for Birmingham Childrens Hospital Over the past three years the Retail Support Centre Social Committee In addition, we are currently rolling out new gas and electricity meters has organised a series of fundraising events for Birmingham Childrens across the estate to ensure that we have accurate consumption data, Hospital.
Money has been raised through a sky dive, a mud run, abseils, again to help inform our decisions on reducing our energy consumption.
leg waxing, and cake sales.
Over the course of our three year partnership Many of our kitchens use technology to control our extraction and air Mitchells & Butlers has raised over 34,000. supply fans to ensure that they always run at the lowest speed to minimise Licensed Trade Charity energy usage.
We have added smart heating controls to compatible Mitchells & Butlers is a supporter of the Licensed Trade Charity sites that allow for better time and temperature control of our businesses, an organisation that supports hundreds of pub, bar and brewery people demonstrating how the reduction of our consumption of energy facing crisis with practical, emotional and financial support.
The Company is now a fundamental part of our everyday business.
supports a number of the charitys initiatives including employees taking Energy consumption on telephone befriending roles, a service set up to ease the isolation felt A programme of work has commenced to drive a greater focus by some former hospitality industry staff.
This year we have also started on reducing the consumption of electricity and gas across the estate.
working with the charity as our provider of our Employee Assistance Reporting of consumption at outlet level has been enhanced and time Programme called Time To Open Up which is a confidential 24 7 helpline slot analysis is driving a focus on out of trading hours wastage.
and provides support with a range of practical advice and services.
Alongside this, a specialist third-party expert has been engaged Our environment to scope out a co-ordinated programme of activity looking across the key influencers of energy consumption, i. e. the pub fabric and plant : We successfully manage our energy, waste and water in a way which is controls and maintenance: site personnel and practices, and management cost effective to the business and reduces our impact on the environment.
It is anticipated this programme will cover a Waste management three to five year period.
We continue to drive successfully our waste disposal strategy, focused Tax strategy on reducing, re-using and effectively recycling the waste generated The aim of the Company tax strategy is to manage the tax affairs of the by our restaurants and pubs.
This captures recycling cardboard, glass, Group as efficiently as possible to support the commercial objectives of food and cooking oil.
We manage our tax affairs in accordance with the letter and Plastic straws spirit of the law, whilst seeking to minimise the tax paid by the Group.
We We have removed plastic straws from service in our restaurants and pubs seek to maintain strong compliance controls and operate a policy of open and only provide a straw if a guest requests one.
As a direct result we and transparent dialogue with the relevant tax authorities.
The full strategy have seen our straw usage drop by approximately 50% during FY 2018. can be found at www.
com investors businessconduct taxstrategy We have also sourced a non-plastic straw made from paper and bamboo Modern slavery pulp that is being phased in across the estate and will eventually replace Mitchells & Butlers has a zero-tolerance approach to any form of all plastic straws.
mistreatment of people and is committed to operating and conducting Energy efficiency its business in such a way that human rights are respected and protected.
Our whole estate is fitted with energy efficient lighting.
This has helped The full statement can be found at www.
com investors us to make considerable savings on energy consumption as well as businessconduct  improving lighting levels for our guests.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 37
