46 Principal risks Compliance risks Risk tolerance: We have a zero tolerance approach to compliance risks.
Our strong culture and values, Low emphasised in every part of our business, with a focus on integrity, honesty, and transparency, underpins our approach.
Key person responsible: Andrew King Chief Financial Officer 14 Reputational risk Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities Non-compliance with the legal and governance requirements and globally established responsible business conduct in any of the jurisdictions in which we We operate a comprehensive training and compliance programme, supported by operate and within our supply chain could expose us to significant risk if not actively self-certification and reporting, with personal sanction for failure to comply with managed.
Failure to successfully manage relationships with our stakeholders could Group policies.
disrupt our operations and adversely impact the Groups reputation.
We engage with our stakeholders through formal and informal processes such as our SEAT assessment and Community Engagement Plans.
These requirements include laws relating to the environment, exports, price controls, taxation, competition compliance, data protection, human rights, Our legal and governance compliance is supported by a centralised legal and labour.
compliance team and is subject to regular internal audit review.
Fines imposed by authorities for non-compliance are severe and, in some cases, We have a confidential reporting hotline, Speakout, enabling employees, legislation can result in criminal sanction for entities and individuals found guilty.
customers, suppliers, managers and other stakeholders to raise concerns Areas of weaker governance also present the challenge of addressing potential about misconduct.
human rights issues in our operations and supply chain.
The introduction of human rights legislation, such as the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, has further highlighted the need to identify and address potential risks of child labour, forced or bonded labour and human trafficking in our supply chain.
15 Information technology risk Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities Many of our operations are dependent on the availability of IT services and an extended interruption of such services may result in a plant shutdown and an We have a comprehensive IT Security Policy approved by the Boards and we inability to meet customer requirements.
operate an extensive training and awareness programme for all our users.
The IT infrastructure is regularly tested and verified and where possible, we have Cybercrime continues to increase and attempts are increasingly sophisticated, with redundancies in place.
Our system landscape is based on well-proven products.
the consequences of successful attacks including compromised data, financial fraud, and system shutdowns.
We conduct regular threat assessments and utilise external providers to evaluate and review our security policies and procedures and we have cybercrime insurance in place.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 47 The Groups budget and plan has been Viability statement Going concern tested for severe but plausible downside As part of the approval of this Integrated The directors have reviewed the Groups scenarios linked to the Groups principal report, the Boards have assessed the budget, considered the assumptions risks.
The purpose of this is to test the Groups prospects and viability.
contained in the budget, and reviewed impact of events that have the ability to the significant risks which may impact threaten the viability of the Group, but are Factors in assessing the Groups performance in the near hypothetical in the sense that multiple long-termprospects term.
These include an evaluation of the control measures and mitigation actions current macroeconomic environment and The Groups business model and strategic are in place to prevent such events from reasonably possible changes in the Groups framework are described in detail on occurring.
In an event that a scenario partly trading performance.
Our strategy is to deliver or fully takes place, the Group has various value accretive growth by focusing on our The Groups financial position, cash flows, options available to maintain liquidity and four strategic value drivers.
Our industryliquidity position, and borrowing facilities continue operations.
leading asset portfolio and our focus on are described in the annual financial The scenarios tested include lower performance is supported by our strong statements.
At 31 December 2018, Mondi packaging and uncoated fine paper prices capital expenditure project pipeline and had 616 million of undrawn, committed and weaker demand for a long period where relevant by acquisitions to build on debt facilities.
The Groups debt facilities of time.
Given the Groups geographical our competitive advantages and to better have maturity dates of between 1 and 8 spread the potential impact of exchange serve our customers.
Our current and years, with a weighted average maturity of rate fluctuations has also been evaluated, future prospects are discussed in more 4.6 years.
including a weaker US dollar euro exchange detail in our Chief Executive Officers letter Based on our evaluation the Boards rate and stronger emerging market and Strategic performance review.
considered it appropriate to prepare currencies.
Based on the results of these Mondis geographical spread, product the financial statements on the going scenarios, the Boards are satisfied that the diversity and large customer and supplier concern basis.
Group would be able to respond to such base mitigate potential risks of customer or circumstances through various means Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt supplier liquidity issues.
Ongoing initiatives which could include a reduction of capital the going concern basis in preparing by management in implementing profit expenditure and further rationalisation the Integrated report and financial improvement programmes, which and or restructuring, to ensure that statements 2018. include ongoing investment in operations: the Group can continue to meet its plant optimisation: cost-cutting: and.
rationalisation activities, have consolidated The Group meets its funding requirements the Groups leading positions in its from a variety of sources as more fully chosen markets.
described in the financial statements.
The Boards are satisfied that the Group will Assessment of viability have sufficient liquidity to meet its needs The Boards believe that the three-years to over the planning horizon.
The scenario December 2021 is an appropriate period testing is carried out against Mondis over which a reasonable expectation of current debt facilities, with an assumption the Groups longer-term viability can be that the Groups 500 million Eurobond evaluated.
In coming to this view, the maturing in September 2020 is successfully Boards have considered the inherent refinanced and the 750 million Syndicated volatility in commodity prices and exchange Revolving Credit Facility is refinanced ahead rates, the time taken for new investments of maturing in July 2021.
In the scenarios in pulp and paper production capacity evaluated, the Group remains within its key to be introduced into the market, typical financial covenant ratio in terms of which new product development cycles, and its net debt to trailing 12-month underlying the Groups capital structure.
Given the EBITDA ratio must not exceed 3.5 times.
strategic risks described, the Boards believe that the ability to assess the Groups Taking into account the Groups long-term longer-term viability beyond this period strategy, the principal risks described becomes increasingly reduced.
The Boards above, and the results of the downside have considered the Groups current scenario assessments, the directors financial position, strategy and plans for the have a reasonable expectation that the next three years, marking the end of the Group remains viable over the period of Groups formal planning horizon.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 48 Sustainability performance Growing responsibly Our Growing Responsibly Solutions that model remains the framework create value for our UN SDGs customers through which we respond We encourage sustainable, tooursustainability challenges responsibly manufactured andopportunities, and provides products and closer collaboration with our a solid structure for our future customersand partners.
As one of the Groups Read more strategic value drivers, it shapes Page 62-63 our long-term response to sustainability challenges and Relationships with enables us to demonstrate, monitor UN SDGs communities and improve our performance We aim to enhance our across the value chain.
social value to communities through effective stakeholder The model covers 10 Action Areas, which engagement and meaningful social investments, using global reflect the aspects of sustainability that are frameworks that enable us to most relevant for Mondi and our stakeholders.
Within these Action Areas, we have made 16 Read more public commitments to be achieved by 2020, Page 61-62 along with a carbon emissions commitment that runs to 2030.
Supplier conduct and responsible Contributing to the UN Sustainable UN SDGs procurement Development Goals SDGs Were taking steps to encourage It is a responsibility of business to participate greater transparency and in the delivery of the UN SDGs, so this year, promote fair working conditions in addition to highlighting the strongest links by developing a responsible, inclusive and sustainable between our Action Areas and respective SDG supply chain.
targets, we have included a comprehensive Read more index that references SDG links in our SD report.
Page 60-61 Our main reporting focus continues to be on the six priority SDGs where we believe we have the greatest impact and therefore the greatest Biodiversity and opportunity to make a real and lasting difference: UN SDGs ecosystems We promote ecosystem 7 Affordable & clean energy stewardship to sustain 8 Decent work & economic growth services that our businesses and communities rely 9 Industry, innovation & infrastructure on through sharing best 12 Responsible consumption & production practices and continued, 13 Climate action long-term collaboration with our stakeholders.
15 Life on land Read more Page 59-60 Materiality Our material issues articulate what matters most Constrained to our business and our stakeholders along the resources and value chain.
This year, we carried out a new environmental assessment of our material issues to understand UN SDGs impacts their relative importance to our stakeholders, and Our focus on operational identify new and emerging issues.
The updated excellence drives efficiency list will inform our commitments beyond 2020. improvements to ensure Our materiality assessment combined qualitative responsible use of water, and quantitative inputs from internal and external reduction of waste and emissions, the cascading use stakeholders, meeting GRI guidance and bestof wood and development of practice standards.
Read more Online Sustainable Page 58-59 development report 2018 www.
com sd18 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 49 Employee and contractor safety UN SDGs Our goal is zero harm to employees and contractors, and a safe and healthy workplace.
Read more Page 51-52 A skilled and 1 committed workforce UN SDGs Were developing a culture 2 10 thataims to inspire, engage and develop all our people to reach their full potential, while ensuring our business can continue togrow and succeed.
Read more Page 52-53 9 3 Fairness and diversity in the workplace UN SDGs Our The diversity of our workforce 10 Action is one of our greatest strengths.
We promote fair working conditions for a better, Areas morediverse workplace.
Read more 8 4 Page 53-54 Sustainable fibre UN SDGs Were promoting positive change to support credible certification systems that will meet increasing 7 5 demand for sustainable fibre.
We also manage our own forests sustainably.
6 Read more Page 55-56 Climate change UN SDGs We consider climate changein our business decisions throughsound investments to improve energy Through this model, were efficiency and responsible procurement ofwood and able to demonstrate, monitor fibre.
Our sustainably managed forests also play an important and improve our sustainability role in storing carbon.
performance as well as Read more Page 56-57 our contribution towards achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Dominique Reiniche Chair of the DLC sustainable Online Sustainable development committee development report 2018 www.
com sd18 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 50 Sustainability performance Growing responsibly: Our approach External recognition Our sustainability performance has been Robust governance is fundamental to building disclosed in or received recognition a resilient and successful organisation in which byanumber of external corporate sustainability is embedded at all levels.
ratings and indices, including: Our policies include some of our longerSustainability governance term sustainability commitments and inform Our Boards and committees provide the the setting of targets and commitments necessary leadership to implement the for each new period.
Operating standards principles of good corporate governance define the minimum requirements for e Advanced Reporter across the Group, ensuring decisions and good operational management and interactions with all stakeholders are based control across all policy areas and provide on integrity, accountability, fairness and guidance on the implementation of the The CEO Water Mandate transparency.
Comprehensive policies, Sustainable Development Management WE SUPPORT standards and management systems System SDMS at Group, business unit help us meet our commitments and e Joined 2015 and operational levels.
guide our practice, linked to our material issues and aligned with our Growing We apply due diligence processes to our Responsibly model, to address the risks practices and performance to ensure and opportunities facing us.
These include: monthly and annual monitoring of our Our Sustainable Development Governance e Member of the FTSE4Good operations sustainability performance Policy supports our overall approach Index Series and regular reporting to the sustainable and is further supported by the following e FTSE JSE Responsible Investment development committee: active and policies, which apply to all our owned and Index: Top 30 voluntary use of external assurance and managed operations: verification of our external sustainability e Safety and Occupational Health reporting: internal audits to monitor operations adherence to our standards: e Labour and Human Rights training and communication on current e Sustainable Forestry e Leadership for Climate and future regulatory requirements and Change disclosure e Energy and Climate Change material sustainability issues: and the use of e B List for Forests and Water e Environment externally certified standards at operational Security disclosures and group level.
e Supply Chain and Responsible Procurement In 2018, we commenced a comprehensive e Product Stewardship review of our operating standards, e Ranked sixth FTSE 100 company the second tier of our SDMS, which e Communities set minimum requirements for Mondi More information operations to comply with group policies.
com sustainability Draft operating standards and their  supporting practice notes are currently being developed.
e Member of the ESI Excellence Europe Online Sustainable development report Page 36 e UK 20 Non-financial information statement e Europe 120 In accordance with sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK Companies Act 2006, the required non-financial e World 120 information disclosures can be found integrated throughout the Strategic report.
A summary of key areas of disclosure is set out below: Business model Page 18 to 25 Information relating to environmental matters Page 55 to 60 e GOLD recognition level Information relating to employees Page 51 to 54 e Top 1% of all suppliers Information relating to social matters Page 61 to 62 Information relating to respect for human rights Page 54 Information relating to anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters Page 63 Principal risks Page 38 to 47 e ESG Rating AA Non-financial key performance indicators Page 37, 48 to 63, and 70 to 83 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 51 Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 Performance worse than or the same as the base year: Achievement of the commitment Achievement of the commitment 1 measures in place to be back on track behind target on track In all instances, we carry out investigations to understand the events and behaviour Employee and involved, and to identify how we might 1 prevent such incidents in the future.
contractor safety Embedding a 24-hour safetymindset We introduced a 24-hour safety mindset approach in 2017, where safety is seen as something we do for ourselves, our families, our colleagues and their families.
In 2018, we launched a poster campaign showing employees with their children in situations related to our potential life-altering and fatal risk tasks.
We also created a hardhitting safety communication programme to address injuries relating to moving and rotating equipment, and we are exploring a group-wide focus on conscious and subconscious safety behaviour.
We continued to provide training to first-line managers to enable them to manage the 1 safety and health of their teams.
1,315 Our commitments to 2020 2018 performance in brief Status 2017: 1,125 people have now attended Avoid work-related employee One fatality the three-day first-line managers training andcontractor fatalities programme.
We also developed the next Prevent life-altering employee Five life-altering injuries module of our training programme for andcontractor injuries safety and health professionals, to be Reduce TRCR by 5% compared 0.68 TRCR completed by 2020. to2015baseline, including new acquisitions 11% reduction against 2015 Risk-based approach When it comes to our safety We had 262 recordable cases in 2 performance, weve come a long our operations in 2018 2017: 255.
We take a risk-based approach to managing way over the last 10 years.
Open and This equates to a total recordable safety and health.
Risk assessments are 2 honest discussions have seen a step case rate TRCR of 0.68 2017: 0.68. an important tool for identifying hazards change in the way we engage in and This represents an 11% improvement and putting necessary control measures in take responsibility for safety.
But while compared to our 2015 baseline of 0.76 place.
Every operation continues to identify were among the safety leaders in adjusted to include acquisitions.
We saw their top risks and develop management our industry, unsafe behaviour was a one newly compensated occupational plans to engineer them out of the business.
common factor in many of our incidents disease case in 2018 at our Richards Bay Where the latter is not feasible, robust in 2018.
Ultimately, if we want to achieve mill South Africa.
controls and procedures are introduced to our zero harm ambition, then we reduce and manage the risks.
We were deeply saddened by a fatality need to create a culture where people in April 2018 when a contractor lost his In 2013 we introduced our Top 5 Fatal Risks instinctively act safely in everything life at our Syktyvkar operation Russia approach to address the top risks in all our they do, every day.
during maintenance of a conveyor in the operations.
In 2018, we commenced the woodyard.
Regretfully we also experienced third phase of work to identify the next set a contractor fatality at our Ruomberok mill of top risks and actions to address them.
Slovakia in January 2019, during drilling Our Task Risk Management Methodology activities on site.
Five life-altering injuries provides a practical, easy-to-understand occurred during the year, details of which approach to conducting pre-task risk can be found in the Business reviews.
assessments, assessing probability and severity of any incident and guiding action Business reviews plans based on a hierarchy of controls to Page 68-83 1 F or fatalities and life-altering injuries we compare our address the risks.
The approach aims to performance to our goal of zero harm 2 2 017 recordable cases and TRCR have been restated to include firstly prevent incidents and then, if they do a missing person confirmed deceased in 2017, and acquisitions occur, to reduce their severity.
completed in 2016 and 2017 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 52 Sustainability performance Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 This requires operations to consider the top three risk controls elimination, substitution A skilled and and engineering before looking at 2 administrative controls or issuing personal committed workforce protective equipment.
Employees are engaged during the risk assessment processes and assessments are revised at predefined frequencies and when required as a result of incidents.
Our new Permit to Work methodology was rolled out at all operations in 2018.
Measuring progress: lead, current and lag indicators In addition to conventional safety performance metrics, which focus on incidents and total recordable case rate TRCR known as lag indicators we use current and lead indicators, which allow us to monitor proactive efforts and improvements aimed at preventing Our commitment to 2020 2018 performance in brief Status incidents.
Performance against current and lead indicators form part of our senior Engage with our people to create 89% response rate in 2018 employee survey, managers bonus scheme, with targets abetter workplace with actions undertaken in response to findings assigned to each indicator as part of the annual performance and development With around 26,100 employees across There are a number of performance-related review PDR process.
In 2018, we carried more than 30 countries, we aim to be pay schemes that reward employees for out 106,290 2017: 106,840 safety audits an employer of choice, inspiring and the pursuit and achievement of business including management risk-focused audits: empowering our global workforce to objectives, and the majority of our firstline manager task audits: Safety, Health deliver our strategy.
and Environment SHE professional focus developing our people to reach their audits: and peer observations, against a Our group-wide employee survey provides full potential and providing inspiring target of 77,673. important feedback from employees on opportunities for their personal and specific issues and tracks our progress.
professional development ensures Health and wellbeing Our latest survey was carried out in February our business continues to grow We promote awareness of diseases such 2018 by a third party to ensure 100% and succeed.
3 as HIV AIDS, diabetes and tuberculosis confidentiality.
All Mondi employees were by encouraging testing, counselling invited to take part, with the survey covering and treatment.
We also offer health over 100 operations in 24 languages.
Employee engagement and wellbeing facilities and wellness Inspire is our programme for engaging The response rate was 89% 2015: 90% programmes at many locations.
In 2018, people to live Mondis three core values with results highlighting the following areas 3,465 employees and contractors passion for performance, acting with as key strengths: 2017: 3,530 participated in the HIV AIDS integrity and caring.
Launched in 2011, voluntary programme in our South African e Employees feel comfortable to stop Inspire guides our approach to training and operations, with 1,156 opting for testing others from working unsafely development, operational transparency, 2017: 3,307.
In addition, 12 employees e Management enforce safe behaviour in and the way we engage and motivate 2017: 40 and 1,087 contractors 2017: 485 the workplace our employees.
benefited from the Antiretroviral Therapy e Expectations of employees are clear We use both formal and informal processes programme.
A further 28 employees tested e Thinking ahead and acting quickly in to communicate and engage with joined the programme at the start of 2019. teams is common employees, together with regular PDRs Online Sustainable development report conducted at a local level.
In addition to e Employees perceive a positive attitude Page 46 our global intranet platform, regular local among leadership sessions focus on safety, operational objectives, performance and the Groups vision, strategy, values and culture.
3 E mployees as of 1 December 2017 with a minimum of 2-months contract and excluding those on leave, and external contractors Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 53 Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 Areas considered as opportunities for and areas for improvement.
Senior leaders In 2018, we devoted around 819,200 hours improvement include: and line managers receive 360 feedback of employee and contractor time to training every three years and new leaders receive and development 2017: 829,900 hours.
e Teams receiving high quality support 360 feedback around six to eight months from other teams with which they work This does not include informal and on-theafter appointment.
job training, where much of our employee e The belief that quality is Having expanded the opportunity to receive learning happens.
everyones responsibility such feedback, 531 employees received e Management doing what they say Some 40% of this training was dedicated feedback focused on SHE topics and to safety and health issues 2017: 37%.
e Employees feeling cared for by 604 received a standard 360 feedback In addition to 267,028 hours of general the company 2017: 358. safety training 2017: 247,965, we e Action taken on issues raised in the We also introduced the digital FlexiFeedback conducted 59,995 hours of critical safety previous survey tool, through which managers and employees training 2017: 58,594. can select questions and receive feedback in Survey results were shared across the Group a quick and flexible way.
The Mondi Academy to enable the development of targeted action plans with a focus on care and recognition, The Mondi Academy International is our Training and development and fostering a learning culture through global training facility, which provides core strong people development.
By enhancing the skills of our people, we business-related training programmes for encourage them to realise their potential leaders, line managers and employees.
Between our global employee surveys, we while meeting our business needs.
Along with group-wide training networks also conduct pulse checks at our larger Personal development and training also and local academies currently in Poland, mills to track progress.
Following the 2015 enables our employees to be accountable Russia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic survey we carried our pulse checks at three forupholding our business conduct and South Africa, it plays a key role in mills in 2017, and further checks are planned standards, principles and policies.
Our employee induction includes training The Mondi Academy International conducted related to the business and its strategic value 126 seminars and programmes in 2018 Transparency, assessment drivers, including products and our approach 2017: 148 which were attended by 1,196 andfeedback to sustainable development.
Specific training employees, 26% female 2017: 1,180, 25% Annual PDRs are an important tool for schemes are designed to empower and female.
It increased its focus on providing employees and their managers to reflect support diversity, particularly gender diversity.
digital learning tools, laying the foundation on the past years performance and set Employees in sales and marketing roles for the Digital Academy, which is due to be goals for employees immediate and longand those in positions that have, or may launched in 2019 to support employees in term development.
have, contact with competitors complete developing their digital skills.
annual competition compliance training 360 feedback is another important tool completed by 2,865 in 2018, 2017: 514. for people to understand their behaviours We strive to create an inclusive environment where differences are Fairness and diversity valued and embraced and we apply 3 a zero tolerance policy towards in the workplace discrimination and harassment.
Equal opportunities for all is a priority across our operations.
Although labour and collective bargaining practices differ from country to country, basic rights and fair employment standards 4 including fair wages apply throughout the business.
They are managed locally, guided by Group policies and standards.
Our commitment to 2020 2018 performance in brief Status Promote fair working conditions Diversity and inclusion roadmap developed and 4 E nsuring that wages paid for a standard working week shall at anddiversityinthe workplace 10 priority work streams identified to support and least meet legal or industry minimum standards and shall always be sufficient to meet the basic needs of our employees and to enhance diversity and inclusion in the workplace provide some discretionary income Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 54 Sustainability performance Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 footprint: producing our products to Diversity and inclusion D&I We believe that diverse teams will the highest safety, health and hygiene Our policy is to treat everyone including improve our competitive advantage.
standards: and working with suppliers all our employees and contractors, whether Our global D&I taskforce is focusing and contractors to meet high standards of part-time, full-time or temporary fairly and business conduct.
on 10 workstreams to drive with respect, irrespective of origin, nationality, disability or gender.
Opportunities for progress across the organisation.
Our upcoming Operating Standard employment, engagement, promotion, related to human rights and working Sara Sizer training and any other benefit are based on Group Communication & Marketing conditions, due to be rolled out in 2019, skills and ability.
Director and Exco D&I sponsor will provide guidance for identifying, mitigating and managing potential human We monitor gender diversity across rights risks.
In addition, we are working the business, and among our senior on the implementation of comprehensive management.
We provide equal mechanisms to identify and address human opportunities for all genders regardless of rights incidents in our supply chain.
race, age, sexual orientation, ethnicity or any other difference and we are working to There were no human rights incidents in increase the representation of women at our operations or supply chain reported 60% of Mondi South Africas management all levels.
through our Speakout tool or any other team six out of 10 operational committee reporting mechanisms in 2018.
Our D&I policy, updated in 2017, takes into members were previously disadvantaged account evolving regulatory requirements individuals 2017: 57%.
We support the UK Modern Slavery Act and stakeholder expectations.
The policy and its requirement for organisations to In September 2018, we held our first was informed by the Hampton-Alexander prepare an annual slavery and human Diversity & Inclusion conference, bringing 5 Review recommendation that boards, as trafficking statement.
Our first statement 75 colleagues together to shape the vision well as executive committees and their direct was published in June 2017 for the financial of a diverse and inclusive culture at Mondi.
reports combined, should be 33% women year 2016.
The latest statement was by 2020.
It also provides a greater focus on A pilot initiative is helping us to better published on our website in June 2018 for ethnic and race diversity across our board understand and address the needs the financial year 2017, with the next update and executive committee members and it of employees with a disability.
We are due in June 2019. continues to support our Labour and Human developing metrics that can more clearly Rights policy.
monitor, measure and track our Corporate restructuring commitment to promoting fair working We consider applications for employment Where employees are affected by corporate conditions in the workplace.
in a fair and balanced way, seeking to cater restructuring, we follow our HR policies and Gender diversity 2018 Male % Female % for individual requirements, disabilities and local labour rules as a minimum.
If roles are at 6 75 2 25 Directors needs.
Group policy ensures training, career risk, we seek to provide retraining, interview development and promotion is consistent skills and CV writing services, re-employment 283 92 26 8 Senior managers and fair, including for people with disabilities.
and relocation, supporting entrepreneurship 20,708 79 5,468 21 Employees as well as severance payments depending In the event of an employee suffering a lifeAs at 31 December 2018 on local regulations and available legal altering or life-threatening injury at work, we Senior managers includes directors as per the definition set out in section 414C of the UK Companies Act 2006 schemes.
In 2018, the closure of our facilitate appropriate medical treatment and Louisville facility US impacted about 100 rehabilitation.
We have supported continued Governance report employees.
The closure of our Scunthorpe employment at Mondi for all employees Page 104-105 plant UK impacted 79 employees, all of who have suffered life-altering injuries by whom secured alternative employment or finding alternative equivalent jobs for them Human rights became self-employed.
We also ceased as necessary.
Were further strengthening our monitoring production of industrial bags at our Zeltweg At the end of 2018, 21% of employees and reporting of potential human rights plant Austria, impacting around 100 were female 2017: 22%.
We had two risks in our operations and supply chain.
employees, and we are in the process of female directors representing 25% of This includes embedding sustainability merging our two industrial bags plants in the the composition of the Boards and one criteria relating to labour and human rights city of San Pietro in Gu Italy on to one site, director of ethnic minority background.
with the majority of employees retaining their In June 2018, we reported to the Hamptonjobs.
In South Africa, following the closure of Alexander Review that we had 27% Respecting and protecting human rights is a paper machine at our Merebank mill, 119 female representation across our executive embedded in many existing practices and impacted employees were offered access committee and its direct reports 2017: 27%.
initiatives across the business, including: to career guidance and support in order to ensuring safety and health at work: secure employment elsewhere, with only five engaging employees and treating them remaining unplaced.
fairly: our respect for the law wherever we operate: engaging with and investing in 5 An independent review body which builds on the work of the Online Sustainable development report Davies Review to increase the number of women on FTSE Page 59 communities: minimising our environmental boards and includes a focus to improve womens representation in senior leadership positions Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 55 Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 In European countries, through the strong consideration of sustainability factors Sustainable in forestry traditions, regulations and 4 practice, we promote PEFC certification.
fibre For countries identified as high-risk through our DDMS, or where we do not have expertise on national legislation, society and environment and where we lack experience working with local suppliers, we only accept FSC-certified wood or wood that is verified through a recognised credible certification body.
We do not source wood or products from sources that involve any of the following: violation of national and international legislation: violation of traditional and human rights: destruction of high conservation values, conversion of forests to plantations or non-forest use: introduction of genetically modified organisms: or violation of any of the International Labour Organization ILO Core Conventions.
None of our sourcing contributes to illegal logging or deforestation and we dont use illegal wood, including mixed tropical hardwood species and species listed by the Convention of International Trade on Endangered Species CITES.
Our commitments to 2020 2018 performance in brief Status In 2018, 71% of our total procured wood Maintain FSC certification for 100% of our owned 100% of owned and leased was certified to FSC or PEFC 2017: 71% and leased forest lands and promote sustainable forests certified forest management and 94% of our externally procured pulp was from FSC or PEFC certified sources Procure at least 70% of our wood from FSC- 71% of wood certified or PEFC-certified sources with the balance 2017: 93%.
All our mills are certified to FSC All Chain-of-Custody certifications meeting our company minimum wood standard and or PEFC Chain-of-Custody standards.
withControlled Wood requirements that complies with FSCs requirements for weremaintained Controlled Wood While forest and supply chain Wood is one of our primary raw We manage around 2.4 million hectares certification alone does not materials and we work hard to of forest landholdings in Russia and provide proof of legal compliance provide the best assurance for our South Africa.
Sourcing wood through stakeholders that the wood and fibre our own forestry operations gives us with EUTR, it is without doubt we use comes from responsible maximum assurance that our fibre is a very strong tool when used sources.
We combine forest sustainable and provides opportunities within a corporate Due Diligence certification with risk-assessment to test new sustainable forestry practices Management System.
processes as part of our Due Diligence and landscape stewardship approaches.
We maintain FSC certification of all our Charles Townsend FSC PEFC Lead Auditor, EUTR Our long-term aim is to increase the owned and leased forests as well as PEFC Consultant, SGS United Kingdom Ltd. proportion of our products that are certification in our Russian forests.
made using credibly certified fibre A significant portion of our wood demand and to support efforts to increase its is sourced externally.
We combine forest availability in the supply chain.
certification with risk-assessment as part of our DDMS.
The system meets FSC Controlled Wood CW requirements as a minimum and addresses the requirements of the European Union Timber Regulation EUTR and the US Lacey Act.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 56 Sustainability performance Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 We continued to update and refine our DDMS in 2018 to address the requirements Climate of evolving legislation.
This was done with 5 input from the certification body SGS, change WWF, and our consultant ERM.
We will pilot the updated DDMS in 2019 for our wood and pulp supply chain, supported by group-wide training.
Use of recycled fibre Recycled fibre is an important raw material for our packaging and paper products.
We consider virgin and recycled fibres as complementary.
We assess the balance between virgin and recycled fibres in our products on a case-by-case basis, using the optimum solutions to create highquality, resource-efficient products for our customers.
In 2018, we used around 1.3 million tonnes of paper for recycling recovered paper 2017: 1.3 million tonnes.
Cascading use of wood We believe that sustainable consumption of wood needs to be at the heart of the circular economy and government policy to meet projected demand for wood-based products.
The cascading use of wood principle maximises the value society gains from the worlds forests through the Our commitments 2018 performance in brief Status complementary use of virgin and recycled Reduce specific CO e emissions from our 14.5% reduction in specific CO e 2 2 fibre.
It prioritises value-adding non-fuel pulp and paper mills by 15% by 2030 against emissions against 2014 baseline uses first and ensures wood is only burnt a2014 baseline for energy after it has been used, reused Reduce specific, production-related, Scope 1 7.7% reduction of specific or recycled for other purposes.
With the and2 GHG emissions from our pulp and paper production-related CO2 emissions mills to 0.25 tonnes CO2 per tonne of saleable against a 2014 baseline EU setting new member state targets for production by 2050 against a 2014 baseline obtaining energy from renewable sources by 2030, we continue to support calls for Our approach to climate change We combine strategic energy-related these targets to be met without causing addresses both the risks and the investments across our pulp and paper inadvertent damage to the worlds forests opportunities in transitioning to a mills with good management and sharing and the sustainable wood supply chain.
Key focus of best practice.
Our aim is to reduce areas include energy optimisation emissions, improve energy efficiency and Online Sustainable development report Page 66 programmes, increasing the ratio replace fossil fuels with renewable biomassof renewable energy and biomassbased energy, where it is practical and based fuels, and increasing electricity economically feasible.
In 2018, we joined our impacts by using low carbon energy WWFs Climate Savers, a leadership technologies, reducing the carbon footprint programme for businesses, as part of of our products and refining our approach our commitment to continue to reduce to responsible, sustainable forestry.
our GHG emissions using the sciencebased target setting methodology.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements tonnes per tonne of saleable production 57 Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 The contribution of biomass-based Converting operations Managing risks renewable energy to the total fuel andopportunities The Scope 1 emissions from our converting consumption of our mills increased from operations totalled 0.15 million tonnes Our group-wide risk management framework 59% in 2014 to 64% in 2018, mainly due CO e in 2018 2017: 0.15.
Their Scope 2 2 ensures the effective governance of all our to the new biomass boilers at our mill in emissions totalled 0.26 million tonnes CO e 2 material risks and opportunities.
It includes wiecie Poland and production increases 2017: 0.27.
Our converting operations pre-determined risk tolerance limits which at Syktyvkar which increased biomass contributed 31% of the Groups total Scope take the likelihood and severity of risk factors black liquor and bark incineration and, in 2 emissions.
combination with reduced energy sales, led We are committed to adhering to to a higher ratio of biomass-based energy Scope 3 emissions internationally accepted recommendations production at Syktyvkar.
Our indirect emissions Scope 3 arise such as those published by the Financial Our mills electricity self-sufficiency was from transportation of products and raw Stability Boards Task Force on Climate- 100% in 2018, up from 96% in 2017. materials, employee commuting, business related Financial Disclosures TCFD to travel, disposal of waste and production of investigate and report on climate-related 6 fuels and raw materials.
In 2018, our Scope GHG emissions risks and opportunities.
In 2018, we made 3 emissions were estimated to amount progress in defining Mondis climate-related Pulp and paper mills to 3.24 million tonnes CO e 2017: 3.01.
2 risks and opportunities and investigated In 2018, the Scope 1 emissions of Over the last few years, we have increased their financial implications according to the our mills was 3.8 million tonnes CO e 2 the number of categories we report as recommendations of the TCFD.
This equated to 0.63 Scope 3 emissions to provide a more tonnes CO e per tonne of saleable We have identified three key risks and two 2 complete picture of our indirect emissions.
production 2017: 0.61. opportunities, and started the process to We are currently working with WWF and an understand the financial implications.
external consultant to replace some of the We reduced our mills Scope 2 emissions 7 secondary data with primary data.
from 0.69 million tonnes CO e in 2017 to Our climate-related risks include regulatory 2 0.58 in 2018, equating to specific emissions risks such as reduced EU ETS allowances Energy-related investments of 0.10 tonnes per tonne of saleable in period IV, which may result in the demand production 2017: 0.11.
All our mills use To achieve our climate goals, we make of additional GHG credits.
We have also market-based emission factors for reporting targeted energy-related investments identified physical risks such as extreme Scope 2 emissions.
Our reported CO e across our pulp and paper mills, mainly weather conditions that may result in reduced 2 figures do not include any carbon offthrough recovery boilers that utilise the tree growth yields as a consequence of setting.
biomass residues of our pulp making drought, fire, erosion loss and pests and process.
Since 2013 we have invested over disease.
Water scarcity may affect water 400 million in energy efficiency measures resources required for production in our GHG emissions from our pulp and increasing biomass based energy in mills located in water scarce countries, and paper mills our mills, including new recovery boilers and lead to increased expenses for water Scope 1 million tonnes Specic Total CO e 2 at Frantschach Austria, Ruomberok, Scope 2 million tonnes and or higher investment requirements to 6.0 1.0 and wiecie.
In addition, we invested ensure water security.
Our climate change- 1.00 0.78 in a new recovery boiler as part of the 5.0 related opportunities include operating 0.67 0.9 4.48 0.69 0.58 4.31 335 million modernisation project at tt cost reductions through implementation 4.07 4.0 3.78 3.81 Czech Republic, and we are investing of efficiency improvements both for water 3.0 0.8 125 million to upgrade the energy plant at use and energy as well as opportunities for 2.0 0.7 our Syktyvkar mill.
generating income from by-products from 1.0 our pulp process with low-carbon, biomass Online Sustainable development report based chemicals which can be sold as Page 71 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 secondary raw materials.
1 The 2014 baseline of 0.844t t excludes a divested mill 2 0.722t t excludes Powerute acquired in 2018 but includes Pine Bluff until date of divestiture Energy use and generation Our long-term GHG reduction target, In 2018, the total energy use by our calculated using the science-based target mills was 148.7 million GJ 2017: 151.6. setting methodology, is: Some 91.6 million GJ was consumed for pulp and paper core processes in the form e Reduce production-related specific GHG 6 We report our GHG emissions according to the Greenhouse of heat and electricity at our operations emissions to 0.25 tonnes CO per tonne 2 Gas Protocol, published by the WBCSD and the WRI, and have reported our scope 1 and 2 GHG data in compliance with 2017: 93.1 and 8.5 million GJ was sold to of saleable production by 2050, against a ISO 14064:1-2006.
ERM CVS has provided reasonable pulp and paper mills and limited converting operations levels of the local grids 2017: 8.4.
Total energy sales 2014 baseline of 0.59 tonnes assurance on our scope 1 and 2 GHG data in accordance with ISO 14064.
See their full statement at www.
com including green fuel sales amounted to e 2025 milestone: 0.44 tonnes CO per 2 sdassurance 10.2 million GJ 2017: 10.1.
7 Primary data includes data provided by suppliers or other value tonne of saleable production chain partners related to specific activities in the reporting companys value chain.
Secondary data includes industryaverage data e. g. from published databases, government statistics, literature studies, and industry associations, financial data, proxy data, and other generic data Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 million tonnes 1 0.83 0.83 0.76 0.72 2 0.72 58 Sustainability performance Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 25 million m of our water input was in water scarce areas in South Africa Constrained resources 2017: 26 million m. We saw a 2.2% 6 decrease in our water withdrawal in water and environmental impacts stressed regions in 2018 mainly due to the closing of our newsprint production capacity at our Merebank mill.
Our Richards Bay operation had a significant increase in water consumption caused by the impacts of an extended shut in February.
Managing waste We have committed to reduce the waste 9 we send to landfill by 7.5% by 2020, against a 2015 baseline.
In 2018, we sent 38.2 kg of waste to landfill per tonne of saleable production 2017: 30.8 kg.
This is a 1.3% increase against 2015 37.7 kg per tonne of saleable production and a 24.2% increase since the previous year due to the extended shut at our Richards Bay mill when about 16,000 m of fibre sludge had to be dewatered and landfilled.
Additionally, our Syktyvkar mill had to increase its waste to landfill due to finalisation of the recultivation of its sludge pond.
In 2018, we committed US$50,000 to fund a One Young World Lead2030 youth-led project that will turn waste generated by Our commitments to 2020 Performance in brief Status the packaging industry into raw materials Reduce specific contact water consumption 2% reduction of specific contact of inherent value.
Outcomes will include from our pulp and paper mills by 5% compared water consumption demonstrating how current retail, collection, toa 2015 baseline against the 2015 baseline sorting and recycling infrastructure can Reduce specific waste to landfill by 7.5% 1.3% increase of specific waste to landfill be adapted to generate raw materials of compared to a 2015 baseline against the 2015 baseline inherent value and how consumers can be Reduce specific NOx emissions from 16.3% reduction of specific NOx emissions incentivised and encouraged to improve ourpulpand paper mills by 7.5% compared against the 2015 baseline sorting and collection of packaging waste.
toa2015 baseline Reduce specific effluent load to the 6.1% increase of specific effluent load environment measure COD by 5% compared against the 2015 baseline Air emissions toa 2015 baseline We are committed to minimising environmental impacts related to air Resource efficiency underpins Water reduction and recycling emissions from our sites.
We carefully many of our material issues from Given the critical importance of water to our manage our air emissions and use ISO product design to minimising our business, to local communities and to other standards for monitoring, analysing and environmental impacts and sourcing stakeholders, we strive to manage our calculating absolute emissions of pollutants.
We consider solid waste water use wisely and efficiently especially and emissions to air and water as In 2018, we emitted 55 tonnes of TRS in water stressed regions.
Weve committed wasted resources and we work to 2017: 56, a slight decrease compared to reducing the specific contact water minimise them across our operations.
with 2017. consumption of our pulp and paper mills Our investments in Best Available by 5% by 2020, against a 2015 baseline.
8 Techniques BAT have enabled us to In 2018, total Group water input was around achieve significant improvements in 303 million m 2017: 307 million m, with resource efficiency.
specific contact water consumption at 3 33.2 m per tonne of saleable production 3 2017: 32.8 m at our mills.
8 I n support of the EUs Directive on Industrial Emissions IED, 2010 75 EU, Best Available Techniques BAT reference documents, the so-called BREFs have been published under http: eippcb.
eu reference 9 kg of waste per tonne of saleable production Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 59 Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 At our Richards Bay mill, problems in the lime kiln meant we had to introduce Biodiversity methanol into the flare, resulting in burner 7 temperature instability: emissions of unand ecosystems combusted concentrated non-condensable gases CNCG : and a significant increase in TRS emissions, leading to around 300 odour complaints from the surrounding community.
This represents a 72% reduction against 2015 levels, mainly due to the new biomass boiler and the fuel switch from coal and heavy fuel oil to natural gas at our wiecie mill.
Our specific NOx emissions amounted to 1.7 kg per tonne of saleable production 2017: 1.8 kg, down 16.3% against 2015 levels.
We emitted 1,023 tonnes of fine dust emissions particulates 2017: 921, an 11% increase compared to 2017 mainly caused by problems with our electrofilters at the recovery boiler in Syktyvkar.
Effluent and wastewater quality Our commitment is to reduce the specific Courtesy Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection of the Republic of Komi Trier Igor effluent load COD of wastewater by 5% by 2020 against a 2015 baseline by avoiding Our commitment to 2020 Performance in brief Status spills of chemicals in production processes and by investing in wastewater treatment Promote ecosystem stewardship in the Extended the work of the WWF-Mondi plants.
Specific COD after wastewater landscapes where we operate through continued Partnership in South Africa and Russia, as multi-stakeholder collaboration well as 10-year review of local partnerships treatment was 7.95 kg per tonne of saleable with Silver Taiga and MENP production 2017: 6.85.
This represents a Continued to actively support collaborations 6.1% increase against 2015 and a 16.1% including NGP, BFP, TFD, CISL, HCVRN, increase against 2017, mainly due to the WBCSD FSG and IUFRO extended shut at our Richards Bay mill.
We support resilient production Weve achieved significant reductions in The sustainable working forest landscapes and work to optimise AOX emissions from 390 tonnes in 2005 to Our working forest concept provides wood production in balance with other 150 tonnes in 2018 2017: 170, mainly due a visual representation of the positive components of natural capital and to replacing elemental chlorine as bleaching contribution that well-managed production thriving ecosystem services.
We use agent in our pulp mills.
landscapes make to society and the our forests to apply best practice and environment by integrating commercial Online Sustainable development report develop new practical solutions for forests and conservation networks.
Page 79 sustainable forest management, taking Since its launch, we have used the working into account the specific features and forest concept to promote landscape needs in different forest types.
stewardship and the crucial importance of securing a sustainable increase of Ecological networks are long-term wood supply, while at the same critically important for ensuring time maintaining essential ecosystem services.
The concept has gained external biodiversity and ecosystem service recognition among global stakeholders and benefits within highly productive is supported by our partners, strengthening plantation landscapes.
Professor Michael Samways Head of the Mondi Ecological Networks Programme, Professor at Stellenbosch University South Africa Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 60 Sustainability performance Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 To scale up our impacts, we share best Managing biodiversity Water stewardship practice and local experience through andecosystems We collaborate with stakeholders to regional and global platforms, designed promote water stewardship through a We are committed to managing key natural to catalyse action on a wider scale.
multi-stakeholder approach at a landscape ecosystems in our forestry operations in a These platforms include the Boreal or catchment scale.
By involving key way that allows ongoing representation of 10 Forest Platform BFP, New Generation organisations and stakeholders who share biodiversity and delivery of key ecosystem 11 Plantations Platform NGP and The Forest an interest in a catchment, the approach services.
We do this by maintaining an 12 Dialogue TFD.
aims to develop and implement shared effective network of conservation areas and solutions and actions to secure waterpriority ecosystems and imitating natural We continue to develop best practices related ecosystem services at scale.
In this dynamics for key types of ecosystems across our main forest types through the way, Mondi promotes water stewardship wherever possible.
The management of Ecosystems Stewardship workstream across water catchments well beyond its our conservation areas is guided by our of our WWF Global Partnership in South forest boundaries.
environmental management system, and Africa, Russia and Bulgaria, as well as the site-specific requirements are reflected our local partnerships with Silver Taiga Online Sustainable development report in a series of map-based Environmental Foundation in Russia and the Mondi Page 91 Management Plans EMPs.
We set Ecological Networks Programme MENP in aside around 24% of our owned and South Africa.
leased land for conservation purposes: the rest of our managed land is used for 10 http: borealforestplatform.
org In an increasingly globalised and connected economy, transparency Supplier conduct and has become a key supply chain 8 success metric for stakeholders responsible procurement worldwide.
Were taking steps to improve transparency and manage our impacts by partnering with suppliers to build a responsible, inclusive and sustainable supply chain.
Our global supply chain spans more than 17,000 13 first-tier suppliers in 63 countries around the world.
We focus on sourcing fibre responsibly, ensuring no human rights violations and improving our understanding of climate change and of waterrelated risks.
We have focused on developing a more standardised approach to identifying sustainability risks and assessing supplier performance.
This work supports our response to the UK Modern Slavery Act and other similar modern slavery legal requirements.
It will enable us to improve the transparency in our supply chain, minimising risk to our business and meeting stakeholder expectations for global supply chain transparency, particularly around human rights and environmental practices.
Our commitment to 2020 Performance in brief Status Encourage supply chain transparency and Continued development of the promote fair working conditions together with responsible procurement process to our key suppliers identify sustainability risks in our supply chain and carried out a pilot screening of 100 suppliers to test the methodology 13 First-tier suppliers that were active in 2018 with at least one purchase order, grouped into single entities Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 61 Growing responsibly: Our progress in 2018 Risk-based approach We take a targeted, risk-based approach Relationships 9 to prioritise areas in our supply chain with communities that require attention.
We use credible third-party risk ranking data such as the Corruption Perception Index, Global Slavery Index, the World Banks Worldwide Governance Indicators and other public sources.
In 2018, we developed a comprehensive methodology for assessing sustainability risks in our supplier base and conducted training for procurement specialists.
We also developed a process to assist us in identifying key sustainability risks associated with our supply chain namely labour rights, climate change, water-related and biodiversity risks.
Our Code of Conduct forSuppliers We expect every company in our supply chain to adhere to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which covers social, environmental, governance, legal and ethical aspects.
We updated the Code in 2017 to strengthen the human rights element, addressing the issues of human Our commitment to 2020 Performance in brief Status trafficking and modern slavery risks.
In 2018, we updated the Code again to Enhance social value in our communities Progress made on a toolkit to include additional risk areas related to through effective stakeholder engagement and measure the social and business meaningful social investments value of community investments labour rights, environmental impact and water stress.
The updated Code will be The social, economic and our community development programmes, rolled out to new suppliers from 2019 and environmental health of local investments in local initiatives, community to existing suppliers in the course of the communities is important to our forums, and training for our community contract prolongation process.
success and we work hard to maintain and human resource professionals.
Committees and functions such as works Responsible procurement Transparent engagement helps us councils, health and safety committees and process address challenges, understand and others help us to shape our response to 14 Our responsible procurement approach manage risks, generate opportunities, the findings.
covers the onboarding, evaluation and audit identify material issues and improve stages of assessing supplier performance.
During the year we conducted a SEAT at our business performance.
We conduct regular assessments to Frantschach, the first for the mill.
The process evaluate the reliability of supply and quality was well received and positive reference We continuously aim to improve our of service, as well as the environmental and was made to Mondis strong social licence understanding of the impacts of our social practices of suppliers.
to operate, proactive communication and business on local communities positive focus on safety.
The mill was also recognised The new responsible procurement process or negative, actual or potential, short term for providing a family-style atmosphere and will continue to be implemented in 2019. or long term, direct or indirect, intended being a reliable business partner, as well as or unintended.
We do this through various for its investments in the community.
Online Sustainable development report forms of impact assessment, monitoring Page 93 We also began the process of updating our and reporting, including our tailored SocioSustainable Development Management economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT and System SDMS operating standard related learnings from ongoing formal and informal to stakeholders to provide group-level stakeholder engagement.
guidance on where and how often we need The immediate outputs are SEAT reports, to conduct SEATs.
action plans and community stakeholder 14 We have changed the name from Supplier Relationship Management approach to responsible procurement approach engagement plans.
We use these to target as it is no longer based on the SRM tool but on multiple IT tools Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
