Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Through our flexible benefits provider we offer an easy way for Our gender pay gap has improved by 12.3% from 35.1% in 2017 The Board considers that the management of employees to take advantage of a range of benefits.
These include the to 22.8% in 2018, which shows we are making positive progress.
safety, health, environment, social and ethical opportunity to buy or sell holidays, medical cover, gym memberships, As part of this, we have overhauled our approach to flexible as well as benefitting from discounts on products and services for the working, to normalise and provide wider choices as well as help matters forms a key element of effective home and family life.
We also offer employees a variety of social and colleagues actively manage and balance their own work and time.
corporate governance which in turn supports wellbeing activities ranging from circuit training and spinning classes We have also introduced gender-balanced shortlists for senior to pilates and massage.
Annual social events include the football hires, and doubled the number of Product and Tech graduates the strategy, long-term performance and tournament and summer and Christmas parties.
Recognising that to 11, with balanced female representation.
employees may require guidance and support for a range of personal and professional reasons, a free comprehensive employee Gender statistics as at 31 december 2018 assistance programme, LifeWorks, is also available.
Employees Executive management Training and development 2018 highlights: Team At Moneysupermarket Group the continuous growth and appointed a dedicated diversity and inclusion lead role development of our employees is pivotal to the success of our within our people function: XX% 11% business.
In creating a culture of learning, we seek to deliver the appointed Sarah Warby, one of our Non-Executive capabilities, competencies and skills required to support sustainable Directors, as our Employee Champion: 42% business growth, as well as enable our employees to flourish in all established employee resource groups focused on mental 58% aspects of their personal and professional development.
health and supporting the development and advancement 89% of women and ethnic minorities: During 2018, we invested 907,000 in employee training.
Two new XX% enhanced maternity adoption and paternity partner leave opportunities were at the heart of our learning strategy Freedom to and equalised shared parental leave for all parents: Grow the Freedom Pot and Career Cabins.
The Freedom Pot improved gender pay gap by 12% from 2017 to 2018 to 22.8% : gave each employee a stipend of 300 to spend on any aspect of launched Freedom to Grow, our new approach to development, personal or professional whilst the Career Cabin is an cultivating a learning culture that encourages all Board of Directors Senior leadership Team inspirational programme of development around 5 key career skills.
employees to take control of their own personal growth excluding Executive management and development: In addition to these new opportunities we continued to deliver introduced a new approach to flexible working Work Your Way: a suite of personal development courses to grow our learning developed, under our vision Be yourself.
Be brilliant culture both face to face and online.
In addition to our existing together.
an inclusive-first approach across key online platform My Learning Looop, we introduced specific data 31% people processes.
43% protection and cyber security online training for all employees, 57% as well as ongoing resources to meet the requirements of the Employees Insurance Distribution Directive introduced in October.
69% Moneysupermarket Group aspires to be a great place to work.
Passion about our purpose, doing the right thing for customers, Each year we fully fund a number of employees to gain professional Employees cycled from London to Paris to raise funds innovation and performance are key assets for the Group and its qualifications.
Examples of this include: future success.
We have clear priorities for how we: CIA Certified Internal Auditor Qualification engage with our employees, recognising the different needs breakfast at various times throughout the year, will continue to form IIA Institute Internal Auditor Diploma Femal e Male they have: part of our programme of engagement with employees and help give CIMA and AAT include different viewpoints and experiences in our decision our Board the opportunity to understand more about our employees.
making: In May 2018 we appointed a dedicated diversity and inclusion lead This is supported by a Performance and Capability Policy, create sustainable employment opportunities that attract and A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place to which provides for employees annual objectives to be reviewed role within our people function.
As part of our 2018 Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan we invested in employee resource groups retain a talented and diverse range of new people into all levels ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that with managers on a quarterly basis, identifying training and of the business: the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
We act on development requirements.
"ERGs"" to support grass roots diversity and inclusion initiatives including in particular Thrive, our mental health ERG which is invest in the future to ensure each individual can perform the feedback and this year we improved our health and well-being to the best of their ability: and focused on empowering a culture supportive of mental health and activities described below, developed our new approach to learning Diversity and inclusion ensure we are constantly seeking to do the right things, Freedom to Grow and also introduced a new approach to flexible an ERG focused on supporting the development and advancement The average number of employees during 2018 was 721."
At the of women and ethnic minorities into more senior roles.
We trained particularly in how people are treated throughout the Group.
working Work Your Way, which is focused on enabling employees to end of the year, 463 of our employees were male and 338 female.
find the right work arrangements that support achieving their goals.
31 employees as Mental Health First Aiders and introduced In our executive management team, nine members were male and Wellbeing Rooms in Ewloe and London, providing employees with We actively encourage employee involvement and consultation.
one was female whilst on our Board, four of the Directors were There is considerable emphasis on keeping our employees informed a safe and private space to take some time away from their desk.
The Group is committed to an equal opportunities policy.
The Group male and three female.
Since 31 December 2018, Scilla Grimble of the Groups activities via formal business performance updates, aims to ensure that employees feel welcome, included, valued and has joined as Chief Financial Officer and Katherine Bellau has We also developed, under our vision Be yourself.
Be brilliant monthly all employee floor briefings, regular team meetings, CEO and recognised, and have transparent access to career development succeeded Darren Drabble as Company Secretary and Group Executive team video blogs, the Groups intranet site which enables opportunities.
No employee is discriminated against, directly or together.
an aspiration for our culture to become more General Counsel.
inclusive, which includes an inclusive-first approach across key easy access to the latest Group information as well as Group policies, indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic and national origins, and the circulation to employees of relevant information including people processes, aimed at reducing internal barriers to the sexual orientation or gender, marital status, disability, religion or The Hampton-Alexander Report 2018 has mentioned corporate announcements.
This helps to achieve a common belief, being part time or on the grounds of age.
culture of inclusion and fostering an increased sense of belonging.
Moneysupermarket Group amongst the five companies who awareness amongst employees of the financial and economic factors pressed ahead to achieve the target 33% of women on our Board.
affecting the performance of the Group as well as key initiatives.
As well as being engaged, we want our employees to share in the We continued to build on our partnership with Whalley Range all girls We are now amongst the 65 FTSE250 companies who achieved school in Manchester to inspire more young women into Tech, success of our business and we offer a range of benefits which the 33% target this year.
Our ranking has climbed from 68 in 2017 In September we appointed Sarah Warby, one of our independent breaking gender stereotypes and raising awareness of the wide help employees to do so.
These include both an employee Share to 30 in 2018 amongst the FTSE250 Rankings Women on Boards.
Non-Executive Directors, as our Employee Champion to co-ordinate Incentive Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
These schemes give variety of roles available.
We also continued our partnership with However, our representation in the senior leadership team Manchester Digital, and sponsored Skills Festival and Ada Lovelace the programme of engagement activities with employees.
During the employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Executive management and direct reports has fallen from year we launched a new programme of Board Q&A sessions with Company.
This helps to encourage employee interest in the Day events aimed at encouraging more women into Tech.
and August we hosted Pride events to drive better awareness and employees from each of our Ewloe, Manchester and London offices, performance of the Group and alignment with shareholder interests.
providing the opportunity for employees to ask questions directly acceptance of the LGBT community in the workplace which The Groups full range of benefits reflects the differing needs and of the Non-Executive Directors.
These sessions, together with small interests of its employees.
Particular focus is given to contributing included presentations from a LGBT spokesperson and a member of The Stonewall Trans Advisory Group.
groups of employees meeting Non-Executive Directors informally over towards employees health and wellbeing.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 34 35 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED In September, we enhanced maternity adoption and paternity Over the course of the year the Group has supported over 40 Environment partner leave, and equalised shared parental leave for all parents, charities and community groups including: Our Environmental Policy is intended to demonstrate our irrespective of gender or the way in which they became parents.
Broughton Pre-School toddlers commitment to ensuring Moneysupermarket Group considers Eligible parents are now able to take up to six months of shared Runcorn and District Food Bank environmental and sustainability issues in all parts of its parental leave each, at full pay.
Maternity adoption leave increased Citizens Advice Bureau operations and business activities.
We seek to progressively from 20 weeks to six months at full pay, and paternity partner Hawarden Scout Group reduce our environmental impact in all aspects of our operations leave doubled from two to four weeks, also at full pay.
Yourspace by minimising and making efficient use of resources.
The Group has Superkids implemented the following initiatives to support this aim: We are currently working on trialling a reverse mentoring pilot to Books for schools the installation of solar panels at our Ewloe office resulting in improve the understanding and inclusion of diverse perspectives Royal Liverpool Hospital energy savings of approximately 25,381 kwh during 2018: and styles in decision-making.
Home Start the continued replacement of energy efficient bulbs with Action For Children higher efficiency LEDs: Broughton War Memorial Hall Health and safety the replacement of all external lighting with higher efficiency Hope House Childrens Hospice LEDs: and We recognise the importance of health and safety and the positive Employees trekked up Scafell Pike to raise funds for Shelter benefits to the Group.
The Group has a health and safety policy the recycling, via one of our suppliers, of waste oil from our In addition to the.
Community initiative, the Group and its on-site catering into useful products such as biofuels.
which is communicated to all employees through a health and employees continue to select and support a Charity of the Year.
safety handbook, which is regularly reviewed and updated.
and the form of anti-bribery clauses required in agreements.
The 2017 and 2018 Charity of the Year was the Shelter Cymru and In addition, the construction of the London office site achieved a Our whistleblowing policy is supported by an external, confidential Shelter England and Scotland.
Shelter helps millions of people BREEAM Excellent rating.
BREEAM Building Research Establishment reporting hotline which enables employees of the Group to raise Supporting students every year struggling with bad housing or homelessness through Environmental Assessment Method is the worlds longest concerns in confidence.
their advice, support and legal services.
They campaign so that, In order to build links between the Group and local schools and established method of assessing, rating, and certifying the one day, no one will have to turn to them for help.
Shelter exists colleges, work experience and placements are offered to a number sustainability of buildings.
During 2018 the Group acquired Decision Tech and, as part of so no one has to fight bad housing or homelessness on their own.
In doing so, we strive to make work placements our due diligence, we ensured that they had appropriate policies positive, challenging and relevant to participants current studies As part of the partnership, we raised valuable funds to support The Group estimates that during 2018 it recycled on average over and procedures in place to meet their statutory requirements.
the delivery of Shelters Digital Advice Service in England and and their future job prospects.
Since acquisition, various Group policies have been rolled out to Scotland.
The web chat facility, which allows people struggling with employees of Decision Tech, including the Whistleblowing Policy.
bad housing and homelessness to discuss their situation within a Business ethics Greenhouse gas GHG emissions safe and secure online environment, is currently funded entirely Behaving ethically is an essential part of working for our Group.
Tax policy by voluntary income.
The Groups financial support during 2018 This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas It is fundamental to how we do business and is vitally important will cover the time for Shelters qualified and experienced advisers emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Our Group is guided by our purpose to help households save money.
to the reputation and success of our Group.
Our Code of Conduct to provide support and advice to almost 5,000 people.
The methodology used to We believe that our business makes a valuable contribution to UK was last revised in 2017 and applies to all employees.
The Code calculate our emissions is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate society and we are proud to have helped 12.9 million active users sets out our commitment to: Standard.
Emissions reported correspond with our financial year.
to save an estimated 2.1 billion on their household bills in 2018, by total donated behave ethically: We have included emissions from both our owned and leased assets finding a better deal on their energy, insurance and banking products.
comply with relevant laws and regulations: and for which we are responsible.
Emissions are predominantly from do the right thing.
337,000 gas combustion and electricity use at our offices and data centres.
Alongside this, we want to make our contribution to the communities We have reported on all material emission sources which we deem that our customers live in by paying the right amount of tax, at the to charitable causes by the Group in 2018 Investment in employee training ourselves to be responsible for.
Emission factors are from UK right time.
In 2018, we paid 18.7 million in corporation tax and government conversion factor guidance current for the year reported.
over 23 million in other taxes including VAT and employers One of our fundraising initiatives this year included the Group national insurance.
907,000 donating, for a limited period, 5 to Shelter and Shelter Cymru In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable for every home insurance policy bought by customers through factor associated with our activities, we have used revenue as our We are committed to acting with integrity and transparency in all MoneySuperMarket.
intensity ratio as this is a relevant indication of our growth and is Our Code of Conduct also confirms we respect and uphold tax matters.
We will not support proposals to reduce our tax cost aligned with our business strategy.
internationally proclaimed human rights principles as specified in: through implementing artificial structures but we will seek to Over the course of the year the Groups employees raised 38,000 the International Labour Organisations Declaration on structure commercial transactions in an efficient and legitimate for Shelter with the Group also donating 227,000 bringing the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work ILO Convention : and way.
A copy of our tax strategy is available at http: corporate.
total donated to Shelter during the year to 265,000. the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Total CO2e by emission type in 2018 Towards the end of 2018, employees were asked to submit In addition we have an Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy for Electricity, heat, steam Communities and charities nominations for the Charity of the Year in 2019.
The nominations suppliers and a separate one for employees.
Training is provided and cooling purchased We seek to make a positive difference by being an active contributor were shortlisted to two charities, with The Princes Trust winning to all employees on issues of modern slavery in conjunction with 4.4% for own use to the communities that we operate within.
The Groups Community the highest number of votes.
The Princes Trust provides meaningful the Code of Conduct e-learning module.
We have a zero-tolerance initiative was launched in 2008 and has continued to develop during support to deprived young people over the long term.
approach to modern slavery and we are committed to acting 2018.
The initiative is focused on providing support to charities and Combustion of fuel and ethically and with integrity in all our business dealings and community groups located within a few miles of the Groups The Group launched a volunteering scheme in October 2011 operation of facilities relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems offices in Ewloe, Manchester and London.
through which the Group supports a total of 60 volunteering days and controls to ensure modern slavery is not taking place anywhere 95.6% per year to help those who are less fortunate, and thereby make in our own business or in any of our supply chains.
We publish our A volunteer group of employees meets regularly to review requests a valuable contribution to our local community.
During the year Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement annually and this, for donations and to allocate funds according to agreed donation employees volunteered in a diverse range of activities and also together with previous statements, can be viewed on our website guidelines.
Employees are also active in researching and seeking out took part in a sponsored London to Paris Cycle Ride and a at http: corporate.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions tonnes of co e local good causes that the Group can help support.
The initiative sponsored trek up Scafell Pike.
2 has been effective at harnessing the energy and enthusiasm Emissions from: 2018 2017 We also have anti-bribery, competition law and whistleblowing of the Groups employees to benefit the communities within MoneySavingExpert has also continued to donate to policies which incorporate the Groups key principles and standards Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 25.1 31.5 which it operates.
The MoneySavingExpert Charity, which is a grant giving charity governing business conduct towards our key stakeholder groups.
dedicated to improving information and education about debt, Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased We believe we should treat all of these groups with honesty and In 2018 the Group made 6,000 per quarter available for the.
money and consumer issues with 60,000 donated in 2018. for own use 547.3 710.9 integrity.
Our Anti-Bribery Policy is supported by clear guidelines Community initiative.
This funding has been channelled via the In addition to this, MoneySavingExpert supported a number and processes for giving and accepting gifts and hospitality from Companys chosen intensity measurement: Charities Aid Foundation, enabling the Group to make gross of charities including ShelterBox, CAP UK and the Samaritans third parties.
Our in-house legal team advise on the level of due tonnes of CO e per m revenue 1.61 2.25 donations to registered charities.
2 with donations totalling a further 30,000. diligence required prior to entering into contracts with third parties Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 36 37
