Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 115 Key matters addressed by the committee Safety performance Environmental performance Product stewardship andserious incidents e Received regular reviews on performance against e Received a report on the Groups product each of the environmental key performance stewardship practices.
e Reviewed detailed reports on the fatalities indicators and commitments.
at our Syktyvkar and Ruomberok mills and e Considered the increased focus on supply chain received follow up reports on the outcome of the e Received information on any material environmental management, including the impact of the UK investigations into each incident, managements incidents and considered managements response.
Modern Slavery Act and the requirement to report response and actions taken.
on the steps we have taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not present in our e Reviewed detailed reports of selected incidents, Policies and commitments supply chain.
for example those resulting in life-altering injuries e Reviewed the achievements against the or having a high risk potential and reviewed e Reviewed the steps being implemented as part of 2020 commitments see pages 51 to 63 for managements response.
the responsible procurement initiative to support more information.
Mondis response to sustainability performance in e Received regular reports on safety performance at e Considered and agreed a proposed long-term its supply chain.
Group and business unit level, including individual GHG target calculated using the science-based mill performance, classification of incidents and methodology see page 57 for more information.
e Considered and agreed Mondis commitment to key e Considered the safety milestones and leading and global initiatives see page 116 for more information.
lagging indicators for the next reporting period.
e Reviewed Group SD policies and approved amendments to reflect best practice.
SD governance and risks e Received an update on the review and amendment e Reviewed those elements of the Groups Code of Mondis Sustainable Development Management of Business Ethics reserved for review by System operating standards.
e Reviewed the material SD issues, risks Forestry and opportunities.
e Reviewed an update on the forestry operations e Reviewed and approved the Groups human in Russia.
trafficking and modern slavery statement.
e Reviewed an update on the forestry operations in e Received a presentation from an external expert South Africa.
providing an independent perspective on the duties of boards in relation to ESG risks.
Community and other relationships e Reviewed and approved the annual SD reporting.
e Reviewed the Groups relationships and e Reviewed the committees terms of reference engagement with key stakeholders, including and performance.
governments, NGOs and analysts and changing e Considered and agreed the committees annual regulation and governance in this area.
e Reviewed the ongoing WWF global partnership and initiatives.
e Reviewed our social and community engagement, including community investments and initiatives at our pulp and paper mills, and the outcome of the SEAT Socio-economic Assessment Toolbox undertaken at our Frantschach operation during 2018 see page 61 for more information.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
