Strategic Report Corporate responsibility Non-financial information Tone from the top Corporate responsibility This Strategic Report includes certain nonThe Board is ultimately accountable for financial information.
We measure non-financial corporate responsibility and receives regular is integral to Morgan: it information in alignment with our strategy, our reports on the E&C programme, the EHS means a commitment to execution priorities and our principle risks.
programme and global talent management initiatives.
The senior management team The information which follows is intended to behaving with integrity recognises the need to lead by example.
help our stakeholders understand our nonThe Executive Committee take the lead on financial information, Most of our reporting on and having a positive doing business in the right way, they are these topics is contained within the Corporate supported by the Divisional and global business impact on employees, responsibility, risk management and business unit executive teams together with functional performance sections of the Strategic Report.
heads with specific responsibility for EHS, stakeholders and the Cross-references to sections containing further legal compliance and human resources.
communities in which During 2018, the emphasis on ethical behaviour Our business model can be found on pages was enhanced by the launch of the Morgan we work.
Code, a set of principles supported by policies Environmental information on pages 36 and guidelines that lay out how we should to 39.
Doing business the right way, conduct ourselves.
The Morgan Code applies to - Related policies which govern our all employees and, to the extent appropriate, to safely and ethically, is fundamental approach EHS Policies: The Morgan Morgans business partners including agents, joint to how we work.
It is the top Code, always working safely.
venture partners and third-party representatives.
This firm Principle risks Environment, health - The principles of the Morgan Code fall under commitment to doing business and safety.
four areas: in the right way is integral to the - KPIs Lost-time accident frequency: Working safely.
Group in continuing to be a leading Tonnes CO e per m revenue.
advanced materials company, Employee information on pages 40 and 41.
where corporate responsibility - Related policies which govern our approach Employee Policies: Protecting our business.
Three core The Morgan Code, treating our Group-wide programmes the people fairly.
Groups ethics and compliance KPIs Employee turnover.
- E&C programme, environment, Respect for human rights information health and safety EHS programme on page 35. and the approach to Morgans - Related policies which govern our people, all support the aim of approach Human Rights Policy: creating long-term sustainable The Morgan Code, treating our people fairly and always working ethically.
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption information on page 35.
Related policies which govern our - approach The Morgan Code, always working ethically.
The Business performance section on pages 24 to 27 includes, where appropriate, references to, and additional explanations of, amounts included in the entitys annual accounts.
34 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The ethics and compliance Ethics speak-up hotline programme ethics hotline At Morgan we understand that our reputation The ethics hotline, operated by the independent and name are key assets which take a long time third-party company Expolink, enables to build but could be quickly lost through employees and others who are aware of, or corrupt or unethical behaviour.
suspect, misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse of Group assets or violations of any The Group-wide E&C programme is in place Group policy to report these confidentially to protect the Group, providing a framework without fear of retribution should they feel they underpinning the Groups commitment to doing cannot use a local channel.
The hotline includes business in the right way.
The core elements of local free-phone numbers in each of the the programme are tone-from-the-top: policies: countries in which the Group operates, with training: control processes: and monitoring real-time translators available as necessary.
Issues raised through the hotline, or via other Policies channels, and which may be anonymous, are Copies of Morgans ethics-related policies are followed up by the internal audit, Group available to all employees in key languages, compliance, and human resources functions, together with related manuals and guidelines.
or members of senior management teams as These require employees to operate not only in appropriate.
Further investigation may be accordance with applicable laws and regulations, conducted through internal audit.
The Audit but also in line with internal rules and reporting Committee monitors and reviews a summary requirements relating to areas such as ethical of the results generated.
The hotline will be business behaviour, trade compliance, refreshed during 2019 to ensure it fully achieves hospitality, gifts, donations and sponsorships.
Training Human rights Group-wide e-learning took place in 2018 for As an international business, the Group supports the majority of staff on the Morgan Code, the UNs Universal Declaration of Human anti-bribery and corruption, and anti-competitive Rights, and the Groups Human Rights Policy practice.
This e-learning programme is planned applies to all our businesses worldwide.
The to continue into 2019 covering other key topics Policy is available on our website and covers including trade compliance, conflicts of interest, child labour, forced labour, health and safety, confidentiality, and anti-money laundering.
freedom of association, discrimination, discipline, Face-to-face training on the Morgan Code working hours and compensation.
The Groups was held at selected sites.
Sanction screening Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement, training for high-risk countries was held for all which is published annually on our website, export managers.
details action taken to support the elimination of modern slavery and human trafficking.
Control processes Control processes are in place at the site level to Group compliance plans for 2019 ensure the policies are effectively implemented.
During 2019, the Group will continue to raise Of note this year was that the high-risk country the profile of ethical working, with initiatives protocol was updated, to ensure that sanction including an update of the ethical Policies, a screening is correctly performed and that trade refresh of the hotline, a continuation of new controls are complied with.
modules in the e-learning training programme, and further training on trade controls.
Monitoring and assurance Divisional and global business unit presidents and In 2019 the Group will also update its Modern all functional heads are required on an annual Slavery Act Transparency Statement.
basis to certify that the businesses functions they are responsible for have implemented and complied in full with Group policies or declared any exceptions.
This certification forms an integral part of the Groups system of internal controls.
No material exceptions were declared in respect of 2018.
Morgans internal audit function monitors adherence to key E&C processes including completion of induction training and compliance with key policies.
Internal audit also ensures that the ethics hotline and its availability are adequately promoted at site level.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 35 Strategic Report Corporate responsibility continued Environment, health and safety EHS Policy 1 2 CO intensity due to energy usage 2 Morgan is committed to protecting Morgans EHS Policy sets out the 3 Tonnes CO m revenue 2 the health and safety of employees Groups commitment to protect and and others affected by its enhance the environment and to 2018 323 2017 334 operations.
We seek to minimise safeguard the health and safety of all 2016 323 the environmental impacts of our those affected by our operations.
activities and maximise the positive The Policy is regularly reviewed and effects of our products and services is communicated across all sites 2 CO due to energy usage 2 through our environmental, health within the Group and is applied to all 3 Tonnes and safety EHS programmes.
A copy of it is available on the Companys website.
2018 332,900 Under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic 2017 321,700 Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, EHS Policy governance 2016 317,700 the Group is required to report its annual Governance of Morgans EHS Policy is achieved greenhouse gas emissions for the year in its through performance monitoring, risk assessment Directors Report.
This information is shown and the management and mitigation of identified 4 Energy intensity on page 39 and includes CO emissions from 2 risks to help provide continuous improvement in 3 energy use, which are further analysed in this MWh m revenue EHS performance in support of the Groups section, together with other sources of strategic priorities.
1,147 2017 The Group is committed to providing effective 1,191 2018 highlights 2016 1,163 leadership in pursuit of an injury-free and In 2018 the total number of accidents environmentally responsible work place.
was 581 2017: 655, a lower proportion The Chief Executive Officer and the operational of these were Lost-time accidents 42 than management teams are responsible and 4 Energy use in 2017 LTA 2017: 75: 2016: 53.
The accountable for EHS performance.
The Groups 3 GWh Group Lost-time accident rate was 0.22, Director, EHS is responsible for Group direction 2017: 0.38: 2016: 0.26. and the oversight of the Groups EHS strategic 2018 1,181 programmes.
There are EHS leaders and Environmental performance saw an 2017 1,147 resources in each of the global business units improvement in the year, with the Group 2016 1,139 and their locations.
exceeding the CO e, energy and water 2 1.
Carbon Dioxide Equivalent the amount intensity targets and meeting its recycling Morgans Group level EHS management of carbon dioxide or the amount of non-CO2 targets, however it did not achieve its waste processes include: greenhouse gas with the equivalent global intensity target.
Monthly review of performance and 2.
Scope 1 CO e emissions from fossil fuel usage The Group achieved a 12.4% reduction in 2 progress in the implementation of our and Scope 2 CO emissions using market-based 2 water use intensity, and a 3.7% reduction in improvement plans by the Executive methodology and country-specific electricity factors energy intensity.
The proportion of total Committee and business leaders.
as CO e factors are not consistently available for 2 waste recycled was consistent with prior electricity use in all countries.
Regular review of EHS performance by year after a large improvement in 2017.
Calculated on a constant-currency revenue basis, the Board.
updated to reflect clarifications and changes in CO e intensity improved by 3.3% whilst 2 reporting methodology to ensure year-on-year The EHS Compliance Audit Programme total CO e increased by 3.5%.
is conducted against the Morgan EHS Morgan thinkSAFE, the Groups behavioural 4.
Framework, Systems and KPIs with a safety performance improvement focus on high-risk items.
All the Groups programme was refreshed in 2018, with a manufacturing facilities are reviewed on phased implementation planned across all a four-year rolling cycle.
There was particular Group brought its EHS auditing in house to drive wide focus with respect to a number of key an improved focus on safety culture as well hazard awareness and risk control topics, as compliance and risk management see hand and finger safety, slips, trips and fall pags 18 to 21.
The new audit packages are hazard and the use of Personal Protective still being refreshed and revised and have Equipment.
Other programmes included the been run as pilots at seven sites, four in reporting of near miss and hazards, Take 5 Europe and three in the US.
for Safety and Bright, Clean and thinkSAFE.
The level of individual engagement was positively endorsed by employees as the recent Group-wide Employee Engagement Survey safety feedback achieved an 85% engagement score.
36 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements EHS Policy effectiveness In absolute terms, the 2018 CO e emissions 2 1 Waste intensity from energy use was 332,900 tonnes, an The Group monitors the effectiveness of its EHS increase from previous years.
Based on organic 3 Policy through its internal EHS audit programme Tonnes waste m revenue revenue at constant-currency CO e intensity 2 and reviewing its performance against a series of decreased by 3.3% compared to prior year.
Energy intensity in 2018 decreased by 3.7% 2017 46.9 The charts on pages 36 to 38 represent the compared to the prior year.
Absolute energy 2016 47.2 Groups EHS performance, covering all use in 2018 was up by 3%.
production sites during the year.
The Group continues to work on a number of 1 The Group also participates in external initiatives Waste production improvement projects which include that help to benchmark the effectiveness of and energy-efficiency programmes, such as 3 Tonnes progress against its EHS Policy e. g. The Carbon investment in new technology to reduce the Disclosure Project CDP in respect of the energy involved in the manufacture of extruded 2018 46,600 Groups  strategies, risks, carbon products in Europe and China, and a kiln 2017 45,200 management and performance.
In 2018, Morgan heat recovery project in China.
2016 46,200 achieved a score of B for the second year.
Such projects are aimed at driving year-on-year The Group has also made filings in respect performance improvement in energy and 2 of the Groups UK facilities under the UK Water intensity CO e intensity.
2 Governments Carbon Reduction 3 3 m m revenue Morgan did not achieve its waste intensity Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
reduction target for the year.
In 2018 total waste 2018 2,105 Environmental performance reported was 46,600 tonnes, an increase of 2017 2,404 3.1% compared to 2017.
However, waste The Group is committed to protecting the 2016 2,485 intensity reduced by 3.6% compared to 2017. environment.
Morgan includes environmental impact in its business decisions, promotes The proportion of total waste which was efficiency programmes and seeks to minimise the 2 recycled in 2018 was 56%, maintaining 2017 Water use environmental impact of its operations and protect performance against a back drop of challenging 2 million m the environment of the sites and communities waste recycling markets, following a 24.9% where we operate and maximise the positive improvement from 2016 to 2017.
2018 2.17 environmental benefits of its products.
3 2017 2.32 Absolute water use in 2018 was 2.17 million m, 2016 2.43 The Group monitors the impact of its a reduction of 6.4% compared to 2017 and operations on the environment as measured by 10.9% compared to 2016.
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including its Scope 1 and 2 CO e emissions, its energy, 2 reduced by 12.4% compared with 2017.
water and waste usage and relative intensity per significant part of the improvement was from 2.
Water from all sources, including process, irrigation million of revenue, plus the proportion of total and sanitary use.
water conservation programmes and investment waste which is recycled.
Calculated on a constant-currency basis, updated within our North America facilities.
to reflect clarifications and changes in reporting Morgan sets Group-wide intensity and recycling methodology and disposals to ensure year-on-year 2019 environmental performance priorities consistency.
targets for improvement in environmental Continue to develop and track performance, whilst each production site sets environmental improvement programmes specific local targets which are reviewed as part of that focus on sites that have the biggest the annual budget process to ensure they are environmental impact, whilst maintaining aligned with and contribute to the Groups targets.
underlying improvement targets at all sites.
Throughout 2018, the Group undertook a series Develop the benchmarking of sites with of projects and environmental programmes similar production technologies to focused on those sites identified as having the encourage implementation of best practice greatest environmental impact.
These are subject and improvement plans.
to regular review and follow-up by the Executive Focus on robust monitoring and validation of Committee to ensure key opportunities and risks reported metrics to drive ownership and are addressed.
In addition, local programmes delivery of environmental targets at site, covering topics such as energy and waste business and Divisional levels.
Review and awareness help to enhance business and develop opportunities to increase the use of environmental performance and competitiveness.
The Group achieved its targets to reduce energy Through external ISO standards, external and water intensity in the year.
However the and internal audit programmes drive the waste intensity target was not met, whilst the development of robust and effective percentage of waste recycled was maintained at management systems to manage 2017 levels.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 37 Strategic Report Corporate responsibility continued 2019 health and safety priorities Health and safety performance 1,3 Lost-time accident frequency Continue to implement the new safety With the long-term aim of an 1 improvement plan and strategy, in particular: LTAs 100k hours worked injury-free workplace, Morgan is Consistency committed to health and safety 2018 0.22 Drive greater consistency across the Group in 2017 0.38 conducting all our activities in a safety standards, processes and communications 2016 0.26 manner that achieves high standards through a thinkSAFE refresh including more of health and safety for all employees consistent presentation of information in safety corners, standard Group-wide briefings at safety and stakeholders.
The Groups 1,3 Lost-time accidents corners, improved signage and messaging, long-term objective is zero harm.
further training and reengagement of Number of LTAs We aim to deliver year-on-year thinkSAFE champions.
improvements in performance as 2018 42 Compliance 2017 we progress towards this objective.
75 Review and update the Group EHS framework to 2016 53 address differing site application, relevant to size In 2018, the Groups accident prevention and and risk factors, be more effective and provide a training programmes were supported and more focused set of requirements.
Rollout of an re-focused through the introduction of the new 1,2, 3 Lost-time per LTA audit programme against the new standard.
The focus was the 2 Days per LTA provision of a sustainable approach to reducing Clarity accident occurrences by reinvigorating and Provide better data and accountability through 2018 33.0 strengthening behavioural safety initiatives and the use of new data capture and tracking 2017 41.4 training as part of the thinkSAFE programme.
Review and update the leading and 2016 28.3 lagging EHS metrics for the Group and specify The Groups total accident frequency per and implement an improved data capture and 100,000 working hours was 2.98, a reduction analysis tool.
1, 3 Health and safety lost-time Communications The Groups Lost-time accident rate was 0.22, % of working time A range of changes to communications including 2017: 0.38: 2016: 0.26. improving the Group-wide quarterly briefing 2018 0.06 Reported Lost-time from accidents and materials, establishing quarterly and monthly 2017 0.13 work-related illnesses as a percentage of working reviews and calls with EHS practitioners, build 2016 0.06 time decreased to 0.06 in 2018 2017: 0.13: 2016: on the effectiveness of the newly launched safety 0.06.
The number of working days lost during alert process, so that serious incidents and near 2018 was 1,387 2017: 3,025: 2016: 1,417. misses are communicated, and lessons learned 1,3 Health and safety-related lost-time are actioned Group-wide.
The charts on page 38 represent the Groups Days lost due to LTAs health and safety performance, covering all Competency production sites during the year.
Review and refresh the EHS and thinkSAFE 2018 1,387 capabilities, skills and competence of all 2017 3,025 employees in the Group, and review and 2016 1,417 change reporting structures as appropriate.
A Lost-time accident LTA is defined as an accident or work-related illness which results in one or more days Lost-time.
Total-time lost from health and safety in the year divided by the number of LTAs reported in the year.
Calculated to update for clarifications and changes in reporting methodology and disposals to ensure year-on-year consistency.
38 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In the table below CO e is a standard unit for 2 Greenhouse gas emissions measuring the amount of CO and the amount of 2 Under the Companies Act 2006 non-CO GHG with the equivalent global 2 Strategic Report and Directors warming potential.
Data is rounded to the nearest 100 tonnes of CO e. Report Regulations 2013 the 2 Regulations the Group is required As required under the Regulations, the Report to report its annual greenhouse gas includes the material emission sources from the operations and activities covered by the Groups GHG emissions in tonnes of financial statements.
As noted, the Report carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 excludes emissions from Company owned and in its Directors Report.
leased vehicles and emissions relating to steam supplied by third parties to two sites in China and Morgan has published information on its one in Europe, which are in total estimated to emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels and account for less than 1% of total emissions.
the electricity purchased by the Company for its The Directors consider that these sources of own use in its annual EHS Report since 2004 and emissions are not material to the total of the in its Annual Report since 2005.
The Group has Groups emissions.
participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP since 2006 and in 2018 achieved a score The Groups reporting methodology is based on of B. the  Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
It uses emission factors for standard grid The Regulations require the Group to disclose its electricity by country and year from the emissions from the combustion of biomass, as a International Energy Agency together with other result of process and fugitive emissions which are factors published by the UK Department for in addition to the emissions from energy use Environment, Food and Rural Affairs to calculate reported on page 36 of this Annual Report.
the CO e emissions included in this Report.
2 2018 2017 Tonnes Tonnes CO e CO e 2 2 1 Emissions from combustion of fuels and operation of facilities Combustion of fossil fuels 130,600 128,600 2 Operation of facilities, including process emissions 33,200 34,700 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased 3 for own consumption 2 Purchased electricity 202,200 193,100 4 Intensity measurement Tonnes CO e from fossil fuels and purchased electricity 2 per million revenue 323 334 Tonnes GHG per million revenue 355 370 CO2e is the amount of CO2 and the amount of non-CO2 greenhouse gases with the equivalent global warming potential.
Data is rounded to the nearest 100 tonnes of CO e. 2 1.
Excludes emissions from company-owned and leased vehicles and leased vehicles.
Calculated using the marketbased method with electricity from renewable sources at zero tonnes CO e per kWh.
2 Emissions increase by 2,469 tonnes CO e at grid average rates using the location based method 2017: 1,816.
Excludes steam supplied to two sites in China and one in Europe.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 39 Strategic Report Corporate responsibility continued Diversity and inclusion Our people Total lost-time We promote equal opportunities for all Recruiting and retaining the best employees and job applicants and do not % of working time people from the widest possible unlawfully discriminate on the grounds of gender, talent pool is a priority.
2018 pregnancy maternity leave, marriage civil 2.8 2017 2.9 partnership status, gender reassignment, race, We value our employees and the contribution 2016 3.0 disability, sexual orientation, age, religion or belief.
they make, and we are committed to creating an 2015 We make reasonable adjustments to inclusive culture where everyone can fulfil their 2014 accommodate any employee who may have a potential.
This is essential if we are to attract and disability within the meaning of all global equality Employee turnover retain talented people, and drive creativity and legislation and where the Company is aware of innovation to solve our customers demanding % per year such disability.
2018 12.7 The UK Government has introduced gender pay Our approach 2017 12.6 gap reporting regulations for companies with Our Company strategy and execution priorities 2016 11.7 more than 250 employees.
In 2018, the average put people at the centre of what we do.
Our 2015 gender pay gap for our UK workforce was approach of building and nurturing our talent has 2014 18.6%, compared to the 2017 gender pay gap benefited from increased focus over the past of 24.7%.
Training two years and we are now moving to an embedding phase.
Our gender pay gap exists because a greater Hours per employee proportion of our senior leadership is male.
We People policies 2018 17.0 continue to work hard to increase the number of We support the UNs Declaration of Human 2017 12.7 women we employ, develop and promote to Rights and our Human Rights Policy commits us 2016 13.1 improve our gender balance and become a more to protect the rights of everyone who works for 2015 diverse organisation.
Part of the reduction in the us and all those who have dealings with us.
The 2014 gender pay gap between 2018 and 2017 is principles of the Policy cover child labour, forced because some of our senior male leaders have labour, health and safety, freedom of association, moved to a different legal entity that is not in the Reward discrimination, discipline, working hours and scope of the reporting requirements.
We recognise the accomplishments of our compensation.
The Policy is published on people individually and as teams, and make We are determined to bridge the historical our website.
awards to acknowledge achievement, loyalty, gender gap in our industry by encouraging more We do not unfairly discriminate and we respect and innovation.
For senior management, awards women to join us and by promoting development human rights.
Our Employee Policies are set are also linked to business performance.
so that we ultimately increase the number of locally to comply with local law within the overall women in senior roles.
The principle of pay for performance underpins Group framework.
The ethics hotline enables our compensation approach and we set employees who are aware of, or suspect, issues Identifying and recruiting talent compensation levels using external under our Human Rights Policy to report these We need to recruit a diverse range of benchmarking and relevant commercial confidentially.
professionals to help solve our customers considerations that are both competitive in the challenges, including material scientists, countries in which they operate and affordable.
applications engineers, functional specialists and We offer short-term performance incentives sales people.
We look to draw people from a globally to managers, and technical and wide range of backgrounds and cultures.
Our increased presence on external websites has The Executive Committee and senior grown 69% growth the number of individuals management also have long-term incentives tied taking an interest in Morgan.
This provides a to business performance.
At manufacturing plant wider pool of talent from which to strengthen level, most sites offer incentives to their our teams.
workforce that result in payments based on Within the technology function, an assessment of meeting locally-set performance targets.
We capability has provided role clarity and allowed us regularly review bonus arrangements and to align individuals to roles where they can use benefits to ensure they encourage and reward their strengths to add greater value.
40 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Geographical spread Total workforce 30% 3.0% 4.1% 8.9% 8.2% 32.7% 31.7% 9.8% 9.6% 8,800 12.6% 13.3% 70% 18.2% 18.2% 14.8% 14.9% Male Female 2018 2017 Senior managers US UK 31% Other Europe Other North America China South America Rest of World 13 identifying successors with the potential to take Developing our people on senior leadership roles in the near term as We want every employee to perform at their well as those individuals with potential earlier in best, reach their full potential and feel rewarded 69% their career.
In 2018 we reviewed our existing for what they do.
leadership programmes to drive greater global In 2018, our top 400 leaders participated in our consistency and alignment to our future Male Female globally consistent performance management capability needs and leadership behaviours.
process measuring both what is achieved and These programmes will be launched in 2019 and how it is achieved, through the assessment will develop individuals performance in their Directors against our leadership behaviours.
This sets clear current roles as well as increasing their readiness expectations for this population, aimed at driving for future roles.
We have also continued to 43% a culture of performance feedback and support leadership and management development coaching to improve performance development through promotion of our global in role.
In 2019, we plan to expand this approach e-learning platform, expanded implementation to a wider population in management roles.
of our supervisor training, and our graduate development programme.
7 One crucial element of these expectations is our commitment and approach to keeping our Engagement and communications employees safe at work and working ethically.
Effective engagement enables our employees to We have refreshed thinkSAFE and are placing 57% contribute to improving Morgans business an increased focus on safety awareness with performance.
We have introduced a new global new training planned for 2019.
We have employee engagement survey to help us gauge Male Female relaunched our ethics training with a regular our success in creating an environment in which quarterly schedule to maintain a focus for all everyone can fulfil their potential.
Having aligned individuals in sales roles to our future requirements in 2017, in 2018 We keep employees informed about what is The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 4 we developed and started implementation of a happening across the business, including to 41, has been approved by the Board.
comprehensive suite of training materials to raise Company results, major business decisions, and On behalf of the Board.
the capability of our sales teams.
This other matters which affect them.
We are using a implementation will continue through 2019. variety of media for this purpose, including our intranet, email, newsletters, peer-to-peer social Stephanie Mackie Development of teams is just as important as media, and also local team briefings where we Company Secretary ensuring individuals have the capability to also seek to listen to employees views and perform in their roles.
Further investment is 26 February 2019 opinions.
We seek to maintain constructive planned for our global business unit relationships with all trade unions and labour management teams now that those teams have unions across the geographies in which we strong individuals in role.
In Europe, we also hold an annual employee forum, inviting site representatives to We also identify and develop individuals with the meet with senior leaders and engage in potential to take on bigger or more complex discussion on important topics.
To date we have focused on succession for our senior leadership population, Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 41 Governance Corporate governance 43 Chairmans letter to shareholders 44 Board of Directors 46 Corporate governance 51 Report of the Audit Committee 56 Report of the Nomination Committee 58 Remuneration report 76 Other disclosures 79 In dependent auditors report to the members of Morgan Advanced Materials plc 42 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018
