STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Responsible business 31 An active, trusted partner We are proud to be a public transport company.
Public transport is a lifeline to many and the backbone of the economy.
Without an efficient, comprehensive and good value transport system, the economy would be smaller and peoples lives would be poorer.
How public transport is operated, therefore, matters.
It is central to many of the economic, environmental and social policy challenges we face: how do we improve air quality in our towns and cities: how do we meet our climate change targets: how do we promote access to employment and opportunity for all: how do we make our growing towns less congested and more liveable: how do we make our workplaces as inclusive as possible and representative of the communities we serve?
NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT The new non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006 require us to provide information to help stakeholders understand our position on non-financial matters.
The table below sets out where you can find this information.
Requirement Policies which govern our approach Further information Group Environmental Policy Environment Responsible business page 31 Health & Safety Policy Safety & Environment Committee Report page 70 Environmental performance page 200 Equal Opportunities & Diversity Policy Employees Responsible business page 34 Workplace Rights Policy Human Rights Policy Human rights Responsible business pages 34 38 Modern Slavery Policy Audit Committee Report pages 62 69 Whistleblowing Policy Privacy Policy Rather than a specific policy, our approach Social matters Responsible business page 36 to social matters is framed by our Community Value Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Responsible business page 38 Purchasing Policy Audit Committee Report pages 62 69 Policy implementation, Corporate Governance, pages 46 51 including Board activity, page 51 during the due diligence and outcomes year and Audit Committee Report, pages 62 69 Principal risks and impact Risk Management pages 39 44 on business activity Audit Committee Report page 68 Description of business model Generating stakeholder value page 2 Our business model pages 4 7 Our strategy and priorities pages 10 11 Non-financial key performance Key performance indicators page 13 indicators Environmental performance page 200 Our group policies are published on our www.
com website National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 32 Responsible business continued We firmly believe that well run public Our Vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of This is important.
The average car carries transport is central to answering these our customers by consistently delivering just 1.2 passengers, whereas a typical challenges: good public transport is crucial frequent, high performing public transport double-deck bus seats 74 and can safely to a successful country and society.
services which offer excellent value.
A full bus therefore removes more than 60 cars off often congested, It is for these reasons that we take our This Vision is underpinned by five Values: city centre roads.
A coach takes, on responsibilities so seriously.
Customers, excellence, customers, people, community average, the equivalent of a miles worth of governments and regulators increasingly and, our priority, safety.
In growing our demand that public transport operators patronage across all of our businesses, we Our Vision and Values should be considered address these issues.
But, more than this, are removing cars from city centres and together.
We fundamentally believe that National Express as a company wants to reducing congestion from the motorway.
attracting more customers to passenger be a trusted partner delivering solutions transport is necessarily a good thing.
And with our investment in the latest However, it is not a sufficient outcome on vehicles, we are also reducing the From the boardroom to the drivers cab its own.
We want to carry more and more environmental impact of our services.
Our or engineering pit, we want to serve the passengers on vehicles that minimise investment in this area is set out below.
communities we operate in well and we transports environmental impact, are want to be a progressive force for future operated to the highest standards of safety If just 20% of car commuters in prosperity.
We want to be a trusted partner and excellence and are driven by people Birmingham travelled by passenger in the communities and countries we who feel valued and receive a fair wage.
carrying vehicle instead, NOx emissions operate in to provide safe, reliable services from traffic across the region would It is pleasing, therefore, that in 2018 every that help improve the environment, reduce instantly be cut by 15%.
division of our business carried more congestion and increase opportunity.
As a passengers than it did the year before.
But, as outlined above, this is not enough large employer we want to be recognised Across the Group we carried over 15 million on its own.
The way we go about this as performing a broader social role.
more passengers in 2018 compared with matters.
This is why our Values as a company This is why we have long-established 2017.
Indeed, UK coach and our Spanish recognise how important it is that we are Vision and Values that guide how we and Moroccan businesses all achieved more than simply a good transport operator.
Our UK bus We want to be a trusted partner and force business is bucking thenational trend and for good in the communities we serve.
Our priority: safety, being a trusted operator Target Zero Our priority as a business is safety: it is the During 2018, we launched an internal campaign, first agenda item for the PLC Board, all Target Zero, to provide a fresh focus on safety executive boards and weekly executive issues across the Group.
The executive teams bonus also includes safety performance measures for more detail see page 86.
Our Safety Value is to only do what is safe and stop any unsafe behaviour.
This is because, more than anything else, we value the safety of our customers, employees and the public generally.
It is, of course, morally right and all National Express employees want to work for a safe company.
But, equally, to be a trusted operator to our customers and partners, a determination to be as safe as we possible is a necessity.
Overall Group responsibility for safety sits with Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive, and our Divisional Managing Directors who National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 600 set our annual plans and priorities for During 2018 we invested further in Lytx 33 improved performance.
We have 12 Global DriveCam, with nearly 19,000 vehicles Safety Standards setting out the clear across the Group now carrying these smart behaviours and minimum standards which safety cameras.
We use the videos and ALSA has always been a we expect all our staff to demonstrate performance information generated by consistently.
this technology to inform performance benchmark in road safety.
meetings with drivers, with managers These standards are complemented by five discussing how similar incidents could Global Safety Policies covering: speed be avoided in the future.
Our UK bus management: driving evaluation: business won the Route One Best Use of competency of driving evaluators: driver Technology Award for DriveCam during monitoring: and driver performance the year.
The divisions have until 2020 to devise comprehensive plans to deliver We are very pleased that both our UK bus against the Global Safety Policies in full, and coach businesses have repeatedly and are already making good progress.
retained RoSPA Gold Awards for safety, Performance and implementation are including winning their highest accolade, reviewed in a quarterly meeting of Managing the Sword of Honour.
In response to a fatal Directors chaired by Dean Finch.
As well accident in Spain, a senior Spanish as Dean updating the PLC Board on transport ministry official said: ALSA has LYTX DRIVECAM performance at every meeting, our Group always been a benchmark in road safety.
Safety Director Alison Forster also reports Safety & Environment Committee to the Safety & Environment Committee.
Report p70 19,000 This Committee met three times in 2018 and Chris Muntwyler, its Chair, meets Alison Vehicle installations regularly to review performance.
Safety performance FWI per million miles operated To measure our performance we adopted and adapted the railway industrys Million miles FWI million miles Fatalities and Weighted Injuries FWI 800 0.08 Index.
We did this as it is widely regarded as the most effective measure of 0.07 safetyperformance.
0.06 During 2018 there was a slight increase in 500 0.05 the Groups FWI score, up 0.717 to 9.291.
400 0.04 However, on a per million miles operated basis, the Group FWI was flat year-on-year.
300 0.03 As the chart shows, since the introduction 0.02 200 of our Driving Out Harm safety programme in 2011, the trend in safety performance is 0.01 100 one of improvement.
0.00 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Being a trusted employer Question Division Corporate UK bus UK coach North America Bahrain Our People Value is to develop the talents, Safety is taken reward the exceptional performance and seriously in respect the rights of all our employees.
We my business 95% 85% 93% 90% 85% firmly believe that delivering on our Vision I enjoy working for is only possible if National Express is a my business 94% 77% 85% 90% 87% good place to work.
National Express recognises that our workforce is our Our surveys are used to develop targeted staff engagement programmes and business greatest asset and we want each of our initiatives to respond to issues raised and drive continued improvement.
49,000 employees to reach their full potential and to give their best.
Staff across our businesses are regularly surveyed.
A bi-annual survey in ALSA is currently being conducted, but 2018s results in our other businesses demonstrated encouraging results on key questions.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 700 Strategic Report 34 Responsible business continued Workplace rights Fundamentally, we respect the rights of our NX Network employees.
Our Workplace Rights Policy The NX Network annual meeting in November and Human Rights Policy have been in 2018 brought together employees from five place for a number of years and are countries to develop their professional skills.
published on our Group website.
Wherever our employees choose to be represented by unions, we actively seek to maintain relationships based on mutual respect and transparency.
We are also committed to promoting a safe and effective culture for employees to raise genuine concerns without fear of reprisals.
A key part of this is our Whistleblowing Policy and the telephone hotline facility provided in each of our major territories of operation.
This allows employees to report concerns about suspected impropriety, wrongdoing or other serious matters on a confidential basis, and anonymously if they want to and are legally permitted to.
Reported incidents are investigated locally in the first instance with monthly reports reviewed by the Group Executive Committee in case a higher level of investigation is required and a summary report presented to the main Board at each meeting.
Develop the talent and recognise the In the UK, 808 drivers have already We also founded the NX Network in 2015, exceptional performance achieved recognition with 276 Advanced an international network of management We want our employees to feel valued and and 532 Master Drivers.
Across the Group trainees and emerging leaders across our trust us to develop them and their careers.
as a whole there are 940 Master Drivers business.
These are our future leaders and We want working for National Express to and 943 Advanced Drivers.
we are investing significantly be seen as a symbol of excellence.
in them: for example, some are currently The popularity amongst staff, who value undertaking either an MBA or a This is why we launched our Master Driver their commitment to excellence being management diploma.
This scheme, which has both recognised, is well summed up by Master Advanced and Master Driver levels, Driver Diane Reid: Both myself and my The NX Network holds an annual recognises all those drivers who achieve fianc have now qualified as Master conference where cross-divisional groups three years or more of excellent service Drivers.
We are very proud of our work through business challenges to and who have had no preventable achievements.
develop their experience and share best accidents and no proven customer practice.
Senior members of the Group complaints.
Their driving ability will also Our commitment to our drivers excellence also talk to members about their areas of have been evaluated, with Master Drivers has also been recognised by key the business, again to share understanding taking part in an on-road evaluation that stakeholders.
West Midlands Traffic and expertise, but also to outline the will give them an Institute for Advanced Commissioner Nick Denton attended and opportunities across the Group.
Many Motoring or national equivalent spoke at one of the recent presentation members of the network also go on RoadSmart driving accreditation.
events and said: It is great to see that secondment across the divisions to National Express has developed such develop their experience.
All drivers who achieve Advanced and a positive training programme for all of its Master Driver status will receive a framed drivers.
Master Driver both recognises and certificate along with a special badge, tie Nomination Committee Report p70 rewards their professional skills.
and high-vis jacket at a presentation event.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Diversity, inclusion and gender Employee, senior management and Director numbers by gender at end of 2018 35 A key business objective for all operations Director is to improve workforce diversity, with a Male Female particular focus on improving our female 10 2 representation across our businesses.
Gender representation is reported to the PLC Board on a quarterly basis.
Senior managers Male Female All Group businesses have gender targets 47 13 and, pleasingly, female representation has increased in all businesses compared with last year.
Each business is now setting All employees more ambitious targets to improve further.
Male Female 28,580 20,607 Improving our gender balance will take time, especially at senior levels.
As the gender table shows, women are underrepresented at senior levels across the Group: While there are important exceptions, such Living Wage as the retiring female Managing Director of We have a long-standing commitment to our Dundee bus business, Elsie Turbyne, pay the higher Living Wage Foundation who was replaced by Christine McGlasson Living Wage.
During 2018, we were last year, we have further to go.
Without being on the real pleased that our entire UK business became accredited as a Living Wage As a good employer, we are seeking to Living Wage, my partner employer.
This benefits not only our improve our practices.
We have reviewed and I could have really directly employed staff, but also those and enhanced our maternity policy and pay working for our contractors who are struggled with getting our across the Group.
Equally, we seek to engaged in National Express duties.
support all working parents with managing mortgage, buying a house the often difficult work and home balance.
and being able to start a Our policy remains the same across We continue to promote our flexible the Group as a whole: where widely working policy and actively encourage family.
Its refreshing to recognised and understood national Living managers to accommodate all reasonable have an employer who Wages are not in place, we commit to pay requests and explore new ways of working.
at least 10% above the prevailing national gives me the feeling they Health and wellbeing minimum wage.
want to invest in me, my We continue to run initiatives which health, my wellbeing and support the health and wellbeing of our employees.
my future and not just get labour for the cheapest Our UK Health Bus won its fourth national award, winning the British Quality outlay in the short term.
Foundations award for Innovation in Philip Walchester, Employee Engagement.
The health checks Administrator, provided on the bus at our UK bus National Express West Midlands locations have been extended to our UK coach locations.
A mobile health adviser offers the service at smaller sites complementing what is provided by the Health Bus at larger garages and offices.
In 2018, we continued to develop and implement our North American health and wellbeing strategy.
This included both communication and wellness events support at key locations, including free flu vaccination.
As a result of our initiatives, we have increased the percentage of our medically enrolled employees who have had an annual wellness check-up from 27% in 2017 to 76% in 2018.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 36 Responsible business continued Being a trusted partner In all of our operations, we seek to be a trusted partner.
This is the right thing to do and also makes good business sense.
To achieve the levels of service we aspire to and our customers demand, we must work closely with local authorities and industry partners.
We monitor our active compliance with important legal regulations as an international transport operator.
And, in line with our Community Value, we are active in the communities we serve.
A trusted partner of local authorities Across all of our operations, we seek to work closely and in partnership with local on this route use bus.
In Spain, North America and number further we agreed a package of the UK, for example, we are working with Armed Forces measures including a significant new bus During 2018, we re-signed the Corporate national transport authorities and local lane, priority measures at junctions and Covenant which sets out support for the police forces to promote safe driving traffic lights, and parking restrictions.
National Express supplemented this with new express services and brand new In the West Midlands, we have pioneered We were very happy to re-sign our smart hybrid luxury Platinum buses.
Since a Bus Alliance with the local transport Corporate Covenant during 2018, at an launching this upgrade in November, over authority, Transport for West Midlands event on Horse Guards Parade.
Our 4,000 extra passengers a week are using TfWM.
This advanced partnership model commitment recognised our role: as an our buses.
has won a number of awards and has employer of current military personnel, by formed a blueprint for other areas to follow.
A trusted company, active in the providing extra paid leave for reservists: The alliance is also making a real difference communities we serve as a potential employer by guaranteeing to customers journeys.
Together, we have As both the proud operator of important interviews for those leaving the Armed jointly funded with TfWM a manager whose services and a major employer in the Forces: and as the operator of a crucial job is to develop plans that address communities we serve, we seek to be nationwide transport service to many congestion hotpots.
more than just a transport company.
service personnel and their families, by We want to be an active and trusted force offering significant discounts on travel, In the last year alone TfWM has spent for good.
This is why we have established, including free bus travel for those visiting 11 million on bus priority measures across for example, strong links with the UK relatives at the Queen Elizabeth military the region, including on an upgrade to the Department for Work and Pensions on hospital in Birmingham.
major corridor between Harborne and employment initiatives, and were the first Birmingham.
Over 50% of the commuters company to sign up to the Governments Corporate Covenant.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Foundation Partnerships 37 National Express created a charitable Each division also works with local foundation in 2012, in response to the community organisations to support their significant disturbances in UK cities the important work.
In the UK we entered into Since its launch in previous year.
Since that time, National a new partnership with CHICKS a charity Express Group has donated 1.5 million to providing respite breaks for children from 2012, the Foundation the Foundation, as well as significant deprived background.
Our support enables has impacted the lives stafftime.
the children to travel to breaks for free.
of more than 17,500 The National Express Foundation provides Also in the UK, we have a well established young people.
grants in two areas: first, to further and partnership with The Princes Trust to deliver higher education institutions to help those work experience opportunities and training who would otherwise be able to continue for young people looking to build their skills.
their studies to do so: second, to community This programme has proved so successful groups that provide activities for young we have taken a number of participants on people.
The foundation concentrates its to permanent roles.
support in the West Midlands and the area In Spain, through its Muevete programme, of Kent served by The Kings Ferry coaches.
ALSA continues to provide work placement Since its launch in 2012, the Foundation opportunities for young people, including has impacted the lives of more than 17,500 those with special needs, in partnership NATIONAL EXPRESS FOUNDATION young people.
In 2018, we doubled the with the Integra Foundation.
number of funding rounds to two and In North America, we often offer our enabled community groups to apply for 1.5m vehicles to support the local community.
This has facilitated the donated since 2012 For example, during recent significant delivery of community programmes over flooding and fire incidents in California and longer periods of time.
Ohio respectively, we offered our vehicles to transport affected residents and provided respite shelters for emergency responders.
A trusted solution to performance data is published on our We are also investing significantly in new environmental challenges Group website, we will set out some vehicles that meet the most stringent air As a responsible operator, we want to be headline achievements below.
Euro 6 engines are seen as a trusted partner to deliver on two a step-change improvement in public Making public transport part of of the great environmental challenges of transports relative contribution to air the solution our time: climate change and local air quality: indeed, a Euro 6 diesel car emits Across our Group operations, National quality.
As outlined above, growing public ten times the per passenger NOx of a Euro Express has delivered a significant transport usage is a crucial element of 6 diesel bus.
A significant part of our fleet reduction in the carbon intensity of our reducing mobilitys environmental impact.
is already this highest standard: ALSA has operations.
In the five years to the end of But it is not enough in itself.
900 Euro 6 vehicles: UK bus has 532 2018, Group-wide emissions of CO e per 2 vehicles at the Euro 6 standard: and 371 This is why we have sought to reduce our million passenger km declined by 13% or 70% of our UK coach fleet is already carbon emissions and serve as part of the while the number of passengers we carried Euro 6. solution to the air quality challenge.
You can see our a more detailed explanation of our policies full Greenhouse Gas Emissions data in our By the end of 2019 we plan to have 80% of in this area is available in the Safety & Environmental data appendix on page 200. our UK bus fleet at a Euro 6 standard.
In Environment Committee report on pages the first half of 2020 all of our UK coach 70 73 and our environmental fleet will be Euro 6.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 38 Responsible business continued We are also demonstrating leadership on the next generation of vehicles zero local Clean air day emission electric buses.
In North America 16,000 people signed up on Clean Air Day to try we are the only private school bus operator bus travel in the West Midlands as an alternative to be piloting these vehicles.
In Spain and to cars Morocco, we are currently running 10: in the UK we currently plan to be operating 29 by the middle of 2020.
Beyond this investment, we continue to encourage more people to consider the environmental benefits of using public transport.
For example, as part of the West Midlands Bus Alliance we work very closely with TfWM and local councils to improve air quality and reduce harmful emissions in the communities we serve.
To mark Clean Air Day in 2018, we offered free day saver tickets to the public.
We were pleased to see 16,000 people sign up for the offer, and 67% of them continued to buy further products and keep travelling by bus.
Customer privacy and data security Anti-corruption and bribery Our Modern Slavery Policy is published We recognise the rights to privacy of our Our policy is to conduct all of our on our Group website, and we produce customers and other parties we engage business in an honest and ethical a Modern Slavery Statement each year, with.
Across National Express Group, we manner.
As a Group we do not tolerate which set out all steps taken by the have a number of privacy policies which bribery and corruption and are Group to ensure that there is no slavery set how we collect and use personal committed to acting professionally, fairly or human trafficking in our business data.
The relevant policies are published and with integrity in all our business or supply chains.
The second annual on our customer and Group websites.
dealings and relationships wherever we statement was published during the operate, and to implementing and course of the year and is available During 2018, our ALSA and UK enforcing effective systems to counter on our Group website.
We review the businesses took the necessary actions bribery and corruption.
We have an effectiveness of the steps we have to comply with the EU General Data anti-bribery policy which is available taken each year and will report on these Protection Regulation GDPR.
Our third actions followed a thorough review of annual statement will be published on business processes and systems, and Modern slavery our website during 2019. dialogue with suppliers to ensure The Group has a zero tolerance compliance.
approach to modern slavery and human Supplier relationships trafficking and continues to remain We continually work with our suppliers Alongside the privacy activity, a committed to reviewing and updating our to review their performance and mitigate Group-wide data security awareness practices to uphold that approach.
We risks in our supply chain.
Our Group programme was launched during the are committed to acting ethically and Procurement team works within a clear year.
This increased employee with integrity, and to implementing and purchasing framework ensuring awareness of the risk of cyber attacks, enforcing effective systems and controls regulatory compliance and contract and was accompanied by a number of which ensure slavery and human performance.
trafficking are not taking place in our business or supply chains.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
