Corporate Governance 70 Accountability continued Safety & Environment Committee Report Dear fellow Shareholder I am pleased to present this years Safety & Environment Committee Report which provides an overview of the Groups main activities and progress in these two important areas during the year.
More Chris Muntwyler information can be found on pages 32 and Committee Chair 33 respectively.
Safety The Board believes that the Company Primary role Activity highlights should aim to lead the industry on safety To oversee the quality and effectiveness Monitored safety and environmental matters and continuously seek to improve of the Groups safety and environment targets, performance and initiatives for our standards.
That is why the safety of our strategies, standards, policies and the Group, its divisions and operations employees and customers receives the initiatives, together with risk exposures, Received regular implementation highest level of attention from the Board targets and performance.
updates on the Groups five new Global with all Directors being members of the Safety Policies introduced in 2017 The Committees terms of reference, Committee.
It is also why safety remains Reviewed actions taken and lessons reviewed and approved annually, are the number one priority of the executive learnt arising from major accidents available on the Companys website at team.
In recognising this ongoing strategic and incidents, past and present www.
importance: Ensured safety-related benefits from the Groups Driving Out Harm and Key responsibilities an 18% weighting of the executive teams World Class Driver programmes are Review the Groups strategy and annual bonus continues to be linked to coming through framework of standards, policies and the Groups safety performance: Received annual updates on local initiatives for managing safety risks 10% on improving our normalised health and wellbeing programmes for across the Group Fatalities Weighted Injuries FWI Index employees in all territories Monitor and review the Groups safety score per million miles operated and 8% leadership and performance on improving safety systems and Review the Groups strategy and processes: and approach to the environment and the a revised safety underpin applied to this external reporting of performance years annual bonus plan, and has been introduced as an underpin to the Companys Long-term Incentive Plan for Membership, meetings and attendance awards to be made in 2019 onwards.
Meeting attended Meeting not attended Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive, has established a strong and embedded safety Committee member Appointed Meetings attended culture in the business and this is Chris Muntwyler Chair 11.05.11 maintained through his personal ownership Sir John Armitt CBE 01.01.13 of a rigorous governance framework.
He has overall responsibility for safety and Lee Sander 01.06.11 is supported by divisional Managing Jorge Cosmen 01.12.05 Directors, the Group Safety Director and local safety teams.
It is they who set the Joaqun Ayuso 01.06.11 annual safety plan and priorities for Jane Kingston 26.07.16 continued improvement and progress against these are reviewed at the Chief Dr Ashley Steel 01.01.16 Executives Safety Committee on Mike McKeon 03.07.15 a quarterly basis.
Matthew Crummack 06.05.15 1 Independent Non-Executive Director 2 Non-Executive Chairman of the Board 3 Non-independent Non-Executive Director Other attendees by invitation : Executive Directors, Group Safety Director, Head of Group Property and, as required, external advisers.
Biographical details of the members are set out on pages 56 and 57.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 71 Your decision to install cameras in all fleet vehicles [in North America] shows your commitment to developing a comprehensive safety management system for driver oversight and remediation of unsafe behaviour throughout your fleet.
US National Transportation Safety Board As Committee Chair, and to ensure Most notable within that performance The Committee has also received independence of safety oversight, I have was North Americas excellent safety assurance from internal audit that the direct access to the Group Safety Director performance which included no Companys committed action plan to the and meet with her on regular basis responsible fatalities for the first time NTSB is being implemented Group-wide throughout the year.
I also visit operations in five years, no lost time injuries, within the agreed timescales.
from time to time as do other Nona 30% reduction in major injuries Global Safety Policies Executive Directors to better understand and a 6% reduction in minor injuries The implementation of our five new Global the safety risks, exposures and challenges together, these represent a very Safety Policies Policies, launched in April facing the business and the actions being commendable achievement.
Internal audit has taken locally to address them.
I feedback However, the Committee notes the slight again provided the Committee with my observations and assessment to both increase in the Groups absolute FWI score assurance that each division has met its management and the Committee.
To this in 2018, up 0.717 to 9.291, although on a key milestones against plan for the year end, I spent four days in February per million miles operated basis, FWI was and is on track to meet the completion 2018 making safety audit visits in the USA flat year-on-year and is therefore still the target of 2020.
When business acquisitions as reported on last year and in October lowest on record.
While it is disappointing are made, and as part of our integration I visited Oviedo in Spain to review: that FWI did not improve again, the management, a tailored plan is created to ALSAs Driver Training Centre, which is Committee takes comfort and ensure they too commence and complete continuing its research programme with encouragement from the 74% implementation of the Policies within an the local university on how to select the improvement achieved in the Groups acceptable timeframe.
It has recently FWI per million miles operated since we The focus of our transformational introduced driver psychometric testing launched Driving Out Harm in 2011. programme this year has been on and simulation for specific road Following the report issued in May 2018 by improving driver oversight and situations and accidents, not just for the US National Transportation Safety management, and the progress made basic training.
With the Group investing Board NTSB into the driver-responsible has been immense.
For example: heavily in driver training, this work is school bus accident in Chattanooga in late extremely relevant in helping to identify over 10,000 more vehicles have been 2016, the Company moved quickly and good and not so good drivers earlier, fitted with Lytx DriveCam, the incident positively to submit a response to the before the investment is made.
By alert and driver monitoring system recommendations made, including setting analysing drivers across Spain, Morocco provided by an on-board camera.
out the Group-wide actions already taken and Geneva, the team is building a Altogether, over 2,400 vehicles have now and planned to be taken to address them, statistical database which will improve been fitted in the UK, 15,000 in North particularly in relation to improving driver the quality of their driver testing module: America and some 1,000 in Spain.
I believe that the and UK fit-out will be completed in 2019 and acknowledgement letter received back ALSAs accident investigation and North America in 2020: from the highly reputable NTSB clearly management response following a tragic all businesses have introduced risk demonstrates the significant ongoing accident that had recently occurred in profiling of their drivers.
This is a critical investment and commitment we are Avils.
I was extremely impressed with part of the overall plan to improve driver making in pursuing safety performance the quality and speed of their approach oversight and uses inputs such as improvements throughout the Group: We and pleased with the recognition accident history, speed management, are pleased that you implemented the expressed by Pere Navarro, Director DriveCam events, telematics and recommended complaint resolution system General of Traffic in Spain, when he complaints to determine what actions and have established training and commented at the time that: It [ALSA] is need to be taken for individual drivers: monitoring systems to identify and resolve not a pirate company, local or small, but and safety violations.
In addition, your decision one of the most important in passenger extensive driver oversight and evaluation to install cameras in all fleet vehicles shows transport.
ALSA has always been a training of supervisors and managers your commitment to developing a benchmark in road safety.
has taken place across the Group 350 comprehensive safety management system in the UK, 130 in Spain and 1,400 in Performance for driver oversight and remediation of North America.
The Committee is extremely pleased unsafe behaviour throughout your fleet.
We to report that the executive team has commend your prompt action to embrace continued to operate and manage a robust the intent of our recommendations and set of safety processes and systems invest in company-wide procedures to across the Group which, compared with improve safety across all your operations.
2017, has delivered an improved These actions satisfy Safety performance with fewer responsible major Recommendations H-18-17 and -18, which injuries, lost time injuries and high severity are classified Closed Acceptable Action.
vehicle accidents, and a lower vehicle accident rate.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 72 Accountability continued Safety & Environment Committee Report continued Particularly pleasing to the Committee is that it can see both tangible benefits and Target Zero a return on the Companys investment In February last year, Dean Finch coming through from the introduction of launched a Target Zero safety the new Policies, which are making a real campaign with a simple message that difference.
For example, in 2018: any fatality is unacceptable and with a simple objective of trying to achieve a recognising that DriveCam is our key Target Zero year i. e. one in which no method for monitoring and improving responsible fatalities occur.
A number driver behaviour, at the 35 Customer of hard-hitting posters, videos and other Service Centres CSCs in North communications were created and America where DriveCam has been shared across the Group for local use installed for more than a year, the to drive home the tough message and average risk score has improved by 58% ensure it was clearly understood in all and coachable events per event recorder territories.
The campaign has been has improved by 66%: and Lake Villa, IL School Bus Winner wholeheartedly received by the entire the average cost per incident claim in By challenging drivers to share best business with lots of innovative practice with each other on their Target North America was 22% lower than in promotions and events taking place Zero clip-board, this CSC was able to 2017 and the estimated cost of their to support it.
As part of a North America initiative, local These impressive results, being driven by businesses were invited to come up with our strong safety leadership, are helping their own take on the campaign and us to improve both the effectiveness of our some of the winning and honourable driving standards and the efficiency of our mention entries appear above and below.
safety programme across the Group.
The Directors witnessed first-hand how Safety awards and further two local operations in Boston, a external certification School and a Transit Customer Service The Committee was also pleased to learn Centre CSC, had embraced Target of several safety awards and external Zero and the approach they were taking Salina, KS School Bus Winner certifications received again in the to promote it when the Board visited the It took a team effort, precision driving and a Group during 2018.
These included: CSCs in September the pride, passion drone to create this aerial photo reinforcing and strength of belief were clear for all Target Zero.
the prestigious Sword of Honour from to see.
While Target Zero may not have the British Safety Council BSC, which been achieved across all territories in recognises the commitment to an 2018, it was achieved in North America excellent health and safety management and I am sure it will not be long before standard, received by UK coach for the it is achieved Group-wide as well.
fourth successive year and by UK bus for the third successive year.
Bus also became the first company to achieve the BSCs 45001 certification while Coach retained its BS OHSAS 18001 standing.
Separately, both businesses also achieved 5-Star Occupational Health and Safety Audit Status with the BSC: and ALSA being selected by the European Council for Transport Safety as an example of good practices in road safety management.
It also received the Best HR Practice Award from Estrella LUIKE a specialist automotive magazine for its Master Driver programme.
Boston, The Ride Transit Honorable Mention The Zero Team photo emphasises the steps needed to achieve zero fatalities.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 73 The focus on employee engagement and driving training continues as does significant fleet and technology investments with improvements in fleet efficiency and miles per gallon fuel usage remaining key deliverables in all divisions.
These industry-leading awards and We have continued to make solid in Bahrain, the company arranges free recognitions give the Committee great progress with our Driving Excellence in health checks by a registered nurse and confidence in the embedded nature and Environmental Performance programme.
personal support through its Employee robustness of our safety management We set ourselves some ambitious five-year Assistance Programme.
The company framework and arrangements in place KPI targets against which we have has also raised awareness of mental across the whole Group.
delivered at the close some good health issues, the dangers of fatigue and results, with our water consumption heat exhaustion and, in conjunction with Environment and transaction energy use running well the local hospital and Bahrain Cancer The Committee recognises that the ahead of target.
Also, and notwithstanding Care Group, breast cancer among Company has an important role to play the fact that challenges remain with site women: in enabling and delivering climate change energy use and waste to landfill, we in the USA, where the Health and strategies which, in partnership with our exceeded our total tCO e target per million Wellbeing Strategy is in its second year, 2 partners and other stakeholders, can help passenger km by almost 5% year-on-year the company carried out a range of mitigate the impact arising from the and by over 19% for the five-year period.
initiatives with its employees aimed at operation of our vehicles and sites.
Robust new science based KPIs, in line identifying and preventing medical Accordingly, the Committee has continued with the Sectoral Decarbonisation issues.
Counselling support to to monitor the Groups strategy and Approach, are being finalised.
These will employees and their families on mental approach to the environment, as well cover a seven-year period to 2025 and health and other issues is also provided as the external reporting of its focus on the six elements identified by through their Employee Assistance environmental performance, including the Intergovernmental Panel on Programme: and greenhouse gas emissions.
in Spain and Morocco, the businesses continue to promote the wellbeing of With respect to the management of the The focus on employee engagement and employees through their For Your Groups environmental responsibilities, driver training continues as does significant Health programme, which includes an our performance remained strong in fleet and technology investments with online blog with suggestions and advice 2018.
The maintenance of our CDP improvements in fleet efficiency and miles on healthy living, eating and exercise.
rating B and Water Disclosure rating per gallon fuel usage remaining key They also offer discounts to all C represents a significant achievement deliverables in all divisions.
employees and their families on a range in the sector and we are proud to have of health services.
continued our record of no reported Health and wellbeing violations, enforcement actions or During 2018, the Group continued with Committee effectiveness compliance notices in the year.
We are its various divisional programmes and The Committees operations and activities also prepared to meet ESOS Phase 2 initiatives, as reviewed annually by the formed part of the internal performance compliance from 5 December 2019.
Committee, to promote and enhance the evaluation of the Board conducted this health and wellbeing of our workforce year see the Effectiveness section on While a year-on-year outturn for the Group through a mix of physical, occupational pages 52 and 53.
It confirmed that the shows only a marginal decrease in total and mental health services.
Examples Committee continues to operate very well emissions of 0.3% tCO e per million 2 of these included: and effectively in providing oversight of passenger km, this still represents a worthy safety and environmental governance.
reduction of 2,500 tonnes of CO.
However, in the UK, the Health Bus, which is run 2 the outturn should not detract from the by medical professionals and visits local Looking forward UKs strong performance this year 3% sites to provide free and confidential In 2019, the Committee will continue to decrease and needs to be considered in medical appointments to employees, monitor and review the structure, content the context of an overall increase in both conducted over 6,500 appointments in and operation of the Groups safety and driven km and passenger km of 3% and the year it also received the British environment arrangements.
Finally, I would 4% respectively in the year.
Additionally, Quality Foundations Innovation in like to thank Dean Finch and his and in applying the intensity metrics, the Employee Engagement Award in March management team for their relentless effort Groups tCO e per million passenger km 2018.
Mental health received increased 2 and ongoing leadership in again delivering shows a year-on-year decrease of 4.75% focus with the provision of counselling improvements in both of these two very and a total decrease of 13% for our support through the Employee important aspects of the business in 2018. five-year KPI period ended 31 December Assistance Programme and the launch 2018 this is significant when measured of a mental health awareness campaign against a 20% increase in passenger km in October 2018 to coincide with World operated in the same period.
Mental Health Day: Chris Muntwyler Safety & Environment Committee Chair 28 February 2019 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
