Strategic Report Further information regarding our employees, social, community Gender pay and human rights, and environmental matters is provided in our latest Corporate Responsibility Report available on our corporate NEXT published its first Gender Pay Report in March 2018. website at www.
The report can be found at www.
Training and development Employees NEXTs employees are integral to achieving its business NEXT aims to realise the potential of its employees by supporting objectives and the Company actively takes steps to attract and their career progression and promotion wherever possible.
retain the right people to work at every level throughout the It makes significant investment in the training and development of business.
NEXT has established policies for recruitment, training staff and in training and education programmes which contribute and development of personnel and is committed to achieving to the promotion prospects of employees.
excellence in health, safety, welfare and the protection of employees and their working environment.
Employee communication NEXT has a policy of providing employees with financial and other Equal opportunities and diversity information about the business and ensures that the suggestions NEXT is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to and views of employees are taken into account.
NEXT has an ensure that it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
employee forum made up of elected representatives from Full consideration is given to applications for employment from throughout the business who attend meetings at least twice a disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and year with directors and senior managers.
This forum enables and abilities and in accordance with relevant legislation.
The Group encourages open discussion on key business issues, policies and continues the employment wherever possible of any person the working environment.
who becomes disabled during their employment, providing assistance and modifications where possible.
Opportunities for Employee share ownership training, career development and promotion do not operate to the detriment of disabled employees.
Further details of our Approximately 10,000 employees held options or awards in diversity policy are included in the Nomination Committee respect of 6.1m shares in NEXT at the end of January 2018, Report on page 66. being 4.2% of the total shares then in issue.
Its employee share ownership trust ESOT purchases shares for issue to employees The following charts show the gender mix of the Groups when their options are exercised or awards vest.
At the year end employees at the end of the financial year: the ESOT held 4.8m shares: the Trustee generally does not vote on this holding on any resolution at General Meetings.
Directors of Subsidiary directors Pension provision NEXT plc and other senior managers NEXT provides pension benefits to participating employees, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report and in Note 18 of the financial statements.
At January 2018, there were 13 878 2017: 943 active members in the defined benefit section of 12 the 2013 NEXT Group Pension Plan and 2,977 2017: 2,949 UK 4 4 active members of the defined contribution section.
In addition, 6 5 15,413 employees 2017: 15,033 participate in the Groups auto 26 enrolment defined contribution scheme.
29 Taxation NEXT manages its tax affairs responsibly and proactively to comply with tax legislation.
We seek to build solid and Total employees 2018 2017 constructive working relationships with all tax authorities.
NEXTs Male Male UK tax policy can be found at www.
Female Female 13,973 14,860 31,037 28,923 48 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Suppliers Social, Community and NEXT continues to focus on its supply chain as it recognises that Human Rights there is potential for human rights issues to arise in this area.
NEXT is committed to the principles of responsible business by In common with other retailers, NEXTs product supply chain is addressing key business related social, ethical and environmental both diverse and dynamic.
During the year, NEXT products were sourced from over 1,500 direct and indirect i. e. sourced via agents matters.
Senior directors and managers representing key areas of suppliers, with products manufactured in around 40 countries.
the business take responsibility for corporate responsibility and The challenge of trading ethically and acting responsibly towards sustainability.
NEXT strives continually to make improvements by: the workers in our own and our suppliers factories is a key priority acting in an ethical manner: which is managed by the NEXT Code of Practice COP Team, made up of 47 employees based in key sourcing locations.
recognising, respecting and protecting human rights: NEXTs COP programme is based on the Ethical Trading developing positive relationships with our suppliers and Initiative base code and international labour conventions and business partners: has nine key principles that stipulate the minimum standards recruiting and retaining responsible employees: with which suppliers are required to comply.
The COP team continue to deliver training to our product teams, other relevant taking responsibility for our impact on the environment: and employees and to third parties providing NEXT product, delivering support through donations to charities and ensuring they understand the vital role they play in our ethical community organisations.
A third-party provides independent assurance on the Groups The COP team carried out over 1,900 factory audits in 2017 18 and Corporate Responsibility Report which is published on our work directly with suppliers to identify and address causes of noncorporate website www.
NEXT is also a member compliance.
NEXT also recognises the importance of partnership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
and collaboration, both with our suppliers and with other brands and organisations, to work to resolve some of the more complex Human rights problems which we are unable to solve alone.
Traceability and transparency of our suppliers factories is an important part of NEXT recognises its responsibility to respect human rights NEXTs overall approach to corporate responsibility.
We have throughout its operations.
We are committed to ensuring that published a list of our suppliers manufacturing sites producing people are treated with dignity and respect by upholding NEXT branded products at www.
internationally recognised human rights principles encompassed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Customers Labour Organisations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
NEXT is committed to offering stylish, quality products to its customers which are well made, functional, safe and are sourced Our approach is to implement the United Nations Guiding in a responsible manner.
NEXT technologists work closely with Principles on Business and Human Rights UN Guiding Principles.
buyers, designers and suppliers to ensure its products comply As a business we seek to avoid infringing the human rights of with all relevant legislation and its own internal standards where others and work to address any adverse human rights impacts these are higher.
The expertise of independent safety specialists we identify.
Our corporate responsibility reporting aligns with the for clothing, footwear, accessories, beauty and home products is United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework.
NEXT takes seriously any allegation of human rights abuse in NEXT endeavours to provide a high quality service to its all its forms and will not tolerate human rights abuse anywhere customers, whether they are shopping through our stores or in its operations.
We have developed training and awareness online.
NEXT Customer Services interacts with Retail and Online initiatives for our employees, suppliers, business partners and customers to resolve enquiries and issues.
Findings are reviewed service providers which were first implemented in 2017. and the information is used by other areas of the business to For further information, refer to the NEXT Human Rights and review how products or services can be improved.
Modern Slavery Policy and the latest Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
In line with the requirements Health and safety of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, our second annual modern slavery statement will be published on our corporate website NEXT recognises the importance of health and safety.
The Groups objective is to manage all aspects of its business in a safe manner and take practical measures to ensure that its activities and products do not harm the public, customers, employees or contractors.
Policies and procedures are reviewed and audited regularly.
