Group Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility We are committed to being a responsible business in everything we do Welcome to NMC Healthcares Corporate Social Responsibility Overview for the year 2018.
In this report, we share with our Community Engagement Activities Our Local Community stakeholders how we honour our We have developed a comprehensive responsibility towards our local approach to community health As an influential, committed and communities.
This is demonstrated awareness that addresses not proactive corporate community partner, through the programmes, activities only the pressing health concerns in NMC Healthcare believes in community and initiatives that we executed through communities, but also the underlying involvement where we work and serve.
partnerships with civil society players, causes.
We believe that the best Collectively, our healthcare facilities help local community members, non-profit approach to healthcare is prevention.
improve the lives of our patients, their organisations and other key partners Using our wealth of knowledge and families and the overall community.
expertise, we give back to our local Through our community engagement communities by raising awareness on programmes, we are able to partner In addition, this report highlights our important public health topics.
We do with organisations to deliver measurable commitment to our employees, in this on a yearly basis by conducting free long-term impact.
We invest in public relation to engagement, diversity, training health screenings, awareness workshops, health awareness campaigns and and anti-discrimination policies, as well corporate programmes and digital continuous medical education as operating in an environmentally outreach.
We also aim to raise programmes designed to promote responsible manner in alignment with awareness around specific diseases and healthy lifestyles and increase access our values.
health issues by engaging patients and to health services.
the local community through insightful This overview report summarises our campaigns and events.
Some of these The integration of Corporate Social CSR and some of our ESG activities.
annual events are: Responsibility CSR throughout More detailed CSR and ESG reports the organisation and in the local are published on our corporate website World Health Day communities which we serve, is a goal at www.
World Liver Day we strive for every day.
By aligning CSR World Immunization Week activities to our values, we are able World Asthma Day to improve health of the population International Blood Donor Day in the countries in which we operate.
World Hand Hygiene Day Our community engagement agenda World Thalassaemia Day is versatile and includes initiatives International Nurses Day with community partners, volunteering World Hypertension Day activities and civic engagement.
We are International Albinism Awareness Day pleased to share a few of these initiatives World No Tobacco Day in this section: 26 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information World Diabetes Day Community Educational Activities health screenings and immunizations Histopathology Day Our healthcare facilities provide a for underserved population, in addition World Prematurity Day wide range of educational programmes to some services geared toward adults.
Emirati Childrens Day that address topics related to the needs During the year 2018, we have delivered of local communities.
Each healthcare 2,000 health screenings through 47 Emirati Childrens Day facility assesses its communitys health visits across corporates, schools and In celebration of this day, our CEO took assets and needs and then develops community facilities.
a group of Emirati children who would like community benefit plans that address to become doctors when they grow up unmet health priorities.
These priorities Protection of the Community to visit our facilities, meet doctors and ask are then integrated into the hospitals In 2018 the NMC Health plc Board questions about the profession.
A video strategic plans and budgets to assure approved the Groups new Modern was created to share the experience with adequate resources are devoted to Slavery policy and subsequently issued other Emirati children to be inspired by planning, developing, managing and its first Modern Slavery Statement.
Below are a few examples that were Modern Slavery is a growing global issue Walk for a Healthy Life delivered during 2018: and takes various forms including slavery, On the occasion of World Diabetes Day, servitude, forced and compulsory labour NMC Healthcare organised a Walkathon Dental screening and human trafficking, all of which have in association with the Ras Al Khaimah Breast Cancer Awareness Campaign in common the deprivation of a persons Police and Public Services Department Cardiology Health liberty by another or to exploit them for on Friday 9th November, 2018 to raise Awareness Programme personal or commercial gain.
NMC takes awareness among the community.
Gastroenterology, a zero-tolerance approach to Modern Endoscopic Conference Slavery and human trafficking within our Participation in the Arab Health Exhibition Aesthetic Gynaecology own businesses and our supply chain.
As We participated in the 2018 The Arab Asthma and Lung Cancer part of our increased focus in this area, we: Health Exhibition to share with interested Diabetes Type 2 community members and healthcare How to Keep your Skin Healthy are increasing our staff training and professionals our latest services During Summer supplier reviews: and technologies.
Peripheral Artery Disease have reviewed our own internal VenaSeal Closure System policies and procedures in relation Digital Outreach Obstetric & Medicine Symposium to employees, engagement of We have utilised the power of Social contractors and our ethical and Media to maximize our community Continuous Medical Education CME anti-bribery related policies: outreach and ensure we are able to The Continuous Medical Education CME have assessed the risk of modern reach specific demographics who might Programme constitutes of a series of slavery across our own businesses be concerned in learning about specific workshops offered to doctors outside and within our supplier chain: and diseases.
Our focus in our digital outreach of NMC Healthcare facilities free of charge.
have decided on additional steps to efforts was to transition channels like It was created from the conviction that be taken to increase assurance that Facebook from a narrowcast to a doctors serving patients must keep up modern slavery forms no part of our broadcast platform and engage our to date with the latest discoveries and business operations.
This year, 12 of our practices.
Thus, a knowledge-sharing most popular accounts have used their platform was needed to bring together Full details of our actions in this area Facebook pages to create campaigns expertise to promote sharing and growth.
can be found in our Modern Slavery that spread awareness about global In 2018, over 9,700 doctors attended Statement published on our website.
These events under the CME programme More detail in relation to our community and campaigns comprising of forty-eight focused on paediatric infectious diseases, patient care activities is included in our CSR local and global themes, including the UN cardio-pulmonology, pulmonology health, and ESG reports published on our website.
Health days and the days of importance respiratory health and several others.
to UAE nationals and expats, reached out to over 720,000 members of our Community Health Checks communities garnering over 30,000 Regular check-ups can help increase active conversations and engagements.
chances for treatment and help find a cure in the early stages of diseases.
These health checks provide essential NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 Group Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility continued We regard our employees as valuable interact with the employee forum and our Our Employees assets and we strive to create a safe, frontline and grassroot employees to hear stimulating and rewarding work their opinion and feedback on a range of The healthcare sector is a peopleenvironment for them.
We are proud matters in person.
Employees can also intensive industry.
It requires adopting a of our ability to attract a talented pool directly write to the CEO via their intranet compassionate approach in the provision of highly competent individuals who portal ensuring that views or concerns of treatment and care for all patients.
The contribute to our long-term success raised are dealt with swiftly and fairly.
emotional commitment of our healthcare and viability.
Due to our efforts, we were professionals forms a critical aspect in honoured with the Superbrands Award Employee social activities providing our patients with the best care and the Great Place To Work Award in In addition to daily activities, meetings possible.
Therefore, at NMC Healthcare the UAE, both for three consecutive years.
and interactions, we engage our we heavily invest in the wellbeing and Both awards are a testament of providing employees through annual events that prosperity of our employees.
a growth environment for our employees aim to create close working relationships and stakeholders.
and create an environment of The relationship we have with our collaboration.
The table below showcases employees is based on mutual respect.
Employee Engagement a few of the events held during 2018.
We are committed to full compliance We ensure employees have open with legislative workplace requirements channels to communicate their ideas and in the countries in which we operate.
feedback through various methods across The health and safety of our people is our different businesses.
These include also a key priority and is tied to the Groups periodic meetings, online channels and overall performance.
Thus we maintain internal systems.
In addition, we have the highest level of health and safety set up formal employee forums in the as we understand that it lays the majority of our businesses made up from foundation towards providing high groups of employees below managerial quality healthcare services.
In addition to periodic meetings which each forum holds, the CEO spends one full day per facility to Employee Social Activities Event Name Description NMC Champions Trophy An Inter Facility Cricket Tournament in which 500 players from 24 teams competed across 48 matches.
The seasons duration was 7 weeks with games being held every Friday.
Ladies Dash NMC Royal Womens Hospital was the Strategic Partner for this event, which was supported by the Department of Health Abu Dhabi and under the patronage of the Abu Dhabi Sports Council.
The running event for ladies included the participation of 30 ladies from 5 NMC units from Abu Dhabi.
Fit On Click's Corporate A Corporate Football Tournament organised by Fit on Click, a fitness focused online platform.
Football Tournament NMC was the Medical Partner and 20 participants from 2 NMC units in Dubai participated.
Foundation Day Foundation Day is the annual celebration of the foundation of NMC Healthcare.
Employees gathering in a festive day and our CEO along with senior leadership teams visit our facilities, address employees and grant awards across different functions.
The day concludes with a gala celebration at the corporate office.
Abu Dhabi Dash It is a corporate relay for companies across UAE presented by the Department of Health under the patronage of Abu Dhabi Sports Council.
NMC was the Strategic Health Partner and around 60 participants took part in the run.
Mini Dash A fun filled sporting event for children presented by the Department of Health under the patronage of Abu Dhabi Sports Council.
NMC was the Strategic Health Partner, and children of NMC staff were invited to participate in this event.
NMC Show Stoppers A talent show to celebrate the diversity of talents across our multicultural organisation.
Around 17 units participated across the UAE and the final show gathered an audience of around 500.
28 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Gender study Group overall 2018 Board of Directors & Senior Management Team NMC Board of Directors Senior Management Team 11 7 Male 73% Female 27% Male 86% Female 14% Directors Directors Senior Management Senior Management 8 3 6 1 Corporate Office Corporate Information Technology 507 96 Male 69% Female 31% Male 90% Female 10% Corporate Corporate IT Management IT Management Management Management 10 77% 3 23% 127 87% 19 13% IT Staff IT Staff Corporate Staff Corporate Staff 76 92% 7 8% 225 62% 136 38% Total 86 Total 10 Total 352 Total 155 Healthcare division Distribution division 14,965 2,162 Male 42% Female 58% Male 88% Female 12% Healthcare Healthcare Distribution Distribution Management Management Management Management 419 64% 234 36% 161 94% 11 6% Doctors Doctors Distribution Staff Distribution Staff 1,046 60% 689 40% 1,741 87% 249 13% Staff Nurse Staff Nurse Total 1,902 Total 260 883 18% 3,998 82% Technicians Technicians 635 41% 907 59% Pharmacists Pharmacists 248 50% 244 50% Healthcare Others Healthcare Others 2,997 53% 2,665 47% Total 6,228 Total 8,737 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 Group Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility continued Health & Safety own and often away from family and Our diversity is further instilled by The health and safety of our employees friends.
We have policies in place to help the fact that we employ people from is of utmost importance.
We ensure all employees working and living in such 86 different nationalities.
measures are in place and we routinely circumstances, including for example conduct training and awareness Happiness Officers within many facilities As at 31 December 2018, our Group has programmes around the topics of fire whose role is to ensure the well-being grown its employee base across all its and safety, occupational safety, infection of all employees working in that facility.
business operations to nearly 18,000 prevention and health talks.
Our employee base is made hospital has an assigned Health and Diversity & Inclusion up of employees from 86 countries and Safety Committee coordinating with the As one of the leading healthcare remains nearly equally split, as in 2017, Health and Safety Manager to ensure providers, we recognise the importance between female and male employees.
that goals and KPIs are being met.
of maintaining a diverse work Our widespread cultural and balanced environment through the creation gender mix is testament to the effects Our Health and Safety Policy covers of a strong and healthy workplace that of our discrimination policies and the planned and preventive maintenance, fosters innovation and shared learning multi-cultural nature of the UAE, our safe and proper disposal of sharp and experiences.
We celebrate differences primary market.
Key diversity data is hazardous materials, as well monitoring and do not tolerate any discrimination set out below.
the exposure levels of staff working based on race, religion, gender, age, within radiation and diagnostic imaging ability, marital status, nationality or Employees Nationalities services.
We also conduct regular training other characteristic protected by the laws Our diverse workforce is comprised of programmes for our employees on the of the countries in which we operate.
86 different nationalities, a significant 28% latest organisational health and safety Our anti-discrimination policy educates increase from 67 nationalities employed practices and procedures, sharing employees on discrimination and in 2017.
The table below is a representation information pertaining to this area across harassment topics, as well as how to of the top 5 nationalities employed at our network of hospitals, to ensure address them and report them shall they NMC Healthcare Group globally.
greater adoption of preventive measures.
Diversity metrics are monitored on an ongoing basis, and appropriate Learning and Development In certain countries in which we operate, measures are in place.
We provide equal We place a strong value on employee the vast majority of our employees will employment opportunities that allow all training and professional development.
be expatriate workers who are living and individuals to maximise their capabilities We believe that investing in our working in a country which is not their and richness to our work environment.
employees not only enhances the quality Top 5 Nationalities United Kingdom 3% 568 employees 2017: 58 0% Pakistan 3% Egypt 4% 568 763 employees employees 2017: 667 5% 2017: 394 3% Philippines 17% 3,077 employees 2017: 2,223 16% India 60% 10,598 employees 2017: 8,472 62% Other 12% 2,156 employees 2017: 1,907 14% 30 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information and efficiency of our organisation, but NMC also has a dedicated learning and Together with our team members, also contributes to employee satisfaction development centre.
The Dr. C. R. Shetty we aim to be a part of a movement to and engagement.
Our ability to deliver Centre for Simulation and Interactive inspire hope and create healthier future high quality healthcare services is largely Learning was launched in 2017 to provide for our communities worldwide.
due to attracting and retaining qualified a variety of medical and non-medical and engaged healthcare professionals.
In that same Together We Make the Difference year, we conducted at a comprehensive Campaign All employees go through learning and assessment to identify gaps in Championed by the Abu Dhabi development programmes that help training needs.
Environmental Agency, this campaign them excel at their jobs.
Employees go was created in alignment with the More detail in relation to our employee activities is through periodic performance evaluation Year of Zayed and is comprised of included in our CSR and ESG reports published on in which improvement areas are a series of seabed clean-ups.
identified and match with appropriate healthcare partner of this campaign, learning plans.
Below is a sample list of we extended our support by providing The Environment the skills-based learning programmes an ambulance and setting a first-aid area that were implemented in 2018 and for the participants.
One of the clean-ups We are committed to operating in an attended by over 5,600 trainees across at Al Mirfa Port, collected 4,700kg of environmentally responsible manner 23 healthcare facilities.
in alignment with our values.
Our commitment is translated into action Exceptional Servicing Supporting For Our Emirates We Plant through instilling rigorous monitoring Essentials of Communication For Our Emirates We Plant is a and evaluation systems and tools Team Dynamics community programme run by the that track our water, electricity and fuel Patient Experience Emirates Environmental Group to consumption.
In addition, we have waste Problem Solving & Decision Making mobilise the community and to find management systems in place and we Crisis Management unique ways of giving back to the calculate our carbon emissions using Principles of Executive Leadership environment.
NMC Healthcare the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol.
Arabic Language & Emirati Culture participated this year by activating Interpersonal Skills a group of employees who dedicated We engage our employees in ongoing Critical Thinking time to serve the community they communication to maintain our culture live in by planting trees.
of resource preservation and conscious Customised Training consumption of all resources, which in From the time employees join any Clean Up The World with turn helps us manage our overall carbon NMC Healthcare facility, they are given Dubai Municipality footprint in specific, and environmental a thorough and intensive induction, NMC employees volunteered as part impact in general.
after which they are handed employee of Clean Up the World, which is an manuals as a guiding reference.
environmental programme that calls At NMC Healthcare, service is rooted in Furthermore, a central training resource for individuals around the world to clean our culture both to our stakeholders and was created to encourage sharing up their environment, repair and maintain local communities.
We are particularly practices and proactive learning.
The event was managed by Dubai proud of our employee volunteering Continuing Development Programme Municipality and has boosted the programmes that reflect our strong provides in-house facilities as well as sense of citizenship and environmental desire to drive an impact and foster education and training programmes consciousness among our employees.
the spirit of community engagement.
conducted internally and by external qualified experts.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 Group Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility continued Internal Environmental Initiatives protecting patient health and critical to own or lease.
In addition, we use fuel No Meat Monday daily hospital operations.
Because water to power our generators and specific Globally, animal agriculture is responsible quality is a public health issue and poses machinery.
We purchase petrol and for more greenhouse gases than all the a special concern for the healthcare diesel from local stations and monitor worlds transportation systems combined.
community, we at NMC Healthcare take our consumption in order to accurately According to the United Nations, a global a clear stand on water consumption and calculate our Greenhouse GHG shift toward a vegan diet is necessary preservation.
We track the utilisation of emissions and limit our carbon footprint.
to combat the worst effects of climate all the three precious resources carefully.
At NMC, we have conducted an Waste Management initiative to raise awareness about this Electricity Consumption Hospitals produce medical waste that, environmental fact by announcing the Our electricity consumption is needed if not handled correctly, could potentially last Monday of every month as No Meat to power our Operating Rooms, the high pose serious health and environmental Monday.
Participation is voluntary for all end machinery, light up our facilities and negative impacts.
At NMC Healthcare, we employees.
This is a small step, yet, in a operate medical devices.
We are aware take this topic very seriously by putting in meaningful direction to raise awareness of our high dependence on electrical place an effective management system about our environmental impact.
consumption and thus carefully monitor of healthcare waste which addresses the and measure it to identify the avenues basic elements of waste minimisation, Plastic Free Saturdays of energy preservation.
We purchase segregation and proper identification into Plastic pollution is a serious global electricity from local authorities and receive key categories including: medical, general, problem.
The amount of plastic in the monthly bills detailing our consumption.
In recycled and food waste.
ocean continues to grow affecting some of our facilities, we use generators wildlife and humans alike.
At NMC, we to generate our own electricity as backup Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions took a moral ground to reduce our plastic methods to ensure continuous and The Healthcare industry operates usage.
Saturdays, being the busiest days uninterrupted care for our patients.
hospitals that are highly energy intensive, in our hospitals, have now gone plastic consume large amounts of energy free.
All pharmacy dispensing is done Some initiatives we have taken to reduce resources and produce large amounts via cloth bags, eventually saving about electricity consumption include using of waste.
That is in addition to the 15,000 poly-bags going into the circulation.
motion sensors in some of our facilities construction, operation and maintenance to reduce power wastage and using solar of buildings.
This makes the healthcare Water Consumption power for water heating and lighting sector a significant source of carbon Hospitals are one of the major wherever possible.
emissions globally, and therefore a stakeholders within the healthcare contributor to climate change trends industry and one of the top users of Fuel Consumption that may cause health threats.
The GHG emissions reporting is in line with the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, and additional guidance issued by the UK Government.
The emissions have been calculated using carbon conversion factors published by the UK Government in October 2016.
The total Scope 2 emissions have been reported in accordance with the location based method which uses grid average emissions factors.
There are no energy certificates or supplier-specific information available in the UAE, therefore, the market based method is not applicable here.
Conversion factors applicable to the UAE for Scope 2 have been obtained from the publication IEA CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2012 edition.
A conversion factor for Sevoflurane was not available from the UK Government so an epa.
gov GHG reporting figure was used.
During the last years, several entities were acquired by NMC.
These entities are: Eugin Group, Provita Group, Sunny Group, Americare Group, Oman Group, As Salama Hospital, Fakih Group and Al Zahra Hospital.
In order to conduct an accurate comparison with the previous years before acquisitions and be consistent with the previous NMC reports, we are reporting GHG emissions separately for: 1 NMC entities excluding the acquired ones separately, and 2 GHG emissions for all entities including the acquired ones.
GHG Emissions Intensity tonnes CO e 1,000 orders is only applicable to NMC Distribution which deals with delivering orders to hospitals.
Thus it is not 2 applicable to NMC Healthcare.
GHG Emissions Intensity tonnes CO e 1,000 patients is only applicable to NMC Healthcare with has patients.
Thus it is not applicable to NMC Distribution 2 which does not deal directly with patients.
32 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information through environment-friendly practices, Healthcare Acquired Entities Looking at the GHG emissions for healthcare organisations can reduce Eugin Group Healthcare all entities, we see an their carbon footprint and improve overall Provita Group increase in emissions across Scopes 1 public health.
This is an expected increase due Americare Group to the newly acquired entities that are At NMC Healthcare, we address this topic Oman Group in the process of implementing NMCs of importance by integrating measures As Salama regulations and procedures when it and mitigation plans to align our comes to monitoring their GHG Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions During 2018, we have witnessed an emissions.
We commit to working with reporting with the GHG Protocols and overall increase in total GHG emissions for all new entities to support them in their extend our disclosure to Scope 1 direct both Scopes 1 and 2 for NMC Healthcare adaptation process to ensure efficient emissions from our owned or controlled and Distribution.
However, there has been management of energy and resources.
sources and Scope 2 indirect emissions a decrease in GHG emissions intensity More detail in relation to Water, Electricity and Fuel from the generation of purchased by revenue.
This means that NMC is consumption, our waste management initiatives energy, and with the intention of performing well in terms of expanding and Greenhouse Gas Emissions is included in our expanding our reporting to Scope 3 our business to bring additional economic CSR and ESG reports published on our website.
indirect emissions that occur in the value value while achieving less GHG emissions chain of the reporting company, including despite the expansion.
The Group Strategic Report set out on both upstream and downstream pages 4 to 35 has been approved by the emissions in the future.
Within our Healthcare businesses Board and is signed on its behalf by: excluding the acquired entities, we see a Hospitals Included in the GHG decrease overall in the emissions and the Emissions Calculations intensity.
This is due to energy efficiency PRASANTH MANGHAT Healthcare Excluding Acquired Entities and conservation measures that we Chief Executive Officer NMC Specialty Hospital, Abu Dhabi continuously introduce to manage our NMC Specialty Hospital Al Nahda Dubai carbon footprint, including introduction NMC Specialty Hospital, Al Ain of policies, regulations, energy saving NMC Hospital DIP, Dubai technologies, training of our employees NMC Hospital Deira, Dubai and monitoring results closely.
Among BR Medical Suites DHCC, Dubai the technologies introduced are the NMC Day Surgery Center MBZ, Abu use of GPS systems in our vehicles Dhabi to decrease time lost in reaching New Medical Center, Sharjah locations, the use of motion sensors NMC Clinic Al Wadi to light areas only when needed and Corporate Office using solar power for heating and New Pharmacy LLC, Abu Dhabi lighting wherever possible.
Bait Al Shifa Pharmacy LLC BrightPoint Royal Hospital, Abu Dhabi NMC Royal Hospital Khalifa City, Abu Dhabi NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Group Strategic Report Aligning with the Year of Zayed, UAE The year 2018 marked 100 years since the birth of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, the Founding Father of the UAE, who was renowned for his passion for ensuring the health and well-being of people worldwide.
In alignment with the Year of at the Sheikh Zayed Heritage Zayed, we have made a global Festival by supporting assessing pledge to treat 100 child refugees the health and fitness of with serious heart conditions.
over 20,000 guests across The children received the muchthe sixty-day period of the needed treatment for a variety of festival.
In addition, we provided serious heart conditions through healthcare treatment discounts our medical facilities around the valued at AED 3.5 million world.
We have also participated to more than 700 patients.
34 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information AED3.5m healthcare treatment discounts provided to more than 700 patients 100 20K child refugees with serious heart guests health and fitness was assessed conditions treated at the Sheikh Zayed Heritage Festival NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Governance Governance The Board and management team have strengthened internal controls and kept approach to risk under review during the period of sustained growth and integration.
36 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37
