Strategic Report 52 Corporate Responsibility Fresh Fruit and Vegetables on Promotion 2018 Waste 350 In 2018 just 0.029% of food as a percentage of total sales was wasted.
Were committed to ensuring no food goes into landfill: inedible food 300 is sent to anaerobic digestion, and edible food is redistributed.
We 250 redistributed 1,721 tonnes of food surplus in FY18, with over 90 tonnes 200 of fresh and ambient food surplus donated to food banks and charities 150 through our Donate Food with Ocado scheme.
Since the scheme launched in December 2014, weve donated over 180 tonnes of food, 100 demonstrating our commitment to strengthening food partnerships 50 in the past 12 months.
We contributed a total of 18,000 to support 0 the Courtauld 2025 Commitment, a voluntary agreement that brings together organisations across the food system from producer to consumer to strive for more sustainable food and drink consumption.
Our uniform recycling project with HMP Northumberland described in Education continues to grow, and has now prevented 70 tonnes of old To encourage children to think creatively and get excited about Ocado uniforms from being sent to landfill sites.
vegetables, we sponsored the 2018 Young Pea Chef of the Year.
This nationwide competition challenged schoolchildren at both primary Eating Well and secondary level to invent a recipe using peas.
Over 200 children As an online grocer, we have a natural connection with food.
Weve entered the competition and over 2,000 people voted to choose the continued to focus on reducing food poverty in the UK, growing our winning three entries.
food partnerships with food banks and charities.
Weve maintained our promise to encourage our customers to eat well by having at least 100 Donate Food with Ocado promotions on fresh fruit and vegetables at all times.
For every 1 our customers give in Donate Food With Ocado vouchers, we give 2 worth of food to our Food Partners.
Rather than food banks and charities being overloaded with overstocks, they choose what they need most from a long list of fresh and ambient products.
In FY18, an additional two charities were brought into the scheme.
Customers donated 0.6 million, and we donated 90.3 tonnes of food to our charitable food partners, bringing the total tonnes of food donated since the scheme began in December 2014 to over 180 tonnes.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 52 05-Feb-19 2:10:33 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 December 286 January 320 February 285 March 229 April 238 May 245 June 234 July 232 August 245 September 285 October 285 November 318 Strategic Report 53 Responsible sourcing Case Study We aim to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical way.
We take a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and expect our business partners to do the same.
In FY18 we became sponsors of Our Food Partner DENS Stronger Together, a business-led initiative aiming to reduce modern slavery particularly forced labour, labour trafficking and other hidden third party exploitation of workers.
With their help, we rolled out training to identify and prevent modern slavery to our teams.
We have robust policies in place designed to convey the professional standards we hold and provide a framework through which incidents of exploitation can be reported.
Our full modern slavery statement can be found on www.
No donations were made by the Group to any political party, organisation or candidate during the period 2017: nil.
The Ocado Foundation The Ocado Foundation launched in April 2015: its the home of our charitable and fundraising activity, both internally and externally.
We help employees across the UK make a difference at a local level.
We do this through donations to multiple small, local projects and charities where impact will be greatest, rather than supporting a single Ocado donations provide quality produce national charity.
enabling our residents at The Elms, our service Matching our employees fundraising and volunteering activity users at our Day Centre, and those accessing resulted in donations of just over 25,000 for charities and community the Foodbank to enjoy a healthy and nutritious organisations across the UK through the Ocado Foundation in the last diet.
Without Ocado, we know there would be 12 months.
Ocado employees have volunteered more than 1,830 hours families going hungry each day in Dacorum so to a variety of good causes.
We look forward to working with Carrier bags you in 2019.
Legislation came into effect in October 2015 requiring a 5p charge on all new single use carrier bags in England.
Given the aim of the Wendy Lewington legislation is to reduce bag littering and damage to wildlife, we believe DENS Chief Executive this is best achieved by removing bags from circulation, and financially incentivise customers for their return through our Bag Buy Back scheme.
During the period, we collected over 135 million bags from For over 15 years, Dacorum Emergency Night Shelter DENS has customers, preventing them from becoming litter in the first place.
offered a range of services to tackle homelessness and poverty in the The Ocado Foundation is the custodian of the remaining funds from borough of Dacorum, just north of Hatfield CFC.
They have been a the carrier bag charge, which are used to support waste, litter and Food Partner for over ten years.
In 2015 DENS began regular collections recycling charities across the UK.
This further supports the desire of of fresh surplus through our Donate Food with Ocado scheme, and the legislation to see some of the money raised support environmental in 2017 they received one of our charitable refrigerated vans to help causes.
This year we donated 130,000 of carrier bag funds to WRAP, sustainably upscale their collections using funds from the Single Use supporting recycling education projects: 60,000 was spent on two Carrier Bag Charge.
additional refrigerated vans for our Food Partners, bringing our total In FY 2017 18, we donated 13.9 tonnes of food to DENS.
This was number donated to ten.
We also donated 50,000 to CleanupUK, a used to prepare over 21,900 meals at their 44-bed hostel, 4,415 meals charity which helps people combat litter in their community.
at their Day Centre and to supplement 739 otherwise ambient food parcels feeding 1,975 local people, including 841 children.
Food Cool vans surplus used for meal preparation saved DENS 32,000 over the year.
We ask our charity Food Partners to use refrigerated transport when collecting fresh donations.
This year weve donated an additional two Alongside food redistribution, we provided additional support this refrigerated vans, bringing our total donated to ten, and paid for the year in the form of a Corporate Volunteering day in November, the dual branding, leasing, maintenance, tax and insurance on their behalf.
donation of personal care products, and donations to support a variety Our Food Partners van drivers have also completed our Driver Risk of fundraising events throughout the year.
Management training programme, to help keep them safe on the road.
Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
indd 53 05-Feb-19 2:10:34 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 54 Our People In addition to the share schemes, we provide access to a number of benefit Building a Workforce for the Future choices for employees, including Neyber, a financial awareness initiative, Ocados current and future success is dependent on our employees alongside Bike Solutions schemes, car leasing and other health-care people who innovate, find solutions and deliver world-class service.
We services, all of which are part of our wider Health and Well-being strategy.
are committed to sourcing and developing the highest quality talent throughout Ocado, while the continuous growth of the business has Supporting the training and development of our workforce is crucial to meant that hiring employees globally remains key.
delivering our mission: changing the way the world shops.
The consistently high performance in our UK grocery business provides the shop window Our fourth CFC in Erith has been steadily increasing its workforce as for our business-to-business proposition.
A stable, well-trained workforce the demands of our UK retail business increase.
The growth of Ocado is vital to achieve this, which is why we invest in developing technical Solutions has given us new focus as we deliver to our international skills and also encourage personal development to support future career business customers.
progression for both monthly and hourly paid employees.
Our focus on growing and developing our people is a key message In September 2018 we brought in a record 59 university graduates that Ocado uses to attract and retain individuals.
We also understand under our nine separate training schemes, covering General that employee benefits make an important contribution to both Management, Retail, HR, Finance, Engineering, Engineering Operations, employee engagement and the attractiveness of Ocado as a place Operations Management, Logistics and Technology, cementing our to work.
We are committed to continuing to provide a competitive place as a significant employer and creator of new graduate jobs.
compensation package inclusive of salary, pensions and other benefits.
Use of the Apprenticeship Levy has also increased with the scheme Ocado actively encourages employees to own Ocado shares, offering being used to fund many professional qualifications such as CIMA and Free Shares at 1% of salary to all employees.
We also offer both an specialist engineering courses as well as entry level employees.
employee Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Sharesave scheme, with participation at 7.4% and 16% respectively.
This year we were delighted to launch our new online learning community for all Ocado employees.
Called MiLearning, the site provides easy to navigate online content to help with day-to-day work as well as employees personal and professional development.
This mobile first, easy to use platform encourages employees to explore their learning needs and find what support is available as well as being able to search for learning content to develop core, business and management skills all in the same place.
It is available to employees 24 7.
The Learning & Development Team have not only focused on providing work related learning but supporting personal well-being too.
It now offers additional learning support around dyslexia and autism as well as online resources for building personal resilience and developing English language skills.
The blended learning approach also supports the roll-out of mandatory training such as the recent GDPR compliance training that all monthly paid employees are required to complete providing a detailed audit trail.
The safety and wellbeing of Ocados employees and associates is of the utmost importance.
The Companys objective is to ensure the safety of all employees inline with Ocados Health and Safety Policy and to ensure that its activities do not harm the public, customers or employees.
Ocado does not tolerate any form of corruption, fraud or criminality, of the giving or receiving of bribes for any purpose.
Ocados AntiBribery and Money Laundering Policy details definitions of bribery and corruption, as well as how to report any cases of suspected wrongdoing.
During the year, the Company introduced an independent and confidential whistleblowing service that allows our employees, suppliers and other third parties to raise concerns about possible improprieties.
indd 54 05-Feb-19 2:10:36 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 55 All Employees 14,163 12,799 11,902 10,181 2015 2016 2017 2018 Female Male Senior Managers 27 Diversity We are committed to ensuring that the Ocado workforce has the diversity of talent and expertise that it needs and which will enable the business to continuing growing and innovating.
56 The metrics required to be reported under the gender pay gap legislation can be found on www.
com and the All Employees by Gender Governments online portal.
2,648 Our equal opportunities policy is dedicated to creating an environment for our employees that is free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation, reflecting our commitment to creating a diverse workforce and environment that supports all individuals irrespective of their gender, age, race, disability, sexual orientation, or religion.
For more information about diversity on our Board, see page 75.
Applications for employment by people with disability are always given full and fair consideration, bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned and our ability to 11,515 make reasonable adjustments to the role and the work environment.
In the event of existing employees becoming disabled, all reasonable Directors effort is made to ensure that appropriate training is given and their 3 employment within the Group continues.
Training, career development and promotion of a disabled person is, as far as possible, identical to that of an able-bodied person.
14,163 12,799 This year we were have extended our Disability Confident Leader status 11,902 to cover the whole of our business, having successfully achieved this 10,181 at our CFC in Dordon in 2017.
We have appointed a number of CSTMs and a team manager this year who are profoundly deaf, ensuring their training and ongoing support meets their specific requirements.
9 Other areas of focus have received national recognition, including our work championing the care of expectant parents within Ocado.
2015 2016 2017 2018 Female Male Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
indd 55 05-Feb-19 2:10:39 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 56 Our People Our values The Ocado Way behaviours The pace and change of our business prompted a review of our C rucial to how we embed the Group People Values is a manager People Values this year.
The guiding principle was that any changes behaviour programme, which is designed to encourage those key would have to be relevant to all employees irrespective of their behaviours that we expect all of our employees, but particularly our work area and location.
After lengthy consultation they have been People Managers, to demonstrate.
reduced from four to three and the underpinning behaviours It is a developmental programme that supports managers in their simplified using short, more memorable phrases.
Our Group People Values and the associated behaviours now act These are the five key ways that we believe managers can demonstrate as an umbrella for the different ways of working that exist across to our people that we care, that they are valued and are an important our diverse network of teams and business areas.
We are in it We are proud We can be together of what we do The aim of this programme is to develop and support our people even better managers so that they are the best manager they can be.
We... We... We... go the extra mile for our fight for the common never stop improving customers purpose thrive on change do the right thing show trust and respect learn from our mistakes We are proud We are in it We can be celebrate our successes care for each other We are proud We are in it We can be together of what we do even better together of what we do even better We... We... We... go the extra mile for our fight for the common never stop improving We... We... We... customers purpose thrive on change go the extra mile for our fight for the common never stop improving do the right thing show trust and respect learn from our mistakes customers purpose thrive on change celebrate our successes care for each other do the right thing show trust and respect learn from our mistakes We are proud We are in it We can be We are proud celebrat We ar e our suce in it cesses care for each other We can be together of what we do even better of what we do together even better We... We... We... We... We... We... go the extra mile for our fight for the common never stop improving customers purpose go the extra mile for our fight for the common never stop improving thrive on change customer do the right thing s purpose show trust and respect le thrive on chang arn from our mist eakes celebrate our successes care for each other do the right thing show trust and respect learn from our mistakes We are in it We are proud We can be celebrate our successes care for each other together of what we do even better We... We... We... go the extra mile for our fight for the common never stop improving customers purpose thrive on change do the right thing show trust and respect learn from our mistakes Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
com celebrate our successes care for each other Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
indd 56 05-Feb-19 2:10:44 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 57 The Citizenship Code Case Study The Ocado Citizenship Code ensures everyone at Ocado understands how we conduct our business, and explains the values and principles behind Ocado.
The Citizenship Code was created by examining Wellbeing at work our business procedures and governance process, pulling all this information together, alongside our policies and procedures, into a I had received a wealth of training opportunities single document.
and I really loved working for Ocado, but it was The Citizenship Code is the place where we cement and express the disappointing there was no process in place to importance of our values and principles, as well as setting out our support a smooth return to work after maternity major policies which embed these values, in one easy to find place.
Im pleased to say thats all Engaging People changed now Giving our people a voice, communicating directly with them on Zuzana Starjakova Company achievements and celebrating our successes in line with our Team manager refreshed Group People Values, are key objectives for our Engagement Ha tfield warehouse Team Manager Zuzana Starjakova was awarded team.
The Ocado Council remains an important method of engaging the Barclaycard Everywoman in Retail Above and Beyond Award for with our employees.
Now extending to our European sites, this body her work championing the care of expectant parents within Ocado.
of elected employee representatives helps us to identify areas where we can improve as an employer and encourage participation and Zuzana used her own experience to create new practices including: consultation in the decisions we make.
taking steps to educate managers about resources: starting an online Each business area council is chaired by a member of our Management social community within Ocado for expectant and new parents: Committee while an Executive Director attends each Group Council creating shareable information packs: and also ensuring that on meeting to update and take questions from representatives about their return to work mothers felt comfortable and cared for by their the business.
Minutes from each meeting are published on Fuse, our managers including a formal catch-up with the manager, mother and mobile first communications platform to which all employees have new baby and an eight week transition process back into work.
We now have eight communications channels ranging from This year we have also made good progress with our Health and weekly briefs to our in-house magazine.
In January we introduced our Wellbeing Strategy.
This is delivered in a number of ways, with recent new mobile comms app which can be accessed by all our employees.
attention being given to raising awareness about mental health.
Our People professionals have completed an externally recognised training qualification and an Aviva Train the Trainer course, which allows them to present the Ocado Managing Mental Health in Your Teams course accredited by Aviva, to people managers.
This and other training will continue to roll out in 2019 as an essential core course for managers personal development, along with an awareness campaign aimed at encouraging employees to ask for support when they need it.
Strategic Report Approval The Companys Strategic Report is set out on pages 14 to 57.
The Strategic Report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Neill Abrams GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY Ocado Group plc Registered in England and Wales Number 07098618 5 February 2019 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
