Strategic Report 48 How We Manage Our Risks Strategic Objective Risks Mitigation Action Control Change During the Year Operational A risk of a food safety or product Experienced legal, food and product technology safety incident.
professionals monitor compliance against policies and procedures.
Supplier approval and certification process.
Food and product safety policies and quality management with operational procedures.
A risk of changes in regulations Regular monitoring of regulatory developments to impacting our business model or ensure that changes are identified.
the viability of Ocado Solutions Some due diligence carried out at appropriate stages deals.
in the Ocado Solutions process.
Risk of negative implications Regular monitoring of government reporting on caused by final Brexit terms such Brexit negotiations to understand impact on the Lack of clarity on any post Brexit as increase in import costs or business including our ability to hire employees from trade arrangements as the exit difficulty in hiring employees.
the EU, an assessment of trade tariffs on imported date approaches increases goods and impact of disharmonisation of UK and EU the risk and uncertainty on the regulatory standards in a range of areas.
extent to which our operations We are taking a range of steps to mitigate the and performance will be impact of Brexit on the Group including for supply of impacted by Brexit.
products and materials and for changes to regulation.
Risk of major cyber attack or data IT systems are structured to operate reliably and securely.
The security of our IT systems is regularly loss impacting the retail business The overall information security tested by third parties.
or the Ocado Solutions business.
risk exposure has increased An information security governance programme during the period largely as a is helping increase security and privacy internal result of an increasing external controls.
threat environment, the new No customer payment card data is held in Ocados General Data Protection databases.
Regulations and the increasing overall profile of the Group.
A new Data Protection Officer was hired to oversee the Groups GDPR compliance programme.
IT systems are structured to operate reliably and securely.
Dedicated engineering teams on site with daily maintenance programmes to support the continued operation of equipment.
Disaster recovery testing and business continuity plans continue to be progressed and updated.
High level of protection for CFCs and equipment, combined with business interruption insurance to transfer residual risks.
The risk described in the 2017 Annual Report as Failure to develop retail proposition to appeal to broader customer base and sustain growth rates has been expanded to reflect the end of the current Waitrose sourcing agreement in 2020.
The risk described in the 2017 Annual Report as Risk of not signing multiple Ocado Solutions deals in the medium term is no longer considered a principal risk.
Since November 2017 Ocado has signed partnership agreements with four major international grocers.
The risk described in the 2017 Annual Report as Risk of not being able to executive effectively has been revised to reflect a failure to deliver key projects effectively and efficiently that could result in significantly increased costs and impede Ocados ability to execute strategic plans.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 48 05-Feb-19 2:10:29 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 49 The Directors rely on several existing processes to justify their viability Assessment of the Groups Prospects assessment.
The annual budget, is used to set targets for the Group The Directors have assessed the Groups prospects, both as a going and is used by the Remuneration Committee to set targets for the concern and its longer term viability.
This assessment informs the annual incentive plan.
A longer term business model provides less following distinct statements: certainty of outcome, but is a sensible planning tool against which 1.
The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern strategic decisions can be made.
The plan makes assumptions about basis of accounting in the preparation of the Companys and the the business including projected capital expenditure, financing Groups financial statements.
requirements, Ocado Solutions contractual commitments, available finance and compliance with any financial covenants.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its To assist the Directors assessment, the financial projections in the longer liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
term business model were subject to severe but plausible stress tests whereby certain key assumptions were adjusted downwards, notably: Both assessments are closely linked to the Directors assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten 1.
A material decline in the rate of revenue growth: its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, which is 2.
A material decline in gross margins or increase in operating cost: outlined on pages 46 and 47.
A material increase in engineering costs for future CFCs both on its Going Concern Statement own and in combination with the previous stress test : Accounting standards require that the Directors satisfy themselves that it is reasonable for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare A decline in sales growth or margins can result from a range of principal financial statements on a going concern basis.
There has been no material risks in the retail business including failure to maintain a competitive uncertainty identified which would cast significant doubt upon the Groups pricing position, a decline in customer service levels and a delay in ability to continue using the going concern basis of accounting for the 12 implementing new capacity see pages 46 to 48.
A change to future months following the approval of this Annual Report.
engineering costs is a potential consequence of other principal risks such as not having sufficient technology and engineering resources to In assessing going concern, the Directors take into account the Groups continue improving our OSP solution or not delivering the expected cash flows, solvency and liquidity positions and borrowing facilities.
At reductions to its long term cost of ownership.
The Directors consider period end, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of 410.8 million it reasonable to believe that the Groups 100 million revolving credit A 2017: 150.0 million, external gross debt of 286.1 excluding finance facility, which runs until mid 2022, and senior secured notes due 2024, leases payable to MHE JVCo of 74.5 million 2017: 283.9 million and net will be refinanced or extended, or that other financing will be available, current assets of 247.0 million 2017: 10.3 million.
The Group has a mix to provide continuing finance to the Group.
The Directors assessment of short and medium-term finance arrangements and has 250.0 million also took into account other principal risks that could impact on the senior secured notes due 2024 and a 100.0 million revolving credit facility future performance of the Group and those that would threaten its which contains typical financial covenants and runs until June 2022.
The business model, solvency or liquidity and also the likely effectiveness Group forecasts its liquidity requirements, working capital position and the of any proposed mitigating actions see pages 46 to 48.
The Directors maintenance of sufficient headroom against the financial covenants in its considered the potential impact of Brexit on the Companys viability: borrowing facilities see below.
The forecasts involve the Directors making in their judgment the risk of its EEA employees losing their UK A judgements about future revenue, EBITDA and capital expenditure and employment rights was small even in the event of a no-deal Brexit, the cost of future financing.
The financial position of the Group, including and that other potential impacts such as imposition of trade tariffs or information on cash flow, can be found in Our Financials on pages 142 to disruption to supply chains would be covered by the circumstances 223.
In determining whether there are material uncertainties, the Directors envisaged under scenarios one and two above.
consider the Groups business activities, together with factors that are likely to affect its future development and position see pages 14 to 43, the The stress tests were evaluated for various outcomes including the A Groups principal risks and the likely effectiveness of any mitigating actions impact on the Groups net cash debt and cash flow over the three and controls available to the Directors see pages 46 and 47. years and an assessment of the impact of the financial covenants in the revolving credit facility, all of which are relevant to assessing the Viability Statement solvency and liquidity of the Group.
In addition to the going concern assessment, the Directors have The above considerations form the basis of the Boards reasonable considered the viability of the business.
expectations that the Group will be able to continue in operation and The Directors have decided that three years was the most appropriate meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period from period for assessing the Groups viability.
Although the Groups strategic approval of this Annual Report.
plan forecasts beyond three years, the Directors also took into account For information concerning the review of going concern and viability the impact on forecast outcomes of the rapid growth of the business, see the Audit Committee report on page 79.
The external auditors its changing strategic opportunities and its investment and planning have reviewed these statements and having nothing to report see the periods.
The Groups expansion into overseas markets during 2018 has Independent Auditors report on pages 142 to 148. not changed the chosen viability period as the underlying nature of the overseas business is similar to the existing UK business in terms of the planning and investment timeframes including for new customer fulfilment centres.
A See Alternative Performance Measures on pages 229 and 230 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
indd 49 05-Feb-19 2:10:29 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 50 Corporate Responsibility In 2018, excellent progress was made towards all four pillars of our 2020 Corporate Responsibility strategy: The Ocado Way.
Amid a year of increased public interest in the widespread use of plastic, we worked hard to make commitments and implement changes with positive, long-term environmental effects.
We signed up to Courtauld 2025, and the UK Plastics Pact, committing to collaboratively reduce waste from food and plastic.
We also signed up to Better Retail, Better World, joining other retailers in a commitment to tackle five applicable Sustainable Development Goals.
We won the following awards for our food redistribution projects Global Good Awards 2018: Partnership in the Community Gold: LGC Awards 2018: Public Private Partnership Winner: IRRV Awards 2018: Excellence in Innovation: City A. M. Business of the Year 2018.
Highlights for each of our corporate responsibility strategy pillars are featured below.
The Ocado Way: 2020 Strategy Education Entrepreneurship Environment Eating Well Education Engineering Education For the second year, we signed up to the Engineering Education By sharing our expertise in food, retail, logistics and technology, we aim Scheme, partnering with Monks Walk School in Welwyn Garden City, to add value to our society now, and help the next generation achieve Hertfordshire.
Our Logistics Development and Engineering team more.
In 2018, we continued to promote digital literacy, road safety, mentored six A Level students, providing them with a special Ocado healthy eating, and recycling.
Building on our existing relationship challenge to solve.
Further, to celebrate the Year of Engineering, we with HMP Northumberland recycling Ocado uniforms, we supported partnered with the Engineering Development Trust EDT to create an education project to upskill offenders and enable them to earn a a Go4SET hub, engaging students from local schools in a real-world formal qualification.
Students aged 1214 from five schools in Digital literacy Staffordshire and Hertfordshire designed an environmentally friendly At Ocado, we passionately believe in the paramount importance factory using new and sustainable ways to create the energy it needs of hands-on STEM education for inspiring the next generation of to run.
Code for Life, a non-profit initiative that delivers Road safety free, open source games that help all students learn about computing, We continue to deliver road safety projects for primary and secondary has been widely acclaimed by teachers, parents and students alike.
New for 2018 is our Road Safety Challenge tournament In 2018, we continued to develop Rapid Router, our open source in partnership with Warwickshire County Council.
This five-year software and guidance resource, teaching Key Stage 1 and 2 children commitment gives 80 schools the chance to win an Ocado Road Safety how to code.
At the end of November 2018, there were over 99,000 Trophy, along with a 500 prize for schools to spend on road safety registered users in the UK and over 160,000 globally: more than equipment or initiatives.
This project potentially reached 14,900 primary 3,000 schools have incorporated Rapid Router into their computing and secondary children in the area.
In autumn 2018, we published a second special edition of The Young Building on the success of Rapid Router, in 2018 we soft launched Drivers Guide in partnership with First Car.
This magazine helps AI:MMO, a Massively Multiplayer Online MMO adventure game that reduce road risks for new drivers: 78,600 copies were delivered to 242 teaches secondary school children aged between 13 and 16 skills in schools in Warwickshire, Hertfordshire, Wiltshire and Hampshire.
These Artificial Intelligence and Python coding.
We plan to fully launch this counties are CFC locations where we have a high presence on the game next year.
indd 50 05-Feb-19 2:10:30 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 51 As in previous years, the fuel for our fleet remains the largest contributor Recycling to our carbon footprint, accounting for 69.53% of our carbon emissions.
Our five-year partnership with WRAP promotes recycling education Diesel used for fleet operations continues to be our primary carbon projects for primary schoolchildren.
This year we donated 130,000 source.
Electricity scope 2 is the second main contributor, making using carrier bag funds to continue this work.
up 22.28% of our emissions, with most of this centralised in our main HMP Northumberland textiles factory has processed over 70 tonnes of CFCs.
This year we purchased a significant number of renewable energy used Ocado uniforms since our working partnership began in 2015. contracts.
This is the second year we have reported a market-based figure alongside the traditional location-based method.
Entrepreneurship For the second year, we voluntarily submitted data to be assessed by We provide an environment where entrepreneurs in retail, technology the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Last year we won their Best First Time and food redistribution can flourish.
In 2018 we continued to find Responder award with a score of C. Were extremely pleased to report opportunities to encourage and reward entrepreneurial thinking.
that we have built on last years success with an improved score of B.
Supporting SMEs For the second year running we partnered with the Carbon Trust who Supply Ocado, our supplier application website makes our retail listing have carried out a limited assurance engagement on selected GHG process more accessible for Small to Medium-sized Enterprises SMEs.
emissions data table below in accordance with ISO14064:3.
In FY 2018, 748 applications were made through our portal, and 20% of GHG Emissions suppliers met with our Buyers.
tonnes CO e 2017 18 2016 17 2012 13 2 The Ocado Primary Network is a team dedicated to improving logistics Scope 1 Direct 87,614 82,305 39,530 for small suppliers at launch, and to help them grow.
Currently, 389 Scope 2 Indirect Location-based 25,115 28,270 21,613 SMEs are managed by a dedicated full-time Ocado team, growing from Market-based 8,856 14,510 n a 150 in 2017.
Total Emissions Britains Next Top Supplier, our competition awarding a small supplier Location-based 112,729 110,575 61,143 a 20,000 launch package and a six-month listing at ocado.
com is now Intensity measure tonnes CO e 100,000 orders 2 in its fourth year.
This year, 87 businesses qualified for the competition: Location-based 550.1 596.4 823.4 of seven finalists, 2018 winner Sweet Revolution launched on our Market-based 470.8 522.2 n a webshop with a range of six products.
Plastic Environment Single-use plastic is something weve been reviewing for some time.
Its increasingly a topic of interest for our customers, too.
In April, we We continue to work on environmental data management with contributed 20,000 to become a founding signatory of the UK Plastics Ecometrica to provide a centralised data management system.
This industry-leading initiative is backed by WRAP and the UK track carbon emissions from our CFCs, spokes and vehicles.
We are Government: it tackles the issue of plastic as pollution, striving to create expanding this to track all operational waste.
a circular economy for the material, preventing it from being wasted.
By the end of 2018, we had successfully changed the main component Being involved in this competition has been an packaging such as the trays used for fish on 45% of Ocado ownamazing experience for us.
Its enabled us to label products: we switched to widely recycled material and removed access a major retailer for the first time and also problematic PVC and polystyrene on these items.
provided the means of promoting our products We continue to explore alternatives to plastic carrier bags for deliveries, onsite, which we would have found very difficult but as yet have not found a more energy efficient or effective solution for otherwise.
Everyone at Ocado has been very moving products through our automated CFCs.
We continue to collect approachable and helpful, and well definitely be carrier bags from customers for recycling.
The scheme is very successful recommending it to other small companies.
and this year 89% of carrier bags were handed back for recycling.
Read Jane Nicholls more about carrier bags and the proceeds from the Single Use Carrier Sweet Revolution Bag Charge in our Ocado Foundation section below.
Greenhouse gas emissions This reporting period saw our absolute location based emissions scope 1 & 2 increase by approximately 1.95%, due to our continued growth.
Despite this, we have improved efficiency with a 33% decrease in our CO intensity-based figure against our 2012 baseline year.
2 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
