Corporate social responsibility We have a clear vision which lies at the heart of all that we do: To be Europes leading retailer of beach holidays.
Our purpose is to make it easy for people to find, book and enjoy their perfect beach holiday.
Remaining focused on our goal, and working hand in hand to Our people and culture get there, are critical to us achieving our aims.
A clearly defined Our people are the driving force behind On the Beachs set of company values that run through the business and act as success, so attracting, retaining and engaging colleagues a guide, a thriving culture, and of course our people, are central that share our values is really important.
We are therefore to our success.
committed to making On the Beach a great place to work DELIVERING A GREAT INNO V A TION and ensuring that colleagues feel valued and happy in their CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE These five values run as a central seam through everything that careers.
Our company culture, working environment and we do: from the people that we recruit, to the time we devote colleague engagement all play a pivotal role in this.
to research and development in support of innovation, and from our emphasis on collaboration to our policies.
Embedding these Company culture values at every level of the business ensures that we remain In 2018 we undertook a piece of work to give us aligned and focused.
These values also provide the pillars on comprehensive insight into our company culture and its which our company culture is built and thrives.
This will allow us to define what a successful culture for the business looks like and establish a cultural framework to embed this in the business.
The first SIMPLICITY RESPE CT Our Values stage of this project has involved consulting with colleagues to understand what makes up the On the Beach DNA, how this impacts on our stakeholders, and identify how we continue to ensure that this thrives.
This project will continue in the coming year as we implement a cultural framework that drives success.
Working environment DELIVERING A GREAT CINNO OMMUNICA V A TION TION We are committed to providing a working environment that CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE We help each other by supports and reflects our values, and in which our employees talking and collaborating.
Well get Our mission is to make it easy for can flourish.
In November 2018, On the Beach opened a there faster and itll be more fun!
people t DELIVERING A DELIVERING A o find, book and enjo GREA GREA y their TT INNO INNOV VA ATION TION new, campus style digital headquarters at the Aeroworks CUST CUST perf O O ect beach holida MER EXPERIENCE MER EXPERIENCE y. building in Manchesters city centre, which has become home to the business digital teams.
This provides us with the opportunity to create a best in class office space and working environment that will allow us to attract and retain the very best digital talent in the region and beyond.
SIMPLICITY RESPE CT The plans for the office opening and relocation of our digital teams involved an extensive employee engagement initiative, SIMPLICITY SIMPLICITY RESPE RESPE CT CT which included one-to-one interviews, workshops and online Working together, we quickly identify We appreciate and understand each others surveys.
As a result, the new space and its state-of-the-art the simplest solution for every styles, experiences and approaches, by facilities have been designed specifically for our employees challenge by being smart and can-do.
being down to earth and empathetic.
By and provide a working environment that allows us to become bringing people on your journey, ideas can more collaborative, increasing our ability to innovate.
blossom and people can thrive.
C OMMUNICA TION This office opening provides the space needed for the company to expand its digital teams from its current numbers of 200 to more than 350 in the next three to five years C OMMUNICA TION C OMMUNICA TION bringing the total workforce to more than 500 employees by 2023.
The Contact Centre will remain at the Groups Cheadle office, DELIVERING A GREAT INNO V A TION which will also undergo a major redesign and refit in January CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 2019, again creating a working environment which engages We are creative and aspire to do and enables employees.
We deliver change with speed and learn quickly.
34 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SIMPLICITY RESPE CT C OMMUNICA TION S STR TRA ATE TEGIC REP GIC REPOR ORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S On the Beach new digital headquarters The new office at Manchesters Aeroworks building is designed with our employees, our values and our company culture in mind.
Features such as an auditorium and theatre, as well as plenty of collaborative workspace will allow teams to work together, share information and innovate more easily.
State-of-the-art communication and collaboration technology has been installed throughout the entire space and social areas, including a relaxation space, bar and a games room also provide the facilities to create a fun and engaging working environment that allows us to compete with the Northwests leading digital businesses to attract and retain the very best talent.
ON ON THE BEA THE BEACH GR CH GROUP OUP PL PLC C | | ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T & & A AC CC COUNT OUNTS 2018 S 2018 35 35 On the Beach new digital headquarters 36 36 ON ON THE BEA THE BEACH GR CH GROUP OUP PL PLC C | | ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T & & A AC CC COUNT OUNTS 2018 S 2018 S STR TRA ATE TEGIC REP GIC REPOR ORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ON ON THE BEA THE BEACH GR CH GROUP OUP PL PLC C | | ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T & & A AC CC COUNT OUNTS 2018 S 2018 37 37 Corporate social responsibility Colleague communication Engagement With communication one of our core values, maintaining a Engaged employees are essential to achieving our aims and two-way dialogue with employees is essential.
To support realising our mission of becoming Europes leading online this, a range of communication channels and tools are in place retailer of beach holidays.
which not only keep employees informed of key business news, updates and developments, but also allow them to share their A number of initiatives are in place to support this: thoughts, ideas and feedback, helping to make sure that their Hive, our employee survey tool was introduced in 2017 and voices are heard and, importantly, listened to.
twice yearly surveys have been carried out since then to gauge employee satisfaction and engagement.
In May A quarterly company magazine, Beach Life, which is created by 2018s survey, completion rates increased by 15% and colleagues for colleagues, shares the latest news and updates satisfaction scores increased by 9% on that of November from around the business and its brands, as well as colleague 2017. insight to help bring us closer together.
It also celebrates our An Employee Engagement committee, comprising teams and business triumphs to help maintain our drive for spokespeople from every department, meets quarterly to success.
Business updates are held on a quarterly basis and provide feedback to senior management on satisfaction and bring all employees together to hear from our Executive and engagement within teams and look at ways in which this senior leadership teams on the latest company performance can be constantly improved.
Social events take place regularly within the business to help foster On the Beachs friendly and open culture, as well A central communications email has been introduced, from as encourage collaboration through forging stronger which regular email updates are shared with colleagues to relationships between colleagues.
These include the annual provide timely business insight feedback to these emails is Christmas party, as well as a summer picnic and BBQ, along always encouraged and responded to.
Employees length of service is rewarded and celebrated, Face to face Ask the CEO sessions take place frequently on with colleagues receiving Long Service Awards for their five a departmental basis and provide teams with the opportunity and ten year anniversaries with the business.
to ask any questions they have regarding the business directly Hive Fives are a feature of our Hive employee survey tool, to our CEO, providing an excellent opportunity for feedback and allow employees to give a colleague a virtual Hive and two-way communication.
An Ask the CEO email address Five in celebration of a job well done.
They are serving as supports these sessions, and allows people to email the CEO an excellent way for colleagues to share feedback whilst directly with questions or suggestions for the business and also motivating and celebrating employees.
An Ideas@ inbox is also in place to We have trialled wellbeing activities in the office, including encourage creative thinking and foster a culture of innovation free exercise and yoga classes to provide employees with across the business.
an opportunity to focus on their own health and wellbeing, which is something which we intend to continue.
As we approached the opening of the Manchester office, a number of communications activities were introduced to inform Community and fundraising colleagues, seek their input and feedback and engage them Making a meaningful contribution to the community is ahead of the move.
This includes the creation of a working something which we are passionate about - whether thats group of  representatives, the launch supporting charity activities or giving local school children of a microsite housing video content, articles, a calendar for opportunities to explore technology and learn new skills.
key dates and Trello board to provide an open insight into the planning process and its progression.
Regular townhall-style This year we have been involved in a number of community meetings have also been introduced as well as Q&A sessions initiatives: with the working group.
Surveys have been carried out on We provide work experience opportunities on a regular everything from office facilities to transport and travel to make basis and this year hosted seven students on week-long sure that employee input is sought and considered.
As a part of the Manchester Digital group, we supported Tameside Hack a week-long hack event for children in secondary school for which we provided mentors from our Development team.
We attended the 2018 Manchester Digital Skills Festival where we talked to students about our graduate development opportunities.
A number of our Development team are STEM Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics Ambassadors, meaning they provide support and mentoring to children aged 5 18.
Each year we run our Ruby Academy a training scheme for developers in using Ruby code and this year we welcomed six onto the training scheme.
38 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate social responsibility With the opening of digital headquarters in Manchester, Gender pay gap we plan to host a range of events to engage the citys In March 2018 On the Beach published its first Gender Pay Gap growing technology and digital communities, including Report, looking at the difference in average pay between all lightning talks, knowledge shares and showcases and an men and women in the companys workforce as at April 2017.
Events coordinator role is being introduced to oversee this.
The report found, on average, hourly pay for a woman to be Our charity committee brings together employees to look at 26.7% less than a man.
how we can support a range of causes.
The committee is responsible for engaging people around the business to This is due to the high proportion of men in technology and galvanise support for worthy causes and this year we have digital roles and the ratio of men to women in senior roles.
As a supported a number of charities, including Children in Need, result, the highest paid people in the organisation are made up Manchester Childrens Hospital, Cancer Research and more of men than women.
Whilst the pay gap at On the Beach is typical of tech Diversity and inclusion businesses - and is considerably smaller than that of most The benefits of a diverse and inclusive leadership and workforce businesses in the travel industry - it is by no means something are clear, with the widest range of perspectives leading to which we are complacent about.
We are committed to increased creativity, innovation, debate, understanding and reducing the gender pay gap, as well as encouraging diversity ultimately better decision making.
throughout the business beyond gender and in its widest form.
Our company values are respect, innovation, simplicity, customer experience and communication.
Diversity and In response to this, an internal project has been established inclusion have to be at the very heart of our culture and fully to focus on helping the business create an environment that embedded in the business if we are to live up to our values and supports the development and recruitment of women into its achieve our strategy.
most senior and technology roles.
Engaging a cross-section of women from around the business, the outputs of this As diversity and inclusion are so critical to the long-term project will include the introduction of mentoring schemes success of the company, this has been an area of particular and coaching, educational activities such as unconscious bias focus during 2018, and has been central to a number of workshops, and a review of our HR policies and our equality & initiatives during the year, including Board appointments, diversity policy.
senior management appointments and succession planning, stakeholder engagement both employee and shareholder, our Employment of Disabled Persons people strategy, and our review of our corporate culture.
The Groups policies and procedures and Company Handbook contain policies in relation to the employment of disabled We know this is an area that our stakeholders are passionate persons which are carefully adhered to.
about, and it will continue to be an area of clear focus with top level commitment.
Selection for employment, promotion, training and development as well as other benefits and awards are made on the basis of merit, aptitude and ability and the Group does not tolerate discrimination in any form, including in relation to disabled candidates.
The benefits of a diverse and inclusive leadership and workforce are clear, with the widest range of perspectives leading to increased creativity, innovation, debate, understanding and ultimately better decision making.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 39 Corporate social responsibility The Group puts in place an Employee Wellbeing Plan EWP In accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Group with any employees who need support with any health has a modern slavery statement which can be found on our conditions, physical or mental.
Each EWP is designed to ensure website www.
the Group is meeting all the needs of the relevant employee, for example risk assessments, and details of all adjustments Environment which need to be made to accommodate the additional needs We understand our responsibility to protect the environment of the relevant employees, e. g. disabled parking space, stepin which we operate and are committed to doing so.
We free access, and specific workstation needs.
Moreover, if any encourage our employees to follow the same ethical code in employees should become disabled during the course of their day to day roles: from only printing documents where their employment there are policies in place to oversee the necessary, to recycling waste appropriately.
continuation of their employment and to arrange training for these employees.
Greenhouse gas emissions Because the Groups business is online only, with no retail Anti-corruption and bribery footprint, the Groups environmental footprint is small, as On the Beach is committed to operating ethically and demonstrated by the relative emissions, by revenue, as set out employees do not actively seek gifts or favours from any of our in the table below.
The Groups footprint has grown this year suppliers, or from other persons or organisations with whom due to the fact that we took occupation of our new office in we associate.
We have top level commitment to anti-bribery April 2018 and we became responsible for paying utilities on and corruption, and ensure all employees behave professionally, the new office at that point.
fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate, and implement and enforce We have calculated our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas effective systems to counter bribery.
emissions in accordance with the mandatory reporting requirements set out in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic We are set up to fully support our employees, should they Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
The need to raise concerns about unethical, criminal or dangerous Groups offices are leasehold and all electricity and gas is activities within the Group, and as such provide a confidential provided through and billed by the landlords.
The Group has whistleblowing telephone line, through an independent and therefore relied on information provided by the landlords.
methodology used to calculate the numbers below used the UK Government GMG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting Modern Slavery Act 2017 2018 as appropriate.
Modern Slavery is a crime which encompasses slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour and human trafficking.
The Group has a zero tolerance approach to any form of modern slavery.
We are committed to acting with integrity and transparency to help eradicate any modern slavery in our business and supply chain.
Greenhouse gas emissions by Scope Unit 2018 2017 2 1 Quantity Quantity Scope 1 Gas consumption Tonnes CO e 88.18 87.69 2 Scope 2 Electricity consumption Tonnes CO e 422.95 424.87 2 Total emissions Tonnes CO e 511.13 512.56 2 Relative emissions, by revenue Tonnes CO e m 5 6.1 2 revenue 1 These figures are based on information from 1 June 2016 to 31 May 2017 so they do not correspond exactly to the FY17 reporting period, but the actual energy consumption during the reporting period was not materially different from the stated period.
2 These figures are based on information from 1 June 2017 to 31 May 2018 so they do not correspond exactly to the FY18 reporting period, but we expect that the actual energy consumption during the reporting period will not be materially different from the stated period.
40 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
