52 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility report Operating sustainably and responsibly isintegral to our business model and strategy.
We take a SPECIALIST approach to everything we do we ensure we understand our stakeholders requirements and use our creativity, skill and expertise to fulfil them with honesty and integrity We take a PERSONAL approach to everything we do we treat everyone with respect and take accountability for our actions We take a FLEXIBLE approach to everything we do we ensure that we work collaboratively with our colleagues, customers and other stakeholders to achieve shared positive outcomes What we achieved in 2018 In 2018, we successfully delivered on a number of initiatives across the business aimed at improving our relationships with key stakeholders and achieving strong results, including: Customers consistently high consumer net promoter score: 63 Employees OSB was certified as one of the 100 Best Companies to Work for by The Sunday Times and OSBIndia as aGreat Place to Work Communities donated over 260,000 to community and charitable causes Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Building on OneSavings Banks long tradition of putting the customer at the heart of everything wedo.
Vulnerable Customer and Suicide Focused on our Awareness Policy to ensure that employees can identify vulnerability customers and potential suicide risks in our customers and put in place appropriate OneSavings Bank encourages a culture actions to deal with such issues as that aims to: effectively as possible Communicate and deal with each Anti-Money Laundering and Counter customer on an individual basis Terrorist Financing Policy to ensure the Act with consistency across all Group is not used to further criminal channels activities Promote a confident, open and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to trustworthy workforce ensure the Group carries out its Offer simplicity and ease of business business honestly Offer long-term value for money, and A Conflicts of Interest Policy to ensure Offer transparent products without the the Group can identify and, if possible, use of short-term bonus rates, and to avoid conflicts, and where this is not offer existing customers the benefit of possible to manage conflicts fairly loyalty rates.
Data Protection and Retention Policies to ensure the Group protects its Our customers are part of our success and customer data, manages and retains we aim to become a financial services itfairly and appropriately provider of choice.
To achieve that, the Whistleblowing Policy to ensure that Group established a governance any employee who raises concerns framework for consistent best practice around misconduct is protected across the Group to ensure there are Arrears, Repossessions and robust policies and procedures to minimise Forbearance Policy to ensure that the risk of failure to deliver the service our handling of arrears and repossessions customers have come to expect from us.
deliver fair and suitable outcomes based on the individual circumstances The relevant policies include: of the customer Conduct Risk Policy, including treating Environmental Policy to conduct our customers fairly to ensure the Group business in an environmentally aware conducts its business fairly and without manner, and causing customer detriment Diversity and Equality Policy to promote Responsible Lending Policy to ensure diversity and equality in our workforce.
that the Group lends money responsibly Complaints Handling Policy to ensure Employees have mandatory training on all the Group responds to complaints the key policies, with a completion rate of swiftly, fairly and consistently 96% in 2018.
54 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility report continued Case study Enhancing customer experience Simon King Bastion Development The new savings platform was a result TeamLead ofmonths of work across various IT andBusiness teams using up to date In the past year, the IT teams at OSB technology, and showed how well we completed a number of major projects, work together.
The new system is a sleek one of which was the launch of a and smooth process that allows streamlined ISA transfer management OneSavings Banks customers to transfer system.
Our core savings platform is their Cash ISA accounts to us via a choice administered and continuously upgraded of routes: in branch, online or by post, by teams at OSB and we are always and a process that once took a couple looking to add innovative solutions ofweeks now completes in a few days.
The improved ISA transfer system is an example of this and its success was shown through the particularly strong ISA season that we had in 2018.
Our commitment to our customers is Award at the 2018 In-house Recruitment Customer engagement evidenced in the strong Net Promoter Awards winning the bronze award.
Score a measure of how likely a customer We take a personal approach to our is to recommend a business on a scale of Our recruitment procedures are fair and customers, treating each customer as an -100 to 100 we achieve across our inclusive, with shortlisting, interviewing individual and listening to their needs.
lending and saving franchises, which in and selection always carried out without Many of our customers are also members 2018 was an outstanding 63.
In addition, regard to gender reassignment, sexual of the Kent Reliance Provident Society, the we won numerous awards for being the orientation, marital or civil partnership Society that took over the management best provider for a range of services from status, colour, race, caste, nationality, ofthe membership of the former Kent cash ISAs to Buy-to-Let mortgages.
ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, Reliance Building Society.
The Bank and age, pregnancy or maternity leave or the Society have benefited from member tradeunion membership.
engagement through the online portal Focused on our launched late in 2015 enabling input from No candidate with a disability is excluded a geographically broader range of employees unless it is clear that the candidate is members.
Topics of engagement have unable to perform a duty that is intrinsic included key areas of customer literature, tothe role, having taken into account working with saving and borrowing The goal of making OSB the best reasonable adjustments.
Reasonable members to help the Bank maximise workplace it can be was central to all adjustments to the recruitment process clarity and understanding, and product employee activities undertaken are made to ensure that no applicant is retention process enhancement.
Our employees are our disadvantaged because of their disability we hold an AGM at which members can key asset.
Their skills, expertise and and questions asked during the process engage with senior management and enthusiasm are fundamental to achieving are not discriminatory or unnecessarily discuss their ideas for improving our our strategic goals, and we continue to intrusive.
This commitment to actively customer experience.
invest in training, development and promote an environment where disabled employee engagement activities.
candidates and employees are welcome was further strengthened in July 2018 Customer complaints In 2017 we established the Talent when the Group achieved Disability Acquisition team to better assist the Confident Employer Level Two status Whilst we concentrate on providing an growing business and to provide bespoke building on our initial success as Disability excellent service, when things have gone support to hiring managers and by the Confident Committed in 2017. wrong, we aim to put them right and learn end of 2018 we had four recruitment from any mistakes made.
Throughout the year, around comprehensive, Group-wide complaints aquarter of new hires came via the Talent handling system and our staff complete Acquisition team saving the business rigorous training programmes to ensure substantial recruitment fees.
The team acompliant and fair process is followed.
was shortlisted for the best Newcomer Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 In 2018, we welcomed 165 new employees Talent management and in the UK and 147 new employees in India leadership programmes Kent Reliance and in August we reached a milestone of 1,000 employees for the Group.
The savings During the year, the Group again InterBay Asset Finance business, which undertook a robust mapping exercise to was launched in 2018 now employs a WINNER identify the 2018 Primary Talent Group, team of nine and operates from a new Savings Account Provider of the Year who were exposed to a programme of office in Fleet.
MoneyAge Awards 2018 talent management activities which aimed to aid their ongoing progression.
Training and development The range of activities were enhanced Best Business Access Account Provider from the previous year based on feedback Savings Champion received and the ever-evolving profile of a Our employees are our key asset, and our business leader.
The programme provided approach to development is focused on COMMENDED a group-based stretch assignment, access encouraging staff to be the best they can Best No Notice Account to a Board level Executive level mentor, be.
Our People Development team provide Moneyfacts Awards 2018 career focused discussions, a psychometric learning and development opportunities profiling exercise and a bespoke workshop for all employees, using a mix of internal delivered via an external Business School.
and externally sourced content, which are The Group considers this initiative as an delivered through a range of media, integral part of retaining and developing including workshop and digital formats.
our emerging talent: either as technical Highlights in 2018 saw the function deliver specialists or as potential leaders of bespoke management development thefuture.
programmes, regulatory training, generic skills-based workshops and business The People Development function also change content to support operational delivered a Management Development and systemic training needs.
In 2018, programme, recognising the significant there were 995 attendees of 160 separate role our managers play in the delivery workshops or learning events delivered by ofoutstanding customer service, staff the People Development Team in the UK engagement and delivery of the Groups and a further 263 OSB attendees at 97 business objectives.
Divided into two other events delivered by external training phases, the first being a detailed and providers.
The completion rate for our robust programme to support newly mandatory regulatory training throughout promoted or appointed line managers, the year was 96%, demonstrating the providing them with the tools needed to importance we continue to place on become effective line managers: with the ensuring our employees are suitably second phase being a development centre, awareof key requirements.
designed to allow experienced managers to participate in a variety of exercises, At OSBIndia OSBI, we strive to make all encouraging the individuals to identify those who join the Group feel welcome their development needs across a range and be given as much training as possible ofmanagement behaviours and skills.
to perform to their best ability.
In 2018, new joiners undertook on average 120 While we are still a relatively small hours of training.
An initiative to improve business in terms of employee numbers, and develop various managerial we advertise vacancies internally on a competencies and skills was also launched weekly basis in order to provide career in the year, with a series of management development opportunities for existing development programmes for all employees.
In 2018, we filled 22% of managers in Bangalore.
The Group is also committed to supporting employees undertaking professional OSB has a genuine desire to retain, support development and in 2018, 16 employees and develop its employee base.
During received financial support to pursue 2018, 44 employees in the UK and 42 professional qualifications.
employees in India were formally promoted to a more senior grade.
Our Since launching our Apprenticeship regretted attrition rate for 2018 was 9% Scheme in late 2017, we have hired six for UK employees and a remarkable 11% apprentices who work in a number of for our employees in India, far exceeding different functions throughout the industry averages.
The scheme runs for two years and we hope it will lead to the start of many successful careers at OSB.
56 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility report continued Remuneration and benefits Employee engagement Employee awards We believe in rewarding our employees In October 2018, UK employees were fairly and transparently, enabling them to invited, for the fourth time, to participate Mortgage Personality of the Year: share in the success of the business.
in the 2019 Sunday Times Best Companies Adrian Moloney Details of the Groups remuneration Employee Engagement survey, which saw Mortgage Strategy Awards 2018 policies can be found in the Remuneration an outstanding 94% of employees submit Report on pages 99 to 105. their responses.
Provider: Underwriter Craig Richardson We offer our employees a comprehensive The results demonstrated an overall The British Specialist Lending range of benefits, and continue to review score increase of 2.1% and for the second Awards2018 these to ensure they are in line with year in a row, OSB achieved the One Star market practice.
Although the list is not Accreditation Rating, signifying very exhaustive, our standard benefits offering good levels of workplace engagement.
Business Leader: Commercial Finance includes pension contributions, permanent The continuous score improvement Lender Darrell Walker health insurance, private medical has seen the Bank included within The The British Specialist Lending insurance, life cover, a holiday purchase Sunday Times 100 Best Companies Awards2018 scheme, interest-free season ticket loan to Work For list for the first time and and a cycle purchase scheme.
In 2018, we the improved results related primarily conducted a benchmarking exercise to to proactive local engagement plans Business Leader: Complex Buy-to-Let ensure that core benefits remained being created within all departments Lender Adrian Moloney aligned with market practice.
As a result, and the broader identification and The British Specialist Lending we increased standard annual leave implementation of initiatives by the Awards2018 allocations and discretionary bonus Engagement Steering Group.
opportunities for all employees, up to our management.
In addition, we launched In addition, both UK and India employees Total Rewards Statements and a pension took part, for the second time, in the salary sacrifice scheme, with 53% of Banking Standards Board survey, which pension scheme members transitioning aims to influence positive change during the year.
A significant number of throughout the banking sector with a OSB employees also participate in the participation rate of 81%.
The survey Pennies from Heaven scheme, donating provided an insight into employees the small change from their monthly perceptions of the application of their salary directly to the Banks charity.
companys values, potential barriers to challenge and to speak up along with their We also encourage our employees to hold observations of unethical or inappropriate shares in the Bank for the long term, via an behaviour.
The results from this survey annual Sharesave Scheme.
The scheme is showed an increase in all categories open to all UK-based employees and leading to OSB being ranked on average th allows them to save a fixed amount of 13 out of 25 participating banks.
between 5 and 500 per month over either three or five years in order to use OSBI takes part in its own survey, run by these savings at the end of the qualifying theGreat Place to Work Institute.
In 2018, period to buy the Companys shares at a OSBI was officially certified as a Great place fixed option price.
The Group first launched to work, with a strong performance in all its annual Sharesave Scheme in June 2014 indicators, including organisation trust, and over 50% of employees are members credibility of management, respect for of one of the schemes.
people, fairness at the workplace, camaraderie and culture.
OSBIs overall In 2018, 77 employees saw their 2015 Trust index score improved significantly to Sharesave Scheme mature, with the total 75, up from 66 in 2016 2017, and it received value of their respective individual plans the highest score in Pride, reflecting the increasing by over 80%.
strong brand and culture that has been created.
90% of our India colleagues participated in this years survey.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 In 2018, OSB partnered with specialist Health and safety external consultants to design and launch Kent Reliance for the Groups Mission, Vision and Values.
We have a duty of care to all of our Through engaging employees and the employees, and a safe and healthy work Intermediaries executive team in discussion groups environment is paramount at OneSavings and interviews, the Group defined its Bank.
We are committed to fostering and WINNER mission, vision and the underpinning maintaining a working environment in Best Specialist Lender four core values.
These were then which our employees can flourish, and our Best Business Development launched to all employees via a number customers can safely transact with us.
ManagersTeam of all-day interactive sessions, hosted by the Executive Committee, the first Best Buy-to-Let Lender We operate a Group Health and Safety event on this scale ever launched by Mortgage Strategy Awards 2018 Policy and we review our employee and OSB.
The events were followed by a customer environment regularly.
range of related actions that have Best Specialist Mortgage Provider assisted in embedding the new values In 2018, the annual mandatory health and Moneyfacts Awards 2018 and proactively driving positive cultural safety training was completed by all Group change throughout the business.
This year, we also turned the Best Specialist Lender display screen equipment assessment into MoneyAge Awards 2018 a process that is more straightforward for Employee recognition our employees, more cost effective and a andawards single Group-wide procedure.
Finally, we undertook a full review of all of the Groups In 2018, the significant tenure of 55 real estate in partnership with external employees who reached a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 consultants.
The review demonstrated or 30 year milestone for employment with that all sites are compliant with statutory the Group were recognised through our health and safety regulations and Long Service Award programme.
There provided us with additional best practice were three employees who reached 30 improvements and recommendations years service with the Group and our which will be implemented in the future.
longest-serving employee has over 31 years service to date.
Every quarter, employees are invited to nominate their colleagues as part of OSBs employee recognition scheme, which has now been aligned with our four values.
Throughout 2018 there were 431 nominations made via the scheme from which 13 individual awards were presented.
The expertise of our employees was also recognised by the mortgage industry and in 2018 Adrian Moloney, Darrell Walker and Craig Richardson were recognised by The British Specialist Lending Awards in the categories of Complex Buy-to-Let, Commercial Finance Lender and Underwriter, respectively.
58 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility report continued OSB publishes its gender pay gap data in OSBs Womens Networking Forum Diversity and inclusion line with legislation that applies to all UK hada very successful year.
This group, companies with more than 250 which is focused on helping to identify At OSB, we recognise the benefits that employees.
The full publication is available and break down the barriers that diversity of our people brings to the on the Groups website: www.
prevent women from progressing business and we actively promote and within financial services, provided encourage a culture and environment OSBs median gender pay gap as at the regular opportunity throughout the which values and celebrates our snapshot date of 5 April 2018 was 44%, year for relevant discussions, guest differences.
In 2018, we continued our with the mean gap of 45.5%, these figures speakers, development tips and journey to become a truly diverse and reducing from the 2017 reported figures encouragement regarding career inclusive organisation, which is committed of 46% and 47%, respectively.
to providing equal opportunities through signifies progression, reducing the gap the recruitment, training and development further remains a long-term commitment In 2018, over 58% of our UK workforce of our employees.
for OSB and it will not be until the 2019 wasfemale, we had three female data is collated that we can establish the Directors 38% of the Board and two Some of our achievements included: degree to which the specific activities that female members of the Executive Mental Health Awareness sessions were were identified and implemented in 2018 Committee 20%.
introduced and are available to all have helped to close our gap.
employees to help understand how In our office in India, women constitute stress symptoms, if left unaddressed, Fundamentally, OSBs gap relates to the 41% of the total workforce.
can develop into mental health structure of our workforce and reflects the problems.
Male Female fact that we have more men than women Attaining Disability Confident Employer in senior roles and more female employees Number of Board Level Two status with further undertaking clerical roles.
Whilst progress Directors 5 3 commitment from the Group to attract, has been made in 2018 to positively employ, support and retain those with Number of Directors of impact both aspects of our workforce disabilities.
As a holder of this subsidiaries 16 1 structure, we remain confident that our accreditation, OSB is able to evidence gap will continue to close and the level Number of senior that we get the right people for the ofattention that we pay to the salaries of managers not business despite their considered male and female incumbents undertaking Directors 45 23 barriers to employment due to the same role provides us with comfort disability, that we are retaining and 1 All other employees 462 525 that we do not have an issue in respect developing our employees who have ofthe equal pay.
individual needs related to disability 1.
and that we are ensuring that disabled We recognise that we need to focus on people, and those with long-term We have 10% of our UK employees working improving our gender balance and have health conditions, have the under flexible working arrangements, with anumber of initiatives in place to do so: opportunities to fulfil their potential the majority of these employees working In 2018, we embedded the mandatory and realise their aspirations within part-time hours and we will be seeking to recruitment requirement to ensure that the Group.
further develop this by revising our Flexible we interviewed at least one credible Working Policy to provide increased support female candidate for senior roles and to those employees with parental and at least one credible male candidate for .
Our senior external recruitment activity in 2018 saw us hire an equal split in terms of gender and at more junior grades 40% Each office location with over 100 of the vacancies were filled with male employees now has a private employee candidates.
We firmly believe that our room, which can be used both as a approach to seeking to interview prayer room and a private space for credible male and female candidates is breastfeeding mothers.
making a tangible difference and over We partnered with ShawTrust, a charity the long-term will positively impact our that specialises in helping people with gender pay gap.
One of We made solid progress towards our the outcomes of this partnership was a commitment as a signatory of HM focus group with those with disabilities Treasurys Women in Finance Charter.
where we asked for advice on how to By the end of 2018, we had 28% of all better attract and support talented senior roles being undertaken by people who may need additional help female employees, a solid progression at work.
The valuable insight from this towards our target of at least 30% of partnership is being implemented by senior roles occupied by women OSB to ensure the Group becomes a by2020.
truly welcoming employer for those with disabilities.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 As part of the Group, OSBI falls under the Human rights same Group policies that are in force in the UK offices, most importantly, equal We want each member of our workforce opportunities, non-discrimination and and other stakeholders to be treated harassment, whistleblowing, information with dignity and respect.
OSB endorses security and clear desk policies.
There are the UN Declaration of Human Rights and only very slight differences in the Groups supports the UN Guiding Principles of main HR policies due to local legislation.
The Group adheres to the International Labour OSBI is a holder of ISO 27001: 2018 Organisation Fundamental Conventions.
certified which demonstrates high We seek to engage with stakeholders standards of information security.
To with fairness, dignity and respect.
The that end, the business continuity site in Company does not tolerate child labour Hyderabad, which was opened in 2017, or forced labour.
OSB respects freedom of became fully operational this year.
OSBI association and the rights of employees to prides itself on excellence in customer be represented by trade unions or works service and the ISO 9001: 2018 certified councils.
The Group is a fair employer is a testament to meeting customer and and does not discriminate on the basis of regulatory requirements by providing gender, religion, age, caste, disability or outstanding customer service.
Our policy applies throughout OSBI undertook a benchmarking exercise the Group and is communicated to our against industry peers and was noted as employees during induction training.
Class Leading in Customer Service by an independent consultant.
The Groups second annual statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 was In compliance with the Modern Slavery published on our website in June 2018.
We Act, we do not support excessive reviewed relevant policies and we worked overtime and our employees in India with an external supplier to increase the are encouraged to work in accordance monitoring of risks in our supply chain.
Employees in our None of our suppliers are considered to Bangalore office enjoy a range of benefits be of higher risk.
In addition, 100% of our which include 22 days of annual leave, suppliers received our new Vendor Code 12days sick leave and cafeteria services.
of Conduct informing them of our commitment to acting in an ethical and honest way.
This year, all employees completed a more detailed module which built on last years modern slavery learning, helping to increase awareness and understanding.
OSBIndia OSBIndia is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group.
OSBI operates from an office in Bangalore and currently employs 440 staff of which 41% are women.
OSBI supports the Bank across various functions including Support Services, Operations, IT, Finance and Human Resources.
We actively promote integration between our colleagues in the UK and India with frequent employee exchanges, transfers, overseas training, staff and management visits.
60 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility report continued Focused on the Greenhouse gas emissions 2018 environment LocationMarketbased based method method 2018 was yet another year when the Emission type Units 2018 2018 Group took on initiatives, or advanced existing ones, to achieve its goal of Scope 1: Combustion tCO e 76 N A 2 becoming a greener organisation.
Scope 1: Facility operation tCO e 5 N A 2 Total scope 1 tCO e 81 0 2 As an office-based financial services provider, we have a relatively low Scope 2: Purchased energy tCO e 951 0 2 impact on the environment due to Scope 2: Purchased energy MWh 2,180 1,025 many improvements to the Groups Total scope 2 tCO e 951 0 2 real estate introduced over the years.
The Group sources all of its energy from Scope 3: Combustion tCO e N A N A 2 green energy providers and we monitor Scope 3: Facility operation tCO e N A N A 2 and control the electricity and gas Total scope 3 tCO e N A N A 2 consumption to avoid unnecessary waste.
Total emissions tCO e 1,032 0 2 In addition to these improvements, we have policies in place that allow us to 1.
Location-based figure used where market-based not available.
minimise our negative impact on the environment in which we operate.
Our Zero to Landfill waste policy means Emissions breakdown by source tCO e Emissions breakdown by category tCO e 2 2 that all of our waste is either recycled, reused or sent to a dedicated Energy Electricity 951 Purchased energy 81 from Waste facility.
We also consider the Natural gas 70 Combustion 951 Diesel 6 environmental impact on supply chain Operation F-Gas 5 when buying from suppliers and our 0 of facility procurement policy actively incorporates these aspects when appointing new partners.
Finally, secure print solutions were introduced in all offices which significantly lowered paper consumption.
The Group is also committed to promoting Mandatory greenhouse gas report control over are included unless awareness of environmental issues Reporting scope otherwise stated in the exclusions amongst our employees.
The OSB The reporting period is 1 01 18 to statement, as required under The Magazine frequently includes recycling tips 31 12 18, which was selected because Companies Act 2006 Strategic and and monthly green challenges which see it is the companys financial year.
Directors Reports Regulations 2013. positive uptake by the business.
This year, This report was compiled in line with The intensity measurement of turnover we focused on reducing single use plastic the September 2009 DEFRA Guidance was selected in order to compare consumption and installed recycling on how to measure and report your emissions with company growth and stations across all sites.
greenhouse gas emissions which is for consistency, with similarly reporting based on the GHG Protocol.
businesses for review of the market All measured emissions from activities position.
which the organisation has financial Emissions factors used: Fuel type Emissions conversion factor source UK electricitylocation based excluding Department for Business, Energy and transmission and distribution, UK gas, Industrial Strategy 2018 diesel, R410A, R32 and R22 F-gas UK electricitymarket based SSE Green100% renewable energy factsheet, opusenergy.
co. uk help-and-advice standard-fuel-mix Overseas electricity http: www.
uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Statement of exclusions Estimation methods used Scope 1 exclusions Usage per day apportionment total All company owned transport was usage for period divided by days in excluded due to unavailability of data.
period multiplied by missing days.
OSB is putting processes in place to Comparable site client has advised collate this for next years report.
ofa site of a similar size and operation which should have a comparable level Scope 2 exclusions of consumption.
Scope 2 purchased electricity does Floor area apportioned total usage for notinclude the transmission and the year for whole floor area the meter distribution element as this is owned serves divided by 100% multiplied by bythe supplier.
floor area the client occupies.
Three sites have electricity use that Run time standby fuel consumption isexcluded as it is part of the service from the generator specification sheets charge from the landlord and OSB have multiplied by run time.
no visibility of consumption or an apportionment of the buildings consumption.
These are Fleet, InterBayand London, Heritable.
The gas consumption for Prestige Finance was excluded as the meters were removed.
The meters are still recorded as they are in the process of being closed down and final billed by the supplier.
Scope 3 exclusions No scope 3 emissions were included as they are voluntary.
Year on year emissions changes There are a total of three new sites in this years report.
Fleet is excluded as a landlord site and so has no impact on consumption.
The other new sites are Newman Street and Canterbury 1213 High St.
The Maidstone branch moved location in November 2017, the old site code 04189-10-05 is vacant and so has very low consumption.
F-gas recharges was much lower than last year.
Natural gas emissions are lower than last year as the two meters at Prestige Finance were removed.
62 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility report continued Our mission To enable our customers to achieve their personal and business goals by providing access to fair financial solutions.
Our Our vision To become our customers favourite bank: one that delivers its very best, challenges convention and opens doors that others cant.
new Our values Our values will guide us to the success were all striving towards values for ourselves and our customers.
Our renewed Stronger together Take ownership company mission We are OneTeam, working together to Each one of us bears responsibility for and values help create a business in which we can all take what we do, and for our share of the pride and prosper.
We work hard to build mission this Company sets itself every day.
us overcome the trust, respect and openness across the We help each other, show respect for each Company, pool our talents and energy other and listen to what others have to challenges we when we need to, and pull together to say.
And if theres a question to be asked challenge and surpass our competitors.
or challenge to be faced, we dont look away.
face and allow us to capitalise on Aim high Create your future the opportunities.
We need to set our bar high for our Our bank is about making opportunities customers, be bold in our decision-making and taking opportunities.
Its a place and dynamic in our actions on their behalf.
where each one of us can take control of They are the ones who know when were our future where we can all fulfil our going above and beyond.
They can tell need for personal growth and build a when theyve been listened to.
So, seize the remember the promises we keep.
And, in opportunities that come your way, and even the smallest action or service, they make the most of them to move forward sense the standards we set ourselves.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 oneteam So much of the work behind the renewed Total employees OneSavings Bank has mission, vision and values was done to ensure that as a much larger business we grown from 200 can continue to work positively together, doing great things for our customers.
people in two sites 1, 000 tomore than 1,000 Our values have been cemented into theway we set our individual objectives across seven sites in aswell as at a company level.
Everyone inthe Group has identified opportunities the UK and in India.
todevelop themselves and the Bank alllinking together to support great customer outcomes.
64 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate responsibility report continued Overall, the Bank has contributed a total Winstons Wish Focused on our of260,000 to community andcharitable causes in 2018 through charity fundraisers, community During 2018, the Bank continued to donations and additional support.
support its nominated national charity, Winstons Wish, the first charity to OneSavings Bank is proud of its strong establish child bereavement support links with the local community, especially Demelza Hospice Care for services across the UK.
Winstons Wish through the Kent Reliance brand which has Children provides specialist support programmes been synonymous with the county of Kent for children affected by deaths related to and a passionate supporter of its local Demelza is a childrens hospice charity in homicide and suicide, as well as for community for over 150 years.
the South East, providing compassionate military families who have been bereaved.
and expert care for babies, children, young As one of the largest employers in the people and their families.
As a registered The end of 2018 marked the end of its two region, many of our employees live locally charity, Demelza offers bespoke support, year partnership but there was a silver and therefore have a personal affinity with free of charge, to families and is available lining as, in total, the Bank managed to local causes and projects.
Employees 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
In order raise over 26,000 for Winstons Wish, views are actively sought in helping to to provide these vital services, it needs to which included the sponsorship of their decide where our support is best placed raise over 10m a year.
national support helpline on Christmas Eve.
and feedback is shared throughout the business to boost active participation.
In 2018, Kent Reliance branches continued Project Kent to support Demelza as their local charity Our community strategy is built primarily partner and marked the occasion with the around three key pillars consisting of launch of a dedicated Demelza Childrens Kent Reliances Project Kent rolled into volunteering, fundraising and community Account, whereby the charity receives an its second year, in partnership with the investment, all of which provide a platform annual donation equivalent to an agreed KM Media Group and led by its radio for OneSavings Bank to share its vision percentage of the combined funds held station kmfm.
across the associated accounts at the was powered by nominations from local end of the year.
people who were asked to nominate a In 2018, we implemented a revised local charity or group which benefits the community services programme that In 2018, 4,151 was raised primarily local community.
The campaign was enabled employees to have a greater through the Kent Reliance branches and promoted via the Kent Reliance branches influence on the charities that matter to the annual charity donation arising from and nominations reached over 130 this them.
We continue to encourage an active the Demelza Childrens Account.
year, a big increase on the previous year, hands on approach through fundraising as the annual project becomes more and volunteering opportunities.
Our During 2018, 53 employees from across established.
Following a lengthy judging volunteering activities have encouraged OneSavings Bank volunteered their time in process, The Young Lives Foundation our employees to use their Day to make the Demelza Warehouse, Maidstone, was selected: a Maidstone based a difference.
This is a paid day, available providing much needed additional support charity that helps improve the lives of to all employees, to help support any as the centre filters approximately five disadvantaged young people across Kent.
registered charity or community group.
million items per year with most of this Their offices and meeting rooms were in a For example, the annual communitywork supported by volunteers.
poor decorative state meaning they were based campaign, Project Kent, that Kent not being used to their full potential.
Reliance runs alongside the radio station Kent Reliance also takes huge pride in kmfm, incorporates a whole week of raising money for Demelza through a A team of 50 OSB volunteers helped volunteering opportunities for employees.
range of annual fundraising events such transform the downstairs area into a warm Furthermore, if employees choose as teddy bear picnics, bake sales and and friendly environment which included to undertake additional fundraising Halloween themed events.
new display areas and new furniture, which activities, the Bank will match any resulted in an amazing transformation for funds raised up to a specific amount.
Aside from straightforward fundraising, its staff and young visitors.
the branches also engage with the local During 2018, employees chose to support community by offering the branch network Through the associated profile raising a variety of charities through their as collection and promotion outlets for activity, the charity also benefited from volunteering day, which included working the charity.
a ripple effect with offers of additional at the central sorting warehouse for fundraising, recruiting staff as adult Demelza Childrens Hospice, painting and mentors and increased awareness decorating offices for the Young Lives throughout the county that resulted Foundation as part of Project Kent and in further offers of help from other getting their hands dirty for a local local businesses.
Medway-based charity allotment scheme helping local school children to grow fruit and vegetables over the school holidays to tackle holiday hunger.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Families spend an extra 600 per month, Make Someones Christmas Child welfare and education on average, during their childs cancer treatment mainly for transport, food and The Make Someones Christmas campaign OSBI has partnered with SOS Childrens accommodation and many fall into debt encourages listeners and readers of kmfm Village, located in Bangalore, to fund as a result, or families become separated and the KM Media Group, and customers education, food, clothing and housing as siblings of the child are left at home.
of Kent Reliance branches, to nominate for 20 orphans.
Working together with those people they feel deserve an extra SOS, OSBI employees helped to provide To learn more about My Shining Star, special treat during the festive season.
support for the holistic development the services it provides, and the of orphans and women and children families it supports, visit its website: The 2018 campaign was very successful belonging to vulnerable families.
co. uk and achieved over 500 nominations which also hosted some events at SOS for led to us helping ten special people in Kent employees to engage with the children, The Strategic report is approved by the in a variety of ways to ensure they enjoyed which was highly appreciated by Board and signed on its behalf by: Christmas this year.
As always, it was an both the children and employees.
extremely hard decision for the judging panel but the selected nominations really Jason Elphick Healthcare stood out.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary The selected nominees included treating a OSBI is currently supporting HBS Hospital 14 March 2019 special young person who made great toprovide dialysis sessions to 20 individuals efforts to look after the health of his eight who live below the poverty line.
HBS year old best friend, by missing out on Hospital is a non-profit hospital which break times and calling for adult help if provides critical healthcare to members needed, a young carer who never put ofsociety who could otherwise not afford herself first and was trying to write her the care they need.
first book using an old typewriter which we swapped for a new laptop, and a young OSBI continued its support in maintaining mum diagnosed with cancer who wanted the gardens at CV Raman General Hospital to treat her family to a day out to thank for the second year.
Hospital staff and them for their support.
Each of the patients have appreciated the positive selected nominees was announced live on impact such a space has had on patients, the radio during a two-week period and their relatives and the hospital staff.
received a variety of prizes ranging from high street vouchers to a weekend away.
Looking forward to 2019 OSBI fundraising By partnering with national and local charities, we hope to offer employees Corporate social responsibility CSR the chance to make a difference both is extremely important to OSBI.
The nationwide and closer to home.
By concept of helping society is embedded focusing our efforts on our nominated in its corporate governance structure charities, we hope to make a meaningful through the CSR policy and also impact to our chosen charities, and to through employee engagement.
the lives of those that the charities help.
As part of the OSBI CSR policy, funds The OSB 2019 national charity partner, are kept aside each year to spend on chosen by employees is My Shining Star: social causes.
This is governed by a CSR Childrens Cancer Charity.
This charity Committee and implemented by the supports families through the financial Corporate and Social Responsibility Group.
hardship associated with childhood cancer.
The focus is to help and contribute in areas where there is critical need and Around 1,600 children are diagnosed within the office locality so they are with cancer in the UK every year.
That also able to contribute their time.
means 1 in 500 children across the UK are diagnosed with cancer before they turn 14.
In 2018, the CSR Group agreed to support the areas of child welfare, education and healthcare.
66 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance How our Board andExecutive team set the strategic direction and provide oversight and control.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Key reads within this section: Contents Governance Directors Report Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors biographies 68 Executive team biographies 70 We are pleased to report full compliance Corporate Governance Report 72 Nomination and Governance Committee Report 80 For more information go to page 72 Audit Committee Report 82 Risk Committee Report 87 Directors Remuneration Report 90 Directors Report: Other Information 106 Statement of Directors responsibilities 108 Risk Committee Report We continued to enhance and integrate the Strategic Risk Management Framework For more information go to page 87 Remuneration Report Extensive engagement with shareholders For more information go to page 90
