Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility As one of the worlds largest recruitment companies, our purpose states that PageGroup changes lives for people through creating opportunity to reach potential.
It is the reason we are in business and is underpinned by core values which have always been at the heart of our business.
OUR Purpose PAGEGROUP CHANGES LIVES f PEOPLE thr gh eating OPPORTUNITY to reach POTENTIAL OUR Values WE MAKE A DIFFERENCE WE ENJOY WHAT WE DO WE VALUE DETERMINATION WE WORK AS A TEAM WE ARE PASSIONATE Our values form a platform for motivation of our people, and our approach to business and society as a whole.
More than just words, our values are the essence of our brand and influence the way we work day in, day out.
Corporate responsibility at PageGroup demonstrates our focus on ensuring our business positively impacts all our stakeholders.
It shows our purpose and values in action.
Strategic Report | 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Our commitment to our Our people stakeholders Make PageGroup a great place to work creating opportunity for people to reach potential A diverse and inclusive team Focused on wellbeing and flexibility Candidates Society Clients Minimise and mitigate Suppliers our environmental footprint Changing peoples lives Provide responsible through creating opportunity global citizenship Our and business practices Highest ethical standards stakeholder commitments Communities Shareholders Contribute positively Maintain the highest standards to the communities we serve of corporate governance balance, and we reflect that in the We encourage engagement and Our People objectives of all our senior leaders communication across the global In 2018 we focused on embedding so their commitment to diversity is business by using multiple channels our Purpose, bringing it to life using considered when we assess their including Yammer which supports personal stories from our people and performance.
our employee networks including making sure it is highly visible to all Women@Page, Pride@Page, This year we have invested our people across the world.
Every Ability@Page and Parents@Page.
significantly in our programmes region has been involved and we for global talent development and Gender diversity have seen the words of our Purpose succession, which means we can becoming part of the daily approach Board Directors bring an even greater focus to and language of PageGroup.
nurturing all our potential future Opportunities we have created leaders.
We have made sure our through our success have helped Global Director Academy reflects our 2018 5 56% 4 44% us change lives for our own people Vision and Purpose as well as the including over 1,600 promotions 5 56% 4 44% diversity of our teams particularly 2017 worldwide and over 100 people focusing on gender balance.
achieving their dream of working in a Senior Management We have completed the global rollout different country.
of our online learning system, Boost!
We are proud to be an inclusive and have seen encouraging early and diverse employer and we have 2018 312 73% 118 27% engagement with over 80,000 logins continued to reinforce that throughout so far.
We have run successful global training starting with on-boarding campaigns and activities supporting and moving to ongoing training and Other employees International Womens Day, Pride development needs.
We also support Month and World Mental Health mandatory training including tracking Day and our focus on creating completion of training in areas of and maintaining a truly inclusive high importance and compliance, 3,426 46% 4,022 54% 2018 culture continues.
There is always such as training on the General Data 3,224 46% 3,805 54% more to do, particularly on gender 2017 Protection Regulations 2018.
23 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our candidates: clients: suppliers: shareholders Corporate Social Responsibility We change lives for our candidates by helping them to develop their career and find jobs that bring them personal satisfaction, security and happiness.
Our clients come to us to help them find the best talent for their organisation creating the opportunity for them to drive the success of their business.
In 2018 we introduced satisfaction surveys for our candidates and customers.
Below is a small sample of feedback we received from candidates and clients through Feefo, the independent business review experts.
Highest ethical standards Customer Experience Rating 955 PageGroup is a leading global recruiter, with strong 5 brands and a reputation for integrity.
We continue to 4 80 5 reinforce that position by building trust and loyalty 4 3 4.9 with all our stakeholders.
2 1 1 The way we do business is as important as what 3 we do.
We encourage a culture which puts our customers first and empowers our people to make Based on 1,043 service ratings over the past year the right decisions.
We continuously look for ways to improve and involve our people in that process.
Customer Experience Our independently hosted whistleblowing facility gives our employees the ability to easily and anonymously report any perceived wrong doing.
For more information see the Audit Committee Report in the Personal approach governance section of this report.
Great communication and focussed on best outcome for the candidate.
We expect the same high standards from our suppliers and our supplier code of conduct is an Customer Experience integral part of all our procurement activities.
Our modern slavery policy reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all our Really swift, professional and easy going.
They understand your needs and business relationships.
The policy is published on our work hard to find the best match.
We constantly review our communication and Customer Experience engagement with our shareholders, and will continue to hold our successful investor relations events which give the opportunity to meet our regional Perceptive consultant identified that the role could be ideal for me leadership teams.
Kept me fully briefed with a friendly enthusiastic service 2.
Highest standards of corporate governance Customer Experience At PageGroup we believe high standards of governance underpin sustainable performance.
The Board is collectively responsible for the Groups The recruitment consultant kept in constant contact me with regard to the financial and operational performance as well as positions that we were working on.
I was very impressed with the level of promoting the success of the business.
The Board communication which has restored my faith in the recruitment profession.
fulfils its responsibilities by directing and supervising the Companys strategies and policies.
The Corporate Governance section of this report sets Customer Experience out details of the activities undertaken by the Board and its Standing Committees during 2018.
Great service Very good service, very professional.
Always quick to return calls and provide information.
Made the process of changing jobs so much easier.
Strategic Report | 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Our Communities Through every Page business across the world, we make a difference to the communities in which we work.
This year we have been using our expertise to help people enter the job market, shaved heads for charity, fundraised through sport, helped with forest management and given blood, to name just a few.
We share our stories of giving back to others to help drive enthusiasm, commitment and pride in our community initiatives which are an integral part of our culture.
Brazil Switzerland France Germany Spain Morocco Italy Dubai South Africa Portugal UK Our Page Talent programme steers students searching for internships and apprenticeships in the right direction, providing them with key skills and advice to help them make the right choices.
Page Talent enables students to connect with employers who are able to advertise a range of opportunities within their organisations.
In the UK alone, there are currently 280 big named companies involved including Volkswagen Group, Vodafone, BMW Group, Telegraph, Fortnum and Mason, Conde Nast, Nike Inc. and Lloyds Banking Group.
25 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Public recognition: We have won awards across the globe recognising our achievements, including: GLOBAL EUROPE Most Socially 8 Engaged Staffing Agency 2018 for the third time PageGroup awarded the 2018 Top Employer Society Europe certification in seven European countries Germany, France, Switzerland, Spain, As a service based organisation, Netherlands, Belgium and Italy our environmental impacts are small compared with many other businesses.
However, we continue to manage and minimise the impacts ASIA PACIFIC resulting from our day-to-day business.
Michael Page Japan awarded The Diversity & Inclusion We have processes in place Champion at the 2018 Michael Page China winner of the China to monitor and report on our Recruitment International Recruitment Industry Top 10 Foreign greenhouse gas emissions.
Our Industry Awards Japan Enterprise award by TopHR impact is predominantly through energy consumption and business travel.
See page 19 for GHG Michael Page China winner reporting for 2018. of Best International Recruitment Agency In the UK, further mitigation of our of the year at the 2018 impacts during 2018 included: Recruitment International Implementing more energy Industry Awards China efficient settings within our building management systems Reducing business travel by UK employing different ways of working PageGroup CEO, Steve Ingham Named one of the Best ranked thirteenth in the Moving from a paper-based to Places to Work in Top CEOs list on Glassdoor, online purchase order system 2018 via the Glassdoor forming part of Glassdoors Employees Choice Awards Renewing central HVAC plant 2018 Employees Choice in a number of offices to use Awards modern and most energy efficient equipment Working with suppliers to PageGroup named one First recruitment company to reduce waste packaging of the Times Top 50 be ranked in the Stonewall Employers for Women All our offices are rented or serviced Top 100 Employer list 2018 and we seek premises which are energy efficient and where the landlords are able to provide us with data to support that aim.
We also work with existing landlords and USA co-tenants to explore new energy and waste efficiency measures.
Recognised by Forbes as one of Named the 2018 winner in the Global Mobility Americas Best Professional Team of the Year category by the Forum for Recruiting Firms in 2018 Expatriate Management Awards LATAM Michael Page Brazil awarded best HR Supplier by Melhores Fornecedores para R. H. Strategic Report | 26
