Pantheon International Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Pantheon Key Personnel 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 57 1 4 7 Andrew Lebus Paul Ward Susan Long McAndrews PIP and Secondary Investment.
Partner Managing Partner US Primary Investment.
Partner Joined 1994: 33 years of private equity Joined 2003: 21 years of private equity Joined in 2002: 22 years of private equity experience.
Andrew is a senior member of experience.
Paul is Pantheons Managing experience.
Susan is a Partner, a member of Pantheons investment team.
He is responsible Partner and is a member of the Partnership Pantheons Partnership Board, Head of the US for managing the activities of PIP and is a Board.
Paul joined Pantheon from Lehman Primary Investment Team and is responsible for member of the Asia Regional and Secondary Brothers Private Equity Group, where he was business development for the institutional market.
Andrew, who spent Investment Director.
Previously, he worked for Prior to joining Pantheon, Susan was a principal at eight years in Hong Kong managing Pantheons Lehman Brothers Investment Bank in New York Capital Z Partners in Asia, and a director within Asian investment programme, also participates and London on M&A and corporate finance Russell Investments private equity group.
in determining Asian investment strategy and advisory services and, prior to that, was a 8 overseeing the selection and monitoring of management consultant for PA Consulting.
Prior to joining Pantheon, Paul is based in London.
Elly Livingstone Andrew worked in corporate finance, Secondary Investment.
Partner 5 with special emphasis on the private equity market, at Credit Lyonnais Securities, and its Joined 2001: 22 years of private equity Chris Meads affiliate Castleforth.
Andrew is based in London.
At Pantheon, Elly is a member Chief Investment Officer and Asian of the Global Secondary Investment Committee, Investment.
Partner 2 the International Investment Committee and the Emerging Markets Investment Committee.
Joined 2001: 22 years of private equity Helen Steers Prior to joining Pantheon, Elly was an investment experience.
Chris is Head of Investment and a European Primary Investment.
Partner manager at Actis Capital, an emerging member of both Pantheons Partnership Joined 2004: 29 years of private equity markets private equity fund manager, Board and International Investment Committee.
Helen is Head of Pantheons and previously worked for Accenture and Chris joined Pantheon from HSBC Hong Kong, European Investment Team.
She chairs the  on a wide range of where he was involved both in strategic European Investment Committee, and is a international consulting and corporate finance acquisitions and the design and implementation member of the International Investment advisory assignments.
Chris was Committee and the Co-investment Committee.
also a senior investment analyst for Brierley 9 Prior to joining Pantheon, Helen held senior Investments Ltd in Hong Kong and New Zealand, positions at Russell Investments in Paris and and before that worked in a deal advisory Matt Jones at the Caisse fide dpt et placement du Qubec capacity for CS First Boston NZ and as an Secondary Investment.
Helen is a member of the Council economist for the National Bank of New Zealand Board of the British Private Equity and Venture and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand.
Chris is Joined 2001, 17 years of private equity Capital Association BVCA, and the immediate based in Hong Kong.
Matt leads Pantheons secondaries past Chair for 2017 2018.
She has also served presence in Europe and is a member of the as Board member of Invest Europe and is a 6 Global Secondary Investment Committee and co-founder of Level 20.
Dennis McCrary Matt focuses on secondary deal origination, Co-investment and Secondaries Partner 3 analysis, structuring, execution and management Joined 2007: 24 years of private equity of investments.
He also participates in fund Tanu Chita experience.
Dennis is Chair of the Co-investment monitoring, firm marketing and client reporting.
Principal Committee and the Global Secondary Investment Prior to Pantheon, Matt was an Assistant Committee and is a member of Pantheons Economist at HM Treasury and also worked on Joined 2004: 14 years of private equity Partnership Board, the US Regional Investment private equity policy areas as part of the Myners experience.
Tanu is a senior member of Committee and the International Investment Review team.
Pantheons European investment team and Committee.
Prior to Pantheon, Dennis was the has responsibility for managing the investment head of the US Partnership Team at Adams Street 10 activity for PIP.
Tanu, who spent four years in Partners, where he was responsible for primary Pantheons San Francisco office, also has Rudy Scarpa and secondary fund investments.
Previously, he responsibility for the origination and execution Secondary Investment.
Partner held several investment banking and principal of secondary investments.
Tanu joined Pantheon investing positions with Bank of America and Joined in 2007, 24 years of private equity from Deutsche Bank AG, where he worked as an Continental Bank.
Rudy leads Pantheons secondaries M&A advisor in the investment banking division.
in San Francisco and Chicago.
presence in the USA and is a member of the Tanu is based in London.
Global Secondary Investment Committee and the International Investment Committee.
His focus is on secondary deal origination, analysis, structuring, execution and management of investments.
Prior to Pantheon, he was a partner at Coller Capital and worked at Thomas H. Lee Putnam Ventures, Merrill Lynch and Skadden Arps.
