A5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, employees, customers and other stakeholders are best served by acting in a socially responsible manner and aims to ensure that a high standard of corporate governance and corporate responsibility is maintained in all areas of its business and operations.
A5.1 Non-Financial Information Statement The Group includes information on certain environmental, social and governance matters in its strategic report in accordance with sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition to the description of the Groups business model, discussed in section A2, the Groups remaining disclosures are included in this section A5.
This includes a discussion of the Groups risk, policies, outcomes and key performance indicators with respect to each of the areas set out in the Act, as follows: Area Reference a Environmental matters Section A5.3 b Employees Section A5.2 c Social matters Section A5.4 d Respect for human rights Section A5.5 e Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters Section A5.6 PAGE 49 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A5.2 People The welfare, development and engagement of the Groups employees are central to developing a strong culture, with employee capability and motivation acknowledged as being central to the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Engagement levels are monitored through employee surveys.
The most recent survey returned a response rate of 85% previous survey: 91% and an overall engagement score of 85% previous survey: 86% which compares favourably to the average of 82% in the financial services sector.
Remuneration packages across the business are compliant with the UKs national minimum wage rates.
In addition, the Group is an accredited employer with the Living Wage Foundation and first met this standard in June 2016.
The independent Living Wage Foundation sets an hourly rate calculated according to the cost of living in the UK which is updated annually.
This is a higher rate than the governments National Living Wage.
The Group supports the Living Wage Foundations principle of a living wage being good for business, good for the individual and good for society and this is an important part of the Groups values and people strategy.
Flexible working is actively encouraged across all areas, to promote a work-life balance for individuals and to ensure that the Group retains the skills and experience of its people.
The Group monitors working practices to ensure that it complies with the Working Time Regulations to ensure no one is forced to work more than a 48 hour week over an average 17 week period.
This includes the monitoring of any second jobs.
When responding to changes in its business, the Group always seeks to minimise the requirement for compulsory redundancy, retraining and redeploying employees wherever possible.
The Human Resources department actively works alongside the Groups management to recruit, develop and retain capable people.
Equality and diversity The Group is committed to providing a working environment in which employees feel valued and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a workforce that recognises the diversity of its customers.
The Group has invested not only in management training to ensure managers are equipped to support fair working practices, but also in educating all employees to ensure the policy is fully embedded.
The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to work in an environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying, and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: Race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or national origins Gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status Religious or political beliefs or affiliations Disability, impairment or age Real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS or Membership of a trade union and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or unfair conditions or requirements.
The Group aims to ensure that applications for employment from people with disabilities and other under-represented groups are given full and fair consideration and that all employees have access to the same training, development and job opportunities.
Every effort is also made to retrain and support employees who suffer from disabilities during their employment, including the provision of flexible working to assist their return to work.
Women in Finance The Groups people are at the heart of everything it does, and we understand the significance and value of building strong and diverse teams, with leaders from all backgrounds.
Gender diversity is an important element of the Groups people strategy and we are proud to have signed the Women in Finance Charter.
The Women in Finance Charter, which is sponsored by HM Treasury, is an initiative amongst financial services companies in the UK, aimed at promoting equality of opportunity in the workplace.
The CFO is the project sponsor and progress against the Charter requirements is monitored by the executive management.
In January 2017 the first set of internal targets under the charter was published on the Groups website.
They include a target of 35% female representation in senior management roles by January 2022, increasing from 26% at the time the targets were set.
All of the Groups diversity targets are published on the Corporate Responsibility section of the Groups website, together with annual progress updates.
The definition of senior management used in the Groups Women in Finance targets is the same as that used by the Hampton-Alexander Review.
The percentage of female senior managers on this basis at 30 September 2018 was 29.1% 2017: 31.4%.
PAGE 50 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Gender Pay As required by legislation, the Group has calculated its gender pay gap as at April 2018.
The results will be published on the government website and on the Groups own website and are summarised below.
April 2018 April 2017 Median gender pay gap 30.8% 30.4% Mean gender pay gap 36.8% 36.2% Median bonus pay gap 1.2% 2.2% Mean bonus pay gap 87.8% 84.6% The median and mean pay gaps are in line with the 39.8% median pay gap and 34.7% mean pay gap in the financial services sector reported by the Office of National Statistics in their Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings published in October 2018.
They are also broadly in line with those for other businesses in the sector.
83.4% of male employees and 87.9% of female employees received a bonus 2017: 74.5% and 85.2%, as defined by legislation, which includes payments under the Groups profit related pay scheme.
The difference between the mean and median bonuses reflects the impact of a very small number of bonus payments to executive directors and other very senior staff.
The Group continues to analyse the gender pay gap data as part of the Women in Finance initiative, to determine what action might be required.
However, work during the year reviewing groups of directly comparable positions did not suggest evidence of systematic gender bias.
Composition of the workforce During the year the workforce has grown by 2.0% to 1,345 people 2017: 1,318.
Information on the composition of the workforce at the year end is summarised below: 2018 2018 2017 2017 Females Males Females Males Employees Number 711 634 693 625 Percentage 52.9% 47.1% 52.6% 47.4% Management grade employees Number 98 187 113 187 Percentage 34.4% 65.6% 37.7% 62.3% Senior managers Number 5 22 5 21 Percentage 18.5% 81.5% 19.2% 80.8% Directors Number 2 9 2 10 Percentage 18.2% 81.8% 16.7% 83.3% Of these employees, ethnic minority employees comprised 11.6% of the workforce 2017: 11.4% and 1.2% of management grade employees 2017: 3.0%.
The definition of senior manager used in the table above is that required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 which differs from that used by the Hampton-Alexander Review.
Employees on temporary or short-term contracts accounted for 0.9% of the workforce 2017: 0.1%.
The Groups annual employee turnover for the year was 16.1% 2017: 13.2%.
Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual basis and employee satisfaction with equality of opportunity is monitored as part of the regular employee surveys.
Human Resources policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and development policies and practices are monitored to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to learn and develop according to their abilities.
PAGE 51 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts In June 2018 the Group conducted its second annual diversity survey to obtain anonymous feedback from employees on their age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religious beliefs and disability.
We received a positive response rate of 72% 2017: 78% and as expected, the survey illustrated our workforce is diverse.
The results were reviewed at executive level and a number of actions were agreed in line with the Groups commitment to the Women in Finance Charter, including requiring improved diversity from our external recruitment partners and providing more flexible working opportunities and mentoring support for individuals.
Training and development The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People scheme since 1997 and its Gold status was confirmed once again in February 2016.
The reaccreditation review process will take place in February 2019.
This demonstrates the Groups commitment to the training and development of all its employees.
In addition, the Group has held Investors in People Champion status for the last four years.
This is given to organisations who are seen as pioneers in people management practices and role models in strategic leadership and is currently held by only 1% of companies in the UK.
It involves the Group in active networking with other organisations and offering mentoring support to smaller organisations that are working towards gaining the Investors in People accolade.
All employees receive an appraisal at least annually.
These reviews are designed to assist employees in developing their careers and to identify and provide appropriate training opportunities.
Appraisals also provide a method to track individuals progress and identify opportunities to develop them into further roles, thereby supporting the Groups overall succession planning objectives.
The Groups in-house development team deliver leadership development programmes, externally accredited by the Chartered Management Institute CMI, to support managers.
During the year work has continued to embed the internal mentoring programme accredited by the CMI, helping to support succession planning strategy and develop future leaders.
In addition, during the year, the Group joined the Women Ahead 30% Club cross-company mentoring scheme, providing 10 trained mentors to support female mentees from other companies, whilst nominating 10 female mentees to receive external mentoring support at the same time.
The Group provides financial support for professional development and approximately 10% of employees are undertaking professional qualifications at any one time.
During the year the Group has also introduced a number of apprenticeship schemes with 2.2% of employees registered as apprentices across specialist and operational roles including IT, finance, underwriting and first line management.
The corporate training and development strategy focuses on providing opportunities to develop all employees and is central to the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
On average, employees received 7.5 days training in the year 2017: 9.0 days, which is significantly higher than the average figure quoted by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development CIPD of between 2.8 and 3.3 days for the private sector.
This included online training undertaken by all employees on various matters including regulatory requirements.
Recruitment The Group remains committed to employing individuals from the communities in which it is based.
We engage with local schools and colleges in the Solihull area, where the Group has its headquarters, through careers fairs to offer employability workshops and to promote ourselves as a local employer.
In addition, we have offered 11 work experience placements to local students this year.
We also run a successful refer a friend scheme whereby employees receive a referral fee if an individual they refer for a role passes probation.
This year 55 individuals were successfully recruited through this scheme 2017: 52.
Employees involvement The directors recognise the benefit of keeping employees informed of the progress of the business.
The Group operates a People Forum, attended by employee representatives from each area of the business, which exists primarily to facilitate communication and dissemination of information throughout the Group and provides a means by which employees can be consulted on matters affecting them.
During the year, the People Forum was refreshed following feedback from the Groups latest engagement survey.
The purpose of the People Forum was updated to encourage and develop an employee voice to support effective decision making and continual business improvement, to protect the Groups strong culture and to deliver good customer outcomes.
The role profile for representatives was redefined, a number of open sessions took place for those potentially interested in becoming involved, an application and selection process was completed and this resulted in the number of representatives increasing to cover all areas and geographical locations.
Employees are provided with regular information on the performance and plans of the Group, and the financial and economic factors affecting it, through electronic information and presentations.
The Company operates a Sharesave share option scheme and a profit sharing scheme, both of which enable eligible employees to benefit from the performance of the business.
The directors encourage employee involvement at all levels through the appraisal process and communication between directors, managers, teams and individual employees.
PAGE 52 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Involvement in industry initiatives on employment standards This year the business has provided support to external working groups focussing on employment standards organised by industry bodies such as UKF and, in particular, contributing to the Banking Standards Boards survey on culture.
The Groups membership of the Investors in People Gold Club involves sharing best practice with other Gold Standard employers and it hosts one networking event each year.
Health and Safety policy The Group strives towards continual improvement of health, safety and welfare in the working environment for its employees and has a published health and safety policy which sets out objectives regarding the health and safety of employees, contractors and visitors, and its application throughout the business.
All employees are made aware of their individual responsibilities.
These include taking care of the health and safety of themselves and others, following health and safety policies and standards and reporting incidents.
The health, safety and environmental induction programme is rolled out to newly acquired sites, as well as being given to new employees.
Information, training and supervision is provided to all employees, in line with the Groups objective of maintaining a consistent approach towards health and safety policies and procedures.
Job specific safety training is delivered as required.
Th e Group continues to provide information, training and supervision to visitors and contractors.
Including our resident mechanical and electrical contractor on key training topics has had a positive impact on health and safety performance, through risk reduction, with the frequency of incidents near misses significantly reduced.
The Group has an Occupational Health and Safety Management System OHSMS including a dedicated health and safety manager.
The OHSMS is certified to BS 18001:2007 and is kept under review and revised as appropriate.
It includes: A health and safety policy A register of risk assessments and health and safety legislation relevant to the Groups business activities Regular internal and external audits to evaluate performance Regular health and safety management meetings which monitor and revise current performance, objectives and targets The number of fire marshals, first aiders and other qualified personnel is monitored and continues to be sufficient, with training and adequate cover provided in all offices.
During the year, defibrillator machines were installed at all sites.
All incidents, regardless of severity are reported internally and attributed to either the work activity or the building environment, providing a clear focus when determining any corrective actions that may be required.
The appropriate level of investigation, based on the incident or injury is then progressed through to closure, with any statutory reporting obligations considered.
Health and safety incidents are classified as operational risk incidents for the purposes of the Groups risk management system and monitored through the Risk and Compliance function and the Operational Risk Committee ORC.
The Groups principal source of health and safety related risk is in the vehicle maintenance operation of Specialist Fleet Services SFS undertaken at either directly controlled premises or any contracted sites.
SFS has an OHSMS that is certificated to BS 18001 and continues to maintain a high standard of compliance with all legislation associated with its industry.
SFS has a dedicated health and safety manager who will investigate any incidents locally, utilising Group resources as required.
Health and safety performance continues to be good with the number of accidents and incidents remaining at a low level.
During the financial year ended 30 September 2018 there were no prosecutions or any enforcement action from visits by the authorities for non-compliance in respect of health and safety matters.
In May 2018 there was one lost time incident reported under the Reporting of Incidents, Disease and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 RIDDOR.
This was the Groups first notification since August 2017 and the only such incident in the period.
The Groups principal objectives for the next period are to transition to the new ISO 45001 standard which was released in May 2018 and to ensure health and safety practise is maintained and updated in line with current legislation and regulations.
PAGE 53 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A5.3 Environmental issues Impact The Group is mainly engaged in mortgage, consumer and commercial finance and therefore its overall environmental impact is considered to be low.
SFS, a division of Paragon Asset Finance PAF, leases refuse collection vehicles to local authorities throughout the UK.
SFS undertake additional aftersales activities that include servicing, maintenance and breakdown support, hence has the most significant potential environmental impacts.
The main environmental impacts of the Groups other operations are limited to universal environmental issues such as resource use, procurement in offices and business travel.
Policy The Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the environment.
It operates a Green Charter to raise employees awareness of recycling and campaigns are also run to reduce various forms of waste such as food, consumables or energy.
The Groups Green Charter, which is kept under regular review: Ensures all buildings occupied by the Group are managed efficiently Encourages employees to conserve energy Promotes recycling by negotiating contracts and providing facilities to enable employees to re-cycle office waste and other used products Controls business travel by promoting video conferencing between sites when appropriate and provides opportunities for employees to travel to work in various ways: such as providing cycle racks Ensures liaison with the local community through our Responsible Business initiatives Ensures that redundant equipment is disposed of in accordance with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations WEEE Ensures that all fluorescent light tubes are disposed of in a safe manner, compliant with appropriate regulation Arranges for paper waste products to be recycled, securely, by third parties The Group is committed to identifying, targeting and addressing inefficiencies within its supply chain.
It will work with key suppliers to identify solutions to continue to reduce environmental impacts.
Risk management The Groups environmental commitment is included within the Health, Safety and Environmental policy that is approved by the CEO and the People Director and which is publicly displayed in its buildings.
Energy data is collated by Group Services, the division responsible for managing the Groups properties.
Consumption figures for all the premises occupied whether directly owned or tenanted are actively monitored.
This is reported to the business upwards to Board level.
SFS operates from several workshops around the UK and has exposure to several waste streams oils, vehicle parts etc that come from their own workshop activities.
These are effectively managed under an environmental management system that is certificated to an International Standard ISO14001:2015.
SFS has a dedicated health and safety manager with direct responsibility for environmental issues at all of its sites.
Environmental risk is considered within the Groups operational risk management framework and is monitored by the second line Operational Risk function and the ORC.
The Group complies with the Energy Savings and Opportunities Scheme ESOS.
This is a UK Government initiative, under an EU Directive, and requires the Group to identify and reduce its energy consumption.
The Group is actively engaged in the data collection phase for the next Environment Agency compliance submission under ESOS due in 2019.
The Group has implemented an Energy Working Group which reports to the Property Steering Group to prioritise and drive forward key recommendations for the more efficient use of energy.
PAGE 54 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Environmental initiatives The Groups current environmental programmes include: A programme to upgrade the lighting at the Groups head office which is ongoing.
LED sensor controlled lighting units are being installed in areas of the site that remain lit all day, effectively reducing consumption in infrequently used areas by dimming, then turning lights off, until further movement is detected Paper-based stationery is procured from Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified suppliers Redundant equipment is collected by an accredited third-party who achieve the maximum amount of plastic and metals recycling possible for this WEEE waste A Cycle to Work scheme is operated, enabling employees to obtain cycles at preferential rates for commuting purposes, thereby reducing the carbon footprint of travel to work and its impact on the local community The Groups principal objectives for the next financial year are to identify, target and address inefficiencies in the supply chain.
A supplier relationship manager has been recruited to work with key suppliers to identify innovative solutions which will continue to reduce environmental impacts.
Performance indicators The environmental key performance indicators for the Group, determined having regard to the Reporting Guidelines published by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA in June 2013, are set out below.
The Group does not consider it has significant environmental impacts under the headings Resource Efficiency and Materials, Emissions to Land, Air and Water or Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services set out in the Guidelines, due to the nature of its business activities.
This information is presented for the twelve months ended 30 September in each year and includes all entities included in the Groups financial statements.
Information for acquired entities is included from the acquisition date.
Normalised data is based on adjusted total operating income of 273.9 million 2017: 252.8 million, excluding the 28.0 million gain on financial asset sales.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions 2018 2017 Tonnes CO Tonnes CO 2 2 Scope 1 Direct emissions Combustion of fuel: Operation of gas heating boilers 653 588 Petrol and diesel used by company cars 641 769 Operation of facilities: Air conditioning systems 20 21 1,314 1,378 Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions Directly purchased electricity 1,163 1,420 Total scope 1 and 2 2,477 2,798 Normalised tonnes - scope 1 and 2 CO per m income 9.0 11.1 2 Scope 3 Other indirect emissions Fuel and energy related activities not included in scope 1 or 2 637 829 Water consumption 11 11 Waste generated in operations 20 23 Total scope 3 668 863 Total scopes 1, 2 and 3 3,145 3,661 Normalised tonnes scope 1, 2 and 3 CO per m income 11.5 14.5 2 CO values above are calculated based on the DEFRA Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS guidelines published in 2 August 2018.
CO values for the year ended 30 September 2017 have been restated for the revised conversion factors published by DEFRA BEIS.
2 The amounts shown above for total scope 1 and scope 2 emissions are those required to be reported under the Companies Act Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Other scope 3 emissions not reported above are not considered to be significant.
PAGE 55 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Vehicle fuel usage is based upon expense claims and recorded mileage.
The Groups business is growing which creates a need for new buildings, increased use of digital technology and associated facilities.
Despite these challenges the Groups energy consumption and GHG emissions remain broadly comparable year-on-year.
The Group has not been involved in any prosecutions, accidents or similar non-compliances in respect of environmental matters.
Power usage The Group uses mains electricity and natural gas from the UK grid to provide heat, light and power to its office buildings.
The amount of power used in the year ended 30 September 2018 is shown below.
2018 2017 MWh MWh Electricity 4,107.5 4,040.1 Natural gas 3,547.6 3,192.4 Total 7,655.1 7,232.5 Normalised MWh per m income 27.9 28.6 Consumption levels have increased as the Groups workforce has grown.
However the normalised usage remains broadly in line with previous performance.
Gas and electricity usage is based on consumption recorded on purchase invoices.
Water usage The Groups water usage is limited to the consumption of piped water in the UK and no water is extracted directly.
Water usage in the year 3 3 ended 30 September 2018 was 10,155m 2017: 10,802 m, based upon consumption recorded on purchase invoices, a normalised amount of 3 3 37.1m per m income 2017: 42.7m per m income.
This reduction has taken place despite the Groups expansion over the period.
A water saving initiative is in place which is intended to reduce year on year water usage across the sites where the Group has full responsibility for the premises occupied.
Waste SFS are the Groups primary waste producers.
Their vehicle servicing activities generate a variety of different waste steams including various grades of oil, and a range of metals and plastics.
These wastes are managed responsibly in accordance with an ISO 14001:2015 certificated management system.
Waste streams generated by SFS are disposed of appropriately.
Waste is transferred to approved waste transfer stations under contract and consignment notes obtained.
The Groups waste output outside SFS consists of general office waste which includes a mixture of principally paper and cardboard with some wood, plastic and metals.
The Group provides facilities in its offices for recycling paper, cardboard, newspapers, glass, plastics and aluminium and steel cans.
Batteries and printer and photocopier cartridges are collected and sent for recycling.
All the Groups waste is either recycled or sent to landfill.
Amounts of waste generated in the year ended 30 September 2018 together with the methods of disposal are shown below.
2018 2017 Tonnes Tonnes Recycled 202 282 Landfill 154 169 Total 356 451 Normalised tonnes per m income 1.30 1.78 Waste generation data is based upon volumes reported on disposal invoices.
PAGE 56 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A5.4 Social and community matters The Groups activities are based wholly within the United Kingdom.
It operates within the legal and regulatory framework of the UK, acknowledging the importance of corporate responsibility and citizenship in its relationships with its customers, the wider community and other stakeholders.
Commitment to our customers The Groups strategic objective is to be a prudent, risk focussed, specialist financial services provider with a closely controlled, cost efficient operating model which places the delivery of fair customer outcomes at its core.
Putting the interests of our customers at the heart of the business is therefore integral to the achievement of that objective.
We want our customers to be confident that we will always consider their needs and act fairly and responsibly in our dealings with them.
We strive to ensure that all our customers can be confident that: Products and services are designed to meet their needs Our employees are appropriately skilled and experienced to provide the services they require The information given to them will be clear and jargon free Products will perform as they are led to expect They will not face unreasonable post-sale barriers to change a product, switch provider, submit a claim or make a complaint All complaints will be listened to and claims assessed carefully, fairly and promptly Where applicable, they will be made aware of how they can refer their complaint to the FOS If they are vulnerable and or in financial difficulties, we will provide a high level of support and make sure they are signposted to sources of independent advice They will be made aware of the FSCS and the protection this provides for them The desire to achieve positive outcomes for our customers is an important commercial differentiator which has helped the Group build strong relationships over many years.
This is supported by a focus in employee training programmes on areas which impact on customer outcomes, such as the correct approach to working with vulnerable customers.
This pro-active approach accords with the FCAs Principles for Business, particularly with regard to treating customers fairly and ensuring that all communications are clear, fair and not misleading.
We ensure that we know how well we are performing in respect of these requirements, regularly adjusting what we do to deliver better customer solutions.
The Board and executive management are committed to maintaining and developing this culture across all the Groups businesses.
Complaint handling We understand that we do not always get things right first time and all complaints from our customers are taken very seriously.
We acknowledge each complaint promptly and then work with customers to understand their feedback, investigating fully and responding swiftly in a fair and open manner.
Where possible we aim to resolve complaints at the first point of contact, but acknowledge some complaints will require further specialist investigation and time to resolve.
Where further investigation is needed, we will stay in regular contact with the customer to keep them informed of what is happening with their complaint.
If we need to contact previous service providers, we have established contacts within these companies to ensure any complaint is resolved at the earliest possible opportunity.
Where applicable, Alternative Dispute Resolution information is provided to customers to allow them to appeal to independent parties if they are not satisfied with our response.
These include the FOS, the FLA and the Credit Services Association.
Where customers feel the need to appeal we co-operate fully and promptly with any settlements and awards made by these parties.
We genuinely view every complaint as an opportunity to improve our business, an opportunity to identify where we are going wrong and, most importantly, an opportunity to put things right for our customers.
As a result, we complete root cause analysis on complaints to ensure appropriate corrective actions are taken to address the issue and minimise the risk of re-occurrence for other customers.
Information on the number and nature of complaints and on their resolution is reported regularly through the Conduct and Compliance Committee to the board level Risk and Compliance Committee for monitoring and, if appropriate, for action to be taken.
PAGE 57 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Supporting the community The Group contributes to registered charities relating to financial services or serving the local communities in which it operates.
Contributions of 1,950,000 2017: 1,882,000 were made by the Group during the year to the work of the Foundation for Credit Counselling which operates the StepChange Debt Charity.
The Group also contributed to charities throughout the year by way of single donations.
Other charitable contributions made in the year totalled 25,300 2017: 25,000.
The Groups main objective is to support childrens and local charities, although no charity request is overlooked.
During the last year the Group has helped many and varied charities and causes such as: Kids Cancer Charity, 3H Fund - Helping Hands for Holidays, NSPCC, Multiple Sclerosis Society, Chicks, Soroptimist International Solihull and District, WellChild, Kids in Action and Strongbones Childrens Charitable Trust.
Employees have also been making a difference to the local community in many ways.
This year our employees have: Delivered workshops in local schools and colleges focussing on financial awareness and employability skills Donated over 100 shoeboxes for local Samaritans project Operation Christmas Purse The Group also supports Paragons Charity Committee, consisting of volunteer employees, which organises a variety of fundraising activities throughout the year.
In the calendar year 2017, 17,024 was raised for Marie Curie Hospice Solihull, while in the first nine months of 2018, 8,204 has been raised for Birmingham Childrens Hospital and Solihull Mind.
All our employees are given the opportunity to nominate a charity each year and a vote is carried out amongst the employees to select the charity or charities to benefit from the following years fundraising activities.
Taxation policy and payments The Groups tax strategy is to comply with all relevant tax obligations whilst cooperating fully with the tax authorities.
The Group recognises that in generating profits which can be distributed to shareholders it benefits from resources provided by government and the payment of tax is a contribution towards the cost of those resources.
The Group will only undertake tax planning that supports commercial activities and in the UK context is not contrary to the intention of Parliament.
As a group containing a bank, the Group is subject to The Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks the Bank Tax Code published by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC in March 2013.
The Group has previously confirmed to HMRC that it was unconditionally committed to complying with the Bank Tax Code, and formally re-approved the Groups tax governance policies and the tax strategy outlined above.
During each financial year the Group publishes a tax strategy document for that year on its website, in accordance with the Finance Act 2016.
This document addresses the following matters: The approach of the Group to risk management and governance arrangements in relation to UK taxation The attitude of the Group towards tax planning so far as affecting UK taxation The level of risk in relation to UK taxation that the Group is prepared to accept The approach of the Group towards its dealings with HMRC The second such statement was published during the year and can be found in the investor relations section of the Groups website.
The published strategy is owned by the Board collectively in accordance with HMRCs published expectations.
The Group has an open and positive relationship with HMRC, meeting with their representatives on a regular basis, and is committed to full disclosure and transparency in all matters.
The Group is resident and operates in the UK and its tax payments to the UK authorities include not only corporation tax but also substantial payroll taxes.
The amounts of the Groups cash payments to UK national and local tax authorities in the year, including Pay As You Earn PAYE and National Insurance NI contributions deducted from employee wages and salaries were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Corporation tax 32.0 28.9 PAYE and NI 28.0 24.3 VAT 1.6 0.3 Stamp duty 0.2 0.5 Total national taxation 61.8 54.0 Business rates 1.1 1.2 62.9 55.2 PAGE 58 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A5.5 Human rights The Group respects all human rights and in conducting its business regards those rights relating to non-discrimination, fair treatment and respect for privacy to be the most relevant and to have the greatest potential impact on its key stakeholder groups of customers, employees and suppliers.
The Group operates exclusively in the UK and, as such, is subject to the European Convention on Human Rights and the UK Human Rights Act 1998.
The Board and the CEO have overall responsibility for ensuring that all areas within the Group uphold and promote respect for human rights.
The Group seeks to anticipate, prevent and mitigate any potential negative human rights impacts as well as enhance positive impacts through its policies and procedures and, in particular, through its policies regarding employment, equality and diversity, treating customers fairly and information security.
The Groups policies seek to ensure that employees comply with the relevant legislation and regulations in place in the UK and to promote good practice.
The Groups policies are formulated and kept up to date by the relevant business area, authorised in accordance with the Groups governance procedures and are communicated to all employees and included in the Human Resources Policies Manual.
The Group supports the objective of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, in raising awareness of modern slavery and human trafficking.
The Groups annual Modern Slavery Statement is published on its website and also reflected in relevant policies.
The Group is committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in its supply chains or in any part of the business and to acting ethically and with integrity in all business relationships.
The statement can be found on the Groups website www.
The Group undertakes extensive monitoring of the implementation of all of its policies and has not been made aware of any incident in which the organisations activities have resulted in an abuse of human rights or a breach of Modern Slavery legislation.
PAGE 59 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A5.6 Business practices The Group carries out its business fairly, honestly and openly.
It has an anti-bribery and corruption policy, endorsed by the directors and operated throughout the Group.
It will not make bribes, nor will it condone the offering of bribes on its behalf.
It will not accept bribes, nor will it agree to them being accepted on its behalf and will avoid doing business with those who do not accept its values and who may harm its reputation.
The Group has carried out the risk assessment required by the Bribery Act 2010 and concluded that it is not a company with a high risk of bribery.
The Group conducts all of its business within the UK and its only significant outsourcing arrangement relates to the administration of its savings operations by the outsourcing arm of a major UK building society.
However, the Group takes its responsibilities seriously and will not tolerate bribery on any scale and as such, its policies and procedures are kept under regular review.
The Group will self-report any serious incidence of bribery or corruption that is identified.
The Groups policies cover the conduct of its business, the Groups interaction with suppliers and contractors and the giving or receiving of gifts and corporate hospitality.
Before new suppliers are approved, the Groups procedure requires that they must be assessed against the requirements of the anti-bribery and corruption policy.
All employees are required to read the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policy and sign to confirm their acknowledgement, understanding and acceptance of its requirements.
The anti-bribery culture forms part of the induction course for all new employees and is reinforced at subsequent training sessions.
Any employee found to be in breach of these policies will be subject to disciplinary action.
No such disciplinary action has taken place in the year ended 30 September 2018.
The CRO, in conjunction with the Head of Financial Crime, who is part of the second line Risk and Compliance function, is responsible for ensuring the Bribery Act risk assessment and resulting policies and procedures are in place and reviewed on a regular basis.
They are also responsible for ensuring any changes in the law are noted and applied to the Groups policies and procedures, where appropriate.
The Internal Audit Director is responsible for providing assurance that business heads have the appropriate controls in place to ensure all employees adhere to the anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures at all times.
The Group has not been involved in any incidents resulting in prosecutions, fines, or penalties or in similar incidents of non-compliance in respect of bribery and corruption.
PAGE 60 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
