Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 32 Sustainability Sustainability is integral to our strategy and fundamental to achieving our mission to help people make progress in their lives through learning.
Through our 2020 Sustainability Plan, we made a commitment to embed social and environmental issues across our business.
We recognise the role sustainability plays in driving our long-term growth and in helping build a better society.
Our 2020 Sustainability Plan drives us to More information on our performance in As part of our risk management process, find innovative ways to reach new markets each of these areas will be available later company-wide risks are tracked across by helping learners overcome barriers, in 2019 when we publish our 2018 geographies and functions.
keeping abreast of the changing education Sustainability Report, available at See Our material issues matrix p33.
landscape, and earning the trust of our www.
By aligning with the UN Sustainability governance In this section, we: Sustainable Development Goals SDGs, The Reputation & Responsibility Committee, the Plan ensures we think about business Set out the key material issues for a formal committee of the Board, provides success in the context of our wider the company and how these relate ongoing oversight, scrutiny and challenge responsibilities as part of the global to our risk management process on matters relating to our sustainability community.
We have prioritised SDG 4 Outline how sustainability is governed strategy and our corporate reputation.
on quality education, SDG 8 on decent at Pearson Learn more on p106.
work and economic growth and SDG 10 on reducing inequalities.
Report on highlights from each of the The Pearson Executive oversees three pillars.
implementation of business and 2020 Sustainability Plan sustainability strategy.
The Responsible Business Leadership Council drives Our material issues Three focus areas drive our commitment implementation of the strategy on behalf to sustainability: Our 2020 Sustainability Plan is informed by of the Board.
It is chaired by our Chief our material issues those most relevant 1.
Reach more learners Corporate Affairs Officer and comprises to the sustainability of the business.
senior leaders from across the business.
Shape the future of learning They were identified in consultation with senior leaders, employees, external experts 3.
We have prioritised nine key issues, which represent both opportunities for growth as well as operational risks.
We map these sustainability issues against our enterprise risk management process.
Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted 1 learners 2 of learning 3 partner Improve access to and affordability Build skills that foster employability Respect and support our people, of products and services and inclusive economic growth customers, and communities Collaborate to reach Promote education for Protect our natural environment underserved learners sustainable development Build a sustainable supply chain Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 33 33 Our material issues Materiality matrix Learner Economic Data privacy The following matrix shows how we expectations empowerment and security mapped our material issues, and highlights Academic quality Competitiveness the nine that we have prioritised.
of digital products Progression High stakes testing We will evaluate, refine and talk with stakeholders about our material issues on an ongoing basis, in the spirit of 21st century skills Accessibility continuous iteration and improvement.
Security, health and safety Key to material issues Girls and womens empowerment Literacy Affordability and equality Nine material issues in our sustainability Corporate Education for plan and reporting governance sustainable development Lobbying and public GHG emissions and policy Corporate functions climate change Societal issues Digital infrastructure Education industry Environmental issues Disruptive distribution models Degree of control High Medium Low LOW HIGH Business impact Alignment of material issues to principal and other Pearson risks Annual report 2018 Company-wide Sustainability Material issues Principal risk risk Business area risk monitoring Disruptive distribution models YES Global Product 2 Core Competitiveness of digital products 2 Growth Affordability 2 North America Environmental, Social & Governance Learner expectations 2 Academic quality 2 High stakes testing YES Assessment Core 5 Lobbying and public policy YES Core North America 4 Growth Assessment Data privacy and security YES Global Product North America Legal 11 Core Assessment Tech & Ops Growth Digital infrastructure YES Global Product North America Tech & Ops 8 Security, health and safety YES Core Assessment 6 7 Growth Environmental, Social & Governance North America HR 1 Accessibility Assessment Legal Environmental, Social & Governance GHG emissions and climate change Environmental, Social & Governance 1 Emerging risk.
See Principal risks and uncertainties, p62 LOW Stakeholder concern HIGH Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 34 Sustainability Connections Academy, a tuition free, fully-accredited, US-based online public Reach more school for students in grades K12, offers an 1 learners inclusive, collaborative learning experience that meets the unique needs of learners with a wide variety of backgrounds and abilities.
An alternative to brick-and-mortar Commitments: public schools, Connections provides a valuable option for students who are not Improve access to and affordability finding success in the traditional classroom.
of products and services For example, students with serious health Collaborate to reach underserved learners issues, who have been bullied, or are Supporting struggling or advanced academically can Our continued commitment is to better benefit from attending a Connections students with address the needs of vulnerable groups Academy online school.
through our products, services and Smarthinking tutors Our Inclusive Access model helps college partnerships.
We work to identify and students access their materials at a Service: Smarthinking remove barriers to education so that all lower price.
learners can improve their lives regardless In a study we conducted with Morgan of their income level, the way they learn, State University, instructors teaching Accessibility for Learners writing-intensive courses indicated that or their background.
Reaching more with Disabilities their students writing skills, confidence, learners helps us to innovate and grow our Pearson has established a Global and work quality improved as a result business, and it supports our commitment Accessibility Steering Group to drive of the interaction with Pearsons to quality education for all, decent jobs, support for people with disabilities Smarthinking tutors.
and equality in line with the UN SDGs.
through the intentional integration of Morgan State is a leading public research Harnessing the power of new technologies accessibility standards in product university in Maryland.
Many arrive to bring education and opportunities to development.
We are committing to a with a mix of writing skill strengths and more people in more places is central to process of continual improvement to weaknesses.
For the courses in the study, these efforts.
all students were required to use either increase the accessibility of both new Smarthinking or another tutor the first and existing products.
Improve access to and affordability time many of them were exposed to As an employer, we work to ensure that tutoring.
The aim was to help all students, of products and services appropriate procedures, training and especially those who were behind or In 2018, we continued to advance our struggling, feel it is normal to use a tutor support are in place for people with and empower them to use the resource commitment to improve access to and disabilities to ensure fair access to career for other courses going forward.
Students affordability of education through our and progression opportunities.
One of our expressed appreciation for the fast core business offerings.
eight employee resource groups is Pearson turnaround and expert grammar and Able its remit is to improve company Our corporate education benefit writing assistance provided by practice for learners and employees.
programme, Accelerated Pathways see p51, leverages tuition assistance Tomorrows Markets Incubator Learn more at: go.
com funds to help adult learners overcome PearsonMorganState The Tomorrows Markets Incubator challenges to education attainment while develops new products, services, and positively impacting recruitment and business models for low-income and retention initiatives.
Through this benefit, underserved market segments by engaging employees have access to coaches and employees in a robust venture innovation advisors, courses, certificates, degrees, process.
The incubator is Pearsons first step and an education assistance platform that in reaching this market of more than 4 billion support skills and career development.
people in size and $5 trillion in value.
Education programs are delivered online and are mobile optimised, so employees can learn anytime and anywhere.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 35 35 Following a selection process, employee-led Pearson Affordable Learning Fund incubator teams receive seed funding and The Pearson Affordable Learning Fund access to thought leaders and coaches with invests patient capital in independently deep expertise in venture creation for new run, for-profit, education start-ups using markets.
These tools support teams to innovative approaches to improving innovate commercially sustainable and learning outcomes and increasing access, socially impactful solutions, as well as at scale.
develop their own professional skills Social contributions and capabilities.
In 2018 our social contributions comprised Today, the incubator has a global portfolio 4.7m in community contributions and of ventures at different stages of maturity.
1.0m invested in socially innovative Teams are selected by an investment Core4Stem Volunteering business initiatives.
Together this was committee comprising Pearson executives.
equivalent to 1.1% of our pre-tax profits They must demonstrate a compelling, Every year, the San Antonio Hispanic for the year.
It included: feasible commercial solution that will Chamber of Commerce hosts its CORE4 STEM event, which brings together more improve learner outcomes and deliver Social than 5,000 middle school students, from contributions social impact.
five inner city school districts to celebrate Every Child Learning see p35 1.6m STEM education and career opportunities.
Collaborate to reach Tomorrows Markets Incubator 1.0m social In 2018, a group of Pearson volunteers from see p34 innovation underserved learners the Infrastructure and Operations team in Camfed Learner Guides 0.1m Assessment hosted a cloud infrastructure Through partnerships, we are tackling and security simulation at this event, with Project Literacy 1.7m some of the biggest education challenges.
the goal of teaching these 7th and 8th grade Employee Giving 0.7m students how we deliver technology today.
Every Child Learning Employee Volunteering 0.2m The Pearson simulation had students Since 2015, Pearson has been working with Programme Management 0.4m deploy and securely host a discreet Save the Children on Every Child Learning, application in the cloud building basic Total 5.7m a partnership delivering high-quality coding and platform management skills.
education to Syrian refugees and host These are the foundation of the skills that community children in Jordan, and STEM employers need but schools in these innovating new solutions that improve the districts struggle to find support for delivery of education in emergency and the programmes that build these skills, conflict-affected settings.
Between 2015 leaving a gap between the skills students and 2019, Pearson has committed 4.5m.
need and the jobs they want.
Pearson aims to help fill the gap, The project includes Space Hero understanding the skills employers need, Batlalfada, a fun and engaging maths and finding ways to work with schools in learning app, designed by Pearson in the district to help students build these collaboration with refugee and Jordanian skills.
Pearsons simulation at CORE4 STEM children, aged 9-12, to strengthen their was so well received that its going to be Through Every Child Learning, we are maths skills.
In 2018, the app, which is scaled across a number of San Antonio helping Khaled, 11, to achieve his dream available to download for free on Google School Districts.
This is just one way Pearson of becoming a dentist Play, had over 28,000 new users and over is helping to connect the dots between name changed to protect identity.
4,000 weekly average users regularly playing the game.
It is Pearsons highest rated app in the Google Playstore.
Space Hero also supports a broader in-school programme, led by Save the Children, that focuses on teacher training, school-community relations, after-school learning, and psychosocial support.
In 2019, 19 schools will be implementing the Every Child Learning programme, with the aim of impacting over 25,000 children.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 36 Sustainability The pace of change in education is faster than ever before.
We envision a future in Shape the future Be a trusted which learners are equipped with the skills 2 of learning they need to build careers and navigate 3 partner the future of work, and where learning contributes to more inclusive, equitable societies and economies.
Commitments: Commitments: Pearson has focused on guiding students Build skills that foster employability Respect and support our people, toward their career aspirations and and inclusive economic growth customers and communities equipping them with crucial workplace skills.
We help learners prepare to enter specific Promote education for sustainable Protect our natural environment careers delivering vocational training, development Build a sustainable supply chain providing industry-focused qualifications Engage in multi-stakeholder research, and assessments, and teaching skills such dialogue, and collective action to solve We are committed to being the best partner as science, technology, engineering, maths global challenges we can be to learners, educators, suppliers, and English.
and communities: living our values through For example, Pearson Career Success how we do business, treat people, and see p55 aims to meet the needs of both protect the environment.
colleges and employers by providing a digital suite of assessments, learning Respect human rights modules and tools that help students identify career goals and the gaps in Our vision is to respect and promote human their academic and career skills that rights, including the right to education, they need to fill.
throughout our operations and with our customers, employees, contractors, In response to our customers, we have and supply chain.
We have a corporate developed content, courses, qualifications responsibility to respect human rights, and other services that help students and our approach is guided by the learn about sustainability.
By integrating Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  content into our the International Labour Organizations products, we can explore new market declarations on fundamental principles opportunities while making a direct Education and and rights at work, the UN Guiding contribution to the SDGs and inspiring Principles on Business and Human Rights, training for sustainable the next generation to improve their world.
and the UN Global Compact Principles.
We work with a number of authors and development We are a founding signatory to the UN professors who have made sustainability Global Compact, and we are a member of part of the materials they create for In October 2018, Pearson collaborated the Global Compacts UK Local Network.
with Business Fights Poverty, Arizona Pearson.
We have also developed a number State University and the UN Principles for of sustainability qualifications, and have We published our first public Human Rights Responsible Management Education embedded sustainability within BTEC Statement in 2018. an initiative of the UN Global Compact qualifications across sectors, including to publish The Role of Business in We have identified priority human rights engineering, warehouse operations, Education and Training for Sustainable risks and opportunities related to content, animal management, science, and IT.
Based on interviews with learners, partnerships, technology and educators and companies, the report employees, and developed a roadmap to shared insights and recommendations for address them.
We also have policies in business to help people gain the skills and place for key elements of human rights knowledge required to meet sustainability including editorial content, health and challenges, improve lives, and contribute safety, safeguarding and data privacy.
to long-term prosperity and wellbeing.
For more, see the section on compliance in Principal Risks on p62.
Our Business Partner Code of Conduct sets out our requirements of third parties and, as part of our global approach to procurement, we include specific obligations relating to human rights compliance in new and renewed supplier agreements and we audit suppliers in high-risk categories.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 37 37 A priority across the value chain is to We had a 57% completion rate.
We are in Respect and progress ensure our activities are free from slavery, the process of reviewing the results with our employees servitude, forced or compulsory labour Executive Management to produce clear, Our employees are integral to delivering and human trafficking.
A statement on the tangible action plans with specific focus Pearsons mission.
Last year, we adopted steps taken by Pearson to combat modern areas and measurements that will help four key strategies: slavery was approved by the Board and drive us forward.
can be viewed on the Pearson website Provide integrated people solutions that In October, we hosted an Innovation Jam, www.
empower the business to drive results, which was an online, employee-driven outcomes, growth and employability discussion to openly exchange perspectives Deliver relevant, appropriate, for learners and ideas to support Pearsons growth, and inclusive content in line with our five year strategy.
Establish Pearson as an employer of choice for diverse talent across the world In creating our products, we think Support our culture, specifically about the culture, background, Cultivate a high-performing global and age of the learners that will access our mission and values workforce that innovates and delivers content.
We have implemented a common dynamic learning experiences Our values to be brave, imaginative, Editorial Policy across Pearson to guide decent and accountable continue to product development teams and individuals Promote lifelong learning and digital guide us in implementing our strategy.
involved in the content creation process on skills development to create an agile and They are embedded into our performance ensuring content is aligned to Pearsons mobile workforce assessment, which means all employees values, and prevent inappropriate content Pearson continues to manage considerable are evaluated on and rewarded for acting from being published.
The policy is overseen amounts of change both within the consistently with them.
by a cross-regional and functional steering business and outside it.
Our simplification committee, chaired by a member of our The Pearson Code of Conduct underpins programme is ahead of plan due to an executive team, which provides a space for our values by setting out the global ethical, increase and acceleration of savings escalation and issue resolution.
A network social and environmental standards of delivered as a result of the recent of 35 policy champions are responsible behaviour we expect from employees, implementation of our enterprise resource for implementation and act as a point of and we have a companion code for planning system.
The difficult but necessary escalation for queries in our businesses business partners.
changes we have been making will allow and markets around the world.
us to speed up innovation, provide The Code was reviewed and refreshed in better customer experiences, eliminate 2018 and included an interactive training Safeguarding and duplication, and increase scalability in course combined with the certification protecting learners the long-term.
We continue to do all we of the Code.
We make sure everyone in can to support our colleagues through Pearson is aware of the Code and confirms We continue to view safeguarding as our this transformation, through regular they understand and will comply with it.
fundamental obligation to learners and a communication and detailed consultation, In 2018, we achieved our target of 100% high priority for Pearson.
We have a set of and providing support for those leaving completion by all employees.
The Code is safeguarding principles and we agreed a the company.
also assigned as part of the on-boarding new safeguarding strategy for 2018-2020, process for all new Pearson employees.
which includes a focus on safeguarding in We are investing in talent and succession, online and digital environments.
In addition, helping our leaders and their teams define Many of the areas covered by the Code we implemented a new set of safeguarding and develop new skills and capabilities, are supported by detailed policies and metrics.
We also completed a gap analysis creating a rich and growing pipeline procedures, including: anti-bribery and on the safeguarding assurance processes of diverse talent.
We work to inform, corruption, health and safety, and for each business.
Safeguarding has been support and equip colleagues to work safeguarding.
Learn more about identified as a principal risk under our collaboratively, and we encourage and these issues in our section on Principal enterprise risk management system and reward high performance.
there is more information on p60.
We are also committed to provide a safe We operate a free, independent, confidential and healthy work environment for our telephone helpline and website available employees and the learners we serve to anyone who wants to raise a concern.
see the Principal Risks section on p63 We have a clear non-retaliation policy in for more detail.
place to encourage people to share the Key performance indicators: issues they have and we gauge how In 2018, a key focus was innovation and comfortable people are in raising concerns Safeguarding organisational health.
We conducted a in our employee engagement survey.
company-wide organisational health survey to 22,000 permanent global employees 100% in 13 languages plus an accessible version.
of targeted identified actions addressed Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 38 Sustainability A plan to help our employee resource Foster diversity, equality Key performance indicators: groups at Pearson evolve and mature.
and inclusion Gender diversity The networks are for women, parents, Every person is unique whether that be in veterans, Latinos, the LGBT community, Women in Pearson % terms of age, gender, identity, race, ethnicity, employees across generations, people with religion, disability, sexual orientation, disabilities and employees of black and or At Board level, 30% of our members were education, learning style, national origin, African ancestry.
A new group launched female as at the end of 2018.
As a founding personality type as well as across a range of member of the 30% Club, we have endorsed this year that focuses on the Black, and committed to work towards the target of many other factors.
At Pearson, we value a Asian and Minority Ethnic communities a minimum of 33% representation of women diverse workforce and a workplace which within Pearson.
Below are key gender reflects our learners the customers we Our work on diversity and inclusion representation segments over the past serve around the world.
By celebrating and three years: continued to gain external marketplace leveraging diversity, we can better harness recognition.
In 2018, Pearson was our collective skills and talents, our 2016 2017 2018 recognised as follows: imagination and ideas to design and deliver Board of Directors 30% 30% 30% 3 the best services and solutions for all Named in the 2018 Forbes list of Americas Senior leadership 32% 30% 31% 33 learners.
Our approach is described in best employers for diversity and inclusion: All employees 60% 61% 62% 17,065 our Diversity & Inclusion Statement.
Successful in scoring 100% in the Two reporting lines from the Chief Executive.
In 2018, we appointed a senior global leader 2018 Corporate Equality Index run by In the UK, the government introduced to drive this agenda and conducted a the Human Rights Campaign: regulations designed to help address the comprehensive review of the diversity and gender pay gap.
Pearson has provided Recognised as having one of the top 50 inclusion practice at Pearson, which resulted information on its gender pay gap in the leading global LGBT Ally Executives by in a new diversity framework, governance UK see go.
com GenderPayReport the FT OutStanding: and measurement models, a set of global and has made a commitment to extend our reporting globally by 2020.
Our action plan to priorities and a maturity model for evolving Awarded the Dynamic Mentoring address the gap is global in scope and focuses our employee resource groups into business Organisation of the Year for a second year on five key areas: resource groups.
Highlights include: by the 30% Club and Women Ahead for a Supporting, mentoring, and fostering programme led by our employee resource A new Diversity & Inclusion Council led the professional development of high group on gender.
by the CEO to provide strategic oversight potential women: and to extend our work into many more Encouraging the empowerment of women markets and countries.
The Council Improve health and safety and the formation of networks: includes business leaders, allies and Our people work in diverse locations around Improving recruitment and pipeline advocates, as well as representatives from the world, including schools, colleges, test practices to enhance senior female our ten employee resource groups.
centres, offices, data centres, call centres, representation: A set of seven priorities which will guide printing sites, warehouses, as well as remote Shaping our policies and culture around our 2019 action plan and major initiatives.
To be a sustainable company and a returning to work and flexible working: and, These include a focus on improving gender trusted partner we must ensure the safety Ensuring the consistent engagement of representation at the top two levels of the and wellbeing of our people no matter executive management and senior leaders company as well as improving the racial where they are working.
in Diversity and Inclusion initiatives.
diversity for manager roles and above At the beginning of 2018, we revised our initially focusing on the United States.
Key performance indicators: A significantly expanded global network This updated strategy included a Health and safety of Diversity and Inclusion Advocates who significantly revised Global Health and provide support to advance our practice in Safety Policy and Standards, to which their businesses and geographic locations.
21,194 87% of our employees have certified 92% their understanding of in our learning of our H&S standards have been fully management system.
A global network of implemented around the world.
nearly 150 H&S coordinators also work to ensure the H&S management system is 96% implemented and maintained in their of open H&S findings from audits prior to business.
H&S has been identified as a 2018 have been fully resolved.
principal risk under our enterprise risk management system and is subject to 82 regular reporting to the Reputation & H&S Coordinators were trained and successfully Responsibility Committee, a Board-level certified in Institution of Occupational Heath and Safety IOSH Managing Safely course in 2018.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 39 39 Protect our natural environment Key performance indicators: Global Greenhouse Gas emissions data Greenhouse gas GHG emissions is one Metric tonnes of CO e of our material sustainability issues and 2 climate change remains a focus for us Emissions from 2009 2016 2017 2018 as one of the most serious issues facing the Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities planet.
Minimising our environmental GHG Protocol Scope 1 44,649 19,093 15,691 13,057 impact is not just the right thing to do: Electricity GHG Protocol Scope 2 location based 130,395 77,579 61,047 49,920 it helps deliver operational efficiencies.
Electricity GHG Protocol Scope 2 market based 4,583 The supply chain cost of our energy use Emissions relating to air and rail travel, electricity and business travel accounts for around transmission, waste and water GHG Protocol 1% of our spend.
This is where we have the scope 3 35,262 29,714 27,646 21,672 most control and where we have focused our efforts to date.
Energy cost does not Total Location based 210,306 126,385 104,384 84,649 feature as a Principal Risk for the company.
Total Market based 39,312 We know that our stakeholders expect good environmental stewardship, which is why Intensity ratios 2009 2016 2017 2018 GHG emissions was identified as a material Sales Revenue m 5,624 4,552 4,513 4,129 sustainability issue for the company.
Scope 1 & 2 location 175,044 96,672 76,738 62,977 Our Environment Policy provides more Scope 1 & 2 market 17,640 information on our approach.
Scope 1 & 2 sales revenue location 31.12 21.24 17.00 15.25 We maintained our climate neutral status Scope 1 & 2 sales revenue market 4.27 for our directly controlled operations a commitment first introduced in 2009.
FTE 32,716 30,339 24,322 Scope 1 2 FTE 2.95 2.53 2.59 Our strategy is: Methodology: We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006.
Reduction: Through both the These sources fall within our consolidated financial statement.
We do not have responsibility for any emission rationalisation of our portfolio and sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, using the energy efficiency, as well as divestments, location-based scope 2 calculation method, together with the latest emission factors from recognised public we reduced our energy consumption vs sources, including, but not limited to, the UK Department for Business Energy & Industrial Strategy, the our 2009 baseline by 60%.
International Energy Agency, the US Energy Information Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
The data in the table above has been 2.
Renewables: We maintained our record independently verified by Corporate Citizenship.
of purchasing 100% of the electricity we use from renewable sources and generate our We have a policy on the sustainable sourcing Our work is informed by the Task Force on own renewable electricity at four of our sites of paper, which resulted in over 86% of the Climate-related Financial Disclosures, and down from five as one site with renewables paper we purchased in 2018 in the UK being we will use its guidance to improve our was sold in 2018. certified to an environmental standard such environmental disclosures.
as the Forest Stewardship Council FSC or 3.
Offset: Since 2009, we have offset the In 2018, we also started to more accurately Programme for the Endorsement of Forest emissions from our energy and fuel understand the wider carbon emissions Certification PEFC.
Pearson is a member consumption and business travel.
Going forward we of industry bodies dedicated to responsible will continue to work with our suppliers to In 2018 we were recertified against the forest management.
We hold FSC chain better understand the sustainability risks Carbon Trust Standard for our global of custody in the UK as does LSC and opportunities associated with the operations.
Pearson was the second ever Communication, our outsource partner in products and services we buy.
organisation to secure the standard, North America, allowing books in those which recognises leadership in measuring, markets to carry the FSC label.
managing and reducing year-on-year carbon emissions.
We also continue to be certified against ISO 14001, the environmental management standard in the UK and Australia.
This standard incorporates both internal and external audit.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 40 Sustainability Sustainability rankings Inclusion in Global 100 most sustainable corporations Corporate Knights Non-financial information statement The following table outlines where the key contents requirements of the Non-Financial Statement as required by sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006 can be found in this document.
In addition, our annual sustainability report www.
com sustainability contains more detail on these topics and follows international reporting frameworks including the Global Reporting Initiative, UN Global Compact, and UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Reporting requirement Pearson policies and procedures Section of annual report Environmental matters Environment Policy Protect our natural environment, p39 Paper Purchasing Policy Employees Code of Conduct Respect and progress our employees, p37 Human Rights Statement Support our culture, mission and values, p38 Raising Concerns and Anti-Retaliation Policy Global Health and Safety Policy and Standards Diversity & Inclusion statement Human rights Human Rights Statement Respect human rights, p36 Editorial Policy Support our culture, mission and values, p37 Modern Slavery Statement Respect and progress our employees, p37 Safeguarding Principles Deliver relevant, appropriate, and inclusive content, p37 Social matters Human Rights Statement Social contributions, p35 Anti-corruption and bribery Code of Conduct Support our culture, mission and values p37 Pearson Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC Policy Risk management, p60 Raising Concerns and Anti-Retaliation Policy Legal and compliance, p74 Policy embedding, due diligence and outcomes Risk management, p60 Sustainability, p32 Description of principal risks and impact of business activity Risk management, p60 Description of business model Strategy, p18 Non-financial key performance indicators Sustainability, p32 Publicly available policies in the list above can be found at: go.
com OurPolicies Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 41 41 Its critical that we recognise the importance of technical and vocational education.
Alternate pathways to education CINDY RAMPERSAUD % 90 SVP, BTEC & APPRENTICESHIPS Education has been a powerful enabler BTEC students who are for change but today is still focused employed full time on academics acquiring knowledge I have been at Pearson for a little over a after graduation in a traditional way where success is year and I oversee our BTECs specialist Source: HESA measured by passing exams.
Skills work-related qualifications, grounded technical and vocational education in the real world of work and available % have often been seen as too alternative in schools, colleges and universities 62 a pathway.
Large UK companies have recruited graduates with a Yet, these are the skills soft and hard For my own personal journey of learning BTEC Source: CBI Skills skills alike learners will need for the and discovery from a student in the Survey 2018 jobs of tomorrow.
Its critical that we mid 80s to a career in the entertainment recognise the importance of technical industry across retail, film and music, and vocational education, and our to my current role in education discovery BTECs and Apprenticeship programmes and technology have played a key role.
Theyre helping us keep The future of jobs pace with a landscape that now sees As technology transforms big-player technical and vocational education industries like education, were finding as a key driver for growth, increased that new jobs and careers are surfacing productivity preparing for the yet around every corner.
The challenge right to be imagined future.
now is how you and I prepare ourselves To embrace a future that is constantly and future generations for the world changing, we need to create a culture that five, 10 and 20 years out.
What is clear fosters a love of lifelong learning because to me is that education and a culture of its only through this that well be able to lifelong learning have a crucial role to face the changes head-on as we prepare play in preparing us for that yet to be for the jobs of tomorrow.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 42 A high-stakes, computer-based English language test trusted by universities, colleges and governments around the world.
PTE Academic is a high-stakes, In 2018 the Australian Department PTE Academic computer based English language of Home Affairs renewed its test that people take to prove their endorsement of PTE Academic 77m English skills for studying abroad in supporting the Australian visa Revenues and visa applications.
programme for a further two years.
PTE Academic was first approved to The Test has seen 30% volume growth 30% support Australian visa applications in in 2018 with further growth expected Test volume growth 2014 and has quickly become the test in 2019.
PTE Academic is delivered in Aligned to strategic priority, p23 2 of choice for Australian student and hundreds of test centres year round, migration visa applicants.
providing learners with the flexibility DIGITAL CAPABILITIES they need.
Automated speech recognition David Barnett Pearson Managing Director, Automated marking and scoring Asia Pacific Advanced biometrics It is accepted at prestigious institutions including Harvard Business School, Yale and the University of Melbourne.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 43 43
