PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our people We strengthened Group-wide engagement through our new people strategy and a common vision Bringing resources to life while carryingout ourfirst ever Group-wide engagement surveyandintroducing HomeSafe.
People strategy Group-wide management of our new people strategy HomeSafe talented people doing great things for our customers As its name implies, HomeSafe is about ensuring staff get to andeach other is led by our Group director of HR.
The six work safely, enjoy a safe and healthy working environment, threads: leadership: culture: people processes: compliance: andarrive home without incident at the end of each working training: and talent are helping us to focus more than ever day.
It was created in consultation with employees to ensure on being a place where people enjoy working.
realneeds are addressed by the programme content.
In August 2017, we held a Stand-Up for HomeSafe event involving over As part of our commitment to improve two-way 4,000 employees to formally launch the concept right across communications with our workforce, we asked our people the Group.
A three-week pilot programme at Viridors materials across the Group what they feel makes us unique as a recycling facility in Plymouth, in December 2017, further business and what motivates them.
We complemented this refinedthe concept and safety behavioural tools.
A series of with sessions with the Groups leadership, our employee interactive and highly visual learning events taught staff about key standards, processes and expectations in H&S, including survey data and external benchmarking.
The results guidance on understanding workplace hazards, identifying showed we had much in common across the Group in opportunities for improvement and how to apply appropriate terms of what we value and a shared sense of purpose in safety rules.
Daily training sessions allowed content, teaching the work we do.
This insight allowed us to develop a new materials and tools to be streamlined.
Informal evaluations vision: Bringing resources to life, with its associated values afterthe pilot showed staff warmly welcomed the HomeSafe of trusted, responsible, collaborative and progressive.
HomeSafe is now being deployed across Pennon, Workto embed our new vision and engage employees, involving 6,500 staff and agency workers.
customers and shareholders is underway.
Workforce engagement Involving our staff in the decisions we make helps us deliver the right business solutions.
A company can only be as good as its people so our Group HR team is finding new ways to enhance Pennon employees voice so that our people feel empowered.
well-established staff council at South West Water.
An open, transparent and safe working environment, where workers A landmark was our first Group-wide employee survey.
feel able to speak up and are supported if they do so, is Wewere pleased to see a high response rate of 75% with encouraged by Speak Up, our whistleblowing policy.
aTrust Index score of 60% and an Engagement Score of Health and safety H&S 67%.
Our Trust Index is above the UK national average, As well as launching HomeSafe across the Group in but slightly below the 70% threshold for being considered 2017, wecontinued to look to strengthen other areas of aBest Workplace.
The survey identified clear Group ourH&Sapproach.
New training for supervisory staff, strengths in communication and involvement, trust, languagelessons for our non-English speaking workers and diversity, and empowerment and accountability.
It also safety behavioural training for our front line employees all revealed areas requiring further work.
We also created a broader set of H&S indicators to continuing to ensure our people understand the Groups improve management information and insights, and safety strategy and direction, as well as maintaining our focus performance.
In addition to recording RIDDOR injuries onembedding our values into everything we do, while andillhealth cases, we now also record lost time injuries.
recognising the contribution made by our employees.
Thisbroader data set allows for a better understanding OurGroup-wide turnover rate in 2017 18 was 15.86%.
ofinjury causes and allows us to benchmark against other Other initiatives include our quarterly Senior Leadership companies across many sectors.
Werecorded 89 lost time Forum which brings together leaders from across the Group injuries in 2017, a 28.2% reduction compared with 2016. to ensure they are engaged in our strategy and The Big For2018, we will review the current safety performance Chat, which gives employees the chance to put questions to measures to ensure they remain the most appropriate.
We also introduced our six-monthly Employee Voice Forum at Viridor to complement the A lost time injury is defined as any work related injury that results in a person being unfit for work on any day beyond the day of the incident.
26 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 South West Water Many front-line operational roles are regulated and As at 31 March 2018, 14,379 formal supported by high-quality training standards.
Training trainingdays had been recorded isaccredited and reviewed periodically to ensure high standards are maintained.
We keep a register of personal foremployees across Pennon.
training and skills and individuals receive a photo ID card displaying the training and skills programmes completed Further enhancements to the way we record and report H&S and associated expiry dates.
events include introducing a new Incident Management Viridor System and associated standards and processes to provide Viridors workforce represents more than 40 different better, more accessible, real-time data, allowing further nationalities, with a high percentage of Polish workers, and, insights and actions to aid learning and prevention.
inApril 2017, we partnered with RWS Language Solutions Employee training and development RWS to provide interpretation and translation services.
This We remain committed to investing in the development partnership enables key documents such as site operating ofour staff: we want to recognise talent across the Group.
procedures and health and safety policies to be translated Wesupport employees at all levels through training into native languages.
RWS also provides interpreters, where anddevelopment, helping to increase productivity, job necessary, to ensure workers understand what is expected satisfaction and safety, as well as developing our next of them and can work in as safe a manner as possible.
generation of leaders by encouraging people to develop Diversity and equal opportunities their knowledge, skills and competencies.
The Board continues to promote equality of opportunity The Governments apprenticeship reforms and introduction and diversity across the Group in all areas, including of the apprenticeship levy are helping us prioritise gender and ethnicity.
This remains a key area of focus development for new and existing employees to address see both the Nomination Committee report page 81 key skills shortages.
Pennon plays an active role in andthe Directors Report page 102 for further details.
developing skills and raising training standards across Inline with all organisations with 250 or more employees, thewater and waste industry through our membership of we published details of our gender pay gap for the first the Energy and Utility Skills Council and we have partnered time.
As a Group we have a mean average pay gap of 5.5% with award-winning vocational training provider System with South West Water at 4.0% and Viridor at 6.9%.
These Group to develop employees in engineering, driver training, figures are more favourable than the national average.
project management and team leadership.
Gender diversity Code of Conduct Across Pennon Group, the workforce comprises 80% male In June 2017, we introduced the new Pennon Code and 20% female employees.
This gender split reflects the ofConduct.
To ensure everybody has the same traditional male-dominated industry.
In our water business, understanding of what the new Code means, all 27% of the employees are female, which is consistent with employeeswere required to complete an e-learning previous years.
In Viridor, 85% of the employees are male.
This was followed by ancillary training on Across the Group, 23% of the senior managers are female anti-bribery and anti-corruption, and the acceptance of which again remains consistent with the previous year.
gifts and hospitality, to ensure we have strong compliance Addressing diversity has been a priority for us and we across theGroup.
Training on the Code and our legal believe we should do more to access the wealth of diverse compliance policies is compulsory for all our workers.
We have developed a six point Further information is provided on page 72. plan to help make Pennon a more diverse place to work read more at www.
