STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT THE GROUPS MISSION IS TO IMPROVE OUTCOMES FOR CUSTOMERS, WHILST DELIVERING VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS.
THE GROUP HAS RESPONSIBILITIES TO A NUMBER OF OTHER STAKEHOLDERS INCLUDING ITS SUPPLIERS, COLLEAGUES, COMMUNITY PARTNERS AND THE ENVIRONMENT.
THE MANAGEMENT OF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ISTHEREFORE CONSIDERED KEY TO LONG-TERM SUCCESS.
OVERVIEW The Group has four areas of strategic OUR OUR focus which support the fulfilment ofour mission, including improving CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS customer outcomes, driving value, managing capital and engaging 10 million policies with 226 billion Following the acquisition of ourpeople.
Further detail can be ofassets under administration.
StandardLife Assurance Limited, viewed within Our Strategy and Key products andservices include theGroup now has c. 1,000 suppliers KeyPerformance Indicators from with-profit, unit-linked, non-profit of which c. 70 are considered page18.
annuities, non-profit protection Material Service Providers.
By continuing to engage with our key Read more on stakeholders on a regular basis, the P50 Read more on Group is able to balance the needs P48 ofall, taking into account different perspectives, whilst delivering against the Groups strategic priorities.
Policies are in place to provide a clear OUR OUR COMMUNITY risk and governance framework, asoutlined in more detail for each COLLEAGUES PARTNERS stakeholder group.
Over 4,000 colleagues based across A range of community partners Positive stakeholder engagement Europe supporting Phoenix Group, including charities, schools, remains of paramount importance Phoenix Life, Standard Life Assurance hospicesand local community tothe Groups Corporate and SunLife, and within its operational groupshave benefited from Responsibility agenda.
sites: Wythall, London, Basingstoke, theGroups support during Bristol, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dublin the year.
Read more on P54 Read more on P51 OUR OUR ENVIRONMENT INVESTORS The Group is committed to managing The Group maintains an active and reducing its environmental dialogue with its investors impact and considers the ongoing throughoutthe year.
effects of climate change on its operations.
Read more on P58 Read more on P56 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 Go online for the full Corporate and Social Responsibility Report www.
com CRreport2018 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 47 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED LISTENING TO CUSTOMERS Operationally, Phoenix has selected OUR Diligenta, the FCA regulated subsidiary Listening to the needs and wants of Tata Consultancy Services, as its ofcustomers is helpful in delivering CUSTOMERS preferred outsource partner to deliver goodcustomer outcomes.
Feedback is asingle, digitally enhanced outsourcer gathered through automated telephone The Group recognises the platform that will improve customer surveys, individual research projects and responsibility it has to all of its outcomes and deliver cost savings most recently through talking with the customers, as both custodian of forlegacy-Phoenix Life policies wider customer community about their their financial assets and supplier c. 5.5 million customers.
experiences and how they like to engage of their pension needs or life cover.
These interactions help Treating Customers Fairly is at the Within Standard Life Assurance to shape communications and future heart of the business, and we aim to over11,000 customers moved into propositions that may be of interest.
provide a responsible, fair and drawdown in the year.
Digital was the helpful service.
channel of choice for the majority of Within Phoenix Life improvements these customers, followed by telephony included an online facility for some service.
Over 3 million logins were customers within the retirement recorded across 2018, with the process, the launch of secure e-mail The Phoenix Life website 24 7 mobile app being the easiest asan alternative communication can be accessed at wayfor customers to interact.
channel, and improvements to the www.
co. uk For customers innon-advised Active presentation ofannual statements Money Pension Plandrawdowns, the andcommunications.
Read more about key Group developed an online retirement customer engagement review to help customers assess their activities undertaken Within Standard Life Assurance during the year on investment choices based improvements for workplace members P18 and 20 on objectives.
and clients included extended opening hours, implementation of a new voice CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS recognition system, a new online The Groups Customer Treatment Risk The Group acknowledges that mistakes registration process and amendments policy covers risks arising from the can happen, but where they do it aims tothe investment switching journey design or management of products, toput things right as soon as it can.
Face-to-face orfrom the failure to meet or exceed A robust oversight model is in place to retirement roadshows were held reasonable customer expectations, continually monitor complaint activity nationwide, reaching c. 2,000 individuals taking account of regulatory including those complaints that are in 19 locations.
Customer treatment risks referred to the independent services success, retirement webinars were are aligned to the areas of focus in the ofthe Financial Ombudsman Service launched.
Best practice is shared with colleagues DIGITAL PROPOSITION across the industry to improve complaintDuring the year the Group has continued handling services.
Work is carried out to develop its digital offering for customers.
with internal teams to ensure that causes The Phoenix Life website allows visitors of complaints are addressed in a timely 24 7 access to policy information, whilst manner.
A significant proportion of reducing the volume of paperwork complaints are resolved across the routinely issued.
Selected customers Group, in less than three days, which can access a secure website where isakey performance indicator for the they can review and update their complaints team andresults in a personal information, view policy betterexperience for customers.
POLICYHOLDERS HAVE DILIGENTLY SAVED FOR MANY YEARS INTHEIRPOLICIES, AND IT IS UNFORTUNATE THAT THE BENEFITS MAYHAVEBEEN LEFT UNCLAIMED.
WE ARE DELIGHTED TO HAVEBEENABLETO REPATRIATE SO MANY OF THESE LOST  OWNERS.
DAVID WOOLLETT CUSTOMER DIRECTOR, PHOENIX LIFE PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 48 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Over 80% of cases referred to the The Group introduced a proactive Financial Ombudsman Service from campaign to ensure the customer or Phoenix Life were found to be in their estate benefited.
They enlisted the 2,380 agreement with the decision made, help of external tracing companies and giving the Group useful insight and obtained copies of death certificates, UNCLAIMED POLICIES REUNITED assurance into how well complaints probate and wills in the process.
WITHRIGHTFUL OWNERS FOLLOWING EXTENSIVE TRACING EXERCISES arebeing handled.
Phoenix Life has also recently implemented an enhanced gone-away PROTECTING CUSTOMERS process across its outsource partners to FROM PENSION SCAMS allow the Group to re-engage andcommunicate with more Phoenix The Group is dedicated to protecting Life customers.
itscustomers from financial crime, including pension scams.
The Group 12.7m LONG-TERM SAVINGS continues to engage with Regulatory COMMITTEE APPOINTMENT REUNITED POLICIES VALUE Authorities and Industry Working The Association of British Insurers Groups on pension scams and looks at ways to better protect customers from ABI has appointed Susan McInnes, becoming victims of pension scams.
CEO of Standard Life Assurance Limited The Group continues to raise awareness and Director of Open Business as chair of scams and warns its policyholders to its Long-term Savings Committee.
toremain vigilant of the evolving In addition she has taken a seat on methods of fraudsters.
theABI Board and previously held therole of chair to the Long-Standing REUNITING CUSTOMERS Customers Committee.
The Long-term WITH LOST POLICIES Savings Committee oversees the direction of all the ABI policy work Phoenix Life reunited 2,380 unclaimed inrelation to pension savings and policies with their rightful owner or next retirement.
Current priorities include the of kin following an extensive tracing delivery of the pension dashboard and exercise.
The work commenced in supporting customers to make the most September 2016 and to date has reunited of their new choices at retirement.
CUSTOMERS IN VULNERABLE CIRCUMSTANCES Phoenixs vulnerable customer strategy aims to address vulnerability to theextent that the right outcomes for customers are achieved regardless ofwhether they are living in vulnerable circumstances.
The Groups key objective is to be able to recognise vulnerability and then beequipped to take the appropriate action to address it.
This is being achieved by having frameworks and practical guidance in place to support the strategy, whilst ensuring there is an appropriate awareness and positive culture instilled throughout the Group in respect of vulnerability.
Within Phoenix Group Phoenix Life an online training module on customer vulnerability was designed and delivered by Money Advice Trust.
Alongside this, colleagues have become dementia friends, with awareness sessions delivered by Phoenixs inhouse dementia champions, helping the Group work towards becoming a dementia-friendly business.
The digital team is currently working on a proposal which will look to enhance online accessibility catering for varying customer needs.
Within Standard Life Assurance the Customer Operations team hasbeen working in partnership with Age Scotland and Alzheimer Scotlandto deliver training to help colleagues better understand how tohandle calls withvulnerable customers.
An extensive training programme took place across 2018 which involved face-to-face and e-learning modules.
This training programme won Excellence in Skills in Learning and Development at the 2018 Contact Centre Association Awards.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 49 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED For Material Service Providers, Act 2015.
The statement details the OUR Phoenixhas a dedicated professional policies Phoenix has in place and the relationship manager assigned.
ongoing actions that will be taken to SUPPLIERS Their role is to govern the relationship, continue to support the combating of measure and monitor performance modern slavery and human trafficking The Group has c. 1,000 suppliers of andwork to continually improve insupply chains.
which c. 70 are considered Material outcomes forall stakeholders.
FINANCIAL CRIME PREVENTION The Groups Sourcing and Procurement In order to ensure that any financial crime Following the acquisition of policy sets the minimum operating matters or occurrences are effectively Standard Life Assurance Limited in standards relating to the management of managed, the Group has a number August 2018, Aberdeen Standard sourcing and procurement risk throughout ofpolicies and practices in operation.
Investments has become one of the the Group and forms part of the sourcing The Groups Anti-Bribery policy addresses Groups key strategic partners.
bribery and corruption risks alongside the Financial Crime policy which addresses Phoenix is organised so that the risks such as anti-money laundering and The Groups Modern Slavery and Human Commercial Partnerships team fraud.
Both policies detail the minimum Trafficking Statement is available at manages a decentralised procurement control standards and risks that are to be www.
com mss model for low value low volume managed to mitigate any potential issues.
spend, to enable the business to The Groups Anti-Bribery Statement operate flexibly but within the controls is available on the Groups website at Adherence to the Anti-Bribery and www.
com abs of the Sourcing and Procurement Financial Crime policies is managed policy.
This has a robust oversight bythe Financial Crime team via andgovernance model, administered assessments of the minimum control SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT and managed by the Commercial standards that make up the policies, Phoenix relies heavily on its service Partnerships team.
aswell as themed Financial Crime providers to support the deliveryof its Reviewsand Assurance testing.
corporate objectives and management PROMPT PAYMENT CODE actions, whilst satisfying the outcomes The Groups culture is to meet its Colleagues are required to complete required for all stakeholder groups.
obligations including paying suppliers annual computer-based training A key part of ensuring this takes place promptly.
The Group voluntarily signed aroundboth financial crime prevention ismanaging the Groups supply chain theGovernments Prompt Payment and adherence with the Code of ina sustainable and ethical manner.
Codein 2012 and from January 2018 Business Ethics and Ethical Conduct.
hasbeen submitting relevant statements Colleagues are also required to complete Sourcing and Procurement at Phoenix under the Small Business, Enterprise and a Gifts and Hospitality Register which is is far broader than the initial evaluation Employment Act 2015 for the duty to overseen and managedby the Financial and selection process in that it ensures report payment practices.
that a beneficial relationship for key committed to supply chain sustainability stakeholders is implemented and and supports the culture of prompt The Group has a zero tolerance towards managed.
The Group works closely payment in the business community.
bribery and corruption in all its forms withits partners in order to closely andadheres to the 2010 Bribery Act.
monitor the operational and financial MODERN SLAVERY Service providers are advised of and performance from Material Service engaged in the zero tolerance approach Phoenix Group takes active steps to Providers for any indications of tobribery and corruption and are ensure its supply chain is not engaging instability and steps are taken where expected to comply with Phoenixs inany form of modern slavery or human necessary and appropriate to mitigate minimum control standards.
In March 2018 a statement risks to Phoenix or its stakeholders.
was published on the Group website No instances or breaches were recorded pursuant to Section 54, Part 6 of the during the year.
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Note: 1 A M aterial Service Provider has been identified by theGroup as a key supplier due to the nature of the services they provide.
c. 1,000 SUPPLIERS PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 50 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION The minimum control standards in place The outcomes were shared with OUR enable effective management around the colleagues and provided a clear framework attraction, recruitment, development and for how individuals are recognised, COLLEAGUES engagement of colleagues, whilst ensuring developed and recruited.
The values were compliance with any legislation and continually reinforced throughout the year We are an employer of choice external regulatory requirements.
and culminated in an employee-led offering rewarding careers and recognition awards process, whereby opportunities, promoting physical, Adherence to this policy is managed by colleagues were asked to nominate financial and mental wellbeing the Group HR department via quarterly individuals who they believed displayed in the workplace and empowering assessment of the minimum control particular values across the year.
There were no material issues raised during the year.
The Group operates a Whistleblowing policy, prompting colleagues to disclose Read more about key employee This section details the actions taken information where they believe engagementactivities undertaken and outcomes achieved across the year.
wrongdoing, malpractice or risk exists duringtheyear on across any of Phoenixs operations.
P26 EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION Colleagues are encouraged to speak up about matters that concern them, with Read more about diversity and The Big Conversation was a significant inclusiononour website at theunderstanding that confidentiality listening exercise that was undertaken www.
within Phoenix Group and Phoenix Life at the start of the year to raise the level of Colleagues within Standard Life dialogue around the Groups values, and The Groups Human Resources HR Assurancehave access to Vivo, provided greater clarity around associated policy defines people risk, which, if anemployee consultation group based behaviours.
Through a series of facilitated unmanaged, could result in a reduction onsite.
Championing the employee voice, workshops and online channels, colleagues inearnings or value, through financial itprovides support and advice when were given the opportunity to voice their orreputational loss.
employees need it most, and is actively opinions on what they perceived as engaged in any decisions affecting positive or negative behaviours, with working life.
aview to developing a common understanding across all levels of the business.
The plan identifies talent across the In addition, the Group participated for a broader organisation.
Growing talent second year in the Actuarial Mentoring continues to deliver the Groups Programme, providing support and mostsenior appointments and guidance to newly qualified talentprogrammes in Accounting, female actuaries.
Actuarial and Change help to As part of the Early Careers identifyfuture leaders.
proposition, Standard Life Assurance The Group also selects key partners currently has 24 graduates who form toprovide a wide range of learning part of the Graduate Development andcontinual professional Programme based inEdinburgh, in development opportunities including cohorts from 2017 and2018.
the Chartered Management Institute, In addition 10 mentors areactively Corndell, MovingAhead and the engaged in providing ACCA.
Relationships continue with monthlymentoring sessions to business schools and executive youngpeople across the Edinburgh coaches todevelop the Groups area, through theCareer Ready LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT mostsenior talent pipeline.
The Talent and Development teamdesigns and delivers a varied The Professional Womens Network The Group has fully utilised the programmeof learning and launched a mentoring scheme with Apprenticeship levy funding working development activities including Moving Ahead which is available to inpartnership with Corndell and has leadership development, talent colleagues across the Group and at over 100 programmes underway programmes, skills training, online anylevel.
Over 100 mentoring pairs including Project Management, learning, coachingand mentoring.
arecurrently working together, Leadership, Data analytics and breakingdown silos and developing Accountancy enabling skill As part of the Groups HR processes, aculture ofmentoring, learning and developmentacross the Phoenix there is an established succession knowledge sharing.
planwhich tracks internal succession across all material roles and enables appropriate assessment of skills gaps.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 51 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED CULTURAL SURVEY This group is invited to meet with the Carers Network and Working Parents management team on a quarterly basis Network are two groups providing In the absence of an engagement survey to share views and shape future education and support to colleagues for 2018, the Group issued a cultural engagement activity.
A similar network with varying caring responsibilities survey to colleagues across the Enlarged called Ignite operates within Standard outside of the workplace.
A series of questions were asked Life Assurance, encouraging colleagues concerning what individuals would like to to be involved and positively influences A new mental health network, Mind see in the future.
This insight will help everyday engagement activity.
Matters was launched initially within the Group shape itsvalues and Standard Life Assurance.
Its purpose is understand more about what is required Various other employee-driven to generate healthy conversation in the to create a high-performing organisation.
networks exist which have a common workplace around mental health issues.
aim of creating a more supportive and This network will be rolled outto other DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION inclusive working environment.
Phoenix was one of the first companies to sign HM Treasurys Women in Finance Balance which incorporates the former REWARD Charter.
The Charter is a commitment for Professional Womens Network aims The Group continues to attract, signatory firms to work together to build toraise awareness of gender diversity, developand retain talented individuals a more balanced and fair industry.
promoting an inclusive environment by offering a comprehensive Targets for gender diversity are published where everyone can thrive.
rangeofbenefits and development annually on the Groups website.
All employees are Targets set for completion by end of The Young Persons Development paidatleast the Living Wage as set 2018 were not met, as they were largely Network aims to connect individuals bytheLiving Wage Foundation.
impacted by changes in senior across the organisation, providing a management through acquisition, platform for individuals to learn, share 95% of colleagues within Phoenix structural changes, resignation and and develop as they start out in their Group and Phoenix Life participate retirement.
From 2019, the Group will career journey.
inthe flexible benefits scheme, report progress based onthe combined whichallows benefits to be selected entities, with a commitment to achieve The Group has a Lesbian, Gay, that meetpersonal circumstances.
The Group Bi-sexual and Transgender Network Examples include cycle to work remains committed to creating an Affinity in operation, encouraging schemes, home technology and smart inclusive and positive environment for connections and a safe place to phones, critical illness cover through all employees.
sharecommon experiences, issues tohealth assessments and enhanced or challenges.
For 2018 buying and selling EMPLOYEE NETWORKS annual leave remained the most utilised, The Group values the power of its A Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic followed by childcare vouchers and employee voice.
Various networks are BAME Network Mosaic exists to insurance-related products.
inoperation across the Enlarged Group, identify and address any barriers to with a common goal of collaboration.
Private medical insurance cover Work has commenced to merge and The network enhances cultural isavailable to all colleagues across replicate some of the networks, awareness and creates a more inclusive theGroup regardless of their status creatinga common focus and and diverse workforce.
The Armed Forces Network supports The Engagement Forum is the longest the recruitment of Armed Forces standing network, which welcomes personnel into the business.
In October members from all functions and levels 2018, the Armed Forces Covenant was ofseniority.
OVER HALF OF THE PHOENIX GROUP AND PHOENIX LIFE POPULATION ARE VOLUNTARILY PARTICIPATING 95% IN ONE OR MORE OF THE SHARE-SAVE OR SHARE OF PHOENIX GROUP PHOENIX INCENTIVE PLANS, BENEFITING IN THE GROUPS LIFECOLLEAGUES PARTICIPATE INCREASED SHARE PERFORMANCE.
IN THE FLEXIBLE BENEFITS SCHEME STEPHEN JEFFORD GROUP HR DIRECTOR PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 52 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION All Group employees participate in an Wythall Walking Friends was a Adherence to the policy is managed Annual Incentive Plan and are able to six-month pilot which improved the bythe Group HR department via become shareholders in the Company.
physical and mental wellbeing of assessments of the minimum control Over half of the Phoenix Group and colleagues and members of the local standards, which ensure effective Phoenix Life population are voluntarily community.
This wellbeing initiative will resolution of employee disputes.
participating in one or more of the be replicated in 2019 and expanded share-save or share incentive plans, toreach additional beneficiaries.
In addition all colleagues are required benefiting in the Groups increased tocomplete annual computer-based share performance.
Colleagues across the Group have training in Business Ethics and access to an Employee Assistance Ethical Conduct.
EMPLOYEE WELLBEING Programme which provides free, independent and confidential During the year the Group effectively The Groups wellbeing programme adviceonall matters affecting resolved all employee disputes covers physical, mental and financial .
andasaresult was involved in matters, offering colleagues and their noemployment tribunals.
dependants information, tools and The Group was named as National resources covering a range of topics.
andRegional Winner in the Chamber HEALTH AND SAFETY A programme of wellbeing activity took Business Awards 2018 for Workplace place during the year which included The Group operates a Health and Wellbeing and finalists in Herefordshire onsite health-checks, flu vaccinations, Safetypolicy which helps the and Worcestershire Chamber of self-care workshops and awareness of organisation to effectively manage Commerce annual awards.
A programme risksand any adverse effects.
of Mental Health First Aid training and Health and Safety risks that are not HUMAN RIGHTS bespoke mentally healthy workplace properly managed could lead to a workshops were offered across The Group is committed to ensuring reduction in earnings and or value the year.
that human rights are respected and through financial or reputation loss processes are in place to remove any associated with adverse impacts on Four dementia champions have been human rights issues both internally and thehealth and safety of employees, trained by Alzheimers Society to deliver externally via outsourced relationships.
customers and third parties in awareness sessions to colleagues onsite.
During 2018, 278 dementia friends were In line with the Equality Act 2010 and in created.
In addition colleagues can order to ensure that the Group is aligned The Group had three reportable benefit from subsidised onsite massage, to relevant Articles of the United Nations accidents during 2018 which were discounted gym membership and fitness Universal Declaration of Human Rights, reported to the Health and Safety classes at the larger sites.
the Group has a Dignity at Work policy Executive under the Reporting of in place.
The policy covers bullying and Incidents, Disease and Dangerous Building on the success of the previous harassment of and by managers, Occurrence Regulations RIDDOR.
years wellbeing partnership with Living employers, contractors, suppliers, Streets charity, the Group joined forces agency staff and other individuals All colleagues are required to complete to offer additional cultural led-walks for engaged with the Group.
annual computer-based Health and colleagues in London and Basingstoke.
The Groups efforts were featured in the All colleagues are required to comply City of Londons Active Travel Best with the policy and take appropriate Arrangements are in place to manage Practice Guide for 2018.
Launched in measures to ensure harassment and onsite facilities across all sites, ensuring National Walking Month 2018, Wythall bullying does not occur.
the working environment is kept clean colleagues were trained to deliver and secure.
weekly walks targeted at individuals aged over 65.
WELLBEING ACCOLADE PHOENIX GROUP WINS NATIONAL WORKPLACE WELLBEING AWARD IMAGE SOURCE: 2018 CHAMBER BUSINESS AWARDS PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 53 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED Earn and a raffle for the period September runner-up donations of6,000 and 4,000 OUR COMMUNITY toDecember 2018. was awarded toScotlands Charity Air Ambulance andStreetwork in Edinburgh.
PARTNERS SunLife commenced atwo-year In addition, forDublin colleagues 4,000 partnership at the start of theyear with were donated to The Peter McVerry Trust, We contribute to our local communities Alive Activities Limited, enriching the lives tohelp reduce homelessness and the providing donations, skills, time and of older people in care and providing harm caused by substance misuse resources to the cause.
Colleagues at the Bristol office exceeded their fundraising target for the year by Through the staff-matched fundraising PHOENIX GROUPS CHARITY raising over 6,000 for the charity.
scheme, individuals are able to participate PARTNERS OF THE YEAR in charitable activity in their own time, and Further afield the German charity partner request matching of the amount raised.
for 2018 was Hilfe fr krebskranke Kinder This also includes an element of payment Frankfurt e. V who received a donation in lieu of volunteering whereby colleagues of13,486.30 to aid children with cancer may regularly support UK-registered and the Austrian charity partner was charities outside of business hours.
Over Oesterreichische Krebshilfe Wien who 52,000 was donated across the year.
It is recognised that the true value of received 6,000, to support individuals acorporate charity partnership allows living with cancer.
COMMUNITY WELLBEING theCompany and employees to explore The Group extended its focus on wellbeing opportunities beyond just monetary Colleagues in Ireland have reviewed to members of the Wythall community, value, often leaving a lasting legacy with partnership opportunities and from where Phoenix is considered one of the those involved.
Now into its fifth year of February 2019 will be partnering with Irish largest employers in the area.
A unique thesix-year partnership with Midlands charity, ALONE, which helps older initiative named Wythall Walking Friends AirAmbulance Charity and Londons Air individuals in the community.
was launched in conjunction with Ambulance Charity, the Group is continuing Living Streets charity to help tackle social to use this collaboration to engage OTHER CHARITABLE DONATIONS isolation in individuals aged over 65, colleagues in fundraising, skills-based Colleagues based in the UK can fundraise through the deliveryof regular community volunteering and events.
for any UK-registered charity through the led-walks.
Volunteers were trained to lead Our Community, Your Choice programme the walks, helping to reduce loneliness, The Group has donated in excess and apply for matching.
All applications encourage new friendship groups and of770,000 between these two air must meet the Groups charity criteria, increase the exercise potential within the ambulance charities since 2014.
A festive andnot be deemed political or religious.
group, thus helping to reduce the risk of fundraising Reindeer Run through the depression and dementia.
streets of London, raised over 21,000 Over 17,000 was donated across the including matching for the yearthrough onsite fundraising, primarily The Group has been assisting Alzheimers combined charities.
benefiting causes in the local area.
Society with raising awareness of Beneficiaries included: Macmillan Cancer dementia onsite and in the community.
For 2019, the Group will enter into two Support, Alzheimers Society, Street Four colleagues are trained asdementia further corporate charity partnerships, Support Network Limited, St Michaels champions and have run awareness helping to unite the Enlarged Group Hospice in Basingstoke and the Citys sessions to over 160 members of the withfundraising for a common cause.
community, reaching NHS dieticians at Colleagues in Scotland will be supporting Moseley Hall Hospital and pupils within Ark Scotlands Charity Air Ambulance and To welcome Standard Life Assurance Kings Academy.
In addition colleagues colleagues in Basingstoke will support colleagues to the Phoenix family, acharity attended the Bromsgrove Pensioners Hampshire and Isle of Wight Air vote was held onsite in September 2018.
Advice and Information Fair, showcasing Ambulance.
A donation of over 31,000 St Columbas Hospice inEdinburgh Phoenix engagement activity that directly was presented to Scotlands Charity Air received the most votes andwas awarded improves community wellbeing, for Ambulance in recognition for colleague a community donation of 10,000, and example Age UKs Men in Sheds project.
participation in onsite lottery, Give as you PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 54 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Ireland, works to keep children in There has been a shift in more colleagues education, therefore improving wishing to participate in skills-based The Group has worked closely with employment and life outcomes.
Whilst this volunteering, offering their time to be variouscommunity partners over the programme commenced before the mentors, reading buddies and number year, offering support in both financial Standard Life Assurance acquisition, the partners at local schools.
years achievements included motivating 412 students across 15 schools.
At the SunLife operations in Bristol, Phoenix was premier sponsor of the Four Career Ready interns were offered a volunteering is also a key part of Wythall and Hollywood Fun Run which paid placement, enabling valuable work theirculture, with 87% of colleagues included a 10km, 5km and 1.5km run experience and the Nigel Monaghan contributing 700 hours across the year to through the heart of Wythalls community Apprenticeship for school leavers was causes within their local community.
and entered the sites grounds as part of launched, providing a six-month paid work the official distance.
Within Standard Life Assurance colleagues are permitted up to three days community Standard Life Assurance sponsored a team Within the Edinburgh office, 10 young volunteering lieu time for activities they for the annual Social Bite sleep in the park, people are engaged with the Career Ready areengaged with inside and outside which 22 colleagues participated, helping programme, receiving regular mentoring ofworking hours.
In the period since to raise awareness of homelessness sessions with colleagues, helping to September 2018, 1,533 hours were in Scotland.
The Armed Forces Network organised a day for Meeting room facilities at the Wythall site The Group has supported Citizens Advice volunteers to help collect donations were freely available to Acorns Childrens Solihull Borough with the creation of a forPoppy Scotland in Edinburgh.
Charity and Coppice School who newcharity shop in Chelmsley Wood, providedtimes-table training to 39 school Birmingham.
The premises were equipped Phoenix Group was a finalist in the representatives, benefiting the education with furniture donations and wares from Chartered Institute of Personnel and of over 11,000 pupils within the Midlands the Group.
Development CIPD annual awards, for area.
In addition the grounds have been Best Skills-based Volunteering Initiative.
loaned to Wythall Transport Museum VOLUNTEERING This accolade recognised the contribution andKings Norton Marching Band.
that volunteers made in supporting Employees regularly volunteer on eitheran Midlands Air Ambulance Charity with individual basis or with theirteam to make The Group signed the Literacy Pledge for itsPractical Quality Assurance System a difference in theirlocal community.
2018, helping to raise literacy levels and forSmall Organisations PQASSO increase social mobility within the UK.
Employees within Phoenix Group and Volunteers currently support Ark Kings Phoenix Life are permitted 14 hours per Academy in Birmingham and St Josephs year during working hours to support Primary School in London with reading avariety of causes.
In Dublin, a volunteering in participated in this years volunteering schools programme, arranged in programme contributing 3,547 hours.
conjunction with Junior Achievement SCHOOL PARTNERSHIPS The Group continues its partnership with Ark Kings Academy in Kings Norton, workingon a variety of mutuallybeneficial initiatives across the year.
The Group part-funded the 2018 2019 academic year Place2Be mentalhealth service onsite, assisting pupils, their families and teaching staffwith wellbeing and enrichment support.
Volunteers provide weekly financial literacy and reading skills support to pupils.
The music department was the focus for this year, inspiring theyouthincreative arts.
Donations from the Group included staging and lighting towers, branded t-shirtsand end-of-year concert support.
The school was awarded a Gold Standard bythe Incorporated Society of Musicians, recognising the high level of uptake and attainment in GCSE music, and commitment to the subject.
The schools choir Phoenix Singers performed tocolleagues onsite at Wythall during their festive lunch celebrations.
THE SUPPORT OF PHOENIX In London our colleagues have supported St Josephs Primary School, GROUP HAS VERY MUCH wherepupilsare visited on a weekly basis, helping to develop reading HELPEDWITH THE DEVELOPMENT skills.
In addition, theGroups CEO and management team visited OF MUSIC ONSITE.
DrapersAcademy in Harold Hill, toshare their experiences of working lifeandroutes intothe profession.
They also tooktime to read with ROGER PUNTON pupilswithSpecial Educational Needs.
PRINCIPAL AT ARK KINGS ACADEMY PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 55 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED With technological advances in Information ofinvestment for the Group, helping to OUR Technology and greater availability to online diversify the overall investment portfolio.
content the Groups print and paper ENVIRONMENT consumption is moving in the right direction.
The first was a 27 million investment in renewable energy at the Walney Extension Our Corporate Responsibility WASTE MANAGEMENT Project, assisting with the construction and programme supports our operation of the enlarged offshore wind All core sites continue to divert 100% of commitmentto monitoring and farm, situated 45 miles north of Liverpool.
their waste from landfill with a detailed reducing our environmental footprint.
This project now provides clean energy to monthly report outlining the volume of Having awareness of the potential alarge number of UK homes.
Phoenix waste and method of disposal or recycle.
impacts of climate change is of global participated in providing debt-financing for The London office, which is shared tenancy, importance, however is not considered the acquisition of a 50% share in the project.
achieved an accolade for its achievements a material risk to the working practices in waste management, waste minimisation of the Group.
A further investment was 50 million and re-use in the form of the Clean City inAnglian Waters green projects.
Donations of old furniture, The Groups environmental aim is to The proceeds are to be used to help carpet tiles and electrical equipment were putback what it takes out.
As a financial finance projects that will mitigate climate distributed to various community partners in services organisation, the Groups impact change impacts and the conservation of the Wythall area, reducing the requirement on the environment is minimal when water resources.
for waste removal, but adding value by compared with other industries.
creating a new lease of life for theitems CLIMATE CHANGE being donated.
In addition, LED lighting has Various employee-led initiatives continue been installed in three core staircases and Phoenixs vision is to be Europes leading totake place each year, focusing largely other common areas within the Wythall lifeconsolidator and although it continues oninternal resource-use, and the 3 Rs site.
The aim was to make thebuilding more tobe a predominantly Heritage business, it reduce, re-use and recycle.
From an energy-efficient, whilst reducing ongoing now also has a substantial Open business energycontract point, the Group now energy usage.
As the Group is a consolidator usesonly 100% renewable resources oflife insurance funds, rather than general initsowned properties.
Colleagues across the Enlarged Group insurance, it does not currently consider weregiven a re-usable cup to mark the climate risk as a principal risk.
The Corporate Responsibility Steering startof a new chapter in Phoenix Groups Climate change is one of the risks Committee reviews environmental journey with Standard Life Assurance.
considered in the Groups horizon scanning progress and agrees activity for future At the Wythall site, colleagues have activity and the Group continues to focus implementation such as the installation of reduced one-use paper-cup consumption on the potential impacts of this risk, electric vehicle charging facilities, scheduled by an estimated 30% since go live.
for example: for April 2019 at the Wythall site.
Plans are underway to move to a more sustainable biodegradable cup in 2019, The Group uses external managers INTERNAL PRINT RESOURCE witha view to eliminating other forms forthe vast majority of its assets who Reducing print and paper consumption ofone-use plastic onsite.
consider a broad range of environmental, onsite remained one of the Groups social and governance ESG factors in primary environmental focuses across RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT their selection and management of our 2018.
Phoenix Group and Phoenix Life investments.
With the view that ESG The Group has completed several green colleagues now receive quarterly and social impact investing can deliver investment deals across the year, signifying personalised dashboards detailing print better risk adjusted returns, Phoenix is the importance it places on the wider usage and ratio of colour print, so they can developing its own ESG policy in support environment.
This signified a new area directly manage what impact their print habits have on the wider environment.
CONSERVATION Working with Bromsgrove District and Redditch Borough Councils, colleagues have donated 750 volunteering hours to improving the various parklands within the Midlands area.
Their efforts have assisted with creating a bark path, building dead hedging and a wildlife hibernaculum, thinning woodland, painting benches, planting floral displays and removing the invasive Himalayan balsam from the waterways.
The Group continues to partner with the Heart of England Forest, planting in excess of 6,000 broadleaf trees since 2013.
Pupils from partner school Ark KingsAcademy were invited to the education centre at the Forest, to spend adayexploring the greater outdoors.
The SunLife operation in Bristol is also amember of the Woodland Trust.
There has been a shift in 2018, with colleagues wishing to support more outdoor environmental-based volunteering projects.
The Group has also supported the Canal and River Trust, Warwickshire Wildlife Trust and National Trust across the year.
This volunteering encouraged healthy exercise whilst taking part in  activities which will benefit future generations.
At one of the Edinburgh sites the roof space is home to a colony of bees.
Colleagues are able to meet the beekeeper and attend awareness sessions.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 56 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION of this.
Over 2018, Phoenix has invested GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS in a number of ESG-related Absolute GHG emissions data in tonnes of CO e 2 opportunities, including renewable 2018 2017 energy and green initiatives.
Emissions, tonnes of CO e from: location-based market-based location-based 2 Expanding the Groups programme Combustion of fuel and operation ofqualitative and quantitative scenario of facilities Scope 1 1,402 1,402 1,203 analysis to take account of the potential Electricity, heat, steam and cooling impact of climate change scenarios: purchased for own use Scope 2 2,990 3,042 2,754 andto ensure this is appropriately Total Carbon Footprint Scopes 1 2 4,392 4,444 3,957 reflected in the Groups risk management framework.
1 Phoenix Groups chosen intensity measurement Continuing to engage with our regulators 2018 2017 on the impact on the Group of near term location-based location-based physical and transition risks associated 2 2 Emissions reported above on a per floor area intensity 63 kg CO2e m 64 kg CO2e m with climate change.
Emissions reported above on a per full-time equivalent 3.8 tonnes 3.5 tonnes Continue to consider the requirements of employee FTE intensity CO e FTE CO e FTE 2 2 consultations associated with the risks of climate change and engage with industry 1 O ur intensity measurement calculations exclude former Standard Life Assurance Limited properties to avoid skewed bodies on the Groups response intensity results over the two-year period.
Conversion Factors for GHG Company Approximately 14% of 2018 emissions ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Reporting have been used to convert areestimated as full-year data is not This section includes an update on the energy data into carbon dioxide available for all facilities.
A sample of Groupsannual greenhouse gas emissions.
emissions from fuel use for company- 2 Emissions disclosed relate to facilities owned transport, backup generation andactivities where the Group has The Group reports Scope 2 emissions andfugitive emissions from refrigerants operational control within the UK.
using the GHG Protocol dual-reporting were calculated in previous years and methodology, stating two figures to weredetermined to be non-material As of September 2018, the vast majority reflect the GHG emissions from totheoverall footprint, so have not ofStandard Life business part of Standard purchased electricity, using both: been included.
Life Aberdeen Plc was sold to Phoenix Group.
As a result, two operational A location-based method that reflects The Groups chosen intensity metrics properties were acquired Standard Life the average emissions intensity of detailcarbon emissions per floor area House and Standard Life Data Centre.
theUK electricity grids from which andper full-time equivalent employees These two properties have therefore been consumption is drawn: and FTE.
The intensity by floor area has included in the Groups carbon footprint A market-based method that reflects decreased slightly as a larger number of absolute GHG emissions for the 2018 emissions from electricity specific to properties have been included within the calendar year.
However, as these two each supply contract.
Currently, the analysis thisyear and these properties properties were not owned for the whole Group has used residual mix factors in have largelyreduced their energy use in two-year period that is used for intensity the absence of contractual instruments.
The intensity measurement calculations, they have byFTE shows a slight increase from beenexcluded from these metrics In 2018 absolute emissions have 2017to 2018as the number of people toavoidskewed intensity results.
increasedby 11% due to the inclusion employedhas reduced.
ofthe two ex-Standard Life acquired The emissions reported are based on properties.
This increase has outweighed themain requirements of the ISO14064 the reduction in the emission factor for Part 1and the GHG Protocol Corporate consumption of purchased electricity Standard revised edition.
Data was Scope 2 and the reduced consumption gathered at meter level to compile the ofenergy at a number of properties carbon footprint.
The Groups full Corporate and Social THESE INVESTMENTS MARK AN Responsibility Report is available at IMPORTANT FIRST STEP FOR THE 27m www.
com GROUP IN RENEWABLE ENERGY CRreport2018 INVESTMENT IN RENEWABLE ENERGY AND IS PARTICULARLY SUITED TO AT THE WALNEY EXTENSION PROJECT OUR AMBITIONS.
WE HOPE TO The Groups complete Economic, Social and Governance measures SEE FURTHER PROJECTS OF THIS are available to download at NATURE IN THE FUTURE.
com esg SCOTT ROBERTSON 50m HEAD OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT GROUP, PHOENIX GROUP INVESTMENT IN ANGLIAN WATERS GREEN PROJECTS PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 57 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED Phoenix held a Capital Markets Day Senior management conducted 13 OUR on29 November 2018 in London dealand non-deal related debt investor whichwas attended by 120 investors roadshow days in the UK, Continental INVESTORS and analysts and provided an update Europe and Asia, meeting 168 debt onthe Standard Life Assurance investors overall.
We value an active dialogue with acquisition.
The event also provided theGroups financial audiences attendees with the opportunity to CREDIT RATINGS AGENCIES including institutional investors, meetwith management.
AND BANKS private investors, buy and sell-side Phoenixs life companies and analysts and prospective investors.
Investor presentations are generally outstanding bonds have credit ratings Phoenix therefore conducts filmed and the videos as well as the by Fitch Ratings.
The Group meets with acomprehensive investor presentation materials and transcript are the rating agency at least once per year relations programme.
made available on the Groups website.
for the annual ratings review.
The Group Treasury Team and management last MEETINGS WITH INSTITUTIONAL CONFERENCES provided Fitch with an update in June EQUITY INVESTORS Conferences enable the Group to meet 2018.
The Group Treasury department Throughout the year members of the with a significant number of investors and senior management also keep a Executive Committee and the Investor and at the same time are important constant dialogue with the Groups Relations department held meetings platforms for presenting on Phoenixs relationship banks.
with investors to provide updates on investment proposition.
This year, theGroups strategy and operations.
Phoenix attended nine conferences in PRIVATE SHAREHOLDERS Thisinvolved 20 shareholder the UK, including conferences organised Private shareholders are encouraged roadshowdays and a total of by ABN AMRO, Bank of America toengage with the Group through 246 meetings with existing and MerrillLynch, Deutsche Bank, theInvestor Relations department prospective equity investors.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove, Investec, Lloyds, andCompany Secretariat.
The Chairman and Non-Executive ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Directors are available for investor ANALYSTS AND EQUITY AGM meetings to discuss subjects such as SALES FORCES The Group uses its AGM as an strategy, corporate governance and Phoenix maintains an active dialogue opportunity to communicate with Directors remuneration as required.
with its equity and debt research shareholders.
Business to be discussed analysts who, in addition to results at the meeting is notified to shareholders RESULTS PRESENTATIONS presentations, are invited to attend in advance through the Notice of AND CAPITAL MARKETS DAYS investor events such as the Capital Meeting and comprises topics such Full year and interim results were Markets Day.
The Executive Directors asthe annual election of Directors, presented to analysts and investors also held nine presentations to the theappointment of the Auditor and bythe Group.
The presentations were salesteams at major investment thedividend declaration.
webcast live on Phoenixs website banksto promote the Phoenix andpresentation materials were investment case.
DEBT INVESTORS The Debt Investor Relations programme is managed by the Group Treasury department and supported by the Investor Relations department.
414 33 TOTAL NUMBER OF DEBT AND TOTAL NUMBER OF DEBT AND EQUITYINVESTORS MET IN 2018 EQUITYINVESTOR ROADSHOWS PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 58 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
