Corporate social responsibility Home of doing the right thing Pets at Home Group Plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Performance We celebrate the love of pets so we believe that we have a responsibility to do the right thing For pets We are a pet care specialist and it is a love of pets that forms the unique bond we share with our colleagues and our customers and clients.
Nothing is more important to us than the welfare of pets and we have Pets Before Profit as one of our core values.
As well as the care we take of our own pets, the product ranges we offer and the services we provide are all carefully designed to keep pets happy, healthy and safe.
More information Page 40 For people For the planet Our customers and clients look to us We understand that we have a to provide the expert advice they seek, responsibility to use natural resources whether in our stores and grooming wisely.
So, while we have to provide salons or in our veterinary practices.
a safe and comfortable environment So it is really important that we develop, for our colleagues, customers and pets, retain and reward talented colleagues we have plans in place that address in every facet of our business and look consumption, covering areas like after their wellbeing.
We also believe energy, fuel and packaging.
At the it is important that we take our expertise same time we aim to reduce waste and out into the community to share harmful emissions from our activities.
our understanding of the benefits of pet ownership and the responsibility More information it entails.
Page 46 More information Page 44 Responsibility online investors.
com responsibility Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Corporate social responsibility continued Doing the right thing for Pets A lifetime of care for pets We have created a range of Health Plans that make essential routine veterinary treatments more convenient and more affordable to help pet owners do the right thing for their pets.
The main focus of our care plans is preventative healthcare for dogs, cats and rabbits, including vaccinations, flea and worm treatments and regular health checks.
Home of pet welfare This not only makes the fish more To help pet owners we send timely visible so our trained aquatics reminders when boosters or As our core belief is Pets Before Profit, colleagues can identify potential treatments are due, resulting in pets nothing is more important to us than problems more easily, it also makes visiting vets more frequently for the keeping pets happy, healthy and safe.
it easier to maintain the water quality care they need to keep them healthy.
To ensure our policies and practices which is less stressful for the fish.
We We offer different plans tailored to provide the best possible welfare have also reduced the number of fish different life stages and have standards for the pets in our stores species stocked, focusing on the most developed what we believe to be we maintain an expert pet team, popular varieties.
This has allowed us the first care plan that goes beyond headed by an experienced vet who to concentrate our efforts to improve preventative healthcare to focus on is supported by three qualified the sourcing and transport of our chronic diseases, Care4Life.
Care4Life veterinary nurses, and specialists fish.
We have also introduced fish is a bespoke plan for dogs or cats in freshwater and marine biology, points, a simple way to help with lifelong conditions including and in pet and reptile welfare.
customers understand the correlation diabetes, osteoarthritis and We also have a dedicated field between the volume of a particular heart disease.
team responsible for ensuring we tank and the number of fish it can We have also entered into a implement the best possible standards safely support.
partnership with Battersea Dogs consistently across all our stores and With small mammals it is essential and Cats Home to provide all their breeders.
A confidential hotline is that they have access to clean, fresh rehomed dogs and cats with in place for colleagues to raise any water throughout the day.
Cleansing vouchers for a free veterinary concerns they may have directly traditional water bottles can be consultation at one of our practices with our Head of Pets.
difficult and risks spreading disease and a free Vac4Life care plan.
Our During the year we implemented if it is not done thoroughly so we nationwide practice network means a number of changes to improve investigated ways that this risk could that all pets rehomed by Battersea welfare standards further.
Working with suppliers can remain fully vaccinated we now have bottled mineral water throughout their life and receive In our aquatics section we have delivered to stores so our pets have a free annual health check.
removed the gravel from the tank access to fresh spring water every day.
floor and reduced the ornamentation.
The used bottles are collected to be recycled, further minimising the risk of contamination.
Pets at Home Group Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Performance Understanding pet nutrition We take great care to ensure the pets in our stores receive the best possible diet.
A variety of fresh vegetables every day, different types of hay nothing is too much trouble.
So when research was published which highlighted issues with rabbit muesli, we took steps to replace muesli with nuggets.
We no longer sell rabbit muesli.
Being a pet specialist, customers turn to us for advice and its important we can address their questions specifically in relation to their individual pet and Our belief is that pets deserve the the year ahead of launching our their personal experience.
This is best possible diet.
Our ranges of food recipes campaign to highlight initially what sets us apart from supermarkets, for dogs and cats are particularly what goes into dry dog food and discounters and online retailers, all extensive, providing customers with explain some of the terms used of which sell pet food.
So we have choice that will suit every pet and in labelling.
colleagues in every store who are budget from grocery products, specifically trained in pet nutrition More information about whats in to breed specific formulations and and who undertake a programme the recipe for a wide range of dry dog Advanced Nutrition ranges.
of continuous personal development foods can be found on our website to keep their knowledge up to date.
We have found that, mirroring trends www.
com shop en in human nutrition, customers are pets recipe increasingly interested to understand more about what makes up their pets diet so they can make more informed choices.
To address this need we undertook extensive research during Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Corporate social responsibility continued Educating new pet owners We provide a wide range of pet information leaflets free in every store.
As pet owners ourselves, we These have been written to ensure recognise the joy that a new pet customers are aware of their brings.
For children in particular the responsibility, under the Animal Welfare prospect of owning a new pet can Act, to care for their animals properly be particularly thrilling, so to make and in particular to provide for the five them aware of the responsibility that welfare needs.
Many of these have been comes with pet ownership, we offer produced in conjunction with the a programme of workshop events RSPCA and are co-branded to highlight which we call My Pet Pals.
workshops cover aquatics, small Before we sell any pet, colleagues mammals and reptiles.
Because must first check that customers are of the association of bunnies with aware of their responsibilities in relation Easter, over the Easter holiday we to the welfare needs of that pet.
focus our workshops on the care PetPads, our proprietary iPad of rabbits.
In addition we suspend application, guide colleagues to ensure the sale and adoption of rabbits that all the information that is pertinent over the Easter weekend.
to a particular type of pet is covered.
Customers sign electronically to record that this has been done before the sale can progress.
All colleagues are empowered to refuse the sale of a pet if they have concerns that its welfare needs may not be properly met in its 45,550 new home.
people registered to attend one of our Easter workshops in 2018 Pets at Home Group Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Performance More than 4.4m was raised for Support Adoption For Pets this year 100,000 grant to Hope Rescue in South Wales 2.2m worth of lifelines were donated to support the rehoming of pets 475,450 worth of Wainwrights dog food Giving pets a second chance For Pets and locally partnered was donated to Dogs Trust rescues who support our in-store of happiness fundraising efforts.
We go to great lengths to find the During the year Support Adoption right home for every pet and the right For Pets made its largest ever grant pet for every customer.
However, of 100,000 to Hope Rescue in often through no fault of their own, South Wales.
This transformational for some pets it isnt always possible grant enabled the development of for them to enjoy a permanent loving a state of the art isolation block, home and for these pets, rescue and providing facilities to rehome an rehoming centres offer a second additional 300 stray dogs every year, chance of happiness.
and improve the welfare of 800 Pets at Home established the charity dogs in their care.
A video of this Support Adoption For Pets in 2006 to transformation is available on the provide vital support for pets in need.
Support Adoption For Pets website We provide rehoming centres for the www.
co. uk charity in our stores where colleagues Through our VIP loyalty scheme care for smaller pets.
In addition the we also provide lifelines which charity provides grant funding to enable animal charities nominated external organisations to help with by customers to purchase food and capital projects and running costs, accessories from local stores.
This subject to Trustee approval.
year 2.2m worth of lifelines were This year more than 4.4m was raised donated to support the rehoming for Support Adoption For Pets.
biggest fundraising event in the year is We continue to support the rehoming the annual Santa Paws Appeal, where of pets through Dogs Trust with customers are invited to donate 50p donations of Wainwrights dog food.
to buy a Christmas dinner for a pet in This year 475,450 worth of food rescue.
Through the hard work of our was donated.
store colleagues and the generosity of our customers we raised 1.4m which was split between Support Adoption Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Corporate social responsibility continued Doing the right thing for People Valuing our colleagues by addiction.
We provide Mind Matters mental health awareness training as individuals with full day courses available for our We engage with and value our practice colleagues to attend.
The colleagues as whole people, not course was designed with the Royal simply as employees.
This is reflected College of Veterinary Surgeons to in our approach to reward and help individuals understand their benefits, where we recognise the own mental health and to identify importance of work-life balance and and manage mental health in in our approach to wellbeing.
Diversity Our colleagues represent a very broad gender pay gap In our Retail business we will also spectrum from specialist veterinary focus on mental health and wellbeing.
We want every colleague to see surgeons to client care advisors, from Managers have asked for support in Pets at Home as a place where experts in marine and freshwater dealing with colleagues mental health they can make the most of all of biology to store colleagues all are challenges to enable us to better the opportunities we offer and different and all are uniquely talented.
We want to where talent is the only determining Recognising this diversity, we create a culture where mental health factor in their success.
So we structure our approach to wellbeing in is not a subject that people shy away welcomed the UK Governments four dimensions physical, mental, from.
We have partnered with MIND requirement to publish gender pay financial and nutritional.
and have signed their pledge Time to gap information.
Our Retail division Change to help us educate managers Recognising the pressures on people is the only Group entity to fall so we can offer the right support at working in the veterinary profession within the parameters set by the right time and experiences can we prioritise the wellbeing of our the government.
veterinary colleagues, with a focus on Our median gender pay gap is 9.7%.
We have Occupational Health Advisors In common with many retailers, partnered with the Retail Trust and Port have been appointed to help with women make up the majority of of Call to offer services for colleagues appropriate support, guidance our colleagues and across 75% of who need support, advice or guidance and intervention for our colleagues our colleagues we are encouraged in times of difficulty.
Port of Call with health concerns, including to see the gender pay gap is either specifically support people affected mental health.
less than 1% or is favourable to women.
In the highest paid quartile, where men outnumber women, our gender pay gap is less than the Supporting local Proceeds from the sales of single-use UK average.
carrier bags in stores have enabled communities The report also sets out a range Pets as Therapy to pilot a number As part of our rewards and benefits of actions we are taking to help of schemes to provide outreach and package all colleagues are able to take close the gap, including overhauling companionship to people living in a charity leave day every year.
This our recruitment website and isolation and they are now working to year colleagues from our Vet Group guidelines to make sure that we are expand these services.
Dogs for Good Support Office in Swindon volunteered showcasing the diverse and flexible have also been able to expand their to work with seven local organisations opportunities we offer, making sure animal assisted intervention services while colleagues from our Distribution we are putting in place clear career which aid families with a child with Centres raised more than 9,000 in pathways and making sure that the autism to integrate a dog into their support of a range of charities.
benefits we offer support a healthy routine, helping to reduce stress work-life balance.
for both the child and the family.
Colleagues in the Vet Group also nominate a Charity of the Year which Our full gender pay gap report Working with the Alzheimers Society they work to support.
This year Medical is available at investors.
we have launched a campaign to Detection Dogs have benefited from petsathome.
com responsibility enrol colleagues as dementia friends our fundraising, which included a book to improve their awareness and sale, childrens party and sponsored understanding of how they can help cycle ride and raised around 8,000. people who are living with dementia.
Pets at Home Group Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Performance Helping colleagues to In addition, we are creating a bespoke Together with the Institute of apprenticeship programme for our Apprenticeships and other like-minded develop their full potential client care advisors to ensure that they employers we are working to secure Across the Group we are passionate can provide our clients with the best a new pathway dedicated to dog about offering opportunities to possible experience through their grooming.
Within our Support Offices colleagues who seek to develop their knowledge, passion and expertise.
and Distribution Centres we offer skills.
Our well established Steps apprenticeships in leadership, human Dick White Referrals, one of our programme has been updated to resources, finance, customer service, specialist veterinary referral centres, provide retail colleagues with the most software development, data analysis, has invested in its training academy up-to-date and relevant training in recruitment marketing, supply chain with an experienced team of retail operations, pet welfare and pet and warehousing.
Here nutrition as well as qualifications that students become proficient in the allow colleagues to serve customers areas of veterinary care that are crucial with certain licensed medicines.
to the smooth running of a practice.
Apprenticeships fit perfectly with The Dick White Academy has been our ethos and can be invested in accredited as a training provider for colleagues of any age, experience Veterinary Nurses level 3 diploma level or qualifications.
and Veterinary Care Assistants level 2 qualification which supports the Within our veterinary practices we growth of talent across the veterinary offer Veterinary Nurse apprenticeships profession.
for both internal colleagues and as an opportunity to recruit new talent.
In our Groom Room salons we offer We have partnered with colleges that apprenticeships to new colleagues offer the best value and method of looking to develop a career in pet delivery to ensure that we can offer grooming.
Upon completion our these apprenticeships to colleagues grooming apprentices are promoted in every one of our practices.
to an available position of Stylist.
Supporting our vet While clinical freedom is a central organisations as well as professional tenet of our veterinary business, requirements from the Royal College partners in delivering having unified Vets4Pets branding of Veterinary Surgeons and the clinical excellence across most of our practice estate Veterinary Medicines Directorate.
We operate a Joint Venture model in has led us to develop an innovative Our CDMs are conducting ACE audits our First Opinion veterinary practices approach to clinical governance, in every First Opinion practice across which allows our veterinary partners helping vet partners aspire to common the Group.
These audits review 20 to focus on their clinical practice while standards of clinical excellence.
critical areas of practice process and we provide the business services policy and will be updated regularly We have introduced the new role of needed to run an efficient business.
Clinical Development Manager CDM We support individual vets having the to provide Quality Assurance, promote Sadly, bereavement is an inevitable freedom to make medical and surgical clinical excellence and best practice, factor of pet ownership and an decisions, including the procedures and support our practices with everyday occurrence in veterinary they carry out and the products they clinical audits, coaching and support.
We have developed a use within their practices.
We have the Experienced veterinary surgeons have unique suite of resources to support utmost respect for their professional been recruited into these regional, practices in providing bereavement knowledge and expertise.
We have developed services to clients in a sensitive and the Aspiring to Clinical Excellence compassionate manner.
ACE programme based on similar schemes operating in medical Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Corporate social responsibility continued Doing the right thing for the planet Protecting the Delivering the goods Saving water UKs biosecurity Trading from 448 locations around We recognise that water is a precious the country we rely on an efficient natural resource and we are looking Recognising the importance of transport network and a well-invested to further develop our approach to educating customers about their fleet to keep our stores replenished water management.
To help us better responsibilities in relation to invasive and to recycle our waste.
Our entire understand how water is used in a non-native species, our fish bags fleet of delivery vehicles is compliant typical store we have installed water carry a message asking customers with Euro 6 vehicle emission sub meters and data loggers in some not to release fish or aquarium standards which, with nitrogen oxides of our stores in Scotland.
Analysis plants into the wild as this can be NOX emissions of 0.4 grams per of these data will help us to identify harmful for both the fish and our kilowatt hour of energy, represent a areas of highest water use and natural environment.
This message significant advancement over NOX target these with programmes to is being extended across our range limits of 2.0 grams per kilowatt hour reduce consumption.
With the water of tanks and accessories.
If a of energy from the Euro 5 standard.
market in England opening up to customer is no longer able to look For our fleet this delivers a saving of competition we have tendered for after their fish, we ask them to more than 28,000kg NOX compared a single supply contract for our sites contact their nearest Pets at Home to equivalent emissions from a Euro 5 in England.
Whilst this is a fairly store where we have trained fleet, with falls also in emissions of new market we expect this to drive colleagues who will do their best both hydrocarbons and particulates.
further water saving activity over to help.
During the year we were coming years.
pleased to host a visit to one of our In addition, we track the number of stores, together with the Ornamental km travelled for every 1,000 cases Aquatic Trade Association, to delivered which we believe represents discuss this important issue with the a good indicator of scheduling Parliamentary Under Secretary of efficiency.
Over the past year we State responsible for these matters.
have achieved an improvement of 7% in our scheduling efficiency.
Minimising the impact of packaging We have implemented a sustainable our process.
We are applying these packaging policy to ensure that any principles to all packaging materials packaging necessary to deliver our and plastics used in our stores.
products to customers in the perfect Having retendered our waste condition we intend is created in the contract in 2016 we have continued most sustainable way we can, to achieve our goal of sending zero throughout the packaging life cycle.
The housings The principles that underpin our policy for all the pets in our stores are can be summarised as use a little: use cleaned every day of the year.
Used the old: use it again and use it wisely.
bedding, wood shavings and other Through these principles we aim to waste is collected and returned to our reduce packaging volume, material distribution centres for recycling.
weight and optimise volume: We continually seek ways to increase maximise recycled content and the volume of waste that is recycled post-use recyclability: and minimise every year.
environmental impact throughout Pets at Home Group Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Performance Minimising our carbon footprint We continue to reduce our carbon footprint.
Electricity remains our largest source of emissions and is the focus of our reduction efforts.
We continue to target other areas to reduce emissions, particularly our logistics fleet.
Becoming carbon neutral in gas and electricity use During the year we successfully completed our programme to install LED lighting and Building Energy Management Systems across our store One project we are supporting in Kenya provides families with a new cooking stove.
This programme helped to reduce our energy consumption by Total carbon footprint 34% with improvements to pet welfare.
Tonnes CO e emissions 2 Since October 2017 we have become 2017 18 2017 18 Location-based Market-based 2016 17 carbon neutral in relation to our use of natural gas and electricity across Scope 1 9,649 9,649 9,619 all of our stores, veterinary practices, Scope 2 21,584 9,974 28,840 distribution centres and support Scope 3 5,799 5,799 6,620 offices.
To achieve this, we are now sourcing green renewable electricity Total 37,031 25,422 45,079 and purchasing Gold Standard carbon offsets equal to the volume of natural tCO e per m revenue 41.20 28.28 54.04 2 gas we use across the estate to heat our stores and vet practices.
Inclusion of 1,200 carbon offsets 35,831 24,222 The full year carbon saving is Methodology: We have applied the UK Governments 2017 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and GHG significant.
As our electricity is now Protocol standards in order to quantify and report our greenhouse gas emissions.
carbon neutral, we expect to reduce Methodology: An operational control approach has been used to define to reporting process.
A financial control approach was used for previous years.
CO emissions from electricity 2 Boundary: Pets at Home leases a small number of company cars, emissions from these had previously been reported consumption by more than 30,000 in error as Scope 3 emissions in previous years.
From this reporting year these emissions will be reported correctly as Scope 1 emissions.
For each tonne of Additional inclusions: This is the first year that we have included the emissions from our stand-alone vet practices CO emitted from the gas used to heat 2 and referral centres.
The impact of these is fide minimis.
our premises, we now also purchase Exclusions: Due to technical issues with data collection, fugitive emissions from air conditioning and refrigeration are not reported although these are considered minimal.
one gold standard UN-backed carbon Estimation: Forecasted energy consumption used for budgeting purposes has been applied in the occasional instance offset.
Purchasing carbon offsets where estimation was required.
Independent verification: Our 2018 Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are verified to a limited level of assurance by Ramboll supports families and communities Environment & Health Limited using the ISO 14064-3 standard.
A link to the verification statement is available on the in some of the poorest countries in Pets at Home website.
Normalisation: We have chosen to report gross Scope 1 and 2 emissions in tones of CO e per m revenue as this is the world.
For example, one project 2 a common metric used in corporate greenhouse gas reporting.
we are supporting in Kenya provides Market-based criteria: Since October 2017 we have procured 100% renewable electricity backed by REGOs and assessed for conformance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Quality Criteria.
An emission factor of zero has therefore been families with a new cooking stove.
applied since that date to calculate our Scope 2 market-based figure, whilst a location-based factor was used to These new stoves are more efficient calculate Scope 3 emissions from transmission and distribution losses.
than open fires and significantly Carbon offsets: We work with ClimateCare to offset our Scope 1 GHG emissions equivalent to the emissions from the natural gas used in our buildings through best practice Gold Standard emissions reduction projects, which both reduce the harmful air pollution to cut carbon and improve lives.
Our support for the distribution of clean cook stoves, through the Paradigm Healthy Cookstoves and Water Treatment Project, is cutting indoor air pollution and waterborne disease, as well as tackling which young children are exposed.
The notice of retirement be found here: https: products.
These projects support UN sustainable jsp?name pets%20at%20home&entity retirement&entity domain Markit, GoldStandard development goals.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
