24 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SUPPORTING COLLABORATION & PARTNERSHIP Starting in 2017 and continuing throughout Topics covered include: 2018, Playtech organised and supported regular roundtable events to gauge and develop responses Protecting and empowering to new and emerging challenges facing the sector consumers in a digital world and society.
Attendees at these events comprised Building trust in a data-driven a range of senior communications, compliance, world and regulatory affairs executives from the gambling Bridging the diversity gap sector and experts from other organisations such as in gambling regulators and charities.
Using data for social good.
Alongside the roundtable events, Playtech cohosted an industry collaboration day as well as actively participated in events and working groups dedicated to improving social responsibility standards and practices, alongside industry peers, opinion formers, charities, academics, industry associations and multi-stakeholder initiatives.
For more information refer to page 72 Find out about our approach to responsibility and regulation on our website at: https: www.
com  26 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS cont.
Playtech is committed to ensuring that we enable a safe and responsible form of entertainment and take action to reduce harmful play.
We strive to conduct business and create products and services that prevent gambling from becoming a source of crime, ensuring that gambling is conducted in a fair and open way and protect young people and other vulnerable persons from being harmed or exploited by gambling.
Leading Responsible Pillars of Playtechs PROMOTE EMPOWER IMPROVE I am extremely proud of Playtechs strong position in regulated markets and believe Gambling Practices Responsible Gambling Promote a healthy, safe Empower licensees and players Improve stakeholder trust that there is an opportunity in 2019 for us to do even more.
Regulation continues to Approach gambling and entertainment with technology-driven tools to in the industry.
shape our industry, with new markets launching in 2018 and into 2019, and existing environment.
markets facing the challenges of evolving appropriate regulations and responding to need for consumer protection.
At Playtech, we continue to celebrate regulation.
We stand resolute by the belief that the continued maturity and development of regulation in our sectors is to be Protecting players from harmful play is critical for the long-term celebrated as it will help to deliver a sustainable and celebrated long-term industry success of our B2B and B2C for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Our commitment to the highest levels of regulation, compliance and responsible business practices are what make Playtech the leading technology company in regulated markets.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer Prevents gambling Engages and partners Advertises and markets from being a source of with government and products fairly, clearly crime or being used to charities to research and in a way that does support crime.
ways to prevent, reduce not target children and and treat the harmful young people.
Our Values INTEGRITY INNOVATION We strive to be responsible, honest and open in our We endeavour to always be at the forefront of our dealings with each other and with all our stakeholders industry: to lead, develop and deliver new products licensees, regulators, business partners and suppliers.
and services that meet all risk and regulatory compliance measures.
Develop products Keeps players data Protects under 18s Ensure that gambling is and services that help safe and secure.
and other vulnerable conducted in a fair and licensees identify, minimise individuals from being open way.
EXCELLENCE PERFORMANCE and reduce the harmful harmed or exploited by effects of gambling.
We aim for excellence in everything we do: in the We deliver outstanding performance in the context delivery of our products and services, in our interaction of the legitimate and realistic expectations of our with the outside world and in working with each other.
