OUR STRATEGIC REPORT OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY IN ACTION With a global trend towards increased urbanisation, and the challenges that increased population density places on resources, national and regional governments are increasingly aware of the issues surrounding sustainability and the need for urban centres to be resilient to extreme events such as flooding and overheating.
Our expertise and product range make us the ideal partner to help manage the movement of water and provide engineered solutions that enable the reduction of carbon in these environments, providing a truly global opportunity to deliver a sustainable and resilient built environment in established and growing markets around the world.
WATER MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS As cities become more populated and as weather events become more extreme more frequently, no single technical solution can claim to resolve these issues by itself.
Nevertheless, steps can be taken to mitigate the potential impact.
Polypipes extensive range of Water Management solutions are designed to reduce or intercept the potential impact of extreme flooding and to help cities recover more quickly.
In fact, to help cities become ever more resilient, Polypipe has developed systems to manage surface water, flooding, rainwater harvesting and treatment as well as recycling for reuse, while enabling the development of green infrastructure such as green roofs, or urban green spaces, which make places for end users to enjoy which reduces the urban heat island effect and improves air quality in the cities.
CLIMATE MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS As with our Water Management solutions, Polypipes Climate Management solutions satisfy the most stringent of government legislation.
We continue to invest in developing products and systems that enable and control heating, ventilation and cooling.
Such solutions make built environments more energy-efficient, cleaner and more comfortable to live in.
As mentioned above, the development of green infrastructure in city environments can also be significant in helping to address the urban heat island effect and improve air quality in cities.
Together, these solutions contribute to a more sustainable and resilient built environment, not just for the benefit of governments, but for everyone.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 27 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY IN ACTION CASE STUDY - WATER MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS Project Vivaldi In March 2018, the Vivaldi office building in Amsterdam, a blue-green roof based on Permavoid technology, was proclaimed the Roof of the Year 2017 in an industry award ceremony held in Holland.
The aim of the Roof of the Year Award is to showcase and celebrate innovation and quality within the roofing sector.
A panel of six judges, all experts from across the industry, assesses a shortlist of entrants against a series of demanding criteria, namely: aesthetic value, technology, sustainability, the cooperation between the building parties and safe working practice.
Permavoid subbase This year, a diverse range of 11 projects were shortlisted from during installation across Holland, including a sports complex, a conference centre and a hospital, which between them were all progressive The jury found that the Vivaldi office building project was an demonstrations of ambitious design and outstanding excellent demonstration of this progressiveness.
It was clear from the shortlisted projects that the it to be an innovative application of dynamic water attenuation deployment of green infrastructure on roofs is a growing trend.
on a blue-green roof, in which the aesthetically pleasing finished roof also creates a usable outdoor space and extra value for the end-user.
The jury recognised the ambition shown on this project, the innovative approach and the technical soundness of the design, which saw this project named Roof of the Year 2017.
28 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY - CLIMATE MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS Doncaster residential house Underfloor heating allows hassle-free renovations to take place in Doncaster home At this detached house in Balby, Doncaster, the installation of underfloor heating allowed the homeowner to achieve ambient heating in a modern open-plan design which wouldnt otherwise have been possible.
Situated in Doncaster, this 12-year-old property was constructed with radiators installed throughout.
When a downstairs radiator By removing some of the walls throughout the lower floor burst, however, the homeowners took the opportunity to of the property, the homeowners redesigned their home to undertake a bigger home renovation project and upgraded the incorporate a more modern and open-plan design.
Large scale entire ground floor to underfloor heating.
renovations of this nature require radiators to be relocated, and to work harder, to guarantee a consistent heat output To save on potentially costly and lengthy floor excavations, throughout a larger space.
In order to distribute an ambient Polypipes Overlay and Overlay Lite retrofit systems were temperature, traditional radiators need to reach temperatures used.
At just 18mm in depth, the Overlay systems are installed above 80C.
In contrast, underfloor heating operates effectively directly above the floorboards, enabling the homeowner to from as little as 40C, meaning less energy is required for the enjoy all the benefits of underfloor heating, in an existing space, same heat output.
without raising the overall floor to an unacceptable level.
To control the underfloor heating, Polypipes latest generation For this property, the homeowner had opted for a solid ceramic of Smart Plus controls were specified.
Connecting seamlessly tile floor covering throughout the back of the house where to all Polypipe Underfloor Heating systems, Smart Plus controls the kitchen is located, and a wooden floor for the main living provide homeowners with optimum control of their heating areas.
The installation of underfloor heating and the associated system throughout the home using a wall-mounted thermostat benefits of the system allowed the homeowners to carry out and a corresponding mobile app.
further renovation works that were not previously possible.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 29 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC Underfloor heating installed throughout the ground floor of this two-storey property OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY IN ACTION CASE STUDY - CLIMATE MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS Nuaire indoor air quality test house To coincide with National Clean Air Day on 21 June, the Company launched  ventilation system for the retrofit market.
The Noxmaster combines a powerful carbon filter with a strategy invented by Nuaire over 45 years ago, Positive Input Ventilation PIV.
This combination removes up to 99.5% of nitrogen dioxide and other harmful pollutants generated by traffic emissions and industrial processes.
The Noxmaster delivers clean, filtered air into urban homes, improving the indoor air quality to within safe levels, as recommended by the World Health Organisation WHO.
A recent WHO report cited 44 UK cities have air too toxic to breathe safely.
The aim of the project was to investigate the Hafodyrynys in Crumlin, Caerphilly is recorded as having the potential indoor air quality benefits from the use of a PIV system highest levels of nitrogen dioxide in the UK outside of London, with carbon filtration.
second to Marylebone Road and Hyde Park Corner in Central London.
This area is home to Wales most polluted street, near The PIV system was installed in the loft space with air discharged the busy A472, and is a designated Air Quality Management into a central location of the three-storey house.
operated at different ventilation conditions varying flow rates Number 14 Woodside Terrace was selected as a test and filtration methods.
Two multi-component AQMesh monitors house in which to install a PIV with a carbon filter system.
were installed to measure the concentrations of the key urban An independent investigation was carried out by the Building outdoor and indoor air pollutants: namely nitrogen dioxide, Research Establishment BRE into the ingress of outdoor air ozone and particulate matter.
pollutants entering the property under varying ventilation 30 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT THE TEST Full results for both airtightness conditions are as follows: The property was set up at two differing airtightness levels.
Airtightness NO Indoor 2 Airtightness Condition A: typical leaky property 7m h. m @ 50Pa.
Condition Ventilation Strategy Outdoor Ratio Airtightness B: a property which was more airtight A Naturally Ventilated 0.67 5m h. m @ 50Pa.
Three scenarios were carried out at the PIV with Carbon Filter 0.26 property: naturally ventilated: PIV with G4 filters plus carbon filter: B Naturally Ventilated 0.25 and PIV plus standard G4 filter.
PIV with Carbon Filter 0.16 In order to determine the effect of the building and its ventilation The investigation confirmed the positive effect of a PIV with system on reducing indoor NO concentration compared with that 2 a carbon filter system for reducing the ingress of outdoor NO into 2 of outdoors, and indoor outdoor ratio was calculated for all of the the indoor environment of a naturally ventilated test house.
The BRE individual measurements carried out in each scenario.
From these report advises that the use of Nuaires PIV system offers a potentially ratios, an overall mean level of NO was then calculated.
2 significant method to reduce occupant indoor exposure to NO.
2 As such, it is likely to provide benefits to health and wellbeing of SUMMARY OF RESULTS occupants within homes located in areas affected by high levels of According to BRE results, with both of the airtightness conditions outdoor air pollution.
investigated, the use of PIV with a carbon filter had a significant beneficial effect in reducing the outdoor NO concentrations 2 SUMMARY reaching the indoor environment.
By filtering out a high level of outdoor pollutants, Noxmaster represents a step forward in indoor air quality technology for the 2 As an example, airtightness condition A 7m h. m @ 50Pa, retrofit market.
Nuaire are excited to be first-to-market with this which was the less airtight of the two conditions, showed an NO 2 product, and to have evidence of its effectiveness with the results of indoor to outdoor air ratio of 0.67 67% of external NO ingress 2 this BRE investigation, document number P108640-1002 issue 3. into the house when naturally ventilated, and a ratio of 0.26 26% of external NO ingress into the house when using PIV 2 with carbon filter.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 31 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
