SUPPORTING OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY POLICY EMPLOYMENT an expert in employee engagement, business relations and customer satisfaction, Polypipes policy is to enhance shareholder Our vision for our businesses and employees we developed and rolled out in 2018 an value while ensuring we provide a safe is to have a culture of customer-focused additional training programme as part of our working environment and continually seek continuous improvement, driven by long-term development cycle to continually to minimise the impact of our operations teamwork, effective communication and enhance our employees customer service and products on the environment.
Our core values are capabilities.
hard work, honesty, trust and integrity, and The Board considers that operating maintaining a working environment based Polypipe has consistently provided efficiently with high-quality standards on mutual respect.
apprenticeships to the communities around includes promoting high standards of our businesses by supporting enthusiastic, health and safety and helping to protect the Polypipe is committed to providing the highly-motivated people who are keen environment.
appropriate skills and technical training that to learn a trade.
We have an outstanding allow employees to operate effectively and This section of the Strategic Report sets out record of retaining apprentices in ongoing, safely in their roles and deliver excellent our approach to corporate responsibility and long-term, full-time employment.
As part of our ongoing includes regulatory information on carbon recently, we are pleased to acknowledge commitment to excellence, we continue emissions, employee diversity and our that following our additional efforts to offer all front-line service personnel policies in relation to the recruitment and working more closely with educational accredited training provided through The retention of our employees.
establishments and supporting careers Institute of Customer Service.
With the advisory fairs, our Science, Technology, assistance of Mary Gobers MGI Learning, Engineering and Mathematics STEM based roles are being filled by both sexes with female applications on the increase.
We Social Engagement consider this approach an essential element of finding and retaining diverse employees with the sector-specific skills that we need.
Nuaire took advantage of Clean Air Day to share information about air pollution During 2018 we had 39 apprentices with friends and colleagues, and to help raise awareness of the importance of employed in our businesses in the UK, a clean air for health and wellbeing.
Last summer, Nuaire hosted a class of 30 Year 3 22% increase on 2017, and we intend to children from Cwrt Rawlin Primary School in Caerphilly and organised an Air Quality increase this number further as we widen Interactive Workshop, which featured fun presentations and scientific experiments our apprenticeships across other disciplines looking at indoor air quality, how to reduce air pollutants in the home including in our business.
The majority of our positive input ventilation, and a Cyclone Ball game with teams challenged to remove apprenticeships are in electrical, mechanical the most NO particle balls.
Children were also given a full factory tour, showing X and toolmaking trades up to higher how ventilation products are made, from sheet metal being pressed to finished degree level, as we continue to focus our goods being loaded into delivery lorries.
programmes predominantly on trades where future skills gaps are more evident within The Big Bang Fair is an annual event designed to inspire students to take up a career our industry, but that said, we continue in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics STEM.
Here at the Big Bang to support a number of apprenticeships Event at the Doncaster Racecourse, Mick Hirst, with 30 years experience from the in other disciplines and work closely with moulding shop at Broomhouse Lane, talks to interested schoolchildren about the both the British Plastics Federation and production processes involved to transform raw materials into finished products.
Institute For Apprenticeships to develop new Apprenticeship Standards for other STEM and polymer chemical-based disciplines.
Underlining our commitment to advanced manufacturing engineering, we continue to place many of our apprentices at the University of Sheffield Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre, a stateof-the-art centre that offers the very best in practical and academic training, alongside creating Knowledge Transfer Game to capture NO particles Big Bang event, Doncaster x 50 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Programmes with the Research Centre and their exemplary group of students and Charity Regatta professionals.
To further our commitment to developing young and enthusiastic individuals for the long-term succession In 2018, Polypipe celebrated its 20th Anniversary Regatta.
The Regatta is a charity plans of our businesses, 2018 saw the event aimed at non-sailors and experienced sailors alike so that everyone can have an launch of our Polypipe Plus Graduate enjoyable day on the water with some not-too-serious racing.
Last year more than 50 Scheme, which achieved an immediate and yachts entered, including three boats for returning soldiers, to raise money for Help successful placement within its first month for Heroes and John Merricks Sailing Trust.
We aim to recruit the remainder of our initial graduate cohort at the end of the 2018 19 academic year.
The Group involves employees through formal and informal systems of communication and consultation including suggestion schemes and works council forums.
Each of our main operating sites have display boards which set out our continuous improvement strategy and include KPIs updated each month on areas relevant to the strategy such as health and safety performance, products and process Polypipe Regatta, Port Solent, Portsmouth improvement initiatives, and customer satisfaction performance.
The Groups split between male and female employees at 31 December 2018 is shown below: While the Group does not have a specific Female Male Total human rights policy, it does have an Directors and Officers 3 6 9 Anti-Slavery policy and Modern Slavery Senior Managers 29 154 183 Act Transparency statement available on the Companys website, within which we Employees 685 2,187 2,872 state our zero-tolerance policy towards any Total 717 2,347 3,064 modern slavery or human trafficking rights violations.
While we are aware of the historical factors that have contributed to this gender split the Company continues to actively address this split.
Our initiatives predominantly sit within The Group gives every consideration to our recruitment practices, learning and development opportunities and apprenticeship and applicants for employment regardless of graduate initiatives.
Our belief is that a youngsters future interests, both male and female, is their sex, sexual orientation, religion, colour, partly driven by parental input, educational provisions and their first experiences of the world race, nationality, marital status or disability of work.
We believe it is our corporate responsibility to address any unconscious gender having regard for their aptitude and ability bias, when promoting future job opportunities.
We are actively working with both schools to adequately perform the role while and parents to ensure Polypipe is seen as a potential employer of choice for both males and maintaining a safe working environment.
Where employees become disabled, the HEALTH AND SAFETY Group makes appropriate and reasonable adjustments to their work environment The Group aims to continuously improve the quality and safety of the working environment and or duties, endeavouring to maintain for all employees.
The Group has a published Health, Safety and Environment policy that their employment provided there are duties sets out the overriding principles of health and safety for all employees.
The business units they can perform.
operate to externally accredited ISO OHSAS standards.
Health and safety achievements in the year included: Following six consecutive RoSPA Gold Awards, the Group achieved the Gold Medal Award for exceptional performance and dedicated support for health and safety within the organisation.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 51 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC SUPPORTING OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY Polypipe has donated over 6,500 to local encourages individuals across the business THE ENVIRONMENT AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS charities chosen by sites that have achieved at all levels to report hazards and suggest a set number of days without a lost-time solutions, and allows trends to be analysed.
We aim to minimise the lasting impact of accident.
During 2018 our toolmaking and In 2018, the number of such reports reached our operations on the environment, and repair business, Mason Pinder, achieved over record levels at 5,419 reports resulting in sustainability is a key feature of our products 3,600 days without a lost-time accident, improvement projects being delivered across and their impact on the environment.
Also, during 2018, the Group which in turn enhanced employee pages 24 to 31 for further details of our our Glasgow distribution site achieved working environment safety.
sustainable solutions for the environment.
2,000 days without a lost-time accident Accident frequency performance and details Our modern and efficient injection moulding resulting in a charity donation of 1,700. of all significant incidents are reviewed and extrusion operations use significant Both are outstanding achievements during the weekly executive meetings amounts of electricity.
We monitor very and significant milestones, of which all attended by the Executive Directors and closely our electricity usage, even at involved can be proud.
a machine level, and take a proactive The Group continued the implementation approach to improve energy efficiency.
The The table below sets out the KPIs used by of a focused, formalised safety tour Group collects and analyses electricity and the Group to monitor accident performance: programme for management.
natural gas usage information from each business unit on a monthly basis.
2016 2017 2018 These safety tours, undertaken by Executive Directors through to department managers, Frequency per 100,000 hours worked engage staff and further encourage health, All accidents 6.12 5.40 5.68 safety and environmental discussion and RIDDORS 0.55 0.36 0.36 improvement.
RIDDORS HSE reportable accidents and dangerous occurrences based on the current seven-day absence The Group operates a formal system for from work reporting requirement in the UK and although reporting and recording hazards and near there is no direct equivalent in Mainland Europe and the Middle East, the same definition is applied.
The See it, Sort it, Report it scheme Restated to reflect the disposal of Polypipe France.
New product development for conservation Manthorpe Swift Brick Swift numbers have almost halved in 20 years, and new nesting boxes are needed to help numbers recover as they return to the UK to breed every summer.
In collaboration with Barratts and the RSPB with assistance from Action for Swifts, Manthorpe has developed the Swift Brick, to provide a safe, spacious and habitable area to allow swifts to nest within the construction of modern houses without compromising the performance of the building shell.
Swift Brick takes the place of a single brick in the wall, with the coloured face helping to blend into the surrounding bricks.
It has been designed to be quick and easy to install during the course of normal bricklaying, with a built-in cavity tray detail that protects against water ingress.
Jo Alden, Regional Technical Director at Barratt Developments commented: We are delighted with the initial response to this innovative product.
The wellbeing of our ecological environment is at the heart of Barratts philosophy and we are pleased that this product, developed by Manthorpe in association with Barratt and the RSPB, is gaining traction.
It offers a low-cost, simple solution that has the opportunity to enhance developments across the country.
Manthorpe Swift Brick 52 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS Apprentices Suppliers are key to our business and we endeavour to build long-term relationships with them based on trust.
We will seek to extend our supplier base if risks of undercapacity or resilience arise in our supply chain.
Polypipe has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent on the Groups business.
Suppliers are paid in line with contractual obligations.
We stay close to our existing and potential customers and distributors and strive to During 2018 we had 39 apprentices employed in our businesses in the UK and we meet their needs.
Our businesses are focused intend to increase the number further.
The majority of our apprenticeships were in on achieving market-leading delivery service electrical, mechanical and tool-making trades but we continue to support a number levels for our customers and to respond of apprenticeships in other disciplines.
Underlining our commitment to advanced quickly to their emerging requirements.
manufacturing engineering, we continue to place apprentices at the new University POLYPIPE AND THE LOCAL COMMUNITY of Sheffield Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre, a state-of-the-art centre that Each operation is aware of its role within offers the very best in practical and academic training.
In support of our engineering its local community.
Wherever possible they focus we continue to work closely with Cogent Skills, strategic partner to the science seek to recruit locally and retain a skilled industry, supporting ongoing development of industry specific apprenticeship local workforce.
They are encouraged to frameworks for the future.
build relationships with local community organisations and to support charitable initiatives.
These activities range from the organisation of our Annual Charity Sailing Regatta in which over 700 people from Greenhouse gas GHG emissions for the Group during 2018, in tonnes of carbon dioxide our customers and associates participated, equivalent tCO e, were as follows: 2 marathon running, quiz nights, cake sales tCO e % 2 and summer gala days.
Our employees Source raised over 45,000 2017: 30,000 for worthwhile causes during the year from fuel combustion stationary 2,825 6 these activities.
fuel combustion mobile 14,853 31 fugitive emissions F-gas 223 1 Charitable donations by Group companies during the year were 33,000 purchased electricity 29,823 62 2017: 27,000.
47,724 100 ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICY Our GHG emissions annual comparison and intensity were as follows: The Group seeks to prohibit all forms of bribery and corruption within its businesses 2017 2018 change and complies with the requirements of all tCO e 2 applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws.
Total emissions 55,714 47,724 14 % The Group requires all relevant employees Emissions intensity 0.40 0.39 4 % and agents to confirm each year that Restated to reflect the disposal of Polypipe France.
they remain in compliance with the Groups Expressed in tCO e per tonne of output.
Our GHG emissions were calculated using the methodology set out in the updated GHG Approved by the Board and signed on reporting guidance issued in June 2013 by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural its behalf.
Carbon emission factors were taken from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategys 2018 update of GHG Conversion Factors for Company Martin Payne Reporting, with the exception of non-UK electricity, which were taken from the European Chief Executive Officer Residual Mixes 2017: Association of Issuing Bodies.
19 March 2019 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 53 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC CASE STUDY Acquisition: Products: a suite of patent-protected, moulded and Manthorpe Building extruded plastic and metal products for Water and Climate Management applications, in the UK and Irish residential Products markets.
The Project The business is based in Ripley, Derbyshire, UK, from where it sells Polypipe acquired Manthorpe Building Products to a diverse customer base of merchants and specialist distributors Holdings Limited, a leading designer and across the UK and Ireland, who in turn serve multiple end-users manufacturer of moulded and extruded plastic such as house developers, roofing contractors and RMI markets.
and metal products to the UK and Irish residential It has approximately 100 employees across sales, R&D, despatch and manufacturing functions.
Manthorpe has a solid track record of growth, profitability and KEY HIGHLIGHTS successful cash flow generation.
Based on management accounts, } Manthorpe is a leading provider of moulded and extruded it generated revenue of 16.4m and adjusted EBITDA of 6.3m for plastic and metal products in the UK and Ireland, with a solid the 12 months ended 30 April 2018. track record of growth, profitability and successful cash flow generation.
ACQUISITION RATIONALE } Good strategic fit, broadening Polypipes UK residential The acquisition is in line with Polypipes strategy of broadening offering in the Water and Climate Management sectors, with its market reach in Water and Climate Management solutions, differentiated, patented value-adding products.
providing a one-stop shop for our customers, and exploiting the key growth drivers of legislative tailwinds and legacy material } Manthorpe and Polypipe have common end-users house substitution.
Manthorpe is well-positioned to capitalise on these developers and RMI and routes to market merchants and growth drivers given its range of differentiated, specifiable, valuespecialist distributors.
Its offering is complementary to Polypipes } Potential for cost and revenue synergies identified.
existing capabilities and will further Polypipes market-leading } Well-invested business with state-of-the-art facilities.
positions in the Water and Climate Management spaces. }
Expected to be EPS accretive and deliver returns in excess of the Polypipes management expects that the two companies will be cost of capital in the first full financial year of ownership.
able to leverage their respective technical, selling and distribution THE MANTHORPE BUSINESS capabilities and expertise to accelerate the combined companys Manthorpe is a leading designer and manufacturer of moulded and growth.
There are opportunities for both cost and revenue synergies, extruded plastic and metal products to the UK and Irish residential including, but not limited to, a broader combined product offering and RMI markets.
It sells products across 12 distinct categories, in and raw material savings.
total producing c. 400 SKUs, with the key revenue contributors It is anticipated that the operational management of Manthorpe will being dry fix roofing, residential slot and channel drainage, air remain with the combined business.
leakage, roof ventilation, and loft doors and access panels.
It has a strong reputation for developing and patenting innovative new products using advanced processes and technology to provide market-leading solutions.
The acquisition of Manthorpe Building Products is a perfect fit for us, expanding our product platform and market reach in the UK and Irish residential and RMI markets, which, like other parts of our business, are being positively impacted by legislative change.
Martin Payne, Chief Executive Officer, Commenting on the acquisition 54 OUR GOVERNANCE Summary Strategic rationale Product offer extension into gap-filling adjacencies in the water } Contents management and climate management space DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 56 Differentiated, specifiable, value-adding product solutions } Legacy material substitution, with moulded and extruded plastic } INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN 58 alternative solutions in materials where Polypipe has market-leading expertise CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 59 Common end users house developers and RMI and routes to } STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 67 market via merchants and specialist distributors NOMINATION COMMITTEE 68 Revenue was 16.4m for the year to end April 2018 } AUDIT COMMITTEE 70 Strategic link: Legacy material substitution through alternative solutions } DIRECTORS REPORT 74 Innovative and smart engineering solutions provides gap-filling } DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT 79 adjacencies Customer-focused complete solutions provides value-adding } solutions, to ensure health and safety and solve site-specific issues ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 55 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
