OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY At Polypipe, we endeavour to build and develop a sustainable business, while taking solutions to market that are by nature of their application enabling a sustainable and resilient built environment.
Polypipe is committed to managing its own environmental impact, at the same time as ensuring that its products and solutions 4 STEP 1 work to benefit the environments in which they are used.
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 3 STEP 1 CARBON EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS Product systems that save energy and reduce CO emissions.
2 2 LIGHT IN STEP 1 WEIGHT WATER MANAGEMENT Plastics are lighter, SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABLE easier to handle and reduce transportation costs.
PROCESSES Products that recognise water as a scarce resource and reduce ooding.
REDUCED STRONG WATER IN USE CONSUMPTION Plastic pipes and ttings 1 are tough, durable and STEP 1 resistant to corrosion.
REDUCED MANUFACTURING ENERGY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION INPUTS REPROCESSED PRIME MATERIAL POLYMERS OUTCOME INTERNALLY THE SUSTAINABLE RECYCLED BUILT ENVIRONMENT POLYMERS RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL CIVILS INFRASTRUCTURE Recyclable at end of life EXTERNALLY RECYCLED POLYMERS SUSTAINABLE INPUTS SUSTAINABLE PROCESSES SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Polypipe has long-standing Polypipe does not just recycle Polypipe is proud to Our products are not only relationships with its core all in-process material waste: manufacture plastic pipes that sustainably produced, but partner suppliers.
Working we monitor every production are strong yet light in weight.
they are sustainable in their closely with these suppliers process and pursue continuous Through fine process control, installation and everyday use.
allows Polypipe to assess new improvement in our operations the material content of For example, they save energy, material formulations, to pursue to eliminate the sources of a manufactured product is finely reduce CO emissions and cost savings or performance waste.
For example, we reduce adjusted to ensure a given class manage water as a valuable improvements.
All of our raw power and water consumption of stiffness, without merely resource.
Systems such as our materials, whether prime or by metering usage at relying on product weight which underfloor heating, Mechanical recycled polymers, are sourced machine level.
Ventilation with Heat Recovery to a strict sustainable policy and In addition to saving costs, and geocellular solutions this ensures all suppliers meet this helps towards considerably provide the most comprehensive the highest standards.
With reducing fuel consumption in range available in our market ISO 9001 Quality Management transportation, lowering health to meet these requirements.
and ISO 14001 Environmental and safety risks on-site.
Recycling is also an integral part Management accreditation, we Plus, these products can be of this philosophy.
only manufacture with the very recycled at the end of the life.
THE OUTCOME The built environment across the Residential, Commercial, Civils and Infrastructure markets contributes significantly to the environmental impact on our habitat.
At Polypipe, we are confident that our materials, processes, products and their applications in use are serving the demands of today and enhancing our environment into the future.
24 QUALITY CONTROLLED INPUTS OUR STRATEGIC REPORT leading partners such as Veolia to source times more than concrete, so the embedded The start of this journey is quality recyclable bales of plastic bottles carbon dioxide in application is significantly rooted in the way we process and containers.
This allows the Company less with plastic pipes than with the our polymer raw materials.
to create products from recycled plastics, alternative legacy materials.
reducing transport and the number of POLYMER RAW MATERIALS In addition, the lightweight attribute of processing steps to convert recyclate into plastics means that plastic pipes can be The reputation of plastic as a material a high-performing product, ensuring quality 70% cheaper to transport than equivalent has suffered a deterioration in its public control throughout.
size concrete pipes and can be handled and perception in recent times.
However, the Not only is the polymer material recyclable stored much more safely on-site.
very characteristics that can lead to plastics at the end of its product life, which is being a problem for the environment can Producing pipe with recycled plastics instead designed to be at least 50 years, the also be applied to solve key environmental of virgin plastic reduces the embedded benefits of plastic also make it a much more challenges, such as the management of carbon dioxide further still.
Life cycle analysis considerate choice for the environment water, or the management of various LCA reports suggest that there are clear versus alternative materials.
Concrete, clay, attributes of climate.
environmental benefits to producing plastic copper, steel and ductile iron pipe systems products from recovered plastics, compared By their nature, plastics are chemically inert, all contain significantly more embedded with using virgin polymers and disposing which means that by themselves they do not carbon through their production processes, of the product post-use via incineration pollute, in the way that hydrocarbons that and all require significantly more haulage or landfill: and these environmental gains run off from roads, or fertilisers that run off and specialist lifting equipment than much are particularly high for high-density from fields, do.
Furthermore, since plastics lighter plastics, which means that the use polyethylene HDPE, such as that used to repel water and do not readily biodegrade, of Polypipe systems greatly reduces carbon make plastic bottles.
For each tonne of they are ideally suited for applications that emissions in delivery and installation.
HDPE that is recycled, one tonne of carbon manage water in a sustainable manner.
dioxide is saved versus producing and Therefore, in an environment where extreme disposing of the same quantity of virgin The use of Polypipe storm events are becoming frequent, material.
HDPE is the material that Polypipe systems greatly reduces and existing combined sewage outfall uses to produce its large diameter pipes.
carbon emissions in infrastructure is reaching capacity, the use of In 2018, Polypipe recycled 44,700 tonnes of plastics can be engineered as a very effective plastic, of which 16,000 tonnes came from delivery and installation part of the solution to manage water.
recyclable plastic bottles and containers.
As such, recycled plastic accounted for 75% of Along with ensuring that virgin plastics and For example, producing a kilogram of virgin the raw material consumed by our Civils and polymers are sourced only from reputable plastic releases 23 kilograms of carbon Infrastructure Division in 2018, to produce suppliers, Polypipe has invested heavily and dioxide, which is about as much as the same pipes that were destined to be buried in the optimised its own recycling and polymer amount of steel.
However, a single kilogram ground in applications that will manage and processing plant at the Horncastle site.
of plastic can produce 10 times more usable treat rainwater and stormwater.
Furthermore, Polypipe works with industryproduct in application than steel and 100 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 25 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES THE GROUPS VENTILATION BUSINESS Polypipe actively participates in relevant The Groups Nuaire ventilation business Polypipe recycled trade bodies such as TEPPFA and the extends Polypipes ability to provide solutions 44,700 tonnes of British Plastics Federation, encouraging for energy-efficient ventilation alongside its best practice and a uniform approach to heating products which are suited to low plastic in 2018 sustainability across the industry.
While apartment blocks are ideal to meet the housing demands of cities, RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS AND MANUFACTURING PROCESS developers must deal with the complex COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS issues of optimising space, managing air During the manufacturing process, In residential dwellings and tall commercial quality and overheating, without creating Polypipe works hard to limit environmental buildings, Polypipes solutions start the nuisance ambient noise.
Taking an engineered approach process of managing water at roof level.
efficient and low-noise ventilation systems, to manufacturing ensures that Polypipe The Groups market-leading geocellular with integral heat recovery and air filtration, customers are able to receive systems that solution, Permavoid, enables architects and provide solutions to these issues, offering meet their needs exactly, without overusing M&E consultants to create podium decks developers low-energy solutions which resources and minimising waste.
Polypipe within roofs that can capture water and safeguard the health of residents, in terms staff recognise the importance of design release it into surrounding drainage systems of providing sufficient fresh air see case through to manufacturing and installation at a controlled rate to ensure drainage or study on page 30. and the impact that these processes have sewer systems are not overwhelmed.
In on the environments in which their products addition, these podium decks can encourage With an increasing awareness of the need are manufactured and used, continuously biodiversity in urban environments through for cities to not only be resilient to flooding searching for the optimum methods of the creation of green roofs.
Building owners events, but to plan for these events in reducing their environmental impact.
can cultivate roof gardens that can actively advance using principles like water sensitive help to mitigate issues such as the heat urban design WSUD, Polypipe can provide island effect.
This helps to maintain a solutions for the creation of spaces that stable climate and constant temperature are healthy and safe by mitigating water inside the building and can be part of abundance, water scarcity and poor a carbon efficient solution to further reduce air quality through engineered system the energy requirement for cooling and air performance.
conditioning see case study Project Vivaldi on page 28.
