STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Audit and Risk Committee report continued The Group has implemented enterprise and operational policies Pre-approval thresholds are in place for the provision of nonInternal control framework and activities External auditor and controls to manage risks that may affect achievement of the audit services by the external auditor, being: pre-approval by the The management structure of the Group and internal policies and External auditor appointment Groups strategic objectives.
Transaction-level internal controls are Chief Financial Officers of Russian, Kazakh or Armenian business procedures are aimed at maintaining a robust control framework The re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditor designed to enhance the value of operational-level objectives and entities respectively, and by the Director of the Cyprus office of within the Group to encourage the achievement of strategic is reviewed annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
Deloitte accountability of new projects and initiatives.
Polymetal International plc if the services are provided to other objectives within the set risk tolerance levels.
LLP was appointed auditor in 2011, with Deloitte CIS having Group companies if below $5,000: by the Chair of the Audit and been auditor of JSC Polymetal since the last tendering process Risk Committee if between $5,000 and $20,000: and by the Audit In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk This framework includes: in 2007.
The Group has a policy of tendering the external audit and Risk Committee if above $20,000.
management and internal control system including financial, at least every ten years.
The Committees assessment of the operating and compliance controls, the Committee considers the An appropriate tone set from the top Board level, aimed at external auditors performance and independence underpins its Certain permitted types of non-audit work may be undertaken by key findings from the ongoing monitoring and reporting processes, building the appropriate control environment and ethical climate recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders the rethe auditor without prior referral to the Audit and Risk Committee management representations and independent assurance reports.
Management support of a comprehensive risk management appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor until the conclusion of the up to a cumulative annual value of $100,000.
Any further non-audit system for more detail refer to pages 7677 AGM in 2020.
Resolutions to authorise the Board to re-appoint and work is subject to approval by the Audit and Risk Committee in Strong segregation of duties including internal controls over Internal audit determine the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the AGM further tranches of $100,000.
In the event that the cumulative value sensitive transactions The internal audit function supports the Board, through the Audit on 23 April 2019. of non-audit fees exceeds $500,000 in any given year, separate Specific control activities implemented at all levels of the Group and Risk Committee, with the objective of evaluating the Companys approval by the Audit and Risk Committee is required explaining A periodic review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
and the Groups governance framework.
The internal audit function Audit tender why there is no threat to independence.
also aims to raise levels of understanding and awareness of risk and We intend to tender our external audit in 2019 for the 2020 audit, The governance framework reflects the specific structure control throughout the Group.
which will coincide with the completion of the five-year term of In 2018, non-audit fees were $0.54 million of which $0.46 million and management of the Group, where authority and control our current audit partner.
At that point, Deloitte LLP will have were incurred for audit-related assurance services for the Groups are delegated by the Board to different levels, from senior Internal auditors maintain organisational independence from been our auditor for 10 years, following our listing on the London half-year review.
Non-audit fees represented 48% of the 2018 audit management to the managers of the Groups operating the Group management by reporting to the Audit and Risk Stock Exchange.
It is our intention that Deloitte will be invited to fee 2017: 38%.
Non-audit fees excluding audit-related services entities and then cascaded down to business and project Committee on substantive matters and to the Group CEO for participate in this tendering process, along with other appropriately amounted to $0.08 million, or 5% 2017: 1% of total fees for audit managers as appropriate.
administrative purposes: the internal audit function additionally qualified international audit firms.
The Company is in compliance and audit-related services.
reports its findings to the members of the Groups executive with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Within this framework, authority is delegated with clearly management.
Any potential conflicts of interest should be Companies Market Investigation Order 2014.
The Audit and Risk Committee has considered information prescribed limits and decisions are escalated where either project disclosed by the internal auditors as they arise: internal auditors pertaining to the balance between fees for audit and non-audit size or risk profile require a higher level of authority.
In addition to are not allowed to audit areas where they have held operational Non-audit services by the external auditors work for the Group in 2018, and concluded that the nature and controls operating at transaction level production, exploration, roles in the previous 12 months.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the Companys extent of non-audit services provided do not present a threat to construction, procurement, the control framework also includes relationship with its external auditor relating to the provision of nonthe external auditors objectivity or independence.
a set of general procedures for transaction approval, financial The internal audit functions annual work plan is approved by audit services to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence accounting, reporting and budgeting.
the Audit and Risk Committee.
It is based on a risk tolerance are safeguarded.
This is achieved by disclosure of the extent and evaluation that ensures the achievement of the Groups operating nature of non-audit services see Note 15 to the consolidated The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have objectives and focuses on the principal risks the of Groups risk financial statements and the prohibition of selected services being been or are being taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses profile.
The head of the internal audit function reports to the Board provided by the external auditor.
in the Groups system of internal controls.
This has involved through the Audit and Risk Committee.
The KPIs of the head of the considering the matters reported to it and developing plans and internal audit function are completion of work in accordance with Following the introduction of new EU Audit legislation and changes programmes that it believes are reasonable in the circumstances.
the approved plan, quality of audits and the number of follow-up to the UK Ethical Standard, which introduced new restrictions Based on the results of the review of risk management and audits, where agreed recommendations have been implemented.
and prohibitions on non-audit services to Public Interest Entities internal control activities undertaken by the Board and the incorporated in the European Economic Area EEA PIEs, the Audit Audit and Risk Committee, the Board considers that the risk In addition to the Audit and Risk Committee assessment, the Committee has chosen to voluntarily apply the new requirements management and internal control systems are in accordance with internal audit function uses an annual self-certification process, as if Polymetal was a EEA PIE.
The policy governing the provision the relevant principles and provisions of the UK Code and other which requires managers throughout the Group to personally of non-audit services by the external auditor approved by the applicable guidance.
confirm the testing of internal controls and compliance with Group Committee defines permitted audit and non-audit services.
policies within their business or function, as well as the steps taken to address actual or potential issues that are identified.
The internal audit function also performs periodic external certification, the most recent of which took place in February 2016: it was confirmed that POLYMETAL AUDIT TENDER independence and objectivity of the Groups internal audit function Tendering process 2019 is in compliance with international standards for internal audit.
External certification of the internal audit function started at the end of 2018 with the results presented to the Audit and Risk Committee in March 2019.
Request for Shadowing by Tender New partner firm takes over proposal new partner firm Management provides a timely response to issues raised by internal audit.
Where possible, the issues are resolved within one reporting period.
The results of self-certification as well as April management response thereto are provided to the Committee YE 2018 HY 2019 Dec June Dec 2020 along with other reports on the internal audit activities.
sign off sign off 2019 2020 2020 AGM Full independence prohibitions on non-audit services commences for Polymetals new auditor.
Shadowing period starts 100 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 101 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Audit and Risk Committee report continued The Board attaches the utmost importance to this policy and The Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee makes himself Auditor independence Policies and procedures applies a zero-tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption available to major institutional shareholders annually to discuss The auditors are required each year to confirm in writing to the Evaluation by any of the Groups employees or by business partners working the Companys annual reporting to shareholders as part of the Committee that they have complied with the independence rules of Following the assessment of the Committees performance on the Groups behalf.
The policy prohibits the payment, offer or Companys investor days.
He is also available for one-on-one their profession and regulations governing independence, and that during the Board external evaluation in 2016, no threats to the authorisation of bribes, the receipt or acceptance of a bribe, or meetings with key shareholders at their request.
they have complied with the requirements of the Companys policy effectiveness of the Committee were identified.
At the same time, the payment, offer or promise to pay any facilitating payments.
on provision of non-audit services.
The external auditor is required fellow Directors reported a high level of satisfaction with the Audit Any breach of this policy is regarded as a serious matter by the Ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the interim and to maintain appropriate records to provide reasonable assurance and Risk Committee.
Company and is likely to result in disciplinary action.
annual financial statements remains with the Board.
The Board that its independence from the Company is not impaired.
considers that the Audit and Risk Committee complies with the In 2017, the Committee carried out a comprehensive selfprovisions of the UK Code, FRC Guidance on Audit Committees As part of implementation of internal procedures to comply with the A copy of the Policy on Independence and the Provision of Nonevaluation of its performance.
The members of the Committee, and Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related UK Bribery Act, the Group has a formalised Whistle-Blowing Policy Audit Services is available on the Companys website.
CFO, external audit partner and head of internal audit completed Financial and Business Reporting.
which defines the processes in place for staff to communicate, in a thorough assessment questionnaire on the work of the Audit confidence, concerns about possible improprieties, unethical or and Risk Committee and other related issues, including external Review of the effectiveness of the external audit process The Committee gives due consideration to applicable laws and illegal activities and ensures that arrangements are in place for the audit and the quality, experience and expertise of the internal audit and audit quality regulations, the provisions of the UK Code and the requirements independent investigation of such matters.
Based on the assessment results, the areas that needed The Audit and Risk Committee has adopted a formal framework of the Listing Rules.
to the Committee twice a year on any instances of corruption or attention were aggregated and followed up by appropriate actions in its review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and unethical conduct within the Group.
Further information on due in 2018, including a Committee renewal programme, additional audit quality which focuses on the following areas: diligence processes implemented by the Company in pursuance management reporting, internal audit department staffing review of those policies is available in the Safety and Sustainability Report.
and a more in-depth understanding of the scope of external audit.
The audit partners, with particular focus on the lead audit The Company affirms that it has not denied any personnel access to Outstanding issues have been included in the 2019 Committee engagement partner.
The Company has been working with the the Audit and Risk Committee and that it has provided protection to work plan.
existing audit partner since 2015 whistle-blowers from adverse personnel action.
The audit team The following evaluation was performed in 2018: Planning and scope of the audit and identification of areas of All policies and procedures on prevention of bribery and audit risk corruption are annually reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee March 2018 external auditor effectiveness assessment Execution of the audit for any changes required to be recommended to the Board.
The August 2018 internal and external auditors meeting without The role of management in an effective audit process management reports to the Committee on the implementation of the management present Communications by the auditor with the Audit and Risk policies and procedures within the Groups operations.
Committee, and how the auditor supports the work of the Audit and Risk Committee The Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Corruption and  performed in 2018 was forward-looking.
The How the audit contributes insights and adds value Blowing Policies are available on the Companys website.
Committee reflected on its work over the year and discussed steps The independence and objectivity of the audit firm and the to be undertaken to ensure compliance with the new UK Code: quality of the formal audit report to shareholders.
The principles and provisions the Committees terms of reference were reviewed as part of the In the reporting period, all members of the Committee had financial process.
One of the areas identified for improvement was better An auditor assessment is completed annually by each member of experience and competence relevant to the sector in which the communication between the Audit and Risk Committee and the the Audit and Risk Committee and by the CFO.
Feedback is also Company is operating: Messrs Best, Baizini and Oliveira have Board on risks to ensure that the thorough work at Committee sought from the Group CEO, other members of the finance team, competence in accounting detailed information on the experience, level is reflected in the Boards discussions, with the Board taking divisional management and the head of internal audit.
skills and qualifications of all Committee members can be found on an enhanced role in the risk oversight.
Ms Coignard is Chair and Messrs Best and Baizini The assessment tool adopted is comprehensive and includes are members of the Remuneration Committee, which ensures UK Bribery Act 2010 detailed questions which are completed by way of a formal continuity between the workings of both Committees.
The Company and its Directors are committed to ensuring questionnaire every three years, while the key areas are reviewed adherence to the highest legal and ethical standards.
The feedback from this process is considered by the reflected in every aspect of the way the Group operates.
Bribery Audit and Risk Committee, and is provided both to the auditor is a criminal offence in the countries in which the Group operates.
Action plans arising are also reviewed by Corrupt acts expose the Group and its employees to the risk of the Committee.
The most recent comprehensive audit quality prosecution, fines and imprisonment, as well as endangering evaluation was performed in March 2019. the Companys reputation.
The Group has a Code of Conduct in place, which refers to its Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
The effectiveness of management in the external audit process The policy extends across all of the Groups business dealings is assessed principally in relation to the timely identification and in all countries and territories in which the Group operates and resolution of areas of accounting judgement, the quality and applies to Directors, managers and all employees of the Group, timeliness of papers analysing those judgements, managements as well as relevant business partners and other relevant individuals approach to the value of the independent audit, the booking of and entities.
audit adjustments arising if any and the timely provision of draft public documents for review by the auditor and the Audit and Risk Committee.
102 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 103 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Nomination Committee report Dear Shareholders We have been privileged to have had Bobby Godsell as our Board Diversity and gender pay Chair since the Companys IPO in 2011.
Working closely with the Formalised and structured succession Board and our Group CEO, Bobby has led initiatives to develop planning is vital for the Companys Polymetals record of good governance, deliver on forecasts and Polymetal is committed to the principles of non-discrimination, promises, enhance shareholder returns, focus on improved safety continuing success inclusion and diversity for both the Board and its workforce.
All and environmental practices, and on improving relationships with all candidates and employees have equal opportunities regardless stakeholders.
It is particularly fitting that Bobby steps down at a time Ollie Oliveira, Chair of the Nomination Committee of gender, age, race, nationality, language, origin, wealth, when Polymetal has reported yet another year of record production residence, religion and other beliefs, social or other personal and excellent financial results, and has a pipeline of growth projects circumstances.
The Companys Code of Conduct and Policy with outstanding prospects for additional value creation.
on Staff and Management Diversity outline the principles and approach to diversity and prohibit any discrimination.
Regular Shortly after my appointment as Senior Independent Director SID monitoring of compliance is undertaken by the HR department, Nomination Committee composition and meeting attendance at the 2018 AGM, I was given the task by the Board of undertaking which ensures that our internal procedures are implemented a structured search process for a new non-executive Board Chair.
No instances of discrimination To facilitate this process, Bobby resigned as Chair of the Nomination The Nomination Committee comprises The Board considers that the composition Board member Meetings were reported in 2018.
The Group is in full compliance with all Committee and I was appointed in his stead.
At the end of this three independent non-executive Directors and work of the Nomination Committee local legislation in the countries where it operates that prohibit 1 Ollie Oliveira Chair 5 5 process, it was the Boards pleasure to announce that Ian Cockerill who have no personal financial interest complies with the requirements of any discrimination in payment and promotion.
had accepted the position of Board Chair Elect, to be voted upon at Tracey Kerr 6 6 in the matters to be decided, other than the UK Code.
Ian has an outstanding record in mining and corporate as a shareholder where applicable.
2 Board diversity is addressed as part of the Board succession Giacomo Baizini 1 1 governance at both executive and non-executive levels, and came The Committee is chaired by Mr Oliveira programme, including considering candidates with little or no 3 from a prestigious shortlist of candidates, all of whom would have Bobby Godsell 1 1 and its other members are Ms Kerr previous Board experience in public companies for appointment done justice to the position.
We trust that our shareholders will extend 4 and Mr Baizini.
Mr Godsell chaired the Christine Coignard 4 4 as non-executive Directors.
Spencer Stuart, an international an enthusiastic welcome to Mr Cockerill at the 2019 AGM.
Committee prior to the start of the Chairsearch firm, have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct 5 Leonard Homeniuk 1 1 succession programme in June 2018: on gender diversity and best practice.
The lead partner on the Each year the Board and all its Committees conduct informal internal Mr Baizini replaced Ms Coignard as a assignment is female.
1 Member from 25 April 2018 and Chair from reviews of their work and these were carried out in 2018.
Since Committee member on 16 October 2018.
27 June 2018 2013, we have undertaken an externally facilitated Board evaluation 2 Member from 16 October 2018 The Nomination and Remuneration Committees undertook an every three years.
The most recent in 2016 was conducted by 3 Chair until 27 June 2018 in-depth review of the gender pay gap during 2018.
It concluded Fidelio Partners, an independent Board Development and Executive 4 Member until 16 October 2018 that, while there is no gender pay gap for the same positions, Search consultancy, with an in-depth review of Board effectiveness.
5 Member until 25 April 2018 the gender imbalance of the mining industry in general impacts The principal recommendations from Fidelios findings have been the gender pay ratio in Polymetal, which in 2018 was 1.32 2017: implemented.
The next evaluation will take place during 2019 and we Key responsibilities 1.27.
We believe that increasing female representation will look forward to participating in this independently managed process.
benefit the Group and we actively endorse female participation BOARD STRUCTURE REVIEW AND EVALUATION LEADERSHIP AND CONFLICT OF INTERESTS DIVERSITY AND GOVERNANCE in Polymetals management.
This year several women were I have also informally interviewed my colleagues and sent out a promoted to senior management levels: managing director, Leads a formal, rigorous and transparent Keeps under review both executive Leads on diversity and provides a questionnaire in order to review the performance of our existing head of gold processing plant, deputy HR director.
process for Board appointments and non-executive leadership needs statement of the Boards policy on Board Chair.
This should prove very useful during the induction Regularly reviews the Board structure, of the Group diversity, including gender, any programme of the new Board Chair.
size and composition and makes Requires Directors and proposed measurable objectives that it has In 2018, the overall proportion of women working in the recommendations to the Board about appointees to the Board to disclose set for implementing the policy and Group slightly decreased: 20% 2017: 21%.
The Company As SID, I have participated in open communications with any changes any conflict of interest or significant progress on achieving objectives facilitates promotion of women, including hiring women in shareholders, often accompanied by the Chair of the Safety Makes recommendations to the Board commitments, with an indication of the Focuses on the Companys approach positions traditionally held by men.
The Nomination Committee and Sustainability Committee, to ensure that we have a good about the Directors re-appointment at time involved to succession and planning, and closely monitors the efforts of management in increasing independent understanding of the non-operating issues that the end of their term of office Requires Directors to apply for approval how both support developing a diversity, paying special attention to more recent acquisitions in Reviews the results of the Board before undertaking additional external diverse pipeline concern shareholders and other stakeholders.
areas with a traditional male workforce.
performance evaluation that relate to appointments Reviews the Companys gender the composition of the Board and balance within the Group Formalised and structured succession planning is vital for the Male Female individual Directors leadership team Companys continuing success and ensures that leadership is Employee gender parity 2018 2017 2018 2017 aligned to corporate strategy, both at Board and senior management Focus during 2018 levels.
Polymetal announced the launch of its Board of Directors Directors 78% 88% 22% 22% succession programme in June 2017.
The Board and its Committees Continued with the independent nonContinued succession discussion at Reviewed HR reports, including All employees, of which: 80% 79% 20% 21% will continue to pursue the mission of improving governance to the executive Director succession programme executive level, including formalised headcount, costs, diversity, professional Managers 77% 77% 23% 23% and led the search for the new Board Chair Group CEO succession planning development, employment culture, highest possible levels.
The Nomination Committee will focus on Continued to review the skills and Considered the top-down approach approach to the learning process and ensuring that the Board has the required diversity and world-class Employees with vocational experience of the Board, age and term to retention of senior employees training benchmarking information skills in finance, mining, governance and stakeholder engagement.
training or higher education 60% 60% 40% 40% limits of Directors, concept of Discussed the externally facilitated Board Discussed diversity highlights and The composition of the Board is fully compliant with the existing Workers 88% 88% 12% 12% independence: reviewed the composition evaluation plan for 2019 pathway to better top-management UK Code and will remain so under the new UK Code.
of the Board and its Committees Discussed the personal development gendered diversity Reviewed results of interviews with all plan for the top management team Reviewed Diversity Policy We acknowledge that reducing the gender imbalance, and with Directors and considered what skills and Young Leaders implementation, including equality audit it the gender pay gap, is a long-term goal and we will continue would be required for new independent Reviewed the report on the Young Reviewed the market practice in terms to focus on inclusivity and diversity in order to enable our non-executive Director appointments Leaders Programme participants of responsibilities of the Board employees to fulfil their full potential.
Supervised the tailored induction process development and inclusion in the Committees Made recommendations to the Board Performance Share Plan PSP Reviewed the Committees terms of about re-election of Directors at the AGM reference in line with the new UK Code Ollie Oliveira Reviewed the work plan for 2019 Senior Independent Director, Chair, Nomination Committee 104 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 105 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Safety and Sustainability Committee report Dear Shareholders Corporate culture The safety, health and well-being of our employees is paramount to Polymetal and is at the core of how we operate our business.
The safety, health and wellbeing of our Our prime objective is to have no fatalities.
However, regrettably, Polymetals culture is firmly aligned with its strategy and employees is paramount to Polymetal and is I have to report one fatality at our Kaplan mine in Armenia recognised and supported by the Board.
All Directors are and I offer my sincere condolences to the family, friends and expected to act with integrity, lead by example and promote the at the core of how we operate our business colleagues of Mr Martirosyan.
Whilst we have made great strides desired culture.
with implementing processes and procedures to safeguard the Tracey Kerr, Chair of the Safety and Sustainability Committee workplace, it is crucial that we continue to reinforce a stronger The success of Polymetal is entirely down to its people.
Our safety ethos across our sites.
We have made some progress over robust performance is based on each employee taking pride the last year with a significant decrease in the frequency of injuries in their work and responsibility for their actions, understanding and the level of exposure to risk: our employees are getting better their individual impact on the business and being open to at recognising and reporting conditions and situations that could new challenges.
Safety and Sustainability Committee meeting attendance potentially lead to serious incidents.
But we still have to do more because one fatality in our workforce is one too many.
Growth through innovation The Safety and Sustainability Committee Mr Homeniuk chaired the Committee prior We deliver growth using a range of strategies and innovative Board member Meetings We have made significant headway with a number of comprises three Directors.
The Committee to the 2018 AGM but did not offer himself solutions.
By thinking creatively, we are able to explore future 1 Tracey Kerr Chair 3 3 environmental, social and governance ESG projects in line with is chaired by Ms Kerr and its other members for re-election.
Mr Duvieusart replaced opportunities for expanding our operations that are often our commitment to sustainability and continual improvement.
I am Vitaly Nesis 3 3 are Messrs Nesis and Duvieusart.
Ms Grnberg as a Committee member overlooked by other companies.
We are not afraid of turning pleased to confirm that we have had Board sign-off on policies when she stepped down from the Board challenging situations to our advantage in order to progress 2 Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 1 1 for Energy Management, Climate Change and Human Rights in October 2018. towards our goals.
In 2018, 114 innovative solutions were 3 and work is already underway on the systems needed to support Marina Grnberg 2 2 proposed by employees from 12 subsidiaries, of which 82 were these.
We have installed our first renewable energy source at 4 implemented and 16 are being considered.
Len Homeniuk 2 2 one of our remote sites and are keen to see the efficiencies this 5 Russell Skirrow 2 2 brings.
Recognition of the progress that weve made has been very A learning company heartening and we were particularly proud to be the first company We secure our future by encouraging continuous learning and 1 Chair from 25 April 2018. in the Former Soviet Union to join the Dow Jones Sustainability self-development among all our employees.
Our culture of 2 Member from 15 October 2018.
Another first was our win at Cannes, where Polymetals 3 Member until 22 October 2018. continuous learning with Group-wide training and development film Just a Job picked up a silver award in the HR category of 4 Chair until 25 April 2018. opportunities is critical to improving skills, motivating employees the Corporate Media & TV Awards 2018.
More information about 5 Member until 25 April 2018. and ensuring the ongoing success of the Company.
As part all our ESG achievements during the year can be found in the of the cycled-learning process, we provide professional and Sustainability section of this Annual Report.
managerial education through our corporate training network, Key responsibilities digital training hubs and training centres.
Given our vast We have a comprehensive work plan for 2019, which includes a SAFETY SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL CONDUCT geography, we have also developed advanced distance-learning strategic approach to safety and sustainability as well as in-depth systems to complement the work of our training centres and onReceives reports from management Oversees the Companys overall Ensures that the Company consistently reviews of certain areas.
We will be reviewing the implementation site training facilities.
Innovative methods are widely used to train on significant safety, health and approach to sustainability, including the exhibits and promotes ethical, transparent of our new policies on Human Rights, Carbon and Modern our Talent Pool and target groups for key positions throughout sustainability issues establishment and periodical review of and responsible behaviour, engages with Slavery.
To coincide with the release of the Companys quarterly the Company.
In 2018, we provided 20,158 training sessions to Oversees managements interaction the safety, health and sustainability key stakeholders and communities: operation results, the Safety and Sustainability Committee will also with regulatory authorities on safety, strategy and policies contributes, to the development and our employees 2017: 14,974, an investment of $1.5 million by receive quarterly updates on health and safety and sustainability health and sustainability matters Receives regular updates from growth of healthy and sustainable the Company.
performance, including a review of performance and incidents.
Reviews and monitors the safety, management regarding: compliance communities We will be evaluating plans put forward by the internal audit health and sustainability performance with safety, health and environmental Monitors the effectiveness of the safety, A shared corporate culture function on risk management and internal control procedures to of the Group legislation and internal targets health and sustainability policies, Sustainability and safety are our licence to operate.
ensure better compliance with our safety, health and sustainability Considers whether an independent commitment to the principles of the systems, risk management, programmes Responsibility at all levels of the Company are key to ensuring audit of processes is appropriate and International Council on Mining and and processes in place strategies and policies.
strong governance and ethics: from the Board of Directors to reviews audit results and findings on Metals and the UN Global Compact Liaises with the Audit and Risk Committee health, safety and sustainability, the regarding sustainable development and internal audit function, oversees the the Group as a whole, down to individual subsidiaries and to the With my fellow Committee members, I am looking forward to action plans pursuant to the findings and the policies and systems in place to implementation of the safety, health and employees.
Accountability at all levels from the Board down is undertaking these duties on behalf of the Company and its and the result of investigations into monitor such compliance sustainability risk management and seen as central to embedding a shared corporate culture within stakeholders.
significant events internal control procedures Polymetal and employees have a vital role to play in reinforcing Reviews the benchmarking of corporate values, both at work and in their everyday lives.
the policies, systems and monitoring processes Monitoring the impact of any corporate culture is challenging.
At Polymetal, we are proud that employees value working for Focus during 2018 the Company: our employee turnover rate is low at 5.8% 2017: Deep-dive analysis of risks: rock fall, Review of Sustainability Report for 2017 Review of the Companys first Anti-Slavery 5.4% and, in an employee survey, 82% 2017: 82% said they Tracey Kerr transport and flame burns Sustainability strategy and gap analysis, Statement and recommendation for the were satisfied with working for Polymetal.
In 2018, the rate of Safety performance analysis of incidents progress and plans review Board approval Chair, Safety and Sustainability Committee absenteeism was 0.012. and risk assessment: safety plan Analysis of priority projects for Review of the Tailings Management and implementation 20192020 and key focus areas Health and Safety Policies and Our corporate culture is pivotal to delivering the long-term Health and safety report for 2018 and recommendation for Board approval success of the Company and the Board recognises that our team work plan for 2019 Review of the implementation report on employees are central to this process.
Critical Risk Management System focus Human Rights and Carbon Policies in 2019 and safety plan Review of the Committees performance Review of Kapan fatality and its terms of reference Review of the work plan for 2019 106 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 107 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Remuneration Committee report Given the favourable economic environment in Russia throughout Dear Shareholders 2018, with a moderate level of domestic inflation, the Committee We would like to thank you for your continued support for the decided that there would be no additional increase to the Group Companys Remuneration Policy and Remuneration Report, Our primary goal is to create value for all CEOs salary in excess of inflation rate 4%, which is in line with both of which comply with the latest corporate governance the average increase for the rest of our workforce.
The revised our stakeholders by targeting operational requirements.
In line with what is clearly of increasing interest to Group CEO base salary of $427,818 per annum is still towards the many of you, in this letter we focus on underlying business matters, excellence and best practice in a longterm lower end of market practice.
our workforce, values, culture and remuneration highlights, with sustainable manner.
more detailed information given in the Remuneration Report below.
In 2018, more than 250 key employees benefited from the first Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted in 2014.
During the Christine Coignard, Chair of the Remuneration Committee Our primary goal is to create value for all our stakeholders by four-year period since grant to vesting, Polymetal achieved a positive targeting operational excellence and best practice in a longabsolute TSR of 22.5% and significantly outperformed the negative term sustainable manner.
In order to achieve our objectives, it is median TSR -4.1% of the FTSE Gold Mines Index constituents.
imperative that we are able to hire, motivate and retain the best This resulted in the PSP vesting at 39.1% of maximum.
The shares Remuneration Committee meeting attendance people who are aware of our need to remain competitive globally awarded are subject to a mandatory one-year holding period and also respectful of our values, including our responsibilities to following vesting.
This was confirmation that PSP rewards our key the communities in which we operate.
Board member Meetings The Remuneration Committee comprises The Board considers that the composition people when the Company performs well and above its peer group four independent non-executive Directors and work of the Remuneration Committee Christine Coignard Chair 3 3 in terms of long-term TSR.
In 2018, the number of PSP participants Our Remuneration Policy is built upon remuneration principles who have no personal financial interest complies with the requirements of the increased to 409 and we trust that this serves to further motivate and structures that are applied consistently throughout the Giacomo Baizini 3 3 in the matters to be decided, other than UK Code.
and retain all our PSP participants.
For our executive Director and management team, as a shareholder where applicable.
The Jonathan Best 3 3 we provide a competitive package with a base salary that is Committee is chaired by Ms Coignard and 1 A thorough review of the new UK Code, which is applicable Ollie Oliveira 1 1 complemented by individual and collective incentives based on its other members are Messrs Oliveira, to us from 1 January 2019 onwards, indicates that our current operating, financial and sustainability metrics.
For key personnel, 2 Leonard Homeniuk 2 2 Baizini and Best.
Mr Homeniuk served on Remuneration Policy is already well aligned with its requirements, both management and key specialists, we provide performance the Committee prior to the AGM on 25 April necessitating only minor adjustments in terms of disclosure, share incentives that vest on the basis of absolute and relative total 1 Member from 25 April 2018 2018, but did not put himself forward for reporting methodology and decision-making documentation.
2 Member until 25 April 2018 shareholder return TSR.
Further business conducted by the Committee Moving forward Underlying business, workforce, culture and values was approved by written resolution on two 2019 will be a busy year for the Committee as we finalise the work Hiring, retaining and motivating the right talent is a significant further occasions.
necessary to meet the requirements of the new regulations, as challenge for our industry.
A successful mining operation requires well as meeting best practice governance expectations from our a highly skilled workforce with a range of specialist qualifications, Key responsibilities shareholders.
We will also review and adjust as necessary our which are both scarce and in demand.
Today we employ over existing Remuneration Policy after undertaking a consultation 12,000 people, with mines and offices that cover 7 time zones in REMUNERATION POLICY REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT process with our largest shareholders in Q4 of 2019.
We will submit five countries.
Our mines and processing facilities are built in remote STRUCTURES our next three-year policy for your vote at the 2020 AGM.
regions, which experience extreme weather conditions, local skills Determining, within agreed terms of Making recommendations to the Having a duty of care to keep shortages and mostly require fly-in, fly-out arrangements.
reference, the remuneration of the Chair Board on the Groups policy on the abreast of published guidelines Whilst we are not required to disclose our gender pay gap under and specific remuneration packages for remuneration of executive management or recommendations regarding the UK regulations given that we have fewer than 250 employees in Many in our senior management team hold degrees from highly the executive Director, the Company Formulating suitable performance criteria remuneration of directors of listed the UK, on the basis of extensive analytical work already done respected Russian and international universities.
We have a good Secretary and members of senior for the performance-based pay of companies and formation and and together with the Nomination Committee, we will support mix of generations complementing each other well throughout the management, including any pension executive management operation of share schemes the current positive momentum taking place in diversity and organisation.
We promote gender diversity both at management rights and compensation payments Reviewing and overseeing all aspects of Considering and making gender pay matters.
We support the move to transparency level and, to the extent possible at an operational level, subject any executive share scheme operated by recommendations to the Board of remuneration levels across the wider workforce and have, to local labour regulations.
We have a highly dedicated and loyal or to be established by the Company concerning disclosure of details of therefore, chosen to voluntarily publish our Group CEO pay remuneration packages and workforce, as evidenced by our low staff turnover 5.8% in 2018, ratio in the report this year.
structures, in addition to those which we believe indicates that we have found the right balance required by law or regulations between strict discipline and operating values.
Our values, starting Reviewing and advising the Board on As part of our expanded employee engagement programme, we with mutual respect, are consistently applied throughout the any major changes in employee also plan to broaden the scope of our consultation with employees Company.
We have a rather young workforce with an average age benefit structures throughout the on remuneration matters.
We will undertake the annual review our of 39: one that is eager to learn and to whom we offer plenty of Company or the Group Committees own performance, particularly in the light of major opportunities to train and develop individual and collective skills.
changes to our terms of reference.
We trust that one day our Young Leaders will take the Company Focus during 2018 further forward.
Annual review of the Board Chairs fee Top-management salary review: KPIs Final approval of the Remuneration On behalf of the Committee and of the Board, I continue to Approval of bonuses and deferred for 2018 Report for 2017 welcome feedback from shareholders and look forward to Remuneration highlights shares issued to the Group CEO and Gender pay update jointly with the Regulatory and governance update: receiving your support at the AGM.
In 2018, we have implemented our Remuneration Policy as senior management.
Confirmation that Nomination Committee impact on regulatory disclosure anticipated, without the need to exercise discretion.
This policy there was no malus Performance Share Plan PSP update requirements Renewal of the employment contract and scheme analysis Review of stakeholders engagement remains in force in 2019. between JSC Polymetal and Mr Nesis for Approval of PSP grant for 2018 needed ahead of 2018 AGM a further period of five years Approval of the PSP vesting Review of the Committees terms The total 2018 remuneration of Mr Nesis, Group CEO and only award of 2014 grant of reference in line with the new executive Director, comprised $1,024,523.
As a result of the strong UK Code.
performance of the Company and achieving set KPIs as disclosed Review of the work plan for 2019 on page 122, an annual bonus of $254,069, representing 61% of Christine Coignard base salary and 49% of maximum opportunity, was awarded to Chair, Remuneration Committee the Group CEO in respect of 2018.
108 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 109 150% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Remuneration Committee report Remuneration at a glance The overview below summarises our Remuneration Policy, the VARIABLE PAY OUTCOMES MEASURE KPIS LINK TO WEIGHT ACHIEVEMENT alignment of the remuneration framework with our corporate Annual bonus payment made in STRATEGY IN 2018 % OF respect of performance for the BASE SALARY strategy, the drivers of fixed and variable pay, and the actual year comprised 61% of base Achieving production budget, Koz 1 25% 29% payments to the Group CEO for 2018. salary, or $254,069.
Further Total cash cost per ounce of gold 1, 2 25% 24% details on the performance equivalent produced, $ measures, targets and actual Completion of new projects on time 3 25% 23% outcomes are provided on and within budget page 122.
Health and safety 4 25% 0% Total achievement before penalty 100% 76% factor OUR REMUNERATION POLICY Penalty factor for fatal severe cases Up to 50% of bonus -15% -20% of TARGET, % OF BASE SALARY earned for non-safety actual bonus related KPIs 10% for earned each fatality two severe cases up to 37.5% of total bonus 4-year vesting based on Performance relative TSR against Shares Total 61% Share Plan FTSE Gold Mines Index 1-year holding period PSP VESTING AND SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE 50% subject to During the first four-year 1 3 shares 1 3 shares 1 3 shares 3-year deferral AWARDS MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE LEVEL performance period ending 100% Annual bonus UPPER DECILE TSR GROWTH 22 April 2018 for the PSP 2014 PSP grant awards made in 2014, Polymetal Cash 154.30% achieved a positive absolute COMPARATOR TSR of 22.5% and significantly outperformed a negative median FTSE Gold Mines Index THRESHOLD PERFORMANCE LEVEL 100% Base salary Cash TSR of 4.1% of the FTSE Gold MEDIAN TSR GROWTH Mines Index constituents.
-4.10% Further details on PSP vesting COMPARATOR RANKING are provided on page 123.
18 44 Year 0 1 2 3 4 5 POLYMETAL PERFORMANCE TSR GROWTH TOTAL VESTING 22.50% SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION 39.10% The graph below sets out total remuneration for the Group CEO for 2018.
GROUP CEO PAY VS POLYMETAL PERFORMANCE 2019 PROPOSED GROUP CEO BASE SALARY VS Further details are provided on page 121.
1 Excluding PSP shares award in 2018.
110 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 111 1-year post-vest holding STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Remuneration Committee report Directors Remuneration Policy Summary table ELEMENT AND OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS USED AND The Company received shareholder approval of the following Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 16 May 2017.
The policy covers a PURPOSE LINK TO PERIOD APPLICABLE period of three years from the date of approval up to May 2020.
STRATEGY Annual bonus The annual bonus result is Maximum bonus opportunity The annual bonus is earned based on ELEMENT AND OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS USED AND To focus on achieving determined by the Committee after 125% of base salary with the the achievement of a mix of financial PURPOSE LINK TO PERIOD APPLICABLE annual performance the year end, based on performance following weightings: and non-financial measures.
For 2018, STRATEGY goals, which are against defined targets.
performance metrics as described in based on the Groups Production 25% 150% details on page 122 and associated Executive Director Group CEO KPIs and strategy.
Annual bonuses are paid three maximum weightings for each were: 1 months after the end of the financial Total cash cost 25% 150% Base salary The Committee reviews the base In accordance with the policy, the Not applicable.
year to which they relate.
maximum Production 25% 37.5% of base To attract and salary on an annual basis and when Group CEOs salary increased in Completion of new projects on salary maximum retain high-calibre setting base salary for the following Roubles by 25% from 1 April 2017, 1 50% of the annual bonus earned is time and within budget Total cash costs 25% 37.5% executives.
year, takes into account general and may increase by up to 10 paid in cash and the remaining 50% 25% 100% maximum of base salary maximum economic and market conditions, percentage points above the is compulsorily deferred into shares, Health and safety 25% Completion of new projects on underlying Group performance, the Russian domestic inflation rate in which are released annually to the 100% maximum.
time and within budget 25% level of increases made across the 2018 and 2019. employee over the next three years 25% of base salary maximum Group as a whole, the remuneration in equal instalments through the Target bonus opportunity Health and safety 25% 25% of executives in similar positions in In 2018, following careful Deferred Share Awards DSA plan.
FTSE and global mining peers, and consideration by the Committee, the individual performance.
Group CEOs salary was increased No clawback is applied to the cash Threshold nil annual bonus for There is an additional penalty factor in Roubles by a total of 2.5% in line part of the annual bonus, as this threshold performance.
for fatal severe cases for up to 50% with the rest of the workforce.
The provision would contradict the of the annual bonus earned for Committee also reviewed whether an labour law of the Russian non-safety-related KPIs.
increase in excess of 2.5% was Federation.
appropriate, however, considering The Committee has discretion the favourable economic Details of the DSA are set out below.
to vary the list and weighting environment in Russia and performance metrics over the life of reasonably stable RUB $ exchange this Remuneration Policy.
In addition, rate throughout 2017, no additional the Committee has discretion to vary increase was recommended.
performance metrics part-way through year if there is a significant event which The Committee reviewed whether causes the Committee to believe that the increase above inflation remained the original performance metrics are appropriate in 2019, but on the same no longer appropriate.
No discretion basis as in 2018 approved 4% was applied in 2018. increase in line with inflation and the rest of the workforce effective LongTerm Incentive Plan LTIP 1 April 2019.
Deferred Share 50% of the annual bonus earned is Not applicable.
Entitlement to this deferred The annual base salary for the Awards plan DSA paid in cash and the remaining 50% component is subject to continued reporting year and the current year Deferral to encourage is compulsorily deferred into shares, employment over the deferral period.
is set out in the Annual Report on retention and which are released annually to the Remuneration and on page 126. alignment with employee over the next three years In normal circumstances, shareholders in equal instalments.
DSAs will continue until the Pension The Group does not fund any Pension contribution does not Not applicable.
normal time of vesting upon cessation To provide funding for pension contributions or retirement exceed the mandatory contribution Clawback and malus provisions of employment due to death, injury, retirement.
benefits, except contributions to the made to the pension fund of the apply for the unvested portion of the ill-health, disability, redundancy, mandatory pension fund of the Russian Federation and currently DSA: the Remuneration Committee retirement, or any other circumstance Russian Federation, as required by comprises 10% of total pay.
may, at any time up to and including which the Committee determines Russian law.
vesting, reduce the number of Good Leaver Circumstances.
shares that vest, should it consider Alternatively, the Board may determine The Group pays defined that a material misstatement, that DSAs will vest immediately.
In contributions to the mandatory misconduct and or a failure of both circumstances there would be pension fund.
This permits retiring risk management occurs.
no pro-rating of the DSAs for the time employees to receive a defined from the award date until cessation of monthly pension for life from the Dividend equivalents will be employment or for performance.
received on vested shares, reflecting the value of dividends No performance conditions apply to Benefits The Group does not provide any Not applicable.
which have been paid during the the DSA shares as they have been benefits for its Group CEO.
period from the grant date to the subject to fulfilment of annual KPIs.
112 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 113 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Remuneration Committee report Directors Remuneration Policy continued ELEMENT AND OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS USED AND ELEMENT AND OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS USED AND PURPOSE LINK TO PERIOD APPLICABLE PURPOSE LINK TO PERIOD APPLICABLE STRATEGY STRATEGY Performance Under the PSP, annual rolling Maximum grant permitted under Vesting is based on relative TSR, Nonexecutive Directors Share Plan PSP conditional share awards are made the plan rules is 200% of salary measured against the constituents of Fees for nonThe fees of independent nonFees are reviewed, but not Not applicable.
To provide long-term with a four-year vesting period and per annum.
the FTSE Gold Mines Index and also executive Directors executive Directors are set by necessarily increased on an alignment with an additional mandatory holding on the Companys absolute TSR.
To attract and retain reference to those paid by other annual basis.
shareholders period of one year following vesting.
Default grant level is expected to be high-calibre FTSE peer companies.
interests by 150% of base salary.
Peers are ranked and the Companys non-executive Any increase in non-executive delivering sustainable Stretching performance targets position determines vesting: Directors.
Fees are set to reflect the Directors fees will normally be in above-market reward participants for delivering Dividend equivalents will be responsibilities and time spent by line with UK inflation and market shareholder returns.
positive absolute and superior received on vested shares, 0% vests for below median non-executive Directors on the levels for similar roles in UK-listed relative TSR performance against reflecting the value of dividends, performance affairs of the Company.
companies, except where a change global peers over the performance which have been paid during the 20% vests at median performance in the scope of the role occurs.
period from the grant date to the 100% vests at top decile No fees are paid to nonCurrent fee levels are set out in the vesting date.
independent, non-executive Annual Report on Remuneration.
Clawback and malus provisions Directors.
apply for the unvested portion of the Vesting occurs on a linear line basis PSP, whereby the Remuneration between median and top decile Non-executive Directors are not Committee may, at any time up to performance.
eligible to receive benefits and do and including vesting, reduce the not participate in incentive or number of shares that vest, should No award will vest if absolute TSR is pension plans.
it consider that a material negative, regardless of relative misstatement, misconduct, and or a performance.
The following fees are paid in failure of risk management occur.
addition to the non-executive The Committee may substitute, Director base fee: Committee Retesting of the performance vary or waive the performance targets Chairs fee: Committee membership conditions in future years is not if an event occurs which causes the fee: and Board, Committee and allowed under any circumstances.
Committee to consider that the target General Shareholder Meeting is no longer appropriate.
First grant under the PSP was made in April 2014 with first vesting in April The Committee has discretion to vary The Remuneration Committee 2018, as performance conditions the proportion of awards that vest to determines the framework and have been met.
ensure that the outcomes are fair and broad policy for the remuneration appropriate and reflect the underlying of the Board Chair.
financial performance of the Group.
Minimum The Group CEO is required to build 500% of base salary for the Not applicable.
The remuneration of non-executive shareholding a minimum shareholding over a Group CEO.
Directors is a matter for the Board requirements four-year period.
Chair and the executive members of To strengthen the Board, i. e. the Group CEO.
alignment between Unvested shares under the PSP interests of the or DSA are not taken into account Directors do not participate executive Director when calculating progress towards in discussions relating to their and those of the minimum shareholding own fees.
For the purposes of determining whether the requirements have been met, the share price is measured at the end of each financial year.
Post vesting and tax, all shares acquired under PSP and DSA awards must be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
114 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 115 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Remuneration Committee report Directors Remuneration Policy continued The scenarios are defined as follows: Adherence to best practise MINIMUM TARGET MAXIMUM Fixed elements Base salary and pension Base salary and pension Base salary and pension The Remuneration Policy is consistent with UK market and governance best practice including, but not limited to, the following: Single year variable Performance against Performance against quantitative Performance against The drivers of variable pay KPIs are stretching, well aligned with the Companys strategic objectives and cascade throughout quantitative KPIs is below KPIs is at budgeted levels.
Full quantitative KPIs is above the organisation in a way that ensures our employees pay is aligned to Polymetals performance and to the wider principles of budget by more than 10%.
achievement of non-financial budgeted levels.
100% of base salary achievement of non-financial or non-financial KPIs.
125% of base salary Performance targets for all incentive plans are reviewed annually and, where appropriate, are typically set at a level that is in line 0% pay-out.
Includes pay-out 100% of maximum with the Companys forecasts.
Includes Performance-related pay makes up a significant proportion of the remuneration package 41% and 32% of total remuneration DSA awards.
for target and maximum performance scenarios, respectively, with an appropriate balance between reward for shortand long-term performance.
Multiple year variable Share price performance is Scenario is based on 150% Share price performance is in below the median of FTSE Gold policy awards.
Share price the top decile of FTSE Gold Senior management interests are aligned with those of our shareholders and the Companys long-term objectives.
50% of the Mines Index constituents.
performance is at median of Mines Index constituents.
bonuses awarded each year to the Group CEO and the senior management team are deferred into shares in the Company No shares vest.
FTSE Gold Mines Index Shares equivalent to 150% of through the Deferred Share Award plan DSA over a period of three years and malus provisions apply to the unvested awards.
Shares equivalent base salary vest under the PSP The Performance Share Plan PSP provides an additional focus for key employees of the Group on delivering superior Total to 30% of base salary vest 100% of total shares available.
Stringent PSP vesting conditions, based on above median relative TSR and underpinned by positive under the PSP 20% of total absolute shareholder returns, are therefore fully aligned with sustainable shareholder-value creation.
A vesting period of four years under the PSP, over which malus conditions apply to the unvested awards, with an additional postvest holding period of one year resulting in a total term of five years ensures that management focus on the long-term interests No allowance has been made for share price appreciation or for the payment of dividend equivalents.
of the Company and of its stakeholders.
The Group CEO owns a shareholding equal to 8,697%, of his base salary, far exceeding minimum shareholding requirements of Approach to recruitment remuneration 500% of base salary.
The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive overall package, as appropriate, to attract and motivate the The management KPIs include significant weighting towards sustainability metrics, with the Group CEOs component right talent for the role.
If an executive is promoted to the Board from within the Company, any pre-existing awards or benefits that were purposefully focused on health and safety.
made available to them prior to becoming a Director and not in anticipation of an imminent promotion to the Board will be retained and allowed to vest or be provided under the original terms.
Illustration of application of the Remuneration Policy The following table sets out the various components, which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the The composition and structure of the remuneration package for the Group CEO under three performance scenarios maximum appointment of an executive Director.
Any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements, set at a level consistent performance, target performance and minimum performance is set out in the chart below.
with the scope of the role at a level not exceeding that of the Group CEO as set out in the Remuneration Policy table, and be subject to the same constraints as those of existing Directors performing similar roles, as shown below.
This chart shows that the proportion of remuneration delivered through short-term and long-term incentive schemes is in line with our Remuneration Policy and changes significantly across the three performance scenarios.
As such, the package promotes the achievement of both short-term and long-term performance targets and drives the alignment of the Group CEOs interests with the interests of shareholders.
AREA POLICY AND OPERATION Base salary and benefits The base salary level will be set by taking into account the experience of the individual and the salaries paid APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY in comparable companies.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment, the Committee may choose to set the base salary below market median and increase the amount paid over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with reference to the experience and performance of the individual, subject to the Companys ability to pay.
In line with the Remuneration Policy, as set out in the Maximum Directors Remuneration Policy table, no benefits will be provided to recruited Directors.
29% 32% 39% Total: $1.6m Pension Pension contributions will be limited to the mandatory contributions required by Cypriot Russian Kazakh Armenian or any other applicable law, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
Target Annual bonus The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the Directors 47% 41% 12% Total: $1.0m Remuneration Policy table.
The maximum annual opportunity is 125% of base salary.
50% of any bonus is Minimum deferred into shares under the DSA, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
100% Total: $0.5m Longterm incentives The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the PSP part of LTIP at the Remuneration Committees discretion and in line with the details set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
The 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 maximum annual grant permitted under the scheme rules is 200% of base salary and the normal grant level is up to 150% of base salary.
Performance measures would apply, as set out in the Directors Fixed elements of remuneration Single year variable Multiple year variable Remuneration Policy table.
Note: Replacement awards The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous in Scenario values are translated at the budgeted exchange rate of 65 RUB $.
terms of quantum or timing than the awards to be forfeited as a consequence of the individual joining the Company.
In determining the quantum and structure of any replacement awards, the Committee will seek to replicate the fair value and, as far as practicable, the timing, form and performance requirements of the forfeited remuneration.
The maximum value of replacement awards is capped at 50% of the individuals base salary, and at least 50% of any replacement award should be delivered in the Companys shares.
Other Should relocation of a newly recruited executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support may include, but not be limited to, payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel costs, a contribution to stamp duty and replacement of non-transferable household items.
In addition, and in appropriate circumstances, the Committee may grant additional support in relation to the payment of school fees and the provision of tax advice.
The Company will reimburse the executive Director for all reasonable expenses, which they may incur while carrying out executive duties.
116 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 117 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Remuneration Committee report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Policy on payment for loss of office Statement of consideration of shareholders views The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take into account individual circumstances, The Company received shareholder approval of its Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 25 May 2017 to cover a period of three years including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties and applicable share plan and pension scheme rules with 294,388,477 99.10% votes in favour, 2,675,792 0.90% votes against and 335,724 votes withheld.
The policy applies from the including any relevant performance conditions.
The Directors annual Remuneration Report was put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM of the Company and received 314,075,328 98.86% votes in favour, 3,610,998 1.14% votes against and 98,174 votes withheld.
The Committee regularly Vitaly Nesis is an executive Director of Polymetal International plc and Group CEO of JSC Polymetal, a 100% subsidiary of the Group, consults with the Companys major shareholders, and sought their feedback on the revised Remuneration Policy.
Further details are set out in the current Directors service contracts section on page 120.
Remuneration Policy for other employees The table below summarises the key elements of the executive Director policy on payment for loss of office.
The Remuneration Policy for other members of the executive team and broader management team within the Group is consistent in both structure and KPIs to that of the Group CEO.
While the value of remuneration will vary throughout the Group, depending upon the individuals role, significance to the business and level of responsibility, the remuneration of all senior executives consists of a base salary, AREA POLICY AND OPERATION an annual bonus and participation in the LTIP the PSP and DSA.
Notice period Polymetal International JSC Polymetal Six months from Company With immediate effect from Company The KPI structure for all our senior managers and key employees is tailored for individual responsibilities and performance.
To reflect the Six months from Director One month from Director aim of zero fatalities, the bonus calculation system for the Group CEO, some senior managers and mine management has a major focus on health and safety KPIs, adjusting bonus outcomes on all KPIs in the case of fatalities.
We aim to ensure the corporate cohesiveness of Compensation for loss of No entitlement in respect of directorship of Polymetal International.
office in service contracts the team as well as to support individual success and development.
Up to three times average monthly salary in respect of directorship of JSC Polymetal in accordance with provisions of the labour law of the Russian Federation.
Shareholding requirements are also set below the Board level.
Operation of the DSA programme for the most senior employees mirrors the executive Directors arrangement set out for in the policy table, where 50% of the annual bonus is deferred into shares and released Treatment of annual Where an executive Directors employment is terminated after the end of the performance year, but before annually to the employees over a period of three years.
bonus awards the payment of the annual bonus is made, the executive may be eligible for an annual bonus award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an executive Director s employment is terminated The Remuneration Policy for the wider group of employees is aimed at aligning pay with the achievement of targeted results for each during a performance year, a pro-rated annual bonus award for the period worked in that performance employee.
The Companys policy on fair pay provides for the payment of additional remuneration for employees living in difficult climatic year may be payable, subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
locations and the delivery of appropriate levels of pay for different levels of work.
The bonus component of remuneration for mid-level management and operational staff is measured based on the achievement of production targets, increasing output, the level of justified Treatment of unvested In normal circumstances, DSAs will continue until the normal time of vesting upon cessation of Deferred Share Awards employment in Good Leaver Circumstances.
Alternatively, the Board may determine that DSAs will vest cost savings and health and safety records.
In terms of pension arrangements, the Company applies a consistent approach for the Group under plan rules immediately.
In both circumstances for the DSA already granted, there would be no pro-rating for time CEO and other employees and adheres to the mandatory pension contributions required under applicable laws.
from the award date until cessation of employment or for performance.
Salaries are considered for annual increases based on the Companys performance results, inflation rates and the competitive level of Treatment of unvested Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Group, unless the cessation is due salaries versus the wider market.
Employees up to three levels below the Board approximately 650 employees throughout the Group Performance Share Plan to Good Leaver Circumstances, in which case the award will usually vest as normal in accordance with the awards under plan rules terms of the award.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that the award will vest immediately.
are eligible to participate in the PSP at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
In 2018, 409 employees were awarded the PSP.
The PSP policy default grant level is 150% of base salary for the Group CEO, 100% for Executive Committee members and 50100% for The Committee will determine the proportion of the award that will vest, taking into account where employees at the level below the Executive Committee.
relevant the extent to which the performance conditions have been met or are likely to be met at the end of the performance period, and any other factors the Committee may consider relevant.
The number of Top-down approach to remuneration structure within the Group shares will also be pro-rated down to reflect the reduced service period.
Maximum Proportion of Exercise of discretion Any discretion available in determining the treatment of incentives upon termination of employment is bonus bonus Number of percentage of deferred into Normal LTIP intended only to be relied upon to provide flexibility in unusual circumstances.
The Committees Employee level employees salary shares DSA award grant determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Directors departure and the recent performance of the Group.
1 Group CEO 1 125% 50% 150% Corporate event In relation to PSP awards, in the event that the Companys shares cease to trade on the London Stock Executive Committee 7 100% 50% 100% Exchange or any other recognised stock exchange delisting or the Directors of the Company pass a Mine managing directors and top executives 16 100% 50% 100% resolution to the effect that delisting is imminent or where the Board determines that a significant event has occurred, which may be a demerger, winding-up or compulsory acquisition of the Company, or any 2 Senior managers and key personnel 652 3060% N A 50100% other event as determined by the Board, at the discretion of the Board and, where applicable, with the consent of the acquiring company, PSP awards will not vest but will be exchanged for new PSP awards.
Other employees 11,464 1030% N A N A In the event that the PSP awards are exchanged for new PSP awards: 1 The maximum annual grant permitted under the scheme rules is 200% of base salary.
2 PSP participants from the pool of senior managers and key personnel are recommended by the Company and approved by the Board.
Being granted options in The award date of the new PSP award shall be deemed to be the same as the award date of the one year does not necessarily mean they will be granted the following year.
The new PSP award will be in respect of shares in a company determined by the Board which may Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group include any acquiring company.
In determining salary increases for the Group CEO, the Committee takes into account a range of factors, including overall base salary The new PSP award must be equivalent to the PSP award and will vest at the same time and in the increases awarded to the wider employee population during the year.
same manner as the PSP award.
Polymetal is firmly committed to acknowledging and rewarding employees hard work and achievements.
To help us attract and retain the Where relevant, either the vesting of the new PSP award must be subject to any performance conditions which are, so far as possible, equivalent to any conditions applying to the PSP award, or no performance best candidates, we offer a competitive remuneration package and benefits, which exceed regional averages in our areas of operation.
conditions will apply but the value of shares comprised in the new PSP award shall be the value of the We also aim to provide a pleasant and effective working environment as well as training or further education and other opportunities for number of shares which would have vested under the PSP award if they had not been exchanged for new our employees.
In 2019, an average 4% increase in compensation was made for the general workforce, in line with Russian inflation.
The Committee also DSAs shall vest immediately and shall not be pro-rated for time or performance if any of the events referred carefully reviewed whether an increase to the Group CEO in excess of 4% was appropriate in accordance with the policy see page 112, to above occur.
however, considering the favourable economic environment in Russia, no additional increase to the Group CEO was recommended.
118 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 119
