CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY A commitment to responsible behaviour Premier is committed to behaving responsibly and conducting our business with honesty and integrity in everything we do.
In support of this, we are long-standing members of both the FTSE4Good Index and the UN Global Compact.
Our approach to the following key areas of corporate responsibility is explained throughout this chapter: 2 Process Safety LOPC Tier 1 & Tier 2 events 1,026 US$m Total Economic Distribution 2.65 Total recordable injury rate TRIR per million man hours PRINCIPLES, FRAMEWORKS Third-party assurance AND STANDARDS As part of the third-party assurance 2.03 PAGE 43 process undertaken for our 2018 Corporate GJ per tonne of production Responsibility Report, ERM Certification and Energy intensity Verification Services CVS has confirmed: MATERIALITY PAGE 44 The integrity of selected indicators used throughout this chapter.
HIGH-LEVEL MATERIAL ISSUES The alignment of the materiality process PAGE 46 described on pages 44 to 45 with the 164 requirements of the Global Reporting READ MORE IN OUR ONLINE 2018 Tonnes of CO e per thousand Initiative Sustainability Reporting 2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT tonnes of production Standards.
Greenhouse gas emission intensity With the exception of Mexico, all our operations have established community engagement and investment programmes.
The ERM CVS assurance statement can be viewed on our website.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 42 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 43 Principles, frameworks and standards Our strong track record of responsible behaviour and effective performance is underpinned by our values, Group policies and relevant external principles and standards.
Our values Spirit Our values underpin our behaviours and activities and are reflected in our policies and procedures.
They are: Our approach is guided by Human Rights Policy our overarching Corporate Equal Opportunities and Responsibility Policy, which, Diversity Policy Tenacity Dynamism amongst other commitments, Whistleblowing Policy requires Premier to act with Tax Policy respect for people, communities and the environment.
In addition, our Risk Management Policy and Creativity We are also guided by the Risk Management Standard following supporting policies: help us to avoid and or Business Ethics Policy and mitigate the risks that might associated Global Code of otherwise prevent us from Professionalism Respect Conduct achieving our corporate Health, Safety, Environment responsibility objectives.
and Security HSES Policy Community Investment Policy Foundation Internal External Values United Nations Global Compact participant www.
org Vision and Strategy International Association of Oil & Gas Producers www.
com Vision, Strategy and Business Model IOGP member www.
org Business Ethics Policy and associated Global Code of Conduct OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management system standard applied to all PremierCorporate Responsibility Policy operated production assets and our drilling operations Health, Safety, Environment and Security HSES Policy www.
com Human Rights Policy ISO 14001 environmental management system Community Investment Policy standard applied to all Premier-operated production Risk Management Policy assets and our drilling operations Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy www.
org Whistleblowing Policy Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights www.
org United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights www.
org ISO 31000 risk management system standard which underpins our approach to risk management www.
org Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Materiality Premier has conducted a materiality assessment to identify and prioritise our most significant corporate responsibility issues.
This assessment process, which is outlined below, draws on our existing risk assessment process and stakeholder engagement activity.
Materiality assessment The potential and actual impact of sufficient significance to be addressed in In line with the Global Reporting Initiative stakeholders on Premier and the detail in this report or in our online 2018 GRI Reporting Standards, our corporate achievement of its business objectives.
responsibility reporting is structured The steps involved in our materiality The principal changes in material and around our most significant corporate process are outlined on page 31. non-material issues resulting from our responsibility issues.
These issues have 2018 assessment include the following: been prioritised in conjunction with Material issues Decreased impact of Value generation third-party experts and with input from The outcomes of this assessment are and distribution reflecting Premiers external stakeholders on the basis of: displayed on the corporate responsibility improved debt position which has materiality matrix.
Presentation of an issue The potential and actual impact of strengthened our ability to generate and as non-material on this matrix does not Premier on stakeholders and their distribute value to our stakeholders.
mean it is not important or that it is not interests: and being managed, but only that it is not of Corporate responsibility materiality matrix Material issues 01 Asset integrity and process safety 02 Emergency preparedness 01 03 Value generation and distribution 02 04 Effluents and waste 05 Employee engagement 03 06 06 Occupational health and safety 08 04 07 Governance and ethics 05 12 11 08 14 Climate change and GHGs 10 07 09 Public policy and government relations 09 10 Environment General 13 11 Workforce 16 12 15 Responsible supply chain 23 1 management 24 13 Human rights 14 Decommissioning 19 20 Non-material issues 18 15 Learning and development 21 16 Biodiversity 17 17 Child forced labour 18 Customer impacts 22 19 Community impacts 20 General grievance mechanisms Low Impact on Premier Oil High 21 Resource use Arrows indicate key changes in our 22 Market behaviour material and non-material issues in 2018.
23 General grievance mechanisms 24 Cyber security 1 Details of Premiers responsible supply chain management efforts can be found on page 46 and pages 54 to 55.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 44 Low Impact on stakeholders High STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 45 Decreased impact of Decommissioning reflecting the postponement of Materiality assessment process decommissioning activities at our late life assets in the Greater Balmoral Area until 2021 or later.
Research Increased impact of Responsible supply Desk-based review of events, activities and relationships in 2018 chain management reflecting increased likely to affect the 2017 prioritisation of Premiers material issues.
regulatory and civil society focus on this These include: issue, and internal reassessment of its relative significance to Premier's business.
Premiers activities and relationships In 2018, Premier introduced a new Operating contexts contract segmentation model to Stakeholders strengthen the management of our supply External events and trends chain risk as well as additional controls to prevent facilitation of tax evasion in our supply chain.
Increased impact of Climate change and GHGs reflecting ongoing investor Internal review Initial adjustment focus on this issue, and increasing prices Engagement with Premier Re-prioritisation of for emission allowances traded on the functional managers to material issues in light European market.
identify further adjustments of steps 1 and 2 Increased impact of Workforce reflecting ongoing regulatory and civil society focus on workforce gender diversity and gender pay gap.
In 2018, Premier rolled out diversity and inclusion training for all employees and contractor personnel, and we began Integration of Finalisation of the 2018 monitoring gender diversity performance stakeholder input materiality assessment across our recruitment process.
Further adjustment of Update of materiality Increased impact of Cyber security, material issues in light of: matrix and its which remains a non-material issue communication to Business unit perceptions reflecting increasingly sophisticated stakeholders of local stakeholder issues instances of cyber-attack against External feedback from our multinational companies and increasing stakeholder engagement utilisation of automated production sessions processes across the oil and gas industry.
Increased impact of Community impacts reflecting the ramping up of our Sea Lion project in the Falkland Islands, and the work undertaken on our Environmental Impact Statement EIS and Social Impact Assessment SIA during 2018.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED High-level material issues The following section provides Governance and business ethics How we implement our policies an overview of our most Why this issue is material We require all employees, contractor significant or material corporate Beyond our efforts to ensure compliance personnel and those associated with responsibility issues.
It sets out with applicable laws and regulations, we Premier, such as consultants, to adhere why these issues are material to recognise that our success both now to the Code.
Business partners, including Premier, how they are managed, and in the future is dependent upon joint venture partners, contractors and and the outcomes of our maintaining the trust of our stakeholders.
customers, must also apply the principles management efforts.
These include host governments and of the Code or equivalent standards.
This societies, current and potential investors, is achieved by the inclusion of business and our business partners.
We are therefore ethics provisions in our contracts.
committed to upholding and, where feasible, We aim to train all employees and strengthening good governance and ethical contractor personnel on the Code within standards wherever we do business.
one month of their induction.
All employees Potential areas of risk in this regard include and contractor personnel are required to procurement activities and interactions undertake additional training on the Code with government officials.
on an annual basis thereafter.
Premier has mapped its material Premier has recognised business ethics The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the issues against the UN Sustainable as a key element of the following principal effectiveness of the Code and its supporting Development Goals SDGs.
risks: financial discipline and governance, policies.
To support this, we: SDGs related to our material joint venture partner alignment and supply Undertake an ongoing corporate-wide issues include: chain delivery, and host government: review process to assess internal political and fiscal risks.
More information compliance with the Code, led by our can be found on pages 38 to 39.
Policies Use our Business Ethics Screening Tool to Our Business Ethics Policy supports our assess the exposure of Premiers operated overall Corporate Responsibility Policy.
It and non-operated exploration, requires Premiers employees and development and production operations contractor personnel to behave ethically to external business ethics risks.
Our approach Have established a Company-wide to business ethics is developed further in leadership group comprised of business our Global Code of Conduct the Code, ethics champions from each business which establishes specific standards unit, which meets at least twice annually including in relation to anti-corruption and to discuss where performance can be preventing the facilitation of tax evasion.
The Code covers: In addition, all new material contracts are now subject to our Supply Chain Contractor Legal compliance Due Diligence Process, following its pilot Anti-bribery testing across our operational business Facilitation payments units during the second half of 2017.
This Gifts and hospitality involves a two-stage questionnaire-based online business ethics assessment, which The appointment of intermediaries identifies potential issues of concern, Charitable and political donations triggering where relevant a bespoke full Whistleblowing due diligence process.
This enables us to Prevention of the facilitation of effectively manage identified risks, which tax evasion may include appropriate mitigations, before contracts are entered into.
For additional details on this The proper recording of transactions mapping process, see our and the application of relevant Employees, contractor personnel and agency online 2018 Corporate accounting and reporting standards.
workers who believe that Premier, or anyone Responsibility Report.
working for or on behalf of the Company, has For details about our corporate governance violated the Code are encouraged to report framework and activities, see pages 56 to 58 their concerns to their line managers.
They and 64 to 71. can do so on a confidential basis and without fear of recrimination.
All reports are properly investigated and the results reported to the Board.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 46 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 47 READ MORE OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS RELATED TO THESE ISSUES CAN BE FOUND ON PAGE 36 TO 41 How corporate responsibility In 2018, the principal topics arising from Human resources, overseen by the is governed Premiers activities that have economic, Group Human Resources Director.
Our Corporate Responsibility Policy social and environmental impacts on Legal and regulatory compliance, is owned and approved by our Board.
stakeholders, and the Premier managers ethical behaviour and human Its supporting management systems and executives responsible for overseeing rights, overseen by the Group are owned and implemented by our them on a day-to-day basis, were: General Counsel.
Executive Committee and relevant HSES, overseen by the CEO.
Tax, overseen by the Finance Director.
Risk management, overseen by the Group Audit and Risk Manager.
Allegations of malpractice can also be raised via Premiers well-publicised, confidential and independently managed reporting hotline, which is available 24 hours a day.
Employees found to have breached the requirements of the Code will be subject to a disciplinary procedure and, in extreme cases, instant dismissal and referral to the relevant law enforcement authorities.
Contractor personnel found to have breached the Code may have their contracts terminated.
Any breach of the Code by our business partners will result in either an agreed corrective action plan and measures to avoid a recurrence, or potential termination where contractually permissible.
Above: Phil MacLaurin, Vietnam Business Unit Manager Outcomes Key indicators Governance and business ethics Material issue Premier Oil metric 2018 2017 2016 Our performance in 2018 Governance Significant legal sanctions in 0 0 0 During 2018, no significant legal sanctions were imposed relation to business ethics on Premier.
and ethics Disciplinary actions or dismissals 2 0 0 There were four confirmed cases of non-compliance with the for breaches of the Code Code in 2018, none of which had a material impact on our business.
Three of the cases involved failure to report a conflict of interest and one case involved inaccurate reporting, which were not material to the Group.
All cases were investigated, which resulted in two Premier employees electing to resign and two other Premier employees receiving disciplinary sanctions.
2 New members of our workforce 100% 100% 100% All new members of our workforce received induction receiving induction training on training, which addresses all aspects of the Code, including the Code anti-bribery.
Existing members of our 100% 100% 68% As of March 2019, 99% of our workforce had completed 2,3 workforce assigned refresher 99% 95% 94% the training assigned to them in 2018.
We will closely monitor training on the Code completion of this training throughout 2019.
3 completed training 2 Workforce includes both employees and contractor personnel.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Health, safety and security To drive continual improvement, our HSES All our business units and operated Why this issue is material Management System is regularly reviewed facilities have emergency response plans, Given the potential hazards involved in and updated in line with our operational which are regularly reviewed.
We also offshore oil and gas operations, it is requirements and the findings from our conduct regular offshore drills for all essential that we continuously apply major accident risk assessments and personnel, as well as periodic integrated rigorous health, safety and security internal audits.
This enables us to establish emergency exercises involving our onshore practices.
Not only does this help to avoid the necessary control measures to reduce and offshore emergency response teams.
negative impacts upon the health, wellbeing risk exposure to a level that is as low as 4 Workforce and asset security and security of our employees, contractors reasonably practicable ALARP.
In Premier undertakes security assessments and joint venture partners, it also supports addition, our workforce health surveillance for our employees and assets, which assess the maintenance of our: programme helps us to identify potential the latent risks posed by their location, as early indications of work-related health Operational continuity: well as recent incidents.
We apply a formal issues and the follow-up actions required to Regulatory compliance: and travel risk management process when any diagnose, treat or prevent their progression.
As such, visitors to Corporate reputation.
We monitor our HSES performance closely these locations are supported by in-depth Our most significant health, safety and and report this information on an ongoing travel risk assessments and guidance, as security issues are: basis to the Executive Committee and to well as enhanced physical security and Occupational health and safety: the Board.
Process safety and asset integrity: Process safety and asset integrity Environment Emergency preparedness: and Our HSES Management System defines Why this issue is material Premiers objectives and minimum All of Premiers operated activities are Employee and asset security.
requirements for process safety and asset conducted offshore.
We drill for and extract Premier has identified health, safety, integrity in all operations.
In addition, it both oil and gas from sub-surface reservoirs environment and security as a principal sets out the responsibilities, verification in cooperation with our operational risk.
More information can be found on and validation required to provide contractors for transport to markets page 39. assurance that these have been met.
by pipeline and or third-party shipping partners.
Without effective management, Policy A system of Process Safety and Asset these activities have the potential to Our Health, Safety, Environment and Integrity Performance Reporting is applied negatively impact water quality, air quality Security HSES Policy sets out the at all of our operated assets.
Each business and local ecosystems.
Any failure to avoid Companys overarching commitments to: unit tracks a suite of leading and lagging and or mitigate these impacts would have Never knowingly compromise our process safety and asset integrity key material reputational and regulatory HSES standards: performance indicators KPIs to drive consequences for our business.
This includes a Do all that is reasonably practicable to self-assessment of the status of six critical Our most significant environmental issues reduce HSES risks: and barriers: plant integrity, plant maintenance, relate to: Ensure the safety and security of plant control, people, procedures and Greenhouse gas GHG emissions everyone affected by our operations.
recovery i. e. emergency response each of associated with energy consumption How we implement our policy which have a role in the management of and flaring at our facilities: and Occupational health and safety major accident hazards.
Assessment scores Effluents and waste, including the Our HSES Policy is implemented through our are reported monthly to the Board, and prevention of spills and the responsible HSES Management System.
The management provide assurance that the barriers are management of hazardous materials.
system is comprised of a comprehensive set of suitable to manage the hazard risks.
standards and procedures, which form part Premier has identified health, safety, Emergency preparedness of Premiers BMS.
environment and security and with Premiers HSES Management System regards to climate change regulation host We apply the management system across minimises the risk of catastrophic safety government: political and fiscal risks and our global operational activities and use incidents and other major events occurring commodity price volatility as principal it to define how HSES issues should be at our facilities.
The complex nature of our risks.
More information can be found on managed throughout the lifecycles of our assets, their offshore location and the page 39. projects.
The management system is combustibility of hydrocarbons and other externally certified to the OHSAS 18001 materials used on our facilities means that health and safety management system we go to significant lengths to prevent the standard for our production facilities and occurrence of major accidents.
We also aim to achieve 164 Group-wide alignment of our management system to the ISO 45001 and ISO 14001 tonnes CO e per thousand 2 standards by 2020, as set out in our new tonnes of production three-year Group HSES Strategy.
Greenhouse gas emission intensity 4 No significant security incidents directly affected our personnel in 2018 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 48 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 49 Outcomes Key indicators Health and safety Material issue Premier Oil metric 2018 2017 2016 Our performance in 2018 Occupational Fatalities 0 0 0 The increase in TRIR in 2018 was largely due to a rise in injuries caused by 'slips, trips and falls', attributed to a combination health and of personal and job factors.
We report and investigate all Lost work day cases LWDC 9 3 6 safety incidents and near misses in accordance with our Group HSES Management System.
Restricted work day cases RWDC 1 0 1 In 2018, we identified nine HiPo events: seven relating to Medical treatment cases MTC 7 6 6 production activities: one relating to construction activities and one relating to drilling activities.
Once we have established 5 Total recordable injury rate TRIR 2.65 1.47 1.95 the cause of each HiPo, we issues HSES alerts to all relevant personnel and appropriate external stakeholders.
High Potential Incidents HiPo 9 4 8 The increase in man hours in 2018 was largely due to the 6 subsea structure fabrication work that was required for the High potential Incident Rate HiPoR 1.40 0.65 1.20 development of the Bison, Iguana and Gajah-Puteri BIG-P gas field in Indonesia.
Man-hours worked million 6.4 6.1 6.7 Process Process safety events IOGP Tier 1 0 0 0 No Tier 1 process safety events occurred in 2018. safety Process safety events IOGP Tier 2 2 1 0 The two process safety events involved a gas release at the and asset Catcher FPSO vessel in the UK and a crude oil spill at the integrity Anoa FPSO vessel in Indonesia.
No workforce injuries occurred as a result of these two events.
HSES HSES Audit Actions Close Out Rate 92% We initiated the reporting on HSES Audit Action Close Out Rate in 2018 and exceeded our target of 90%.
Management HSES Leadership Site Visits 35 18 13 We conduct routine leadership site visits across our business units to promote visibility and effective HSES conversations at site level.
Data for 2018 assured by ERM CVS.
Policy As required by our HSES Management In line with our HSES Management As set out in our HSES Policy System, we perform baseline surveys and System requirements, we also undertake http: www.
com sites default prepare environmental and social impact ongoing monitoring to assess the files files .
pdf, assessments ESIAs for all of our operated environmental impact of our activities 7 we are committed to minimising our activities.
throughout the lifecycle of our projects.
environmental impacts and will never The assessments address our: Climate change and greenhouse knowingly compromise our environmental gas emissions standards to meet our operational Physical impacts: Our approach to managing our GHG objectives.
Ecosystem impacts: and emissions involves: Furthermore, while not a formal policy, Socio-economic impacts.
The efficient operation of our existing our Carbon Strategy describes Premiers equipment and infrastructure.
This During this systematic process, we assess approach to managing carbon emissions includes minimising flaring and venting, the impacts of our proposed activities, and and the risks and opportunities associated where possible: consider how each can be reduced to a level with climate change.
Amongst other that aligns with the ALARP principle.
The reduction of fugitive gas emissions things, the strategy describes Premiers Potential impact controls are then through, for example, leak detection commitment to managing these risks in an considered and implemented according to and repair LDAR programmes: effective and responsible manner.
In 2018, their efficacy, practicality and cost.
The installation of best available we initiated the review of our Carbon technology into all new projects to Strategy.
More information can be found Our business units record key minimise their carbon intensity: and on page 50. environmental metrics on an ongoing basis.
These metrics are analysed on a The application of carbon-pricing How we implement our policy monthly basis and relevant performance throughout the lifecycles of all new Our HSES Management System helps us indicators are reported to the Board.
We and existing projects in the UK.
manage our environmental impacts across distribute an HSES scorecard to all the lifecycles of our operations and projects.
personnel to keep them informed of All of our operated production and drilling Company HSES performance.
activities are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
7 Our social and or environmental impact assessments typically involve significant stakeholder engagement.
For example, in 2018 Premier submitted the Environmental Impact Statement EIS for our Sea Lion project to the Falkland Islands Government FIG.
This was subject to a 42-day public consultation starting in January 2018.
It was completed in consultation with local authorities, conservation groups local and international, special interest groups and the general public, amongst others.
The EIS received approval in November 2018 and Premier Oil is in the process of updating it to address the comments received.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Outcomes 8 Key indicators Environment Material issue Premier Oil metric 2018 2017 2016 Our performance in 2018 Climate change Total Scope 1 GHG emissions 1,193 946 846 In 2018, we initiated the review of our Carbon 9 thousand te Strategy to align it with the recommendations of and GHGs the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial 10 Total Scope 2 GHG emissions te 605 877 964 Disclosures TCFD and with emerging climate change policies across our locations of operation.
11 Once finalised, the strategy will also be GHG intensity tonnes 1000 te of 164 183 186 re-positioned as Premier's 'Climate Change production Strategy' to support the holistic management of Energy consumption GJ te of 2.03 2.3 2.2 greenhouse gas emissions across our business.
production Effluents Unplanned hydrocarbon released to 0.4 1.9 2.2 In 2018, 0.4 tonnes of hydrocarbons were released the sea te over 15 spill events.
The largest hydrocarbon spill, and waste involving the release of 90 kg of marine gas oil, occurred at the Catcher FPSO.
Hydrocarbon in produced water 12.2 10.6 9.1 The increase in 2018 represented an increase in ppm-wt produced water content from our maturing assets across our operated portfolio and the commencement of routine produced water discharges at our Solan facility in the UK.
Waste materials produced te 5,982 5,810 8,176 This included 5,043 tonnes of hazardous waste and 939 tonnes of non-hazardous waste.
Spending on environmental 7.1 7.1 8.4 This included US$1.7m on waste disposal, protection measures US$m emissions treatment and remediation and US$5.4m on prevention and environmental management.
8 Our environmental performance reporting is aligned with IPIECA reporting guidance and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards.
9 Calculation for Scope 1 emissions in thousand tonnes are based on equations and emission factors provided in the 2009 API GHG Compendium.
Global warming potential rates are taken from the IPCC 2013 Assessment Report as well as IOGP guidance.
10 Calculation for Scope 2 emissions are based on emission factors supplied by the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change now the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 2015 and International Energy Agency 2012 guidance.
A different factor is used for each country, and is applied to the total energy consumption in our onshore facilities offices and warehouses.
Emission factors are used to give an estimate of CO2 equivalent.
11 Greenhouse gas emissions from our Solan asset were not included in our reported GHG intensity figure for 2016.
We also: These might include heightened storm risks Effluents and waste and long-term sea level rises.
All Premiers operated offshore assets Conduct environmental ALARP extract oil, gas and formation water from studies during the design phase of As part of our management of these risks, offshore reservoirs.
Each of these elements all new projects: we undertake detailed meteorological and is separated using our on-site processing Set specific, measurable, attainable, oceanographic impact assessments for all plant.
The water is then either re-injected relevant and time-bound SMART annual new projects during the design phase.
These into the reservoir to maintain underground GHG intensity targets to drive operational incorporate projections of rising sea levels pressure or it is cleaned, filtered and then efficiency at our operated production and more frequent unpredictable weather discharged into the sea.
All planned assets: and events.
discharges are cleaned to meet or exceed Aspire through target setting and the We also monitor the multiple corporatenational standards, using conventional measures explained above to achieve level risks that climate change poses to separation techniques.
Our offshore a carbon intensity for steady-state the Company.
Most notably, this includes production operations, which discharge operated production that is in line with the evolving fiscal and legislative response water to the sea, are not located in any the overall industry intensity figure to climate change in our host countries.
published by the International The 2015 Paris Agreement reflects the We collect hazardous and non-hazardous Association of Oil & Gas Producers IOGP.
commitment of the international waste materials from our global drilling and community in this respect.
Premier will Where possible, we also seek to reduce our production operations.
These materials are continue to monitor the developing policy indirect emissions, for example, through disposed of onshore.
They include drill environment and to adapt our future the reduction of unnecessary air travel by cuttings, used oil and scrap metal, wood, carbon emissions strategy accordingly.
We segregate For more information about how related and recycle as much non-hazardous waste We integrate carbonand climate changephysical risks are managed, please see page as possible and encourage the use of related risks into our overall enterprise risk 48 Health, safety and security, and, for recycled input materials, where feasible.
related regulatory risks, please see pages 38 We recognise the potential physical risks to 39 Host government: political and fiscal that climate change poses to our operations.
12 risks and commodity price volatility.
12 During 2018, no post-control physical impacts associated with climate change affected our operations.
Furthermore, no negative impacts upon our business associated with climate change regulation were experienced.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 50 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 51 1.40 Incidents per million man hours High Potential Incident Rate HiPoR Employees This guidance is hosted on the People We have also sought to protect jobs across Why this issue is material Portal Premiers online human resources the Company during challenging economic Our current and future success is information system and our BMS.
These efforts have included: underpinned by our ability to recruit, BMS helps us achieve an appropriate A continued focus on sustainable cost retain and motivate high quality, skilled balance between consistent corporate-level reduction efforts within our supply chain, employees and contracted employees.
Any policy expectations and flexible, local-level including contractors: 14 failure in this regard has the potential to requirements across the Group.
Transfer of staff to new roles where undermine our operational capabilities, We continuously monitor and analyse possible, in order to avoid redundancy: management effectiveness and, ultimately, human resources data across the Group to and our profitability.
In this context, we seek to help ensure that we uphold our policy Seeking to retain high-performing treat our people fairly, listen and respond to commitments.
This includes data relating employees through our appraisal and their views, offer meaningful professional to our workforce profile and turnover rate, reward framework.
development and deliver rewards as well as a variety of feedback that we commensurate with employee performance.
Employee engagement receive through our employee engagement Premier encourages open communication Key issues in this regard include: activities.
In 2018, we also began monitoring between employees and managers on an gender diversity metrics at each stage of the Workforce profile: and ongoing basis.
We keep employees informed recruitment process for employee and 15 Employee engagement.
about wider Company issues via a number contractor personnel vacancies.
of communication mechanisms, including: Premier has identified employee attraction, Workforce profile retention and succession as principal risks Regular team meetings: We prioritise the employment of suitably under the principal risk organisational The Company intranet: qualified nationals whenever possible, and capability.
See page 39 for more information.
support this aim by investing in their skills, Messages from our Chief Executive: Policies knowledge and experience.
This helps Ongoing email communications: Our overall management of human ensure the nationals we employ can access Town Hall staff meetings at each business resource issues is guided by our Corporate opportunities across our organisation, while unit, attended by visiting members of the Responsibility Policy, Human Rights Policy, also supporting the success of our business.
Executive Committee and senior Business Ethics Policy and our Equal We treat people fairly, equally and without management: and Opportunities and Diversity Policy.
prejudice, irrespective of gender, race, age, The release of the Companys half-year How we implement our policies disability, sexual orientation or any other and annual operational and financial Our day-to-day management of human discriminatory attributes.
This is reflected results, as well as trading and operations resource matters is supported by our in our Equal Opportunities and Diversity updates.
Human Resources Management System, Policy which applies to all permanent and We conduct structured employee surveys at which includes guidance relating to: temporary staff, contractors and job Group and business unit level.
Employee obligations in this Performance: of these surveys help us to understand and respect are set out in our Employee Resourcing: respond effectively to employee attitudes Handbook which prohibits discrimination Reward: and towards commitment, rewards, retention, whether direct or indirect, harassment 16 13 working conditions and related issues.
13 We encourage all staff to develop their professional skills, to the benefit of both the individual and the Company.
We are committed to supporting our staff in this regard, through the provision of experiential learning opportunities, coaching and training.
We do not currently employ any disabled people.
Our commitment to supporting staff with the development of their professional skills will fully apply to those disabled staff members that we employ in the future.
We will also strive to provide continued employment for members of our workforce who become disabled whilst employed by us.
14 Premier complies with all local labour laws, including those related to working hours and overtime.
15 Where relevant, this includes information about economic and financial factors affecting the Companys performance.
16 We also gather feedback through, for example, regular performance reviews: our formal non-recriminatory human resources grievances procedure should employees feel uncomfortable raising issues through normal management channels : and our confidential, independently managed whistleblower hotline.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Outcomes Key indicators Employees Material issue Premier Oil metric 2018 2017 2016 Our performance in 2018 17 18 Number of employees at end of 767 43 783 51 799 164 Workforce profile The size of our workforce was predominantly stable year turnover during the year in 2018, reflecting our continued efforts to protect jobs where possible, our low turnover rate and our focus on recruiting only for roles of high importance.
Gender balance of total employee 577 190 595 188 604 195 Female participation rates in our total employee workforce at end of year workforce, senior management and Board of male female Directors stood at 25%, 11% and 22% per cent respectively in 2018.
We recognise that women are Gender balance at senior 102 13 99 12 99 13 typically under-represented in the oil and gas 19,20 management level male sector.
Accordingly, we aim to ensure that our own female management systems, practices and working culture do not discourage or restrict female access to and success within our workforce.
In 2018, we Gender balance at Board level 7 2 7 2 7 2 implemented several initiatives to support diversity male female and inclusion across the Company, with a particular focus on enhancing gender diversity.
Employee Number of employee surveys 2 2 1 We conducted two employee surveys in 2018.
One was our second Group-wide engagement survey, engagement which developed our understanding of satisfaction and engagement levels across the workforce.
The other was an independent organisational review based on engagement with over 100 senior managers across the Group.
Percentage of employees 99 98 99 In 2018, 99% of employees received performance receiving performance reviews reviews against their Individual Performance Contracts IPCs, and were assigned performance ratings by their managers.
This rating was used to guide salary adjustments and bonus recommendations.
Data for 2018 assured by ERM CVS 17 This represents the actual employee count on 31 December 2018, which is different to the number reported on page 28 783, where an average approach method was used.
18 114 of the employees that left the Company in 2016 had joined Premier as a result of our acquisition of E. ONs UK North Sea assets in April 2016.
19 Senior management is defined as Grade 5 and above.
20 Some members of our Board are also part of senior management and are therefore not included in these figures.
This applied to three Board members in 2017 and 2016.
We respect the right of all employees to join a legitimate trade union and bargain collectively.
We support organised labour through, amongst other things, carrying out official collective consultations in Indonesia, Vietnam and the UK.
We have collective bargaining agreements in place in our Indonesia and Vietnam business units.
Collectively, these agreements cover 64 per cent of Premier's total employee workforce.
At our UK and Falkland Islands business units, as well as our corporate office, we undertake collective consultations with employee representatives only if 20 or more UK-based employees are made redundant within a 90-day period.
Typically, Premier will provide employees and, where relevant, their elected representatives with at least one months notice of any significant operational changes that might affect them.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 52 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 53 Outcomes Key indicators Community relations Society Our in performance Material Premier Oil Why this issue is material issue metric 2018 2017 2016 in 2018 Our activities can potentially affect Value Community 0.74 0.74 0.69 With the exception of Mexico, all our nationaland local-level stakeholders.
In generation and investment operations have established turn, these stakeholders can potentially distribution spend US$m community engagement and affect the achievement of our business investment programmes.
objectives in our countries of operation.
As such, we strive to avoid and or minimise Community relations How we implement our policy our potential negative impacts and to Why this issue is relevant We implement our policy through our maximise our positive impacts across a As an offshore operator, we have relatively Community Investment Management range of issues.
These include the rights of limited direct interaction with local System, which is aligned with IPIECA local people, interactions with governments communities compared to most companies standards.
This helps us to systematically and other stakeholders, the delivery of with onshore operations.
Nonetheless, our identify, manage, evaluate and budget our economic contributions to broader society relations with communities are very engagements in host countries.
It focuses and decommissioning activities.
important, due to: on the following key aspects: Key issues in this regard are: The potential and actual impacts of our Policy governance: Human rights: activities and those of our partners on Risk evaluation management: Public policy and government relations: local fishing communities: Planning: Value generation and distribution The role of certain onshore communities Implementation and monitoring: and specifically our economic contributions: as transit and logistics points for our Audit and review.
The positive impact our community All of our operations have established investment has on local communities, community engagement and investment Premier has identified host government: as well as on our reputation and social programmes.
political and fiscal risks as a principal risk.
licence to operate: More information can be found on page 39.
Furthermore, our HSES Policy requires us The potential and actual impacts of the to prepare ESIAs for each of our operated Policies non-operated, onshore production assets activities.
As part of this process, we engage Premiers interactions with stakeholders in Pakistan, in which we had interests with local communities, where relevant.
across society are governed by several during 2018: and None of our operations have been identified policies.
Most notably, this includes our The potential for new onshore operations as having any material negative impacts on overarching Corporate Responsibility in the future.
local communities, again reflecting their Policy, Human Rights Policy, Risk remote, offshore locations.
Management Policy, Tax Policy, Business We are careful to minimise our negative Ethics Policy and the Code page 46.
We impacts on local communities, if they We also invest in community projects to 21 implement these policies through our do occur.
help deliver sustainable social, economic associated management systems.
and environmental benefits for local Policy communities and their host governments.
Amongst other commitments, our policies Premiers Community Investment Policy For details on these projects see Premier require us to: governs our approach to interacting with 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Amongst other Engage with stakeholders in our efforts commitments, it requires Premier to: to respect and promote the fundamental rights set out in the Universal Declaration Invest in well-planned social projects that 22 of Human Rights : support the development priorities of host communities and governments: Act transparently with all stakeholders in full respect of the rule of law: Work to achieve a net positive socioeconomic impact on local communities: Contribute to the development goals of and host countries: Treat our neighbours with respect Support the socio-economic sustainability and understanding, acknowledging and wellbeing of communities through community governance and seeking local procurement and other engagement free and informed consent prior to with local business: and initiating operations that have a Not seek to engage in artificial tax potentially significant social impact avoidance arrangements.
21 No material impacts of this nature took place in 2018.
Where relevant, Premier is committed to providing fair and adequate compensation for any losses for which we are liable.
This commitment is implemented through our management systems.
22 Our Human Rights Policy is guided by those rights enshrined in the core labour conventions of the International Labour Organization and by the United Nations Global Compact.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED All new contractors undergo an initial risk-based HSES assessment via prequalification, bidding and or negotiation.
Any that we consider to be high risk are subjected to more detailed HSES screening.
We also carry out performance reviews of some of our most significant contracts following their award, which includes assessment of the HSES performance of the contractor.
Furthermore, all material new contracts are assessed for human rights and labour rights risks using our Supply Chain Contractor Due Diligence Process.
Finally, all major commitments include relevant HSES, human rights and prevention of forced involuntary labour and human trafficking obligations.
Premier also maintains a presence at major construction and fabrication yards undertaking work for the Company.
This helps us to ensure their adherence to relevant human rights, labour rights and HSES obligations within their contracts.
Public policy and government relations Each of our business units engages directly with their host governments and regulators.
Furthermore, our Exploration team has significant interaction with government entities in the process of acquiring acreage, including the preparation of bids in How we implement our policies Where appropriate, we carry out third-party licensing rounds or through direct Human rights due diligence investigations and ad hoc negotiations.
All engagement is carried out Premiers Human Rights Policy is based risk assessments for new partnerships in line with Premiers applicable policies, on international human rights norms.
and operating locations which include including our Corporate Responsibility It is implemented through our Human consideration of human rights issues, Policy, Human Rights Policy, Business Rights Management System, which sets if relevant.
Ethics Policy and the Code.
out how to: Premiers human rights grievance Employees, contractor personnel or agency 23 Embed human rights : procedure, which we launched in 2017, workers who believe Premier may have Conduct risk assessments: enables us to better identify and address failed to engage with host governments and actual or potential human rights impacts, regulators in the manner required by the Develop action plans: whether they are directly or indirectly Code and other applicable policies can Carry out implementation and associated with our activities.
report concerns to their line manager or via monitoring: and our confidential, independently managed We do not typically employ or contract Audit and review compliance reporting hotline.
Government officials can security personnel, although landlords at and performance.
also raise concerns with Premier directly.
Premiers office locations do provide their All reports are properly investigated and the We use our Human Rights Risk Screening own security personnel.
Accordingly, we do results reported to the Board.
Tool to screen our own operations, our not typically conduct human rights training non-operated joint venture partners and for internal or external security personnel.
Premier is a member of a number of bodies countries identified for possible exploration Where we require additional security that use their legitimate influence to lobby or joint venture activities for high-level support outside of our office locations, our governments on issues affecting the oil and human rights and labour rights risks.
Risk providers are required to apply human gas sector.
These include, for example: issues assessed include child labour, forced rights standards that are aligned with Association of British Independent Oil and involuntary labour, and the protection our Human Rights Policy.
Exploration Companies BRINDEX : of indigenous peoples rights.
This enables We also seek to monitor the human rights Falkland Islands Petroleum Licensees us to prioritise current and future assets performance of our business partners, Association FIPLA : and for targeted management.
including our non-operated joint venture Indonesian Petroleum Association IPA.
partners and contractors, in line with the requirements of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
23 Including the core labour conventions of the International Labour Organization.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 54 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 55 Outcomes 24 Key indicators Society Material issue Premier Oil metric 2018 2017 2016 Our performance in 2018 Human rights Identified violations of our 0 0 0 No violations were identified in 2018.
This reflects our Human Rights Policy ongoing human rights due diligence efforts, as well by Premier and its employees as the offshore and relatively remote nature of our operated activities.
Significant negative human rights or 0 0 0 No significant negative human rights or labour rights labour rights impacts identified in impacts were identified in our supply chain during our supply chain 2018.
All new material contracts are now subject to our Supply Chain Contractor Due Diligence Process.
Value of political donations and Public policy 0 0 0 We made no political donations or contributions in contributions US$ 2018.
All of our interactions with host governments and government and regulators were conducted in line with our relations Business Ethics Policy and the Code.
25 26 Economic value distributed US$m 1,026 Value generation 923 825 Throughout 2018 we continued to generate significant levels of economic value, much and distribution of which was distributed to stakeholders throughout our host societies.
Value generation and distribution Premiers Tax Policy is implemented by its We have developed a clear strategy to We believe that we can most effectively internal Tax Management Standard, which decommission our operated assets in generate longer-term value for our defines the framework for the management a continuous, sequential fashion, shareholders by operating in a way that of tax.
incorporating learnings and progressive delivers lasting benefits to all our other improvements as we move through the The standard establishes the minimum stakeholders.
Much of the value we create is decommissioning portfolio.
We have put performance requirements that are applied distributed throughout our host societies, in place an experienced in-house team throughout the Group, including actively and directly supports long-term sociowho are committed to undertaking monitoring tax legislation in all operating economic development.
decommissioning activity in a safe and environments to ensure compliance with tax efficient manner.
Our activities in this In this context and in line with relevant law and compliance with Premiers Tax Policy.
respect are guided by our HSES Policy local content requirements, Premier Decommissioning and standards.
seeks to: At present, only one of Premiers operated We are incorporating innovative Employ nationals where they are production fields Caledonia Field has been technological and proven engineering appropriately qualified: and 25 declared inactive.
However, within these solutions into the decommissioning Use contractors based in our host assets we have 17 open-water subsea wells preparation work we are undertaking at countries, where they can meet our HSES, that have been declared inactive and will our Balmoral asset, to help minimise HSE operational and economic requirements.
be plugged and abandoned in a safe and risks and increase cost-efficiencies.
We efficient manner, integrated ideally with To help nationals and host country are also proactively collaborating with other Decommissioning Programmes.
We contractors access these opportunities, regulatory authorities, joint venture are in the process of developing full we support local capacity building where partners and operators in the region to Decommissioning Programmes for the economically feasible.
share knowledge, contribute to joint Greater Balmoral Area, Caledonia, research initiatives and rationalise We are committed to prompt disclosure and Huntington and Hunter and Rita fields, and coordinate decommissioning transparency in all tax matters and have some of which were submitted for public programmes where possible.
met all applicable statutory requirements in consultation and regulatory approval this respect.
This includes the disclosures during the course of the year.
and submissions that we make to comply However, in 2018, Premier postponed The Strategic Report, which has with the requirements of the European production cessation and closure been prepared in accordance with Union Accounting Directive EUAD, the activities for the Greater Balmoral Area the requirements of the Companies Extractives Industries Transparency to 2021 or later, in agreement with the Act 2006, has been approved and Initiative EITI and Country-by-Country Oil and Gas Authority.
This was driven signed on behalf of the Board.
by a re-evaluation of the assets Tony Durrant performance in the context of stronger Chief Executive Officer oil market conditions.
6 March 2019 24 i. e. operating costs, royalties, staff costs, dividends, finance costs, corporate income tax payments and community investments.
25 In 2018, Premier paid US$129m in the form of corporate income tax payments to our host governments.
We did not engage in artificial tax avoidance arrangements and met all statutory and transparency requirements with respect to tax matters.
26 We define inactive sites as production fields that are no longer producing, but have not yet been decommissioned, as well as subsea infrastructure that is no longer economically viable for production this includes: subsea wells, templates, manifolds and flow lines, and umbilicals that have been flushed of hydrocarbon and other chemicals disconnected from production assets, prior to decommissioning.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements
