Responsible business Through our investment, assetmanagement and forward funded development activities we look to minimise the environmental impact ofourbusiness 32 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Creating long term, sustainablevalue Overview Asset management in action Responsible business addresses the key areas of the environment and our stakeholders which is embedded into our investment, asset management, forward funded development and corporate activities.
We are committed to improving our responsible business disclosure, mitigating sustainability risks and capturing environmental and stakeholder opportunities.
We realise the importance of our assets on the local healthcare community in which they serve making it easier for our GP, NHS and HSE tenants to deliver effective services.
We are committed to creating great primary care centres by focusing on the future needs of our tenants and thereby ensuring we are creating long term sustainable income.
Reclaimed New LED New seasonal Supporting stoneand lighting efficiency local wildlife Environmental considerations natural timber boilers Through our investment, asset management and forward cladding funded development activities we look to minimise the environmental impact of our business, maximise the efficiency Winchcombe Medical Centre, Winchcombe of our assets and minimise the future risk of obsolescence in The closure of a local community hospital meant access to our portfolio, which are required to meet the NHSs and HSEs medical services in the area was limited.
We worked alongside exacting standards with regard to environmental considerations.
the GPs and the NHS Gloucestershire Clinical Commissioning PHP is committed to the principles of continuous improvement Group to design a 250 sqm extension to house additional in managing environmental issues, including the reduction of GPconsulting capacity and a local service base for the pollution and emissions, the proper management and monitoring Gloucester Care Services NHS Trust providing community of waste, and compliance with environmental legislation and services to the local population.
The extension was completed codes of practice.
for a five-GP practice that serves 7,500 patients.
With a void rate of just 0.3%, most of which is expansion space Highlights: within our existing assets, and no employees the Company has no landlord controlled energy supply and this limits our ability The project was built to a BREEAM Good standard to further reduce energy consumption.
However, we continue to andthe Energy Performance Rating improved from D to B. look at ways of reducing consumption and the efficiency of our Local materials and reclaimed stone used for assets to reduce energy consumption for our occupiers.
theextension with natural timber cladding.
New LED lighting installed throughout and absence detection on lighting in consulting rooms.
New boilers increased seasonal efficiency from 70% to95%.
73% Sustainable drainage system installed including of the portfolio has an EPC rating attenuation pond built to provide natural habitat of AC tosupport wildlife.
The works required PHP toliaise very closely with usand we developed an excellent working relationship with the team who we found to be very approachable and proactive in resolving any issues that arose.
Overall the extension has meant that we have facilities that are more modern and better suited to support the local community as it continues to grow.
Clare Burton, Practice Manager Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 33 Responsible business continued Investing Asset management in action Environmental and sustainable matters are an integral element ofPHPs assessment of the suitability of new medical centres that the Group looks to acquire and fund.
PHP undertakes a detailed assessment of each location, looking at the sustainable nature of a site and how it will serve the local population and its importance to the local healthcare provision, ensuring that the centre is affordable and will meet the future needs of the local population.
An important element of our due diligence process is to undertake a detailed building survey and assessment of the environmental risk for each investment, including flooding, to ensure the risk is avoided or appropriate prevention measures BREEAM Energy New LED New seasonal are developed.
We also obtain an environmental desktop study VeryGood Performance lighting efficiency and energy performance certificate EPC.
PHP has engaged Rating of A boilers consultants Savills, Simpson Hilder and GEP Environmental to help in this process.
In advance of the enhanced Minimum Energy Efficiency Milton Keynes Village Practice, Milton Keynes Standards which came into effect in April 2018, we have taken A local practice closure, along with substantial residential steps to ensure full coverage of EPCs across our portfolio is growth, meant the provision of primary health services was achieved and will undertake improvement works where required lacking.
We worked alongside the GPs and the NHS Milton to ensure full compliance with the Minimum Energy Efficiency Keynes Clinical Commissioning Group to deliver the project Standards that will apply from 2023. which comprised an additional six consulting rooms, a new minor operations suite, health promotion room and district 24% of the portfolio has an EPC rating of B or above and 73% nurses locality office.
Only two assets, representing less than 1% of the portfolio, are rated F or G of which both will be Highlights: improved as part of a planned asset management project to improve the asset including the energy performance.
The project was built to a BREEAM Very Good standardand the Energy Performance Rating improvedfrom F toA.
16 Heat recovery system installed and new boilers increased projects completed during the year seasonal efficiency from 70% to 95%.
Four electric vehicle recharge points installed.
Project sensitively developed around ancient waterways system and treeline boundary.
41 projects will commence in 2019 2020 PHP has been very supportive of Milton Keynes Village Practice in facilitating extra clinical space.
The provision of additional consulting rooms and a minor surgery suite Asset management will enable us to expand the range of services we offer, We are delivering energy efficiencies and sourcing cleaner including some out of hospital services for local residents.
energy for our occupiers through various asset management They have been particularly enthusiastic regarding this initiatives.
During the year we completed 16 projects and we project and receptive to our forward plan, encouraging have a strong pipeline of a further 36projects which will our input in all areas.
It has been a pleasure working commence in 2019 2020. closely with them for the past year to finally reach We continually assess the opportunities to improve the ourjoint goal.
environmental efficiency of a property and work with its Kim Foy-Olowu, Practice Manager occupiers to improve its environmental performance with enhancements such as the installation of LED lighting, energyefficient boilers and solar panels.
A further five projects are approved and due to commenceshortly.
34 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Developments Development in action PHP engages with its development partners to promote the highest possible standards of environmental, sustainable and social matters when designing and constructing new premises.
As a minimum, new properties are required to achieve at least aBREEAM Excellent rating, but where possible the aim is to exceed this.
Ongoing environmental responsibilities are included in the leases entered into by the occupational tenants as a norm for newly built premises.
100% of the newly completed assets delivered in 2018 held an EPC with a rating of A or better.
PHP continues to work with its development partners, occupiers and other stakeholders to develop ways inwhich to monitor and improve the management of environmental and sustainability issues.
Building Air source New LED Rainwater Energy Rating heat pumps lighting harvesting The community and social impact of A3 system PHP is committed to supporting both the NHS and HSE in tackling the major underinvestment in primary care facilities in Bray Primary Care Centre both the UK and Ireland.
PHPs aim is to modernise and improve the ability to provide efficient and effective healthcare through Bray Primary Care Centre is a brand new 4,800 sqm the provision of modern, purpose-built properties, let to the NHS, purpose-built development with an anticipated completion the HSE, GPs and other healthcare operators.
The facilities are in autumn 2019.
It will provide a range of services to the predominantly located within residential communities and enable local community including GP services, mental health, dental, the UK and Irish population to access better health services in dietetics, physiotherapy and psychology services and also their local area.
This is central to the Groups strategic objectives includes a pharmacy and caf.
Highlights: PHPs portfolio serves around 3.6 million patients or 5% of the The development has been designed to achieve a UKpopulation and our portfolio is their first point of contact Building Energy Rating of A3 using the Non-domestic with the NHS when they start their patient journey.
Our active Energy Assessment Procedure equivalent to EPC Rating management of the property portfolio seeks to maintain the A in the UK.
centres as fit for purpose and systems have been established to ensure that PHP is properly monitoring its social impact and The development will go well beyond current building identifying and managing opportunities and risks associated regulations for U-values a measure of how effective with the provision of its properties.
Social impact consideration amaterial is as an insulator and air tightness.
and management sits at the heart of the management of the The building will be designed to maximise the use Group and is directly reviewed by the Board.
ofnatural ventilation and heat recovery methods PHP is committed to ensuring that the properties it develops willbeinstalled including air source heat pumps.
and owns continue to meet our GP, NHS and HSE occupiers New LED lighting to be installed throughout with requirements in their local community and also provide flexibility absence detection systems.
for future change, update and expansion.
Our dedicated teams of asset and property managers look after our occupiers Rainwater harvesting system and dual flush cisterns requirements through regular communication and a supportive willminimise water consumption.
It is crucial that we continually update our understanding of what issues matter to our occupiers It has been a pleasure to work with the PHP team and how the NHS and HSE is changing to meet the increasing onthisdeal.
They really understand the commercials demands on the healthcare system in both countries.
onthese type of transactions which ensures a quicker turnaround: it took less than three months from start In January 2018, the UK Government published a response toclose, and enabled us to begin on site as planned.
tothe Naylor Review which acknowledged the importance Itisawinwin for both parties and their collaborative ofland and property to the transformation of the health system approach has made the whole forward funding monitoring and how the NHS will be able to supplement public capital with part much easier than traditional bank financing and it other sources of finance from the private sector.
In July 2017 allows us to better manage our risks while protecting we, along with our sector colleagues, pledged 3 billion of return.
We hope to work with PHP in the future on other investment into new primary care centres over five years to Primary Care Centre.
help the Government reach its commitment of 10 billion ofinvestment toimprove the NHS estate.
Leslie FitzPatrick, Chief Financial Officer,  Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 35 Responsible business continued Engaging with our stakeholders Lenders Future generations Investors Suppliers NHS Occupiers HMRC Patients Adviser 3.6m 800 100 patients served suppliers across investor and byPHPs portfolio the Group analyst meetings held during the course of 2018 36 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Investors and lenders The Groups policy is to conduct all of its business in an honest The support of our shareholders, banking partners and lenders and ethical manner.
The Group takes a zero-tolerance approach is crucial to sustaining our investment in the health infrastructure to bribery and corruption and is committed to acting professionally, of the UK and Ireland.
During the year we successfully completed fairly and with integrity in all business dealings and relationships a 115 million equity raise and 76.3 million of new debt facilities wherever it operates and implements and enforces effective to further strengthen our balance sheet.
In October 2018 we systems to counter bribery.
hosted a capital markets visit to a selection of assets in the city and surrounding towns of Dublin.
We continue to enjoy strong Contractors and suppliers relationships with our investor, banking and lending partners.
Delivering forward funded developments, asset management We continue to value existing and potential relationships with our projects and property services on time, on budget and in investors with over 100 meetings held during the course of 2018. adherence with our high standards is a key priority.
Shareholders and analysts are regularly updated about our performance and are given the opportunity to meet management Our supply chain is checked to ensure it is high quality, robust, throughout the year and attend presentations and site visits has a proven track record and applies appropriate standards on togain a better understanding of our business strategy.
areas such as labour and human rights, health and safety, modern slavery and human trafficking.
For developments, contractors Non-financial information statement areexpected to demonstrate adherence to these requirements and our development monitoring surveyor stays close to our The Group has complied with the requirements of s414CB contractors and monitors all elements of projects as they progress.
ofthe Companies Act 2006 by including certain non-financial Our Modern Slavery Act Statement is available on our website information within the strategic report.
This can be found and no human rights concerns arose within the year.
asfollows: We have approximately 800 suppliers across the Group ranging from small local businesses to large multi-national companies.
The Groups business model is on page 10.
Wealso acknowledge the importance of our suppliers, who Information regarding the following matters, including areoften small businesses and sole traders, especially those policies, the due diligence process implemented in involved with the upkeep and maintenance of our assets.
pursuance of the policies and outcomes of those Weaim to pay all invoices and amounts due promptly and policies, can be found on the following pages: wellwithin stated payment terms in an effort to preserve thecash flows of these small businesses.
environmental matters on page 33: social matters on page 35: Tax The Group is committed to complying with tax laws in a respect for human rights on page 37: and responsible manner and has open and constructive relationships anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters on page 37. with the UK and Irish tax authorities.
Whilst the Group enjoys REIT status and therefore is not directly assessable for corporation None of the matters listed above have been identified or capital gains tax on property investments, the dividends that asaprincipal risk.
the Group pays are assessed for income tax when they reach All key performance indicators of the Group, including those investors.
Moreover, during 2018 the Group has directly paid non-financial indicators, are on page 13.
16.1 million of tax in the form of VAT, income tax, stamp duty land tax, stamp duty and national insurance contributions to The Business Performance section on pages 15 to 21 includes, the UK and Irish governments.
where appropriate, references to, and additional explanations of, amounts included in the entitys annualaccounts.
Harry Hyman Managing Director 30 January 2019 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 37
