101 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Ensuring effective engagement with stakeholders The Board recognises its responsibility to take into consideration the needs and concernsof the Groups stakeholders as part of its decision making process, fulfilling itsduty under Section 172 Companies Act 2006 to promote the long-term success oftheCompany supported through hearing and understanding stakeholders views.
In our interactions with our stakeholders, the Group is committed to demonstrating ourvalues: Collaborative, Fair, Responsible, Accessible, Straightforward andProgressive.
The following eight pages contain an explanation of the importance of each oftheGroups key stakeholders, together with the variety of methods employed across the Group to foster constructive and effective  andtheBoard.
Employees Malcolm Le May has utilised both email communications and the Divisional intranets to deliver key Group messages to employees and keep them updated on Group performance, increasing Group leadership visibility and the focus on collaborative working across the Divisions.
Moneybarn and Vanquis Bank undertake an annual survey toobtain feedback from employees anonymously, with the aimofcontinually developing each business.
The Group also encourages employee engagement in community activities through its Social Impact Programme.
This includes employee volunteering, volunteering grants andmatched fundraising.
Our employees, who are central to the success of the Group, Chris Gillespie has, in addition to his other responsibilities, are focussed on achieving positive outcomes for our customers assumed the post of Head of the Bradford office, to provide on a daily basis and representing the values of the Group within employees with leadership visibility, and input into and oversight the communities we serve.
A mix of activities are utilised across of all decisions affecting the Bradford facility.
This role is consistent the Group as it is acknowledged that employees like to give and with the Groups objective of encouraging the Divisions to work respondto feedback in a variety of ways.
more closely together and makes collective decisions about our Employees in CCD are kept fully informed of the financial and people, where they work and what matters to them easier.
operational performance and strategy of the Divisions through As part of their induction process, Board members undertake fortnightly huddles in Bradford, regional team meetings in the field, a combination of site visits and meetings with other senior supported by the intranet portal and personal briefings by senior management, ensuring they are familiar with the business, its leadership.
In addition to a well maintained intranet, Vanquis Bank purpose, culture and values.
Further detail is set out on page 115. hold monthly business update sessions run by various members Across the Group there are mentoring programmes whereby of senior management where colleagues are invited to participate members of the senior leadership give up their time to share and ask questions.
Moneybarns senior management conduct thebenefit of their experience with employees.
a monthly Company briefing were employees are updated on strategic and operational plans.
A series of expert speakers were invited into the Groups offices across the UK to give talks on diversity and inclusion, which were The Divisions continue to use social network sites, intranet hosted by senior management team including Malcolm Le May.
discussion boards and blogs by employees and Managing Directors.
The Managing Director of CCD, Chris Gillespie, also holds Moneybarn conduct a Star of the Month programme where open invitation huddles, where employees based in Bradford are employees are nominated by their colleagues and are rewarded able to ask questions concerning any aspect of the CCD business.
with vouchers or with a donation to a charity of their choosing.
Chris has also spent time in the field, speaking to employees and answering questions.
CCD consults with employees through a Colleague Forum, so that workforce representatives acting on For the future of employee engagement mechanisms, behalf of employees can share their views and ideas and these see page 104. can be taken into account when making decisions that are likely toaffect their interests.
102 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Leadership and purpose continued Ensuring effective engagement with stakeholders continued Provident Financial Rights Issue During April 2018, we carried out a Rights Issue to bolster the We outline the Boards role in the process on page 100.
Groups regulatory and capital positions, as well as to strengthen The engagement between the Group and its key stakeholders its balance sheet, and reestablish normal access to funding.
throughout the Rights Issue is summarised below.
Malcolm Le May, asInterimExecutive Chairman, Banks leda number of critical meetings, supported by relevant members The Groups lending banks and M&G Investments M&G were of the senior management team, with the regulators.
updated by the Company on all aspects of the Groups uncertainties Shareholders & Investors in early February 2018, including an update on ROP, the home credit turnaround plan, the Moneybarn investigation and the Rights The Companys directors had the primary responsibility to ensure Issue itself.
Due to the fact that the directors would be required that the public documents in relation to the Rights Issue was accurate, tomake aworking capital statement in any rights issue prospectus, complete and not misleading.
It included the Notice of Meeting, the Board needed to receive suitable waivers and amendments Prospectus, Provisional Allotment Letters, and Proxy Forms, calling to certain financial covenants from the lending banks and M&G the General Meeting on 21 March 2018 which sought and received under a term facility agreement to ensure that the Group could shareholder approval of the Rights Issue.
Malcolm LeMay, Andrew rely on the facility provided by its banks and M&G being available Fisher and Gary Thompson, Head of Investor Relations, were involved over the relevant period covered by the working capital report.
in the premarketing meetings between 21 and 26 February 2018 The presentations to the banks and M&G were approved by the with the Companys top investors, and following approval of the Board and delivered by the Group Finance Director and Group RightsIssue by the Board on 10 April 2018.
Treasurer and all bank waivers and consent letters were agreed Employees in February 2018.
In addition a bridge facility between JP Morgan, Barclays and the Company was also agreed inFebruary 2018.
Regular communications about the Rights Issue were sent to employees, through the employee newsletter.
The Company also Regulators specifically updated employees on the impact of the Rights Issue During the Rights Issue process there was constructive engagement on the Groups share schemes, by providing frequently asked with both the PRA and FCA regarding 1 the Rights Issue, 2 the questions and individual communications to participants of the capital plan for the Group and Vanquis Bank, 3 the Vanquis Groups employee and executive share plans, which included Bank FCA investigation and settlement, 4 the Moneybarn FCA guidance on what steps they need, or need not, take.
The Company investigation, and 5 theHome Credit operational recovery plan.
was pleased to have received recognition of its Republic of Ireland There was also constructive and helpful dialogue with the UKLA as Save As You Earn scheme communications during the Rights part of the Rights Issue Prospectus process.
The Board was kept Issue in the form of an Irish Pro Share Award for Most Effective regularly updated at each meeting on the progress being made to Communication of an Employee Share Plan.
resolve the Groups regulatory issues and the Rights Issue process Community activities will be governed, managed and delivered from January 2019 onwards by approving a new Social Impact Programme, which is aligned to the Groups purpose, culture, and existing and future strategic objectives.
In addition, individual Board members make periodic visits to the community partners that the Group supports through its various initiatives in order to gain a first hand understanding of the issues that they are seeking to address.
The Group also engages with the community to: Help identify and prioritise the issues that are material to the Group.
This informs the Groups purpose and ensures that our The Groups community investment strategy is aligned to our corporate reports address the interests of our stakeholders, socialpurpose and seeks to invest in activities and initiatives as well as comply with best practice requirements such as the whichaddress the key factors that tend to reduce n individuals Global Reporting Initiatives G4 reporting guidelines.
The Group access to credit.
In particular, we help people overcome issues most recently engaged with community partners in this regard whichprevent financial inclusion.
Further details are included on page 75.
During 2018, the Board was engaged on matters that relate to the Collect feedback from the partners that the Group supports communities that the Group serves, which included approving the whichenables us to assess the impact of our activities and Groups approach to community investment.
In July 2018 the Board evaluate the efficacy of our community programmes.
approved the manner in which the Groups community investment 103 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Customers A key feature of Home Credit is the home collection service and the business makes on average 302,000 home visits each week.
Directors appointed to the Board participate in field site visits when they shadow a Customer Experience Manager and meet with our customers as part of their induction.
Customers are able to maintain contact with the Group throughout the life of their product, with thoroughly trained staff able to answer queries via telephone, letter or email.
In addition the Group has a number of digital platforms, such as an interactive website, VLOG, social media forums and mobile applications, through which customers can interact and share their views.
Customer complaint levels are closely monitored by the Board andits Executive Committee, together with originations.
As previously announced, the Board is finalising plans to establish a customer, culture and ethics committee, which is intended The Group is committed to financial inclusion for its 2.4 million to be a committee of the Board and would be chaired by customers, assisting them, where possible, to help themselves ElizabethChambers.
The Group created customer focus groups to provide feedback on its current and potential products.
Key points are reported to the Board and form part of strategy discussions.
Customer performance data forms an important part of the Board and Executive Committee discussions, with the detailed management information feeding into the Groups strategy.
Regulators and Government The nature of our customer base and the market we specialise in, Following an active dialogue with the FCA and CBI, we have makes the building and maintaining of open and trusting dialogue enhancedour governance arrangements and regulatory with policy makers and our key regulators the PRA, FCA and CBI responsibilities through a number of specific activities led critical to a sustainable business model.
These include: We know that building strong and enduring relationships with our Introduction of a Group regulatory tracker which provides regulators is extremely important.
It influences our strategic thinking amoreholistic view of all our regulatory interactions.
as well as enabling us to plan for regulatory change with greater Enhanced reporting to the Board and Executive Committee certainty and confidence.
ofouroutstanding regulatory actions and any risks to delivery.
With this is mind, over the last 12 months, the Group and its Improved coordination in managing emerging regulatory divisionshave made good progress in dealing proactively with changethat might materially impact our businesses.
These include, remediation in relation These includeresponding to relevant consultation papers tothe Vanquis Bank ROP, redesigning our operating model within andundertaking point in time regulatory risk assessments, Home Credit, as well as supporting the ongoing FCA investigation particularly in relation toconduct risk.
into Moneybarn, and reviewing the staffing model in Ireland.
We view these activities as the start of an ongoing programme While these have created significant challenges for management, of change which will further strengthen how we interact with they have also created opportunities to rebuild trust and the regulator s. While ultimate accountability for managing our credibilityinall aspects of our regulatory relationships.
regulatory risk and relationships sits within the Divisions, our aim as a Group is to raise the bar on regulation within the non standard credit market, shaping regulatory thinking as we deliver compelling propositions to our customers.
This will be reinforced through implementation of the Senior Manager and Certification Regime SM&CR across the whole Group, including enhancements toourregulatory risk model.
104 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Leadership and purpose continued Ensuring effective engagement with stakeholders continued Debt Investors The Group finances its operations via a combination of retained The annual report and financial statements is the key document profits, bank borrowing funds from private placement and public for the Board to communicate its performance and future plans and retail bond investors in addition to the retail deposits sourced toits bank and debt investors.
Reviewed in detail by the Board byVanquis Bank.
andits Audit Committee, a copy is provided to bank and debt investors and made available on the Groups IR website.
The Group, primarily through its treasury function, has regular dialogue with its lending banks and debt investors.
Results and other news releases are published via the London Stock Exchanges RNS and are available on the Groups IR website.
Banks and debt investors receive announcements made by the Group and meetings are arranged with the key bank and debt The Groups Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for investors as required.
bondholders to ask Board members any questions they may have and to cast their votes for proposed courses The Groups website provides bank and debt investors with ofaction, including the appointment of Board members relevant detail regarding the composition of the Board, up to  Report.
datefinancial information and regulatory news, together with detail regarding how the Group meets its Code obligations.
The Group provides quarterly management statements to themarket.
Approved by the Board, the quarterly reporting cycleensures our bank and debt investors are given timely information pertaining to the Groups performance.
The Future of Employee Engagement & Culture The Group has formed a Provident Group Internal The Board recognises that its culture is what unifies the Group, Communications and Engagement function formed by reinforcing ethical behaviour and underpinning its purpose merging existing Divisional teams which will drive consistency and values.
in internal engagement, and creates the opportunity for Representatives from the senior management teams across dialogue, irrespective of Division or location.
A key action is the the Group were involved in workshops related to culture which implementation of a Group wide employee survey, which will created our Blueprint, which was approved by the Board in track engagement, opinion and progress against the Groups October 2018.
This programme of work will be embedded Blueprint following its launch in early 2019. throughout 2019.
To comply with the requirements of the 2018 Code, workforce The Blueprint brings together why the Group exists as an engagement panels will facilitate employee engagement.
organisation, framed in the context of the role we play in our An effective reporting approach and feedback loop will be customers lives and outlines the behaviours we will need to agreedbetween the panels, the Executive Committee and succeed.
In setting our social purpose, we wanted something Board, which willbe agreed in the first quarter of the 2019 which provided the anchor for the whole organisation what we financial year.
In addition, the Board approved an updated do commercially and how we do it.
Our purpose is underpinned Board reporting template in December 2018 to emphasise by a number of strategic drivers, which serve as the critical pillars the importance of stakeholder considerations in all of its of our strategy, under which sit practical priorities.
our competitive advantage and force choices.
The Blueprint, As outlined on pages 105 to 108, more proactive engagement and particularly the behaviours set out therein, will create a with shareholders is planned throughout 2019 and beyond, culture where we think customer all the time: we constantly andto this end, the Board reviewed a new Investor Relations innovate and make things better for all our stakeholders: and Strategy inJanuary 2019. we hold ourselves and each other personally accountable for success.
During 2019, we will devote significant time and effort in embedding our new strategic blueprint throughout the Group and will be linking everything we do to this Blueprint: training and development: reward: and our performance via tailored KPIs.
