73 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate responsibility The Group was founded 140 years ago with a clear purpose of providing much valued access to credit for customers who often find themselves underserved by mainstream lenders.
This purpose resonates asmuch today asit did back in 1880, and I firmly believe that the Group has an important role to play in serving our customers responsibly and providing them with access to credit which is closely tailored to their needs and helps put them ona path to a better everyday life.
I also recognise that this purpose extends beyond financial inclusion for ourcustomers and includes taking account of the Groups wider impacts.
The way we treat our people, contractors and suppliers, the role we play inourlocal communities and civic society, and as a steward of the environment, and how we engage with regulators and tax authorities, allhavea role toplayin underlining the importance of our purpose.
Malcolm Le May Chief Executive Officer 74 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued a working environment that is safe, inclusive and Introduction Ensuring that meritocratic: treat our suppliers fairly: support we operate our Provident Financial Groups purpose of helping our communities: engage with the investment toput people on a path to a better everyday life business in community onsustainability matters: and minimise is about ensuring that our customers are provided accordance with theenvironmental impacts of our business.
with responsible and accessible products and services our purpose is that meet their particular needs.
This purpose is Governance and management about lending to underpinned by the four strategic drivers and three our customers Overall responsibility for the Groups responsible behaviours described on page 34 and 35 of this report.
in a responsible business programme rests with the Provident Financial This is our Blueprint and it is designed to help us to manner and plc Board generally, and Malcolm Le May, the Chief balance delivering responsible and sustainable products, Executive Officer, specifically.
The Groups Executive taking account of services and partnerships to our customers, maintain Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive the wider impacts high levels of regulatory compliance, and provide a Officer and includes the Groups Chief Financial that the Group stimulating and rewarding workplace for our employees, Officer, General Counsel and Company Secretary, HR has on society and while generating appropriate, sustainable returns for Director, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Auditor, Corporate our shareholders.
Communications Director, and the Managing Directors In this section of the report, you will see how both the of the operating companies, also plays an important role Rob Lawson purpose and strategic drivers are aligned to the Groups as it reviews and approves aspects of the responsible Head of Sustainability, responsible business strategy, as well as a summary Provident FinancialGroup business programme and its budgets.
of the progress weve made during 2018 in delivering The Executive Committee is also tasked with overseeing against this strategy.
the development, embedding and monitoring of the Our strategy is to operate our business of lending to our culture and ethics of the group, and ensuring they customers in a responsible manner, and act responsibly are consistent with being a trusted, responsible and and sustainably in all our other stakeholder relationships.
This will involve ensuring that This means that we have to put the needs of our the policies, procedures, systems and behaviours of customers at the heart of everything we do: create our operating companies are aligned to our Blueprint, Alignment of our Blueprint to our Responsible Business Strategy The behaviours we are starting Our purpose is that Our strategic drivers are toembed within our culture are we help put people customer progression, human put the customer on the team, on a path toabetter experiences, head and heart be hungry for better and everyday life.
Our purpose commits us to Our strategic drivers commit us to These behaviours commit us to not only provide our customers with the ensure that our corporate responsibility create a culture where colleagues think tailored and affordable credit products that CR activities address the issues that matter customer all the time, constantly innovate meet their particular needs and enable them to most to our customers so that we can help and make things better for all the Groups do the things they want to do in their lives, but change their lives for the better, build lasting stakeholders, be they customers, employees, also to ensure that we deliver fair outcomes relationships with all our stakeholders, suppliers, regulators and investors, and hold to them throughout their journey with us, whether theyre customers, employees or ourselves personally accountable for success.
whether thats when we market our products suppliers, balance profit and purpose in all that to our customers and conduct affordability we do to ensure that we generate a financial checks, or when we collect payments due return while responding to the needs of our or when we deal with customers who are in stakeholders.
It is also about operating in an arrears or  difficulties.
efficient and effective manner which, among other things, means seeking to minimise Its also about ensuring that our community our environmental impacts, in particular by activities address the issues that matter reducing our carbon emissions in order to most to the everyday lives of our customers, lessen our contribution to climate change.
whether thats by addressing issues such as money advice, customer vulnerability and product accessibility, supporting both children and adults in their education, helping them to secure a better financial future, or by working with local community partners on social inclusion and social mobility issues relevant toour customersandtheir communities.
75 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report andensuring that any material issues which relate Our stakeholders I am very totheculture and ethics of the group are reported passionate about Provident Financial Groups key stakeholders are our toother relevant Board committees.
our new purpose customers, employees, shareholders and debt investors, In addition, as mentioned on page 16, the Board is regulators, communities and suppliers.
We define and the Groups finalising plans to establish a new committee that will our stakeholders as individuals or groups who have role in society.
focus on customer, culture and ethics.
It is expected an interest in, or are affected by, the activities of our Our purpose is that this committee will focus on reviewing the Groups business.
We engage with them regularly to ensure underpinned by a culture and business processes to ensure that they are that we are aware of their views and concerns with focused on delivering fairer customer outcomes, provide number of strategic regard to a wide range of issues.
We do this through oversight of managements delivery and embedding of drivers and surveys and focus groups, and by participating in the new Blueprint, and oversee the Boards compliance behaviours.
with the new corporate governance requirements aim to deliver under the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
an appropriate In focusing on these areas, it is anticipated that the balance between Further information on our stakeholder engagement committee will, among other things, provide oversight the needs of activities is set out on pages 101108. and challenge to the groups Executive Committee our customers, to deliver real cultural change.
As such, it will help We also engage with our stakeholders to ensure that the regulator, to strengthen the way that the Groups responsible we manage and report on the CR issues that matter shareholders and business programme is governed and managed by most to them and our business.
The below materiality our employees in providing oversight oftheGroups management of matrix was developed in 2017.
We undertake materiality anumber of key themes, including culture and ethics, order to ensure assessments at least every two years to identify and being a responsibleand inclusive employer: community that PFG is a prioritise the CR issues that are material to Provident involvement, environmental protection, and stakeholder successful and Financial Group.
This exercise helps to inform the engagement and reputation.
sustainable group Groups purpose and CR strategy, and ensures that our The Groups CR team continues to be responsible for all of its CR reports respond to the interests of our stakeholders for the ongoing delivery of this programme and is and comply with the Global Reporting Initiatives G4 stakeholders.
supported by colleagues from the Groups operating reporting guidelines.
Our most recent materiality companies.
This includes the colleagues who sit on Malcolm Le May assessment was, as in previous years, carried out by the Chief Executive Officer our environmental working groups and operate the independent sustainability management consultancy environmental management system, which provides Corporate Citizenship.
The issues that were identified us with a framework for controlling and improving asa result ofthe materiality assessment exercise have environmental performance across the group.
been plotted on the materiality matrix below.
Materiality matrix Customer vulnerability Responsible lending practices Customer satisfaction Employment practices andcustomer care Macro social trends Living standards Shift to digital Financial inclusion and financial well being Community contributions Ethical business conduct Accountability and transparency Governance and management Diversity and inclusion Environmental impact Responsible procurement Importance to the business Business Social Environmental Importance to stakeholders 76 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Doing business transparently Serving our customers inaresponsiblemanner Alongside being transparent about the products, 2.4m services and partnerships we deliver to our customers, customers The Groups core business is to provide tailored and we also strive to be transparent in all other areas of our responsible products, services and partnerships We are proud to business.
This includes maintaining our commitment servecustomers that help put our customers on a path to a better to being a fair and responsible tax payer, operating drawnfrom all across everyday life.
The 2.4 million customers we are proud theUK and Ireland.
in an open, honest and straightforward manner in all to serve come from all across the UK and Ireland.
tax matters and being fair and reasonable in all our The employment status of our customers can vary dealings with tax authorities.
Through this commitment and, due to their personal circumstances, they can be we seek to ensure that we comply with all tax rules in receipt of state support.
As a result, they typically andregulations in each territory in which we operate.
have low to average incomes.
Some of them have also While we safeguard our reputation as a had to deal with significant life events such as divorce, responsibletaxpayer, we recognise that we also loss of a job, long-term illness and other challenges have a responsibilityto protect shareholder value which, given that they have low to average incomes, can bymanagingand controlling our tax liabilities.
occasionally cause them to fall behind with their financial commitments.
This can cause their credit files to be Our tax strategy is aligned with HM Revenue & impaired and contribute to them being underserved Customs HMRC Code of Practice on Taxation for ortotally excluded by mainstream credit providers.
Banks the Code which sets out the principles and behaviours expected of banking groups with regard The products, services and partnerships that to tax, and wehave unconditionally adopted the Code.
weofferthrough our three operating companies are The Groups most recent tax strategy was last updated therefore tailor-made to meet the particular needs and approved by our Board in May 2018 and can be of our customers.
In general, the approach we take accessed on our website at www.
to providing credit to our customers involves lending smaller amounts over shorter periods of time.
In the This tax strategy is supported by our tax procedures case ofMoneybarn, where a vehicle is held as security, manual, which sets out how the objectives and policies we areable to lend more credit for longer periods.
in the tax strategy are achieved, as well as setting out further details of our tax risk management framework.
Under this approach, new customers to Vanquis These details, as well as the total direct and indirect tax Bank, Satsuma and Provident home credit get lower contributions we pay on an annual basis, are disclosed credit limits, or smaller, shorter-term loans to begin in our annual CR reports which we publish in June each with.
This enables us to observe and understand the year.
The Groups annual CR reports can be found at: behaviour of our customers before we consider granting www.
further lending and it also enables the customers to experience our products and see if they suit their needs.
It also enables our customers to enter or re-enter the credit market, stay in control of their finances and build credit scores for greater future access and choice.
Further information on the responsible lending characteristics of our products issetoutinpages37, 41 and 43.
77 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Improving customer satisfaction rates Dealing responsibly with customer complaints The FCA defines One of the key performance indicators we track Ensuring that we keep customer complaints to an a complaint as todetermine whether we are providing our customers absolute minimum is also a good indicator that we are an expression withproducts, services and partnerships that meet treating our customers fairly and that our products, ofdissatisfaction, theirparticular needs and help put them on a path services and partnerships meet their specific needs.
whether oral to a better everyday life is customer satisfaction.
Understanding the reasons behind complaints also or written, and Measuring this year-on-year also gives us some insight helps us to improve the services we offer.
We have wellwhether justified into where wecan make improvements to our offerings established complaint-handling processes, procedures or not, from so that we can continually meet or surpass customer and timescales to guide our customer relations teams or on behalf expectations.
Information on customer satisfaction inresolving issues in a professional and timely way.
of an eligible iscollected through a variety of methods such as Vital to resolving customer complaints satisfactorily complainant online forums, phone and face-to-face surveys, as isensuring our staff are trained well enough to deliver wellas focus groups.
The overall customer satisfaction about the firms excellent customer service whether face-to-face, rates in 2018 for each of our brands are set out below.
provision of, or onthetelephone or via e-mail.
The total amount The improvement in customer satisfaction within our failure toprovide, ofhours employees spent on customer-focused Provident home credit business reflects an improvement trainingin2018was 134,055. afinancial service.
in customer service as a result of the successful ongoing Customer complaints received in 2018 implementation of the recovery plan during 2018.
We recognise that But wealso recognise that there is more we can do Vanquis Bank 38,767 our customers may, 2017: 33,768 in2019 to continue to improve these scores, including: at any point in the Moneybarn 4,551 In Vanquis Bank, continuing to make enhancements 2017: 3,691 relationship with tothe suite of forbearance tools that were rolled Consumer Credit Division 36,584 us, find themselves outinthe second half of 2018 to support more 2017: 33,254 in potentially customers who find themselves in short-term We provide the contact details of the Financial financially difficult difficulties to recover, avoiding default.
Ombudsman Services FOS to all our customers, situations.
This In Provident home credit, continuing to review the sotheyhave another option if they feel we have been could be due to additional controls, such as the voice recording unable to resolve their complaint to their satisfaction.
a significant life technology we have been embedding throughout During 2018, the total number of complaints referred event such as 2018, which is used by our Customer Experience to the FOS was 4,302 2017: 1,792.
Of these, 1,278 or Managers CEMs when interacting with customers.
aloss of income, 30% 2017: 20% were upheld in favour of the customer.
This technology not only enables us to review illness or family During 2019, we will focus attention on ensuring that compliance and the quality of our interactions with bereavement.
customer complaints are kept to an absolute minimum.
customers to ensure that positive customer outcomes are achieved, it also plays an important role in enabling us to review other matters, for example, the health, safety and wellbeing of our CEMs, as they go about doing their jobs.
You can read more about this on page 81.
In Satsuma, continuing to review and update our mobile app to improve its repayment functionality and make it easier for customers to see when their next payment is due and enable them to make catch-up missed payments via the app to clear any arrears.
In Moneybarn, continuing to invest resource and technology in customer operations to help us to identify and resolve situations where customers areinfinancial difficulty.
Customer Satisfaction Rates for 2018 Vanquis Bank 86% 2017: 87% Moneybarn 4.7 5 Feefo rating 2017: 4.7 5 Provident home credit 87% 2017: 85% Satsuma 4.7 5 Review.
co. uk rating 2017: 4.8 5 78 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Catherine Creating a safe, inclusive Spotlight on equality, Diamond,   HRDirector, Our employees are a key stakeholder in our business.
We want our business to be diverse and inclusive as Moneybarn Without them we wouldnt be able to have customer employing people with different skills and backgrounds We are committed relationships, engage with our investors, work with will help us understand our customers needs and to creating a positive suppliers or get involved in our local communities.
develop products and services that support them better.
step-change in the senior leadership Throughout 2018, we have made a number of During 2018, we appointed both a Group Human gender balance by management changes across the Group which have Resources HR Director, to ensure the HR teams in supporting women in, seen the introduction of new appointments working at each of our businesses are tackling challenges and or aspiring to be in, leadership positions.
aGroup-wide level such as the Group HR Director, Group overcoming barriers together, and a gender diversity We are investing more Director of Corporate Communications, Group Internal lead for the Group, Catherine Diamond, HR Director for in our gender diversity Communications Director and Chief Procurement Moneybarn.
Catherine will lead on the gender diversity efforts and expect an Officer, as well as new positions being created in our agenda for the Group, ensuring we are doing more to increase in our gender representation at operating companies.
These appointments were made create a talent pipeline of future female leaders.
executive and senior to create key Group functions and improve coordination, Gender diversity across employee levels leadership level over the cooperation and efficiency across the business.
We are at31December 2018 setting the foundations However, in 2018, we also had to make a number of Female Female Male Male on which to build upon, redundancies in the Consumer Credit Division in order Employee level % % focusing action around to reduce and reshape some of its central support Total staff 3,117 55 2,591 45 attracting, retaining functions.
This was a difficult but necessary step that and developing female Director 7 23 24 77 had to be taken to align the Divisions cost base to the talent to contribute to Senior management 29 26 84 74 us achieving gender reduced size of the business.
Middle management 103 35 190 65 balance over time.
To ensure affected employees voices were heard in First level management 186 44 239 56 the decision-making process that underpinned the Colleague 2,780 57 2,066 43 redundancies, we held a collective consultation with We are also aware that we need a strong benchmark for employee representatives from the Divisions elected equality, diversity and inclusion EDI metrics, so that we Colleague Forum.
The consultation focused on the can set targets and measure progress more effectively.
proposed job roles that would be reduced.
It lasted Our HR teams recognise that we need to collect EDI data 45 days and enabled the affected individuals and their at the point of staff on-boarding, to ensure that we can representatives to give feedback on the proposed monitor our performance in areas like ethnicity, race and redundancies, and for senior management to respond physical mental wellbeing or disabilities.
By doing this, to that feedback.
Employees affected by redundancy we can further underline the commitment set out in our received financial compensation that exceeded the corporate EDI policy which states that we will support statutory minimum level and, where appropriate, were diversity and create an inclusive workplace culture for offered early retirement.
They also received support employees and other stakeholders, including customers, to find a new role including paid time off to find a new suppliers and contractors.
job: additional training: coaching: and online tools We will therefore conduct a review of how this data is and resources.
Support was also offered through captured to help us monitor metrics relative to this area, our24 7Employee Assistance Programme.
and initiate projects to enhance the EDI performance of our workplace.
As at 31 December 2018, the percentage Mental Health and Wellbeing of employees from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic We are partnering with a variety of leading mental groups stood at 9% 2017: 15% and the percentage health charities to establish a Mental Health First of employees who had declared a disability was 0.4% Aider network, in line with best practice as outlined 2017: 0.36%.
byMental Health First Aid England.
We are also piloting a programme of interactive sessions for our managers to understand the causes and impacts ofstress, anxiety and depression and how to support people, in order to improve their ability to spot the signs of mental health distress amongst colleagues and help them to develop ways to reduce stress.
In 2019 we aim to have 48 qualified Mental Health First Aiders and put 100 people managers through theinteractive mental health training sessions.
79 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Treating our suppliers fairly Paying suppliers promptly Our suppliers play a vital role in our operations, so As a Group, we are signatories of the Prompt Payment itis imperative that we encourage best practice within Code, which means we are committed to paying our our supply chain by ensuring we are compliant with suppliers promptly.
We understand the pressure late legislation such as the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and payments can have on businesses, and particularly support supplier payment by being signatories to the small to medium-sized local ones.
Being signatories Prompt Payment Code.
to the Prompt Payment Code allows us to encourage We use a large number of suppliers that range best practice within our supply chains.
In 2018, 97% from small and medium-sized enterprises to large ofinvoices were paid in line with the Prompt Payment multinational corporations, and we are always seeking Code terms, and we continue to strive to achieve 100%.
to be forward-thinking in our approach to supply chain Percentage of companies paid in 60 days management and develop strong supplier relationships Group Corporate Office 94% to ensure we only procure products and services from 2017: 96%, 2016: 95% those who operate in a responsible manner.
Consumer Credit Division 94% 2017: 93%, 2016: 95% Vanquis Bank 90% 2017: 95%, 2016: 95% Moneybarn 100% 2017: 99%, 2016: 99% 80 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Supporting our communities Provident Preventing modern slavery Financial Groups The primary way in which Provident Financial Group in our supply chain community fulfils its purpose is through the provision of credit As a business with a turnover of more than 36m we tocustomers who are not well served by other lenders investment are required to produce an annual statement which or are excluded altogether.
We do this by responsibly strategy supports describes the steps that have been taken to prevent providing our customers with appropriate amounts our purpose modern slavery and human trafficking from occurring of credit, maintaining close contact with them by addressing inour supply chain and direct business activities.
throughout the term of their loan, and supporting key barriers to themsympathetically if they experience difficulties.
Our most recent statement, dated March 2018, sets inclusion and out the actions that the Group is taking to ensure It is through this knowledge and understanding of our helping people instances of modern slavery or human trafficking customers, and the market we have proudly served since overcome them.
arenot occurring directly in our businesses as well 1880, that we have been able to develop our approach asindirectly in the supply chains that we use to procure to community investment and ensure that it is aligned Rob Lawson goods and services.
The statement also communicates tothe Groups purpose of helping to put people on Head of Sustainability, the measures we have taken to improve internal apath to a better everyday life.
Provident Financial Group understanding and awareness around modern Our community investment activities are delivered slaveryand human trafficking.
through our Group-wide Social Impact Programme.
The Group is committed to understanding the risks The strategy of this programme is to invest in activities posed by modern slavery and human trafficking, and initiatives which seek to address some of the key and ensuring that they dont exist in our businesses factors which, on their own or acting together, can orsupply chains.
reduce someones likelihood to be accepted for credit.
These factors include: lack of literacy or numeracy skills: One of our key objectives for 2018 was to engage disabilities and or mental health issues: unemployment witha third-party consultancy to deliver a workshop or under-employment: low levels of educational tocorporate responsibility and procurement personnel attainment: and low, uncertain or fluctuating incomes.
from across the Group to raise awareness and understanding of the changing expectations around The Provident Financial Group Social Impact Programme human rights and modern slavery risks.
This workshop delivers community investment activities under the took place in January 2018 with senior procurement following three work streams: representatives from each operating company in Customer and Vulnerability Working with attendance.
The workshop firstly provided background charitiesand specialist partners to address issues and up-to-date information on the Modern Slavery such as money debt advice, customer vulnerability, Act 2015, ensuring that the representatives had a product accessibility and financial difficulties.
good overall understanding of the purpose of the Education Supporting both children and adults Act and why it was introduced in the UK.
It then onaspects of education, particularly those that encouraged participants to review their own current relateto literacy and numeracy.
procurement practices and assess whether there are any potential risks and opportunities that relate Community Supporting Community Foundations human rights in the Groups supply chains.
It went on and other partners to address the wide range of to highlight case studies of companies where instances social inclusion and social mobility issues that are of modern slavery and human trafficking had been relevant to our customers and the communities identified.
The session also supported a Group-wide wherewe operate.
piece ofwork that was initiated in 2018 to harmonise 2018 community investment figures the due diligence processes and procedures used 1 Cash 1,431,990 bytheGroups operating companies to manage 1 2017: 2,354,863 supplychain-based risks.
2 2 Management 210,759 costs 2017: 227,581 The workshop was very informative and opened 3 Value of 37,829 employee time 2017: 9,552 myeyes to industries and work practices that Total 1,680,578 youwouldnt normally expect to be exposed to 2017: 2,591,996 risks associated with modern slavery.
After the event, a reassessment of our supply chain was necessary to highlight those businesses that posed the greatest potential risk from a modern slavery and human trafficking perspective.
Steven Schools Head of Procurement, Consumer Credit Division 3 81 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report The operating companies of Provident Financial Group Customer and Vulnerabilities Through our also provide their customers with information on the Social Impact We support the vulnerable customer agenda through Money Advice Service MAS.
MAS, which was initially this dedicated work stream of the Groups Social Impact Programme we set up by the Government, provides free and impartial Programme.
The focus of this work stream is to support work with charities money advice to consumers.
The service is funded by charities and specialist partners to address issues and specialist a charge levied on the financial services industry and such as money debt advice, customer vulnerability collected by the FCA.
partners to address andfinancial difficulties.
issues such as We also provide funding and support to a wide range The Group has a long history of supporting a wide money debt ofintermediary organisations in the money advice sector range of organisations within the free and voluntary to build its capacity and contribute to the provision of advice, customer money advice sector.
This approach recognises that advice to consumers who find themselves in financial vulnerability, our customers and the other consumers within our difficulty.
In 2018, the Group supported the following product market seek advice and support from a wide variety of intermediary organisations: accessibility organisations when they encounter financial difficulties.
The Money Advice Trust Partnering with the and financial These include organisations within the free and Money Advice Trust we have completed a programme difficulties.
voluntary money advice sector and fee-charging debt of training to improve the knowledge, skills and management companies.
They will also seek advice and Annette Saunders confidence of our colleagues when working with guidance from debt advice forums.
Our approach also Customer and customers who may have a mental health problem recognises that the interventions our customers require Vulnerabilities Lead, ora wider vulnerable situation.
to help address any financial difficulties vary from the Provident Financial Group IncomeMax Vanquis Bank continues to work provision of generic money saving tips to more tailored withIncomeMax, through an innovative partnership and intensive advice.
We currently provide funding that began in 2015, to support customers of the to the following national money advice organisations Bank thatare experiencing financial difficulties.
and signpost customers to them via our operating IncomeMax is a Community Interest Company that companies customer-facing websites: helps people to maximise their household income National Debtline National Debtline, which is part of byproviding them with independent personal welfare the Money Advice Trust, offers free and impartial debt advice that helps them take control of their finances.
advice over the telephone and online to help clients The advice provided by IncomeMax helps households manage their money with confidence.
Our donations to increase their income, reduce household bills help support National Debtline to advise more than and get the debt advice they need.
Vanquis Banks 170,000 clients per annum via telephone and webchat.
dedicated One Call team, which offers additional Our funding also contributes to supporting over one support through financial capability and capacity million visits per annum made to the National Debtline assistance, puts customers in touch with IncomeMax.
website to access web guides, fact sheets and sample IncomeMax then provides independent personal letters via the My Money Steps tool.
money advice to help customers take control of StepChange Debt Charity Christians their finances.
AgainstPoverty While our operating companies are working to collect outstanding debt from customers, sometimes they enter debt agreement plans with leading debt charities such as StepChange Debt Charity a similar arrangement is in place with Christians Against Poverty CAP.
We continue to accept the offers of payment when customers have sought advice from these charities and a financial assessment has been made.
Through the Fairshare agreements we have with these charities, we contribute almost 12% of any payment we receive from a customer who has entered a debt agreement plan tothe charities.
The Fairshare contributions mean our subsidiary businesses pay for the debt advice received by the customer.
They provide the charities with financial support so that they can continue to provide free, independent advice and operate independently of taxpayer support.
During 2018, the Groups operating companies paid 864,107 2017: 665,783 to StepChange Debt Charity and Christians Against Poverty in Fairshare contributions.
82 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Education Leading Children into Literacy Our work on the education theme began in 2017 when we created a communal book space at our Bradford head office, allowing staff to read and share books.
Deciding that education should become one of the three pillars of our Social Impact Programme was a straightforward decision, as we know that enabling the children and adults in the communities we serve to improve their levels of educational attainment and develop new skills plays an important role in enabling them to have a better quality of life.
Throughout 2018, we worked with four key partners.
These were the national charities the National Literacy Trust and National Numeracy and two smaller organisations: Leading Children and SchoolHome-Support.
We are also a founding member and trustee of the Social Mobility Business Partnership.
National Numeracy Day 2018 From getting the best supermarket deals to managing family finances, or understanding salaries to gaining a Leading Children is a Bradford-based learning consultancy which has promotion at work we all use numbers in our everyday developed a bespoke literacy programme for us to offer to 12 schools local lives.
Despite this, one in two working-age people have to our head office in Bradford.
We decided to develop this programme after numeracy levels associated with primary schoolchildren.
becoming aware that only 70% of schoolchildren in Bradford achieve the So when we were approached by National Numeracy expected standards in reading, and even less so for writing.
There are a wide to get involved in the first ever National Numeracy Day variety of reasons why this can occur it could be due to a learning disability, in May 2018, we were delighted to sign up as one of or poor teaching, but it could also be because parents cant afford to buy their the Lead Supporters because, as a financial services children books, or perhaps they cant help their child with their homework business, ensuring that our customers and staff, and because they dont have good literacy standards themselves.
Having difficulty the children and adults in the communities we serve when it comes to reading and writing can lead to low self-esteem and selfunderstand the basics of numeracy is fundamental worth, closed mind-sets, disengagement and lower academic achievements tobeing a responsible financial services company.
Our purpose is to put people on a path to a better Through our work with Leading Children, we provide teachers with tools which everyday life, and key to this is ensuring our customers combine the concepts of reciprocal reading and growth-mindset which helps understand the terms and conditions of the products to change their classroom culture into one that not only allows the children they are purchasing from us.
In order to do this, they to learn the strategies they need to become good readers and increase require basic numeracy skills.
It is also vital that our staff their confidence and knowledge, but also enables them to develop a love have the right level of numerical knowledge and skill to forreading for pleasure.
support our customers throughout their journey with us.
Through the Leading Children literacy programme we: The day was a success and we achieved an excellent Worked with seven primary schools and five secondary schools in Bradford.
response from staff with 695 registering to use the Positively impacted almost 1,000 primary school students in reading, National Numeracys online assessment tool as well writing, mindset andwellbeing.
Provided training to 27 primary school teachers.
We are in the process of establishing a three-year As a result of the programme, all seven primary schools have taken on board partnership with National Numeracy, with whom we are the programme as their principle method of teaching comprehension and developing a programme that will help our colleagues, supporting reading in children from Y2 and above.
Out of the five secondary and those who live in the local communities where we schools who took part, three achieved an average of 61% on theirreading operate, to increase their confidence with numbers.
scores as a result of the programme whilst the other two achieved anincreaseof 50% on their reading ages.
83 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report In 2018, the Group, along with the other regional SMBP Were supporting Our partnership with the National partners Burberry, Yorkshire Water, the Ministry of both children Justice, BT Plusnet, Aviva and ITV, hosted 53 students Literacy Trust and adults in inthe Work Insight and Skills week held in the Leeds and Developing a partnership with National Literacy their literacy Bradford cluster, with the resilience training provided Trust was a natural progression for us having and numeracy bythe Leeds Rhinos rugby league football club.
previously been involved in a small scheme which saw education because In addition to enabling these students to access employee volunteers providing one-to-one reading they are vital business, legal and finance work experience during support to children in a number of primary schools skills to securing their week with the SMBP partners, they were also in Bradford.
Our partnership with National Literacy able to access support through the programmes abrighter Trust continued to progress in 2018.
We funded the bespoke coaching platform which was launched in financialfuture.
Trusts Words for Work programme in two Bradford 2018.
Through this platform, participating students secondary schools.
This programme aims to increase Cathy Prior can draw on advice on writing impactful CVs and aspirations for disadvantaged young people, and give EducationLead, personal statements, completing university and job them access to the communication and employability Provident FinancialGroup application forms and preparing for job interviews.
skills they may need for their futures.
This insight is As well as coaching guidance, students can opt to provided by inviting students into local businesses receive information and signposting to employment and engaging with business volunteers.
We also opportunities and recruitment events at our funded two Early Words Together programmes which partner organisations.
supports parents and carers from disadvantaged communities by giving them the tools they need to Supporting the Bradford LiteratureFestival support their childrens early communication and literacy development.
In the 140 years since the Group was founded in Bradford, the city has transformed.
It is now an incredibly We have recently established a three-year multicultural city with a strong industrial and cultural partnership with the trust which began in January heritage.
But it is not without its challenges.
The city 2019, and will deliver activities with a focus on is below the national average for primary education all stages of a persons literacy development.
reading skills and lags behind Leeds and other northern The activities include the Early Words Together cities in school league tables.
programme, and Words for Work, which will be As one of Bradfords largest employers, we want to extended to include a primary school programme inspire young people living in deprived areas to raise and a post-16 programme.
In addition to this, we their aspirations.
We want to help them leave school will also pilot a new programme in Bradford called with the skills they need and ensure a talent pipeline School Gates Volunteers, which will aim to support with the skills we need to drive both our business and schools in engaging hard-to-reach parents through the local economy forward.
We believe our partnership  support network.
with Bradford Literature Festival, alongside other local organisations, allows us to do this.
The Social Mobility Business Partnership We are now in our third year of support for the Festival The Group has been a supporter of, and involved in, the and have pledged to continue that support until 2020.
Social Mobility Business Partnership SMBP since 2014.
Key figures from the 2018 Bradford Literature SMBP is a registered charity, of which the Group is a Festival include: founding member and trustee, which delivers activities The 2018 Festival successfully delivered 467 events across 16 clusters in Birmingham, Brighton, Bristol, across 10 days of activity.
Glasgow, Leeds and Bradford, London, Manchester, The 335 public, and 132 schools events of the 2018 Norwich and Reading.
Festival, attracted an audience of 70,349: a 40% The SMBP works with Year 12 state school students increase on the 2017 audience of 50,158. from low income backgrounds to enable them to access 52% of tickets to BLF 2018 were given away, or sold business, with a focus on showcasing how commercial at discounted rates as part of the Festivals ethical departments work with their legal and finance teams pricing policy.
to deliver their business strategies.
Through the programme, students attend a Work Insight and Skills The BLF Schools Programme more than doubled week, spending a day at four different businesses inscale, growing to 30,676 attendees.
and a fifth day at a professional sports club where Audience diversity increased by 2% to 51% they learn about the psychology of resilience and BAME, with61% of audiences reporting gross goalachievement models.
householdincomes of less than 40,000 annually.
Audience geographic split was 1% international, 13%national, 33% regional and 53% local.
84 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued The Festival delivered a new Early Years Programme, Tackling barriers to education funded by the Bradford Opportunity Area, expanded City Park activity, and launched the Young Peoples with School-Home Support programme, funded by the EsmeFairbairn Foundation.
The 2018 Festival also saw the launch of the Culture Sector Industry Day to be significantly developed forBLF 2019.
The Festival attained a Net Promoter Score of 9.26, when audiences were asked how likely they would beto recommend the Festival to a friend, family member or colleague, with 10 being extremely likelyand 1 not at all likely.
Supporting small community partners We continue to develop partnerships with Community Foundations as an effective way of disbursing our funding, allowing us to leverage the expertise that theyoffer, including their due diligence support.
It means that we can also harness their local knowledge.
As Community Foundations are rooted in the communities they serve, they have unrivalled insight intothe specific issues that those communities School-Home Support SHS is a charity that provides personalised support are dealing with, as well as the small charities that tochildren and families to tackle the underlying barriers to successful are helping to tackle them effectively.
This means education and improve the life chances of children.
Partnering with schools, that we canchannel our funding to the areas where local authorities and communities, SHS looks beyond the classroom to itwillhavethe greatest impact.
understand and tackle the issues affecting childrens learning, such as We currently have partnerships with: poverty, inadequate housing and mental ill health.
The organisation uses Leeds Community Foundation early intervention to address the root causes of low attendance and poor behaviour, to ensure that children are in school, ready to learn.
London Community Foundation The biggest influence on a childs life is their experiences at home.
Hampshire & Isle of Wight Community Foundation SHS employs expert practitioners to work with families on addressing Kent Community Foundation awiderange of complex issues, building their engagement and resilience Community Foundation In Wales so that they can resolve future issues independently.
Without this support, In 2018, grants totalling 70,511 were awarded children are much less likely to achieve their best potential.
Working closely with our partner school in Bradford, One In A Million, weprovided funding for an SHS practitioner to support a number of young people and their families.
From January to December 2018, the practitioner We partner with Community Foundations supported 32 individuals on issues such as school attendance, poor housing aroundthe UK to support a range of small and mental health.
As a result of these interventions, more than half of community organisations to address the social the young people engaged in the programme saw their school attendance inclusion and social mobility issues that are improve.
In addition, the practitioner was able to use funding from the SHS relevantto our customers andthe communities Welfare Fund to provide essential items to eight of the families worked with.
This included purchasing school uniforms, emergency food and bedding.
The contribution that the SHS practitioner makes not only to the Sharon Orr students at OneInAMillions school attendance, but also to their quality Local Community Lead, Provident Financial Group of life experience, cannot be underestimated or understated.
Formany young people and their families, she is an invaluable advocate and abridge toaccessing a meaningful educational experience.
Jaz Qadri Deputy Head, One In A Million 85 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report #GiveBradford update Supported by funding from Provident Financial Our partnership with Provident Financial Group means that we Group, Leeds Community Foundation launched the canuse our local knowledge and expertise to help them address the #GiveBradford campaign in 2017.
The aim of the campaign social inclusion issues that are important to them.
We help them was to develop a giving platform for corporates and toeffectively target their investment to the needs of the communities individuals across the district, and to leverage existing funding streams and investments already made.
Itsessential for businesses to support the small Initial development of the platform was informed by charity sector, and Provident does this really well.
Their ongoing consultation with key stakeholders in the city and this commitment to smallcharities isessential.
process of collaboration continues through the campaigns steering group which comprises representation from The Groups employees also have the opportunity to businesses, such as Provident Financial Group and beinvolvedinthe grant-making process, which means they can other key organisations from across the city, including make a valuablecontribution to deciding which organisations Bradford Council.
Funding from the Group has also been used to underwrite the continued growth of The Bradford 100 Club which was launched in 2017.
This has continued to attract new Matthew Roberts members from Bradfords business community who Head of Development, Leeds Community Foundation recognise the opportunity to support Bradfords local communities.
A number of events have brought members together to network and hear first-hand feedback from organisations funded through the community foundation.
As a result of the development of the #GiveBradford campaign, Leeds Community Foundation has been able to: Distribute 1.2 million in grants across the Bradford District.
Identify 2.3 million in trust transfers.
Set up a new 375,000 Holiday Hunger fund with investment from the BG Campbell Trust, Morrisons andthe Big Lottery.
86 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Adding value to United Estates Colleague involvement Its important ofWythenshawe UEW that we enable Our colleagues have a natural propensity to make our people to apositive impact in the communities we serve in a UEW was established in 1996 by a group of families number of ways, and we continue to support them engage with and local community leaders in Wythenshawe, South todothis through a range of activities and schemes our community Manchester, and is a social enterprise that provides offered as part of our Social Impact Programme.
facilities for local people, including a professional gym, involvement Our aim is to give colleagues the tools and resources recording studio and therapy rooms, and seeks solutions programme.
to contribute to the causes and organisations that to local problems such as anti-social behaviour.
Volunteering mean the most tothem, in the way that they feel When we began our funding partnership with UEW provides them ismost appropriate.
in 2015, we also identified a number of areas where with valuable In Bradford, for example, we work with Participate we could offer added value support.
We therefore development Projects to provide community team challenges for staff enlisted the help of another of our community partners, opportunities, to get involved in.
These offer a number of important Participate Projects, to provide expert and bespoke helping them benefits in terms of behavioural and personal skills support for UEW, to help them to secure a more develop skills development.
Significantly, during a period where sustainable future.
The Participate team are experts and build teams there has been considerable restructuring across the inworking to address the specific needs of small while supporting business, the team challenges have been an effective charities, and following a strategic review and needs vehicle for bringing new teams and colleagues together initiatives close analysis, a number of areas were highlighted at UEW in an external environment, to work collaboratively, totheir hearts.
This has included learnabout each other and deliver something valuable key areas such as the organisations strategic aims, Rob Lawson for the local community.
As a result, in 2018, we saw governance and fundraising priorities.
Head of Sustainability, asignificant increase in the number of employees As a result of this work, a range of positive outcomes Provident Financial Group takingpart in the team community challenges, with have been achieved, including the securing of additional 2,191hours volunteered during working time.
Of particular importance has been the support And by using the expertise and local knowledge of provided to UEW to secure funding to enable it to Participate Projects, we can ensure that our community recruit a Development Manager within the organisation.
team challenges are tackling the issues where volunteers This role is expected to provide much needed resource, really can make a difference, based on the specific needs working with the CEO to drive the organisations of the community organisation itself.
It means that continued development and success.
colleagues can truly feel they have added value within the community by working with the rest of their team I am immensely grateful to Provident Financial todeliver something that is absolutely needed.
Group and Participate Projects for the support that Employer-led volunteering programmes are also has been provided to UEW.
For example, staff can volunteer to take part and greatly contributed to our ongoing success and in grant panels to help decide how to allocate funding progress in the last three years all very much down via our community foundation partnerships.
In 2018, to the experience, enthusiasm, unique delivery and we saw employees taking part in panels with the Kent informed support and advice.
Community Foundation, Leeds Community Foundation and Hampshire & Isle of Wight Community Foundation.
Our reciprocal reading scheme is growing with the Greg Davis ongoing development of our literacy programme.
Founder and CEO, United Estates of Wythenshawe Employees are given specialist training and can use theirpaid volunteering allowance to support childrens reading development as part of a structured programme.
Additionally, we encourage our colleagues to volunteer their time and skills for the community organisations oftheir choosing.
They can also claim a volunteering grant for that organisation.
Our matched funding programme continues its popularity and in 2018 we matched employees fundraising efforts by 30,389.
87 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Engaging the investment community in CR Given that our CR programme is such an integral part of our investment indices and registers which focus onsustainability purposeand strategic vision, we are keen to share information matters.
This enables us to share with the investment community onour sustainability performance, alongside our financial information on material issues such as responsible lending, performance, with the investment community so investors, analysts customersatisfaction and corporate governance, aswell and other key stakeholders can see how we have, in delivering asonabroader spectrum ofissues such as climate change, our business activities, balanced profit and purpose.
We do this equality, diversity and inclusion, andhuman rights.
by responding directly to requests for information from individual In 2018, the Group engaged with: investors and analysts, and by maintaining a presence on specific CDP We made our annual submission FTSE4Good Following the annual review ISS-oekom Also in September 2018, ofclimate change data to CDP formerly the undertaken by the FTSE4Good Advisory Provident Financial Group received a Carbon Disclosure Project in August 2018.
Committee, we were once again included CPrime corporate rating by ISS-oekom, CDP requests information on the risks and in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Our overall one of the worlds leading rating agencies on opportunities of climate change from the score was 4.5 out of 5.
The FTSE4Good is an sustainable investments.
Through corporate worlds largest companies, on behalf of over extra-financial market index, which measures rating process, our management of key 650 institutional investor signatories with the performances of over 800 companies environmental, social and governance ESG a combined US$87 trillion of assets under against a range of environmental, social and issues was analysed on the basis of up to management.
Through the CDP submission, governance ESG criteria.
To be included in the 100rating criteria.
This process was supported we can inform investors of any material FTSE4Good Indexes companies must: support by the gathering of information through  risks and opportunities, human rights, have good relationships with the media and other public sources, conducting and how we manage them.
Our 2018 various stakeholders, be making progress to interviews with stakeholders, and collecting CDP submission was rated CAwareness become environmentally sustainable, ensure information on publicly available company demonstrating that we have knowledge good labour standards in their own company policies and practices.
Companies qualify of our impacts on climate change and of and in companies that supply them, and seek as Prime when achieving or exceeding climate change issues more broadly.
Our CDP to address bribery and corruption.
the minimum sustainability performance submissions are published at www.
This means that Prime companies rank among the leaders in their industry in terms of their sustainability performance.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices S&P Forum ETHIBEL In September 2018, we Dow Jones Indices, one of the worlds leading were reconfirmed as constituent of the Ethibel index providers, and RobecoSAM, the Sustainability Index ESI Excellence Europe investment specialist that focuses exclusively index.
The ESI Excellence Europe index is an on Sustainability Investing, announced the investment register of companies that show results of the annual Dow Jones Sustainability the best CR performance.
Inclusion is based Indices DJSI review in September 2018.
In the Maintaining our place in the on our performance against a wide range announcement, Provident Financial plc was of CR parameters and consultation with  indices during notified of its continued inclusion in both Dow relevant stakeholders.
2018 was aparticularly encouraging Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI World achievement for Provident Financial and the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index Group.
We place a very important DJSI Europe.
Our DJSI score was 62 which is emphasis on corporate responsibility considerably higher than the sector average of 32 for the Diversified Financial Services and and our purpose, and continuing Capital Markets industry sector.
The DJSI World toberepresented in these indices helps represents the top 10% of the largest 2,500 toshow that we put our customers first companies in the S&P Global BMI, and the DJSI inour thinking and actions, aswell Europe selects the top 20% of the largest 600 astake account of the wider CR European companies in the S&P Global BMI impactsthat our business has.
based on long-term economic, environmental and social criteria.
Malcolm Le May Chief Executive Officer 88 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Our approach to environmental Provident Environmental management management Financial Group at Provident Financial Group is committed Like any other company, Provident Financial Groups A key tool in helping us to manage our environmental tominimising business activities impact the environment, whether impacts is our Environmental Management System its impact on these occur directly as a result of the energy that EMS.
This helps us to identify, assess, and reduce isusedby our offices and by our people when they the environment key environmental risks and impacts: set and deliver travel, or indirectly through the activities in our and acting to against environmental targets: and ensure our legal supply chains.
We are committed to minimising our address specific compliance.
Our EMS is independently audited each environmental impacts, in particular to reducing the environmental year.
The scope of these audits covers the business greenhouse gas emissions associated with our business issues such as activities of our Bradford-based head office, a small activities, thereby lessening our contribution to issues climate change.
sample oftheConsumer Credit Divisions branch such as climate change.
offices, and Vanquis Banks businesspremises Rob Lawson inLondon and Chatham, Kent.
Action on climate change Head of Sustainability, The EMS at our Bradford head office has been Provident FinancialGroup We recognise the importance of acting on climate certified to the international management standard change which poses a significant risk to the global ISO 14001:2015 since 2011.
And following the economy and to society in general.
In response, independent audit that was carried out in 2018, wehavedeveloped a low carbon strategy to help we successfully extended thisISO 14001: 2015 usreducethe carbon intensity of the Groups certification to cover all of Vanquis Banks other operations, products and services.
operations in London and Chatham.
The Groups low carbon strategy aims to: Demonstrate commitment and leadership inworking towards achieving significant reductions inGHG emissions.
Continue to measure and benchmark our energyusage and carbon dioxide performance toensure thatwe adhere to best practice incarbonmanagement and reduction.
Establish challenging targets to enable us to be more efficient with the energy we consume and to reduce the emission of GHGs that arise from our operations, products and services.
Influence our customers, employees and suppliersto act on climate change and reduce theircarbon footprints.
Engage positively and proactively with stakeholders to ensure that the voice of business is heard in the debate on climate change.
89 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report GHG emissions Carbon offsetting During 2018, our scope 1 and 2 emissions and 3,852 We continue to offset all our operational carbon associated scope 3 emissions accounted for 3,852 footprint.
To offset these emissions, we finance 2017: 5,040 tonnes of CO2e.
We have also voluntarily reported some renewable energy projects around the world which help Total scope 1 and 2 of our scope 3 emissions: in particular, indirect well-toto mitigate the effects our operations have on climate andassociated scope3 tank emissions from the extraction, refining, distribution, change.
In 2019, we offset the GHG emissions associated emissions in tonnes storage, transport and retail of the fuel we use.
with the Groups 2018 total operational footprint.
ofCO e 2 This amounted to 12,409 metric tonnes of carbon GHG emissions in 2018 tonnes of CO e 2 dioxide equivalent CO2e.
1 Direct CO2 scope1 1,803 1 CO2eemissions 2017: 1,846 3 Case study 2 Indirect CO2 scope2 1,637 1.78 CO2e emissions 2017: 2,176 We offset our 2018 GHG emissions through the 2017: 2.18 3 Associated indirect 412 purchase of Gold Standard-certified carbon credits CO2 scope3 CO2e Scope 1 and 2 and 2017: 1,018 in the Yuntdag wind power project in Northwest emissions associated scope3 2 Turkey.
This project comprises 17 turbines which Total 3,852 emissions intensity ratio 2017: 5,040 kg ofCO2e 1,000 each generate 2.5 megawatts of electricity per ofreceivables Scope1 and 2 and 1.78 annum which, taken together, equates to clean associated scope3 2017: 2.18 and sustainable electricity for more than 80,000 emissions intensity ratio households.
The revenues generated by the kgof CO e 1,000 of 2 carbon credits we purchase help to finance the receivables 12,409 ongoing running of this project which produces Our emissions are reported in accordance with WRI WBCSD Greenhouse electricity thatwould otherwise have come from Gas GHG Protocol.
We use an operational control consolidation approach tonnes to account for our GHG emissions and use emission conversion factors the combustion of fossil fuels.
The project therefore from Defra DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013. reduces the amount of emissions going into the Our GHG emissions are calculated using energy use data accessed via of CO2e meters and energy suppliers, and from records of fuel use.
These are atmosphere which contribute to climate change.
the emissions the Group is required to disclose in order to meet the overall operational requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors The project also generates a number of economic carbon footprint Reports Regulations 2013. benefits as it actively supports the development 2017:10,697 We have restated our carbon footprint for 2017 due to the availability ofsustainable industries in Turkey, which stimulates ofimproved electricity and gas data at our Bradford head office.
the market for renewable energy, and makes The business travel of our employees continues to make use ofalocal workforce which benefits the local a significant contribution to the Groups overall carbon community around the power plant.
During 2018, the business-related journeys made by employees accounted for 8,476 tonnes of CO e. 2 Business travel GHG emissions tonnesofCO e 2 1 Air travel 217 1 3 2 Rail travel 86 3 Car travel own vehicles 6,524 2 5 4 Company car fuel use 1,649 5 Extracting, refining and 2,112 4 transportation of raw fuelassociated with businesstravel Total 10,588 We also monitor the GHG emissions associated with the waste that is generated and handled by the Group and the water that is used in our offices.
The GHG emissions associated with these aspects of the Groups activities amounted to 30 tonnes of CO e. 2 90 Provident F inancial plc Annual report and Fin ancial Statements 2018 Gover finance Governance We have made good progress in ensuring greater Board effectiveness, clarity of Group purpose and better interaction between the Group and its Divisions.
We remain committed to the highest standards ofcorporate governance throughout our business as we strive to deliver long-term, .
Chairmans introduction 91 Composition, induction andevaluation: Leadership and purpose: Composition 114 Our Board 94 Induction for new directors 115 Activities of the Board duringtheyear 98 Board evaluation 117 Ensuring effective engagement Nomination Committee report 120 withstakeholders 101 Audit, risk and internal control Shareholder and Audit Committee and auditor 125 Investor Relations 105 Group Risk Committee 132 Division of responsibilities 109 Directors report 137
