40 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Good4Business Business Governance & Ethics world and also that we are living up to environments in China, India, the US We look at our business our CANDO and G4B values in every and elsewhere to eradicate the use through our G4B lenses of operation.
During the year, we initiated a of animals in the testing of cosmetics Business Governance & Ethics, comprehensive risk assessment exercise, globally.
During the year, we chose not Environment, Sourcing and working with external advisors, to ensure to trade in any countries or product our continuing compliance and we will be categories or via distribution retail Community & Charity to find concluding this and refreshing training channels where our products might be ways of delivering profitable across the Group over the coming tested on animals by the authorities.
growth that do not come at the months.
To safeguard our consumers, we expense of the environment or recognise the need for reliable, Consumer safety local people but which benefit fully validated non-animal testing We put safety first and will never all of our stakeholders.
methods and we support Fund for the compromise on it.
The sectors in Replacement of Animals in Medical which we operate are generally highly The Good4Business Committee is one Experiments FRAME.
We help to fund regulated and we ensure that we are of the principal standing committees of their independent research activities fully compliant at all times with local and the Board.
The Committee is chaired by and support their campaign for better international regulations.
But, where independent Non-executive Director John science and the advancement of nonwe feel that it is appropriate, we will Nicolson and is responsible for agreeing animal methods, which we believe apply our own standards and protocols and overseeing a programme of specific will benefit the whole cosmetics and in excess of local requirements to G4B activities for each financial year and household products industry.
ensure consumer safety or to respond for ensuring that our G4B principles are toconsumer concerns.
reflected in our Group strategy and that Environment the Groups social, environmental and To that end, we regularly review the We care about how our business may economic activities are aligned.
ingredients used within our range impact the environment, from the way we of global products.
Our Materials of manufacture products and bring them to Business Governance &Ethics Concern Committee monitors the market to the way in which consumers use materials that we use in the light of Business conduct them.
We are focused on a programme of evolving scientific evidence, regulatory constant improvement within our global Our Good4Business ethics and opinion and the views and concerns operations and we are committed to principles apply to all our Group global of our consumers.
Where the science yearly reductions in our water and carbon operations and to every Board member supports the safe use of an ingredient consumption and waste generated.
We encourage and but there are consumer concerns, we motivate everyone in the business to take this into consideration and aim to Water use these principles in their day-to-day find alternative ingredients.
Water conservation has been a key G4B focus for some years, reducing Against animal testing We operate in a business environment consumption by millions of tonnes We are against all forms of animal testing that is carefully created to be open, of water.
As part of our continuous in the development and marketing of honest and fair with our suppliers, improvement programme, all factories our products.
We do not test ingredients customers and business partners.
are required to have a plan to reduce on animals.
We do not commission or We show respect and integrity in our water consumption.
Typically, this is request any of our suppliers or associates dealings with all our stakeholders in the achieved through focused improvements to test ingredients or our products on active pursuit of our G4B values.
in operating methods and targeted animals.
We do not tolerate corruption in It has been some years since animal any part of PZ Cussons.
We regularly Examples include our Ikorodu factories testing on cosmetic products and review our activities across the Group where, despite growing production ingredients in EU countries was to ensure that we are fully compliant volumes, the local team has reduced water prohibited.
We fully support the stance with the UK Bribery Act, the corporate consumption by 15% during the year, taken by governing bodies, such as the criminal offence of failing to prevent European Union, and the changes being the facilitation of tax evasion and made in this direction in other regulatory other relevant legislation around the
