PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 43 Good4Business Community & Charity Nigeria, all of our African sites are now The Foundation funds and implements Community & Charity accredited to the internationally recognised projects that promote the well-being of Showing our Inner Hearts Occupational Health & Safety Management local people, are sustainable and produce Our focus on Community & Charity System OHSAS18001.
This process will be innovative solutions that can be easily seeks to help and support the local completed during the FY20 financial year replicated throughout the country.
communities that surround our factories so that all Group sites will be accredited to and offices.
Our activities centre on OHSAS18001 by 31May 2020.
We employ Projects undertaken during the year enhancing lives and securing futures for a team of Health & Safety specialists included: families, with an emphasis on education, to develop, monitor and implement Construction of a block of classrooms well-being and hygiene.
best practices and we empower and at Goron-Dutse Womens Centre, encourage our employees to identify Kano State: Our Inner Hearts programme was born andreport hazards or near misses.
A hostel project at the Leprosy in Nigeria and has been adopted by all Rehabilitation Centre, Oji, Enugu our global operations.
The programme We regard Health & Safety as a State: and encourages our employees to become fundamental business responsibility and Establishment of a mobile maths and involved with initiatives that they care the Groups Health & Safety performance science project in Katsina State about, giving them support and a and its regulatory compliance are framework to benefit local communities regularly scrutinised by both the Groups Strategic fundraising partner and charities.
Executive Committee and the Board.
A long-time charity partner in the UK is Saving lives through handwashing the Seashell Trust, which is located close Reporting our progress to our Manchester headquarters.
initiatives The business tracks and reports on key In October 2017 our Carex brand once Health & Safety performance indicators, Throughout the year, many of our again joined forces with United Purpose, enabling us to review our progress, employees have been involved with our international development charity identify any issues and trends and fundraising activities, such as sponsored partner, to support Global Handwashing develop strategies to address areas runs, bike rides and cake bake sales, to Day.
This annual event, which was started for improvement.
We follow industry raise money for Seashell Trust students by the United Nations nearly ten years practice and focus on the All Accident who have severe learning and physical ago, touches over 200 million people Incident Frequency Rate AAIFR, which challenges.
and promotes a simple and life-saving includes: all reportable incidents, all Lost message that handwashing with soap Time Incidents and all First Aid Cases, In addition to direct funding, we have saves lives.
In Nigeria, 200 schools i. e. incidents that result in the employee also been involved on a strategic level nationwide were directly engaged, with being given first aid.
We also continue to to help the charity to secure funding students inspired and empowered to track and report the Lost Time Incident for their Transforming Lives Appeal.
"become ""Hygiene Heroes"", trained to Frequency Rate LTIFR."
Lost Time The appeal seeks to secure donations encourage their schoolmates, families Incidents include all Health & Safety for 17 new childrens homes and the and communities to make handwashing occurrences that result in one or more 45m needed for the new Royal School a habit.
days absence from work excluding the Manchester special school campus day of the incident.
Ten year anniversary The frequency rate for both measures In Nigeria, the PZ Cussons Nigeria Finally, we have been privileged to is calculated as the number of incidents Foundation celebrated its ten year sponsor a series of drama workshops, per 200,000 hours worked.
PZ Cussons has been run by the fantastic TripleC organisation, in Nigeria for more than a hundred a collective of disabled and non-disabled years and has always recognised its creatives including Cherylee Houston of responsibilities as one of Nigerias Coronation Street, helping to prepare leading companies and employers.
Seashell Trust students for the world TheFoundation was established in 2007 ofwork and for paid employment after to assist the development of better they graduate.
transport links and roads, fresh water, sanitation, health and education and to improve the quality of life of its citizens.
