PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 41 Water Absolute reduction year on year 7% Good4Business Carbon Absolute reduction Environment year on year 3% Waste Absolute reduction year on year 21% delivered in part by recycling good quality reductions resulted from a range of any remaining plastic we use will be water from the outlet of the recently initiatives including the reformulation recyclable, reusable or compostable: constructed effluent treatment plant.
of detergents to recipes that are less and energy intensive to manufacture.
30% of our plastic packaging will come Our Tangerang factory has reduced from recycled materials.
water use per tonne by 11% by Over and above the carbon reduction developing a detailed map of water activities described and our 3% Our focus on plastic is part of our G4B consumption on the site.
Our Ilupeju reduction year on year, we have also environmental policy.
We are committed factory site in Nigeria achieved an introduced more environmentally friendly to playing our part in conserving the impressive 73% reduction in water refrigerant gases in our market-leading planets precious natural resources, consumption year on year with savings Haier Thermocool products in Nigeria.
safeguarding the environment for future achieved both on the manufacturing Seepage 18 for further details.
generations and limiting any negative lines and in the staff kitchens.
impact on the lives of our consumers Waste andcommunities.
Carbon We have built on the impressive Recycling and reuse will be important We have continued to focus on our achievements of recent years by elements of our programme but carbon footprint to identify areas delivering a further 21% reduction in reducing the amount of plastic we use for improvement.
This year we have solid and liquid waste produced during will be our priority.
As such, our 25 by achieved an absolute carbon reduction the year.
Our local factory team at HPZ 25 campaign builds on the significant of 3%, attaining our target for the year.
in Nigeria played a significant role by work that we have undertaken in recent reducing landfill waste by 77%.
This was years to reduce plastic in our products.
Carbon emission reduction activities achieved by moving from regular waste Through light-weighting bottles and have been undertaken at all sites.
collections to a Kanban approach, which introducing refills, over recent years we InThailand, we increased the running increased visibility and improvements have reduced plastic in our business by speed of the soap finishing lines in the method of measurement.
The hundreds of tonnes across Europe and significantly, enabling production factory's continuous improvement Asia.
We are now redoubling our efforts to be consolidated from 6 lines to 4, programme led to further reductions to reduce our use of plastic by identifying contributing to a reduction in energy and the factory has now engaged a more projects to optimise structural and andcarbon per tonne by 9%.
company to recycle defective parts material design to eliminate unnecessary rather than sending them to landfill.
packaging materials, as well as looking at At our Indonesian factory at Tangerang more innovative ways of delivering our and our factory in Aba in Nigeria, Carbon Disclosure Project CDP products without relying on plastic.
increased efficiencies in our soap The Group has been a participant in driers have driven reductions in energy the Carbon Disclosure Project for As such, our focus on reducing plastic in consumption, with the Indonesian over ten years, currently reporting our business is a good example of our team achieving a reduction in energy our Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
The CDP G4B approach in practice.
Our 25 by per tonne of 13% year on year.
The is an internationally renowned not- 25 Plastic Promise campaign will create improvements were achieved through for-profit organisation that provides sustainable value for all our stakeholders collaboration and knowledge transfer an independent global system for by aligning: across the sites, with local teams finding companies and cities to measure, and sharing ways to reduce the amount respect for the environment: disclose, manage and share vital of steam required in the manufacturing consumer benefit delivered through environmental information.
innovative design: and margin improvement through Plastic Our Ikorodu factories in Nigeria were packaging cost reduction.
On 1 June 2018, PZ Cussons launched able to reduce energy by 11% during a global25 by 25 Plastic Promise the year despite there being a 3% We are committed to reporting on our campaign to reduce plastic in our increase in production tonnage.
This progress, regularly and transparently, business.
By 2025: was accomplished by involving all including within our annual G4B report.
we will reduce the amount of plastic members of the supply chain teams, with we use by 25%: strong contributions from engineering, technical and production teams.
