Strategic report TRADING ENVIRONMENT OUR ADDRESSABLE MARKET SIGNIFICANT GROWTH POTENTIAL By focusing on our core Services and products offerings and target markets, Defence, security and critical infrastructure we have an addressable market of over 8bn per Size bn pa annum.
Growth in QinetiQ Growth 2-5% CAGR comes from increasing Share 1% 280m our share in existing markets and leveraging our strengths into attractive adjacent ones.
UK training International training Size 1bn pa Size bn pa 8bn Growth 1% CAGR Growth 1-3% CAGR per annum minimum Share 5% 55m Share 1% 8m addressable market 1 RDT&E Research & Development 1 UK RDT&E International RDT&E and Test & Evaluation.
2 300m pa via Long Term Partnering 3 Agreement LTPA with UK MOD.
Size 1.5bn pa Size 5.9bn pa 3 A ustralia, Canada, New Zealand, Growth 1% CAGR Growth 4% CAGR France, Germany, Sweden, Saudi Arabia, 2 UAE, Qatar, Turkey included.
USA Share 30% 450m Share 1% 40m $73bn pa excluded.
4 CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate.
Source: Janes Market Forecast, FY18 market sizing USD GBP exchange rate of 0.76, UK MOD.
QinetiQ market share Key based on FY18 revenue.
Current market share Future market potential The UK, US and Australia are our three home countries.
We define home countries as those in which we have our own indigenous industrial capabilities.
UK In the UK, the Modernising Defence Programme MDP is underway to understand the threats the UK faces, optimise how UK MOD works and determine the capabilities required to meet national security priorities.
The UK Governments commitments on overall defence spending await the results of the MDP review, with the initial themes of the review expected to be reported in July 2018.
Secretary of State for Defence, Gavin Williamson, has said that the review will not necessarily be fiscally neutral and he will be aiming for budget increases if the review concludes there is a need for additional personnel and equipment to meet the threats identified.
It is likely that the outcome of the MDP will present opportunities and challenges for us as we are well placed to support our customers in reducing procurement and operational costs as well as risks.
We also support our customers by applying our skills to overcome emerging security threats in the land, sea, air, space and cyberspace environments.
16 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 US The US has by far the largest defence budget globally and is likely to see a top-line budget increase of more than 10% in 2018 to $670.7bn, and then a further 2% increase in 2019.
A core part of QinetiQs The National Defence Strategy published in January 2018 reinforced the need for investment and modernisation in US defence capability.
As part of this, QinetiQ is strategy is to take the well placed to support the advancement of robotic systems which are a key priority products, skills and for future defence capabilities.
In addition to a number of formal Programs of Record, which provide a systematic approach to procurement of capabilities such as robotics, expertise developed there are opportunities for greater robotic systems across the whole of US defence, in its home countries and increasingly in other governmental agencies, such as the Police.
into attractive The requirement to enhance capability also reinforces the need to modernise test and international markets.
evaluation capabilities, which has the potential to create longer-term opportunities for QinetiQ in the US.
During FY18 the US Navy ran a complex ballistic missile trial at the Hebrides range operated and managed by QinetiQ.
Our investment in our core UK T&E capabilities supports our ability to build relationships in the US to help support their ambitious defence plans.
Australia Modernising and enhancing defence capability is a key priority for the Australian Government which is reflected in its spending commitments.
In Australia, defence budgets are expected to grow to 2% of GDP by 2021, three years earlier than the Governments 2013 election pledge.
Defence expenditure is expected to see sustained growth of at least 3% to 4% a year over the remainder of the decade.
QinetiQ has been able to build on its position in this attractive growth market both organically and through the acquisition of RubiKon, which provides specialised integrated logistics support to key programmes in support of Australias defence objectives.
Our strengthening relationship with the Australian Government is reflected in the award of our second T&E facilities operation contract, providing mine warfare engineering facilities and support at HMAS Waterhen.
QinetiQ is well positioned for growth in Australia, supporting defence procurement, research and development, T&E and operational support activities.
Broader international markets A core part of QinetiQs growth strategy is to take the products, skills and expertise developed in its home countries into attractive international markets.
QinetiQs role as a customer friend, providing best advice and support on how to develop indigenous defence and security capabilities is proving to be an attractive proposition in highgrowth markets.
In the Middle East, defence budgets have remained resilient.
QinetiQ is positioned well to help support governments in the region with the development of indigenous defence capabilities.
Our approach, creating in-country presence through partnerships with local companies and governments, allows us to play a key role in the development of the local defence industry.
In Asia Pacific, as in the Middle East, governments are eager to develop their own defence industrial bases.
Singapore, Malaysia and South Korea are all looking to either modernise the capabilities they have or enhance overall capabilities: systems in air, sea and missile defence being areas of key focus within the region.
QinetiQ, building on its experience and credibility in the UK, is well positioned to support these nations to continue to enhance their own capabilities and develop their own defence industrial base.
Where references to international revenues are made within these results, they include non-UK revenues from both EMEA Services and Global Products.
Strategic report | Trading environment QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
