Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR VALUES SUPPORT OUR STRATEGY FOR GROWTH How we do business, in line with our values of integrity, collaboration and performance, underpins our business strategy and ensures we maintain trust with our stakeholders Business ethics doing business the right way We strive to create an environment in which people feel able to speak up and so we provide a number of routes for employees to seek help or raise concerns.
Our people are encouraged to talk to a manager, use our ethics email advice service and our independently-run 24 7 confidential reporting line.
We have provided prompt help and advice in response to all queries received via our ethics email services and all communication through the confidential reporting line is appropriately investigated.
We provide advice and guidance on our ethical standards for employees via our Code of Conduct and our annual business ethics training, which is required for all employees, managers, leaders and our Board.
We have introduced a new Supplier Code of Conduct, which clearly articulates our expectations.
Our Ethics programme is overseen by our Business Ethics Committee, chaired by our Chief Ethics Officer the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel.
We are active participants in the ethics forum hosted by our trade association ADS, where members can share best practice on ethics, human rights and anti-bribery.
Anti-bribery and corruption In line with our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption we have robust anti-bribery policy and procedures in place, overseen by our Chief Ethics Officer, which are regularly reviewed against changing regulations and industry guidance.
Anti-bribery risks are assessed in our business relationships and we use both in-house expertise and third party due diligence providers as part of this process.
Anti-bribery training forms part of our mandatory business ethics training for all employees, and, additionally, we provide face-to-face training for higher risk roles.
Human rights We seek to anticipate, prevent and mitigate potential negative human rights impacts through our policy and processes, which underpin our commitment to responsible business practices.
For example, we address salient human rights issues through our Code of Conduct, trading policy, international business risk management process and export controls process.
We monitor the application of these policies and procedures through our business assurance processes.
We believe that this integrated approach is effective.
As part of our ongoing programme to address modern slavery, we continue to provide training, and review our approach to risk in the supply chain and our new supplier code of conduct will help ensure clarity of requirements on human rights.
Our modern slavery and human trafficking statement is published on our website.
Environmental stewardship and use of resources As part of the overall Health, Safety and Environment Strategy we are working together to deliver for our customers while protecting and sustaining our environment.
By engaging with others, including our customers, we will continue to embed our Adding diversity to Dorsets heathland commitment to stewardship across our Company.
Underpinning our approach is our We have been participating in Back ISO 14001 certification and in the UK we completed our transition to the new from the Brink, a Heritage Lottery standard in June 2017.
Our Environmental Working Group meets quarterly to discuss Funded Conservation project, aiming progress on waste management, energy use, conservation and any environmental to save 20 species from extinction.
The Site of Special Scientific Interest incidents.
We have recently reviewed our Integrated Rural Management Plans on four SSSI at our Hurn site used as a key sites which we manage on behalf of the MOD, to ensure that we are able to vehicle test track is benefitting from manage complex trials on sites which have conservation designations.
We share mowing, scrub clearance and progress with employees using our Global Portal, for example during Environment scrapes, to reverse the process of invading grass, scrub and bracken, as Week in 2017.
We continue to be active members of the MOD-Industry Sustainable well as expanding habitat for species Procurement Working Group, ensuring we are actively contributing to the requiring open ground.
34 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Greenhouse gas emissions and energy management Greenhouse gas emissions Building upon last years success of achieving certification against ISO 50001 for FY18 FY17 FY16 our Energy Management System, the Energy Matters programme continues to deliver 1 Total Scope 1 24,651 21,245 23,691 value across the Company.
We have transitioned to a flexible procurement strategy 2 to ensure the UK business obtains the greatest value from its electricity and gas Total Scope 2 25,678 31,210 36,857 procurement.
We meet regulatory reporting requirements under the Carbon Reduction Total Scope 1 3 Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme in the UK, and our greenhouse emissions are and 2 50,329 52,455 60,548 voluntarily reported under the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Change Programme.
4 Intensity ratio 60 67 80 1 Emissions tCO2e from fuel Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been externally verified by an independent combustion and operation of facilities third party, against the ISO 14064-3 standard.
The verification statement can be 2 E missions tCO2e from found on our website.
The FY18 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions have reduced by 4% purchased electricity 3 E missions tCO2e 2,126 tCO e against the FY17 reported emissions, resulting in a 24% 15,632 tCO e 2 2 4 tCO2e per m of revenue reduction to date against the FY14 baseline year our first year of GHG reporting for the Group.
Our emissions intensity ratio has also improved.
Emissions arising from Our Group greenhouse gas GHG emissions are captured to meet the the use of electricity continue to account for the largest portion of our footprint 48%, requirements of the Companies Act with jet fuel 14%, natural gas 12%, and gas oil 5% making up the majority of the 2006 Strategic Report and Directors remainder.
This year we recorded a significant contribution to reported emissions Report Regulations 2013.
The table from refrigerants 6% which we believe is attributable to improved data collection above provides a summary of the Groups GHG emissions from 1 April and reporting processes as opposed to an increase in demand for refrigerant use.
We have adopted a financial control approach Our target of a 17% reduction in GHG emissions by 2020 from a FY14 baseline has and have used the latest emissions been surpassed having achieved a 24% reduction in FY18.
In FY19 we will launch a factors from the UK Government and the International Energy Authority.
new Energy Strategy which will include a new corporate target that will be established in accordance with the science-based targets methodology.
Throughout FY19 our focus will be on cascading the new corporate target into site-specific targets, underpinned by improved internal performance reports and a renewal of the Energy Management Action Plans as part of the new Energy Strategy to ensure sites have a roadmap to achieve their targets.
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures is a global initiative which has created a framework for companies to better articulate the potential impact of climate change on their business.
Since 2017, we have undertaken climate change risk assessments on three sites which we manage on behalf of the MOD, to understand what the key issues might be and we are planning further assessments in FY19.
The key findings of the assessments have helped us to ensure we understand any vulnerabilities to climate change and can prioritise mitigation.
Community investment Our STEM Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths outreach programme recognises the value of inspiring the next generation of scientists and engineers STEM outreach and contributing to current and future skills shortages in these disciplines.
There is In Australia our engineers hosted an clear evidence that giving young people the opportunity to engage with business industry visit for 120 Year 11 and 12 has a positive impact on their future employability and our employee volunteering students attending the University of programme contributes towards this goal.
Our people use their professional skills New South Wales Women in Engineering Camp.
The camp gives to make a positive difference and our approach is to grow sustainable long-term young women who are interested in relationships with local schools and youth groups such as cadets, near to our sites.
engineering the opportunity to spend This year our volunteers engaged with over 90 schools and approximately 6,700 a week learning about the exciting young people in the UK, through activities such as inspirational STEM projects with possibilities that a career in engineering has to offer.
The students our STEM Ambassadors, visits to our sites, mentoring, support with extra-curricular visited our Mine Warfare Maintenance STEM and coding clubs, and careers fairs.
We have also engaged with young people Facility at HMAS Waterhen in Sydney at events such as The Skills Show with its focus on apprenticeships.
and met with our engineers and technicians, including female role models, who shared their experiences In addition to our engagement with cadet groups we supported over 140 armed and real world applications in forces wounded, injured and sick leavers with their employability skills, working with electronics design and testing the Career Transition Partnership as part of our commitment to the UK Armed Forces and safety relating to the use of Corporate Covenant.
We recognise that STEM subjects have traditionally been seen explosive ordnance.
as male dominated and so as part of our ED&I strategy we continue to focus on attracting girls into STEM careers.
We support International Women in Engineering Day and in 2017, we undertook a range of events.
We engaged with 170 girls from 20 different schools and published blogs and videos featuring our female engineers from across the world, telling their stories.
We also undertook other outreach activities focused on girls through the year see case study.
In FY19, we will enter the Social Mobility Employer Index for the first time, and we will welcome our first Movement to Work cohort in the UK, a programme which includes work placements for young people aged 16-24 who are not in employment, education or training NEETs.
We introduced new corporate charities, nominated by our employees, in April 2017, with an emphasis on mental and physical health, and also rolled out a new programme of local charity partnerships at over 20 of our UK sites, to recognise Where to find more information locally important issues.
In Australia, our people completed a 96 km trek, the Legacy For more on community investment, our Modern slavery Australia Kokoda Challenge, raising over A$100,000 for Legacy, and they have offered statement and our greenhouse in-kind project management and engineering services for the Australian gas verification statement go to: War Memorial.
com about-us  Strategic report | Corporate Responsibility QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35
