Strategic report OUR PEOPLE ENGAGED IN HIGH-PERFORMING TEAMS We are committed to a safe, modern working environment where everybody has the opportunity to contribute to our success.
Our culture, inclusive approach to engagement, recognition and development, enable people to deliver outstanding solutions for our customers around the world.
Focused on safety, health and wellbeing for our people In 2017, we launched a three-year Health, Safety and Environment strategy.
Our aim is to create a safety first culture, where everyone is involved in continuously improving health, safety and the environment.
A Safe for Life programme has been introduced across the Company, to ensure that we keep ourselves and each other safe at all Safe for Life times.
In FY18, our leaders committed to a collective objective to drive and support The Safe for Life Champion role is the success of this programme.
Safety awareness is increasing through a focus on a key catalyst for improving safety communication and on behavioural safety.
Following the launch of the programme we awareness and action.
Champions receive behavioural observation are observing an improvement in safety performance.
The FY18 Lost Time Incident and intervention training and are LTI rate for QinetiQ Group was 4.0 compared with 5.7 in FY17.
There were no empowered to make improvements.
prosecutions, prohibition notices or improvement notices issued by regulators in the For example at the BUTEC range site, UK during the last financial year, two indicators that our approach to safety is creating our champion has identified new ways to ensure safe operations real results.
We are encouraging our people to manage their own health and wellbeing, from how boats are refuelled, to enabling them to perform to the best of their ability, with energy and creativity.
His engagement for FY19 include greater emphasis on raising awareness on wellbeing issues the is not just with our people but importance of health, and how to get help and support, and we have recently created also with our customers to ensure everyone is able to contribute to a wellbeing group to create momentum.
Creating the culture to engage our people for business performance and growth We have introduced a cultural development strategy and plan, centred on three strands: defining our culture, managing performance and employee engagement.
Health and safety Our top 100 leaders and employee groups will continue to play a key role in shaping our One QinetiQ culture.
Improving the way in which we enable our people to own FY18 FY17 FY16 and drive their performance continues through our performance and development Lost Time framework.
We are ensuring consistency of approach, based on the what Incident rate 4.0 5.7 5.0 objectives and on the how values and behaviours, as well as emphasis on continuous professional development, through our career pathways as our people The LTI rate is calculated as the are deployed to different business units within the Company.
number of lost time incidents, where the employee is away from work for one or more days, times 1,000, Engaging our people is vital to our success and the delivery of our strategy.
This divided by the total number starts from our first interaction with our future employees through our outreach of employees.
programmes see page 35, early careers pipelines, at interview, recruitment, onboarding and throughout peoples careers including our Friends of QinetiQ employee partnership programme.
We have developed a new approach to onboarding and induction, celebrating this new connection with QinetiQ.
We communicate and listen to our people through many channels such as roadshows and monthly business reviews.
We introduced the Global Portal intranet platform in FY18, enabling greater digital connectivity across the Group.
We value this continuous dialogue and feedback to shape our business focus which enables our people to understand QinetiQs strategy, performance and priorities and how their contribution forms part of our Where to find more information overall success.
We obtain regular feedback through a range of channels, including Page 18 engagement surveys.
At the end of FY18 we had a 72% response rate to the Non-financial KPIs: employee engagement, apprentices and engagement survey and a score of 592 which is slightly lower than last year 596. graduates, health and safety At both local and organisational levels we are developing action plans with our people to improve engagement.
We will introduce a new digital engagement tool in FY19 Page 22 which will capture real time feedback more regularly throughout the year so that we Principal risks and uncertainties: recruitment and retention can understand the impact of decisions made and actions taken in the moment.
The UK Employee Engagement Group EEG is an independent consultative forum For more information on ED&I which acts as an employee voice.
This year the EEG have been instrumental in and our Gender Pay Gap Report developing our Rewarding for Performance framework and ensuring effective and www.
com about-us  fair implementation of organisational change.
During FY18 there was engagement 32 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 QinetiQ Early Careers Live!
Over two days we challenged 130 apprentices and graduates with a range of creative exercises culminating in presenting to a key customer.
The event provided an innovative and challenging environment and the level of stretch that our early careers population are demanding in a career with us and what we need from them.
Early careers between the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the EEG Chair to ensure the Board are informed about employee views.
FY18 FY17 FY16 1 Apprentices 129 146 150 Creating a diverse and inclusive environment for innovation We believe that creating diverse teams and an inclusive environment is fundamental Graduates 109 106 135 to creating an innovative, collaborative and high-performing international company.
Sponsored 11 10 25 In FY18, we revitalised our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion ED&I programme with students a focus on training and we have worked with key groups such as resourcing and % UK workforce 4.8% 4.9% 5.7% project managers to raise awareness of unconscious bias.
We have reviewed and 1 This number does not include the 21 improved key policies and we continue to focus on attracting women into STEM apprentices who are not part of the early careers see page 35.
In FY19 we will be building cultural awareness within regions careers community, 14 of whom are undertaking the Systems Engineering to support our international growth agenda and expanding our training in ED&I.
commitment to mentoring, fair treatment advisors and progressive initiatives such as increased parental leave in Australia ensure that diversity of people and thought is central to our strategies.
We continue to monitor our gender balance at senior leadership across the Group and the breakdown of employees by gender as at the end of March 2018 is shown in the table.
We published our Gender Pay Gap in FY18 and the full report can be found on our website.
Gender pay is entirely different to equal pay, as it does not show differences in rates of pay for comparable jobs.
When we look at the salaries we pay men and women, the difference in mean and median pay is due primarily to our employee profile: more men being in senior, higher paid roles.
Our mean gender pay gap at April 2017 was 17%.
We are committed to reducing this gap: and will be focusing on this in our reward and talent processes.
However we Gender diversity know gender is just one aspect of diversity and our programme goal is inclusion for all.
For example through participation in the Social Mobility Index, Movement to Work Female Male see page 35 and our membership of The 5% Club.
1 Board Directors 2 7 22% 78% Rewarding and recognising our people 2 Senior Managers 44 248 Creating transparency of our reward offering was delivered this year by total reward 15% 85% statements for all employees.
FY19 will see the introduction of an all employee 3 All Employees 1,207 4,564 incentive scheme as the central part of our Rewarding for Performance framework, 21% 79% which recognises sustained contribution and performance.
In July 2017, we held a gala dinner bringing together people across the Company to recognise and celebrate 1 For more information on Board diversity see page 59. their exceptional achievements.
There were individual and team awards that 2 E xcluding senior managers who are also recognised the performance, values, capabilities and qualities shown by our people, Board Directors CEO and CFO.
3 that are central to our future success.
Developing our people Underpinning our growth are the capabilities of our people: to deliver world-class solutions.
Our Academy provides technical, business and leadership development training solutions to ensure our people are able to develop throughout their career.
We have invested significantly in our leaders and managers, recognising the role they play and this will continue to be a priority in FY19.
By March 2019, 800 managers will have completed the Management Development Programme.
We are building a Group wide talent and succession plans for leaders and technical roles to ensure that capability and competencies for growth are specifically addressed within our strategy.
These plans will be implemented by the end of FY19.
The new Early Careers team was launched in December 2017, with a successful event for graduates and apprentices QinetiQ Early Careers Live!
In addition we are planning our future pipeline needs and exploring Degree Level apprenticeships Level 6.
We are a founding member of The 5% Club, which aims to increase employment and career prospects and equip the UK with the skilled workforce it needs.
Members of the campaign commit to publishing the number of employees on apprenticeships, graduate programmes and sponsored students see table and also page 19.
Strategic report | Our people QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33
