Strategic Report Responsible business We are committed to growing Quilter responsibly for the long-term, recognising that we must earn the trust of our stakeholders.
Our Shared Prosperity Plan In light of external trends and our strategic business priorities, our Shared Prosperity Plan focuses on three long-term goals and nine commitments which are most material to our customers and ourbusiness.
These goals and commitments will guide our responsible business activity to 2025.
Goal 1: To enhance financial capability Our goal is to help people develop the skills, knowledge and confidence to fully engage intheir financial lives, to be financially secureand pursue their financial goals.
Financial capability commitments Jane Goodland Enable all our colleagues to feel Corporate moneyconfident.
Affairs Director Improve access to financial guidance andadvice for customers andconsumers more widely.
Our core purpose is to help create prosperity Empower young people to manage for the generations of today and tomorrow.
That doesnt just mean growing economic wealth, it means enabling people and their Goal 2: To enable secure futures families to thrive and achieve their own Our goal is to support people to have a more Our shared values lifegoals.
secure future by empowering customers tobe more engaged in their financial future We are Pioneering It goes further than our customers: we and by creating opportunities for people Leading change and driving growth from alsostrive to create long-term, sustainable toaccess and thrive in work.
the front, positively challenging industry value for colleagues, business partners, convention to create new and rewarding shareholders and society more broadly.
Secure futures commitments opportunities for our customers Thisis shared prosperity.
Enable all colleagues to thrive in work andourselves.
This also means playing our part in rebuilding Empower customers to be more engaged We are Dependable trust in financial services, and creating a in their financial future.
Using our expertise, care and judgement better future by understanding that our Help people in the community overcome to guide us and our customers through value goes beyond making a profit.
complex and challenging times, determined to take people to a Our Shared Prosperity Plan sets out our Goal 3: To promote betterplace in their financial future.
It is  informed and shaped by our engagement Our goal is to invest responsibly, create We are Stronger together with our stakeholders and reflects external aninclusive culture and reduce our Using our diversity and our relationships socio-economic trends affecting our environmental intensity as a business learning from each other to create one customers, our society and our business.
business with better opportunities for ourpeople and better outcomes for These trends include the ageing UK Responsible investment commitments ourcustomers.
population and rising social care costs, Create an inclusive culture at work theshift of responsibility to individuals thatembraces diversity.
forretirement savings, the lack of financial Embed responsible investment capability, insufficient financial advice and principlesacross our business.
the widespread lack of long-term savings.
Reduce the environmental intensity More broadly, the drive for sustainable ofouractivities.
economic development and the role oftechnology continue to be important themesshaping economies.
12 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Quilter colleagues 2018 vs 2017 Our progress As at 31 December 2018 We launched the Shared Prosperity Plan 1 Total number of colleagues in2018 and have made nine commitments which guide our activity to 2025.
Our progress against these commitments 4,343 isshown fully in our Responsible Business 2017: 4,388 Report, with some highlights included below: Total split by gender Commitment: Improve access to % number financial guidance and advice for 52% 2,258 48% 2,085 customers and consumers 2017: 54% 2,355 | 46% 2,033 To bridge the financial advice gap in the UKwe launched the Quilter Financial Adviser Quilter plc Board split by gender School in 2016 which, on a not-for-profit % number basis, helps students achieve the 64% 7 36% 4 Thrive ambassadors qualifications, skills and professionalism 2017: 64% 7 | 36% 4 In 2018 we launched the Thrive wellbeing required to have asuccessful career initiative which provides our colleagues asafinancial adviser.
By2025, the school Executive Committee split by gender withtools, information and services to aims tohave trained over1,000 new % number enhance their health and wellbeing.
79% 11 21% 3 supported byover 120 Thrive ambassadors 2017: 92% 12 | 8% 1 and 12 trained mental health first aiders.
In Commitment: Empower young people July 2018 Quilter signed the Time to Change tomanage their money well for life 2 Senior management split by gender Pledge to demonstrate our commitment Through our partnership with leading % number tochange attitudes, behaviour and remove financial education charity MyBnk, we 66% 70 34% 36 thestigma associated with mental health havereached over 13,000 young people 2017: 71% 66 | 29% 27 inthe workplace.
overthe last three years in schools and youthgroups helping them develop money Male Female skills for life.
In addition we also co-chair We have an active learning and development acollaborative industry initiative, KickStart 1 Additional employee data is provided in programme and in 2017 launched our Money see case study on the left.
Note11 b on page 134 which shows the mentoring programme, which by the end averageposition during the year.
2 Senior management defined as Executive Commitment: Enable all colleagues to Committee and their direct reports, thrive in work and fulfil their potential  staff.
Commitment: Create an inclusive Our ability to attract, develop and retain the culture atwork that embraces diversity best talent is critical to our business.
We We firmly believe our industry will be strive for an engaged colleague community stronger anddeliver better outcomes if it and collegiate culture.
Cathy Turner is the fosters a more inclusive and diverse culture.
designated Board member with responsibility We are committed to ensuring that everyone for ensuring the Board understands the at Quilter has the opportunity to fulfil views of colleagues to enable their interests theirfullpotential regardless of diversity to be taken into account.
We recognise were not Cathy will meet with Quilters employee alonein this challenge, which is why we are forums, which are consultative bodies working collaboratively with other companies torepresent colleagues.
through the Diversity Project to address systemic barriers to inclusion within the In addition, the views of colleagues are investment industry.
sought through our regular culture survey toidentify where we are doing well and We have also signed the HM Treasury where there is scope to improve.
In 2018 The Right Honourable Philip Hammond MP Women in Finance Charter and have adopted weachieved a 71% response rate and ata KickStart Money session at Lyne and a target to reach 35-40% women in senior ourengagement score was 7.7 out of 10 Longcross School in Chertsey management by the end of2020.
Quilter founded and continues to co-chair 31December 2018 thefemale composition thiscollaborative industry initiative that ofour senior management community We have a full communication plan in place unites 20leading investment and savings theExecutive Committee and their direct across all of our business areas.
This is firms toco-fund financial education targeted reports, excluding administrative staff was designed to ensure that colleagues are at primary school children aged 7 to 11.
fullybriefed on a range of topics including Launched in 2017, KickStart Money is on Company strategy, performance and results, target to reach over 18,000 primary school The imbalance of men and women in our external social, financial and economic aged children with financial education by senior management community and revenue factors impacting our business, our 2021.
The coalition of firms is also engaging generating roles is a key driver of the Gender community and responsible business with the Government to call for financial Pay Gap, which we are committed to activities, and matters directly impacting education to be included on the national reducing over the coming years.
individuals such as mental and physical well primary curriculum.
Strategic Report | Responsible business Quilter Annual Report 2018 13 Strategic Report | Responsible business continued Gender Pay Gap Quilters Gender Pay Gap figures are shown theyear we reviewed and enhanced our As at 05 April 2018 2017 on the left.
We have seen the mean hourly stakeholder engagement framework which pay gap reduce since 2017 and we anticipate, includes surveys, interviews and research Mean Median that over the long term, this trend will amongst our stakeholder community so we 2018 2017 2018 2017 continue aswe seek to create more gender can better understand their perspective and Hourly pay gap 35% 39% 29% 29% balance within our senior management their expectations of us.
Responsible business governance Women receiving bonuses 85% 85% 86% 85% This is an ongoing process which will take Our responsible business approach time to embed, and as such we recognise contributes to the management of our Men receiving bonuses 85% 83% 85% 83% that a substantial reduction in our Gender strategic and business risks, particularly Pay Gap figures may take some years brand and reputation, people and culture, toachieve.
For more information about our principal risks and uncertainties, Proportion of men and women Commitment: Reduce the environmental see pages 32 to 37. bypayquartile intensity of our activities The bars below show the proportion of men and We have been formalising our environmental To ensure we have appropriate oversight women in each pay quartile from the first highest management activities, in particularly to andcontrol of our responsible business pay to the fourth lowest pay.
reduce the energy consumption of our activity we have introduced a governance buildings through planned refurbishment framework involving the Board and executive First quartile activity and switching to renewable energy management.
Quilter CEO, Paul Feeney, % where possible.
Over 10 of our buildings hasoverall accountability for ensuring we do 72 28 arenow on renewable energy tariffs which business inthe right way.
The Board receives 2017: 75 | 25 account for 57% of our total workforce.
regular updates on responsible business matters and formal oversight of responsible Second quartile With regard to greenhouse gas GHG business and wider stakeholder interests % emissions, we support the Carbon Disclosure isformally the remit of the Boards Corporate 52 48 Project and aim to publish our science-based Governance and Nominations Committee, 2017: 48 | 52 reduction targets for GHG emissions in 2019. chaired by the Group Chairman.
Third quartile We also recognise that our investment At an executive management level the % portfolios have indirect impacts on the Responsible Business Forum provides 42 58 environment and this is an area we will oversight, direction and challenge with 2017: 43 | 57 assess and measure more fully in future, respect to Quilters approach to responsible through our commitment to embed business.
The Forum meets quarterly Fourth quartile responsible investment principles across andcomprises members from across % ourbusiness.
thebusiness and is chaired by the Corporate 41 59 Affairs Director.
2017: 41 | 59 Greater transparency and disclosure of climate-related risks by companies is critical In addition to these oversight and Male Female for investors on the transition to a lower management groups, our responsible carbon economy.
As such we welcome the business governance framework comprises work of the Financial Stability Boards Task policies, codes and standards.
For example, Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure these include the Quilter code of conduct, 1 Greenhouse gas emissions 2018 TCFD.
In 2017 the TCFD launched the supplier code of conduct, and policies on itsvoluntary framework for disclosure the environment, human rights, community TCO e TCO e 2 2 ofclimate-related information around four investment, and responsible investment 2018 2017 main themes: governance, strategy, risk andstewardship.
Scope 1 636 556 management, and metrics and targets.
Scope 2 3,037 3,289 Asweformalise our approach to managing We are committed to maintaining the highest Scope 2 market-based 1,976 3,079 climate-related risk we aim to work towards standards of integrity and complying with all full compliance with the TCFD disclosures.
Our code of conduct sets out Total Scopes 1 and 2 3,672 3,845 the duties and expectations of all colleagues Tonnes of CO e average 2 Stakeholder engagement covering the prevention of financial crime, number of colleagues 0.83 0.91 We recognise the importance of engaging treating customers fairly, conflicts of interest, 1 Our emissions are calculated and reported in with a range of stakeholders to ensure use of Company assets, market conduct, accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate weunderstand their expectations and working with regulators and Governments, Standard.
Please refer to the Glossary on page viewsofus and share information about and information, data and communications.
206 for definitions of the GHG emissions categories shown in the above table.
Our We also have policies explicitly focused stakeholders are wide ranging and include onanti-money laundering, anti-bribery colleagues, customers, financial advisers, andcorruption, fraud prevention, and investors, suppliers, regulators, media, NGOs marketabuse.
and other special interest groups.
During 14 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Community investment We have zero tolerance of any form of harassment, abuse, discrimination or bullying of colleagues, contractors, suppliers or 1.1m anyone we deal with.
All colleagues are This includes all direct corporate donations, required to behave in a way that supports employee fundraising and investments made aninclusive culture, embracing all forms bytheQuilter Foundation ofdiversity.
We respect human rights and reject any form of modern slavery and in accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act, we publish our Modern Slavery Statement onour website.
We are also an accredited national living wage employer, ensuring allemployees are paid accordingly and we require our suppliers who provide on-site Shani Brathwaite, Non-financial information services to do the same.
Young Carer Support Worker statement This section pages 12 to 15 provides We want a culture where people can speak The Quilter Foundation and Carers Trust information as required by regulation up and share their concerns.
Colleagues Through the Quilter Foundation, we have inrelation to: aremade aware of our whistleblowing policy launched a 1.5 million campaign to give environmental matters: and ethics hotline and we have appointed young carers the chance of a brighter future.
our employees: the Chair of the Board Audit Committee, Our aim is to provide support for those who social matters: George Reid, as Quilters whistleblowing need it, to help them to fulfil their potential in human rights: and champion.
All such reports and disclosures education and employment, and support their corruption and bribery.
are fully investigated by management whilst mental health and wellbeing.
The campaign protecting the confidentiality of those who also raises awareness ofthe incredible In addition other related information make reports.
contribution carers make toour society.
can be found as follows: business model page 18: Colleagues are required to undertake annual principal risks and how they are mandatory training to ensure they fully managed pages 32 to 37: and understand what is required of them.
This In addition to the financial education non-financial key performance includes training on the code of conduct, programmes mentioned earlier, in 2018 we indicators pages 24 and 25. whistleblowing, human rights, and financial launched our Young Carers campaign which crime which includes anti-corruption and brings together the Carers Trust and The Mix, anti-bribery.
During 2018 over 4,000 of our both of which are leading charities in their people completed this training.
We know that this group of young people are more likely to fall behind at Tax strategy school, suffer with mental health issues and As a responsible business, we are committed may struggle to fulfil their potential.
Through to full compliance with our tax obligations, the campaign the Foundation is giving small paying the right amount of tax at the right grants, respite and a range of expert and time.
We have zero tolerance for taxevasion peer to peer support for young carers.
andwe do not promote tax avoidance or Overthe next three years we aim to support aggressive tax planning arrangements to tens of thousands of young carers, helping ourcustomers or to otherparties.
them to have a brighter future.
More information about our tax strategy canbe found on our website.
The Sustainable Development The Quilter Foundation Goals were defined by the United Anchored in our purpose to help create Nations in 2015 to end poverty, prosperity for the generations of today and Jane Goodland protect the planet, and ensure tomorrow, this year we launched The Quilter Corporate Affairs Director prosperity for all as part of a new Foundation to act as the focal point of our sustainable development agenda.
It has a clear See the Quilter Responsible We support the goals and our mission to help young people overcome Business Report for more details responsible business agenda barriers that may prevent them to fulfil their on our Shared Prosperity Plan.
responds to those which are most potential, thrive and prosper, particularly relevant for our business.
See our concerning education, employment and Responsible Business Report for mental health.
The Foundation has formed a small number of keystrategic charity partnerships focused onimproving educational outcomes, employment prospects and young peoples health and wellbeing.
Strategic Report | Responsible business Quilter Annual Report 2018 15 Strategic Report Market growth drivers Our chosen markets are experiencing secular growth in the demand for wealth management services, while at the same timefacing constrained supply of financial advisers.
Demand 58% Percentage of adult population whothink they have insufficient Shift of savings responsibility to the individual understanding of pensions The ongoing shift in responsibility for ensuring sufficient long-term savings and tosavefortheir retirement retirement provision to individuals increasingly means that customers need to make theirown financial plans.
Source: Wealth & Assets Survey 2017, ONS Pension reform driving increased need for retirement solutions 38pp Pension freedom increases the flexibility for guidelines to manage their long-term Forecasted growth in Solutions share savings.
To support this, wealth managers need to be ready to advise on and manage ofglobal asset management 2016-2020 customers funds beyond the savings phase well into the retirement phase.
Source: BCG Global Asset Management 2016 Demographics: ageing population, inter-generational wealth transfer Population over 65 years old Demographic changes and the savings gap, create an increasing demand for wealth willincrease from 600 million solutions, supported by the existing Governments policy topass responsibility to the today to 2.1 billion in 2050 individual.
A shift from opaque, traditional life saving products to more modern, transparent solutions held via platforms means that the UK Wealth market is ideally positioned to Source: World Economic Forum benefitfrom these structural growth trends.
Complexity driving increased need for advice alongside digital solutions 30% Pension freedom introduced in the UK has resulted in increased choice, and accordingly, complexity for individuals to plan for their future.
While self-directed and robo-advice will Percentage of the UK population who bean important constituent of the wealth management sector, we continue to see are likely to require financial advice asignificant opportunity for adviser-led investment solutions.
Source: FCA Financial Advice Market Review 2017 16 Quilter Annual Report 2018 5,000 Withdrawal of financial advisers post retail distribution review RDR In terms of supply, RDR in 2013 triggered a reduction in the number of financial advisers Reduction in financial advisers despite growing needs, so demand for investment advice exceeds supply.
from 2011 to 2017 Source: FCA Financial Advice Market Review Baseline Report 2017 70% Shift away from traditional insurance-based investment products Investment platforms offer a wider choice of investments tailored to individual needs, Decrease in annuity sales since andare combined with easy-to-access digital services.
UKpension reforms in 2015 Source: ABI Post RDR value chain and increasing regulatory costs placing pressure on smaller firms RDR and MiFID II have resulted in greater compliance and administrative burdens 14% onfinancial advisersand their firms, making smaller firms less economically viable.
2014-2018 compound annual growth TheQuilter business model, where firms become restricted and benefit from our rate in UK platforms AuA supportand buying power to provide high quality, cost effective solutions for their Source: Fundscape clients, alleviates this burden.
In some sectors, including pensions Increased focus on industry professionalism, transparency and retirement income... some older andcustomeroutcomes consumers financial services needs Segments of the wealth industry have been increasingly scrutinised by the FCA including are not being fully met, resulting in , platforms and advice quality leading to declines in supply from exclusion, poor customer outcomes smaller players.
Many sole traders decided to leave the industry given the uncertainty and potential harm.
created and the requirement to achieve higher levels of qualification.
Source: FCA 2018 19 Business Plan, Priorities Supply Strategic Report | Market growth drivers Quilter Annual Report 2018 17
