Strategic report Corporate responsibility report all designed to achieve these goals.
Members of staff have access to management and leadership courses, continuous professional development CPD programmes to achieve continuous learning and agreed career development programmes to enable progression within the firm.
Charities and communities The Rathbone Brothers Foundations have continued to support small local charities where donations can make a real difference.
The overall charitable objective of the firm is to support small, local charities that help to improve the lives of young people.
We also support our staff's involvement in charities and their communities through the two and a half volunteering days we offer, which will increase to three days Philip Howell in 2019.
Further information on our various initiatives can be found below.
Chief Executive Through our sponsorship of the Rathbones Folio Prize, we were also involved in the establishment of a mentoring Chief executives annual statement on corporate programme for young writers.
responsibility Rathbones corporate responsibility strategy aims to ensure Environmental reporting that social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account throughout the business.
With regard to This year, we are pleased to report significant reductions environmental, social and governance ESG matters as they in both total emissions and the emissions intensity of our affect our business, the executive committee has identified business.
Though our core business grew considerably, and assessed the significant risks to the company as well as with increases in total headcount 8.3%, funds under focusing not only on potential risks but also on opportunities management and administration 12.8% and operating for the company to play its part as a good employer and as a income 7.0%, our total emissions were reduced to 2,214 contributor to the environment and communities in which we tCO e down 343 tCO e. Across all business activities, total 2 2 work and our clients live.
This report provides an overview of emissions are therefore 13.4% lower than 2017 and 23.1% our activities more information can be found on our website.
In 2018, we concluded a review to assess the alignment of our These reductions are primarily attributable to reduced energy environmental and sustainability objectives with the broader consumption across our buildings and the continued trend commercial goals of the business.
The objective of this review of UK grid decarbonisation.
Across all buildings, our total was to set the framework for the firms sustainability strategy energy consumption fell by 0.4%, with our Building Research for the long term and develop key initiatives to ensure the Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM excellent-rated head office at Finsbury Circus proving to be sustainability of the firm.
You will find further details below.
significantly less energy-intensive than our previous Curzon Street location.
Across the UK, the increasing share of Responsible investing electricity from renewables and declining generation from coal resulted in a 19.5% reduction in emissions intensity a The objective of stewardship and responsible investment significant driver of reduced emissions from our operations.
SRI is to ensure that in discharging our responsibilities to our clients, we ensure that their interests are prioritised and Despite an 8.3% increase in headcount, business travel that we adopt an active approach to the management of emissions rose at a lower rate of 3.7%, with higher emissions their investments in securities on their behalf.
Implementing from flights 12.6% offset by reduced emissions from rail effective stewardship is integral to our investment process as -8.7% and employee-owned car use -3.5%.
Other reported a means of protecting and enhancing value for clients, often emissions from paper and waste also fell considerably down through encouraging high standards of corporate governance.
31.2% primarily due to a reduction in paper consumption.
During 2018, we reviewed and updated our policies in this area We are committed to reducing the environmental impacts and are pleased to report on our progress below.
We also of our business and to improving our environmental remain a constituent company of the FTSE4Good Index series management and reporting processes in line with our and a signatory to the UNbacked Principles for Responsible sustainability strategy.
For further details of our carbon footprint, please read Our employees the environmental impact section of this report.
Our business success is dependent upon delivering a highly professional and personal service to our clients and we believe Philip Howell this can only be achieved by having engaged and motivated Chief Executive employees with a diverse range of skills and experience.
Our employee strategy, policies and investment plans are 20 February 2019 rathbones.
com 41 Corporate responsibility report continued In addition, the issue of governance as a risk factor is covered Our approach by the work of our stewardship committee, recognising that Rathbones corporate responsibility approach can be governance issues can be material in the companies in which summarised as follows: we invest on behalf of our clients.
As well as conducting our own in-house analysis, we subscribe to specialist providers of Investing for clients ESG research as part of our research budget.
Governance risk Considering corporate responsibility and governance issues scoring is now integrated into the work of various investment in the companies in which we invest on behalf of our clients committees.
Social, environmental and ethical considerations Developing our employees are also taken into account for specific mandates throughout Motivating and rewarding our employees appropriately, the group, particularly those managed by our specialist ethical encouraging their development investment unit, Rathbone Greenbank Investments, and a number managed by our charities team.
Engaging with the communities in which we operate Being aware of our environment Through Rathbone Greenbank Investments and Rathbone Unit Trust Managements specialist funds, the company is Managing our environmental impact and reducing able to provide investment services tailored to clients interests our carbon footprint by the efficient use of resources in the area of socially responsible or sustainable investment.
In addition to the well established Rathbone Greenbank Responsible investment Investments service and the Rathbone Unit Trust Management Rathbones specialises in discretionary private client Ethical Bond Fund, in 2018 we launched the Rathbone Global Sustainability Fund, an investment vehicle which investment management.
We manage assets for clients based on their goals.
Central processes provide guidance on equity fully integrates sustainability analysis into its approach.
Where appropriate, the company is also able to participate in new share analysis and strategic asset allocation advice and are shared by the group.
It is essential to our business model that investment issues offered by companies that provide environmentally or socially beneficial products or services.
As at 31 December managers retain their independence to buy and sell securities for clients.
Therefore, a top-down responsible investment 2018, Rathbone Greenbank Investments had 1.2 billion of funds equivalent to 3.12% of Rathbone Investment Managements framework is provided, while maintaining investment flexibility for investment managers.
funds under management and administration.
Nonetheless, we are long-term investors and ESG factors Affiliations form a key part of our equity analysis.
Since 2016, our The firm has the following affiliations and accreditations: approach in this area has been governed by the group stewardship policy.
The concept of our stewardship policy CDP Carbon Disclosure Project, as well as being a signatory means taking a client first, active approach to the ownership to the CDP sister programmes on water disclosure and of securities.
Implementing effective stewardship is integral forestry.
In 2018, we improved our score to a C reflecting to our investment process as a means of protecting and our continued focus on environmental performance enhancing value for clients.
We also play an active role in the PRI Collaboration Platform.
2019 marks our tenth year of membership, a milestone which we will mark with the Core principles publication of a special report on our activities later in the year.
In 2018, we were ranked in the highest tier for The core principles that we follow are: our approach to the management and governance of responsible investment, reflecting expanding resources 1.
Materiality We recognise that governance and stewardship applied to this area.
risks can be material to the performance and UK Sustainable and Investment Finance Association valuation of companies.
UKSIF and the Ecumenical Council for Corporate 2.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments is We actively consider proxy votes for client holdings.
also a leading member of the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change IIGCC.
Engagement Active engagement with companies on governance issues is an important adjunct to voting activities.
Transparency We report annually on our stewardship activities.
42 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Voting Employees The cornerstone of all responsible investment is an active and considered approach to proxy voting.
Since 2010, the Our approach groups voting activity has been coordinated by a dedicated We are firmly committed to evolving our people policies committee, established in line with Rathbones obligations and practices and having continued high levels of employee under the PRI, and pays heed to the Financial Reporting engagement in line with our corporate values.
Our goal Councils FRC UK Stewardship Code.
Composed of continues to be the delivery of the highest possible quality investment managers and other representatives from across of service to our clients through talented and professional the business, and supported by a permanent stewardship employees.
Rathbones has over 1,400 staff in 16 locations director, the committee maintains general group policy on in the UK and Jersey.
We promote a culture where we recruit corporate governance.
Advice and research received by the and retain individuals whose values match those of the committee supplements the analysis carried out internally business.
To promote engagement with our values, we as part of the investment process.
The committee issues actively encourage employees to become involved in the voting recommendations based on best practice which financial performance of the group through our all employee establishes a baseline for consideration by the major holders SIPs UK Share Incentive Plan and International Share of the companies in question.
Our investment managers retain Incentive Plan and SAYE Save As You Earn share option the ability to vote independently of this advice if appropriate.
We have offered share ownership plans to our employees since 1996 and now have 55% participation Rathbone Investment Management exercises the voting rights in our SAYE and 91% participation in our SIP plans.
attached to its largest holdings, covering the most widely-held stocks across the business.
Voting is also undertaken on any We also encourage our employees to become financially company if requested by an underlying shareholder.
aware and offer discounted independent financial advice.
Rathbone Unit Trust Management, as an institutional investor, Employee statistics meets its obligations as a signatory to the Stewardship Code Percentage of female employees 47% and was classified as a Tier 2 signatory by the FRC in 2016.
Percentage of employees working part-time 11% In addition to expanding the scope of proxy voting in 2015, and now employing Institutional Shareholder Services ISS Resignation rate 6.6% to vote actively on all of its holdings, Rathbone Unit Trust Management has recently clarified its policy on stewardship and company engagement in line with the demand of regulators.
It also applies a more detailed sustainabilitythemed voting policy in the relevant funds.
Votes are entered in line with UK corporate governance best practice, overseen by the stewardship director, fund managers and investment managers.
During 2018, the Unilever case study committee oversaw active proxy voting on 5,232 resolutions at 395 company meetings.
Voting on these resolutions The contentious decision announced by Unilever's includes consideration of such issues as executive management to simplify its dual legal structure and remuneration, auditor independence, appointment re-locate its HQ to the Netherlands was a good example of directors and non-financial reporting.
of how our engagement approach can see results.
We were made aware of the plans by senior Engagement management as part of our regular cycle of company Engagement with companies on ESG matters is largely meetings.
We expressed concerns, less over the decision undertaken by Rathbone Greenbank Investments ethical to simplify the dual structure, and more over the process research team and the stewardship director on behalf of which had been followed, and the apparent lack of the stewardship committee.
Engagement may occur as a sufficient justification.
Having failed to receive sufficient result of fundamental analysis of companies ESG reporting assurances from senior management, we began to work or through collaborative efforts initiated by interest groups with other concerned investors through the Investor such as CDP, UKSIF or the PRI Collaboration Platform.
It Forum, a membership group established to help covers a wide range of themes spanning the whole of the investors coordinate engagements on difficult issues.
In 2018, we joined the steering committee for Following several interactions with senior management the PRI-coordinated engagement on responsible sourcing of through formal and informal channels, it became clear cobalt and fuelling water disclosure for oil and gas companies.
that the company had failed to make the case that We continued our work on responsible tax, cyber security and relocating the business to the Netherlands was the combating deforestation.
best option for all shareholders.
This was in no small part owing to a lack of clarity regarding tax arrangements, which could have negatively affected our clients.
We spoke directly to the finance director and chairman on several occasions, and were pleased when the managers decided to put their plans on hold.
com 43 Corporate responsibility report continued Learning Talent development We continue to support the development of all our employees Rathbones is keen to develop a pipeline of high-calibre talent and have maintained our average investment per person at to ensure appropriate skills and succession planning for the a significant level of 710 2017: 783 and an average of two future.
Our fourth apprenticeship programme in Liverpool days training per year.
These figures are a very conservative is well underway with eight participants and, in light of the estimate because there is much more employee development ongoing success of this programme, a further group will be that has no direct cost and is conducted at the desk.
Our continued commitment to developing younger talent means that a new graduate development Our aim when delivering high-quality programmes is to programme will start in September 2019.
The programme ensure that employees have the best opportunity to put sees the trainees participate in a variety of placements their learning into practice.
We do this by engaging with line around the firm to gain a broad range of experience.
managers and other stakeholders in the business to ensure that the opportunity and support are in place for employees Career development and performance management to use new skills.
We regularly implement new initiatives The introduction of a more comprehensive performance across the group to ensure that all employees have access appraisal regime is helping to identify individual training to the development they need for their current and possible needs and provides a framework to help employees see their future roles.
Also, during the year, we implemented online future pathway for career progression within the organisation.
learning for regulatory issues such as anti-money laundering There is further work to be done in this area but the leadership and courses to provide additional support on key client issues.
team recognises the benefits both to the individual employees and to the firm of deeper succession planning.
Leadership and management development We deploy a comprehensive suite of management and Diversity and inclusion leadership courses.
These are designed to enable the business Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is our to support high-potential employees and progress them policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are through key stages of learning from being highly effective treated fairly and on merit regardless of race, sex, marital civil team members to ultimately growing into senior leadership partnership status, age, disability, religious belief, pregnancy, roles.
The leadership programme continued successfully maternity, gender reassignment or sexual orientation.
throughout the year and the programme again involved senior managers focusing on how to lead their teams to achieve We have two female directors out of eight and have thus corporate goals.
The programme culminates in a presentation achieved our commitment to meet Lord Davies target of about leadership changes and the value of the learning.
We are working towards format will continue to roll out through the firm during 2019 achieving the adjusted target of 33% of female board to build leadership and management skills across the group.
representation for FTSE 350 companies by 2020, which will be achieved once Jenny Mathias joins our board in We have aligned some of our management development to April 2019.
We continue to develop our plans to align with formal qualifications.
A number of managers have successfully the recommendations published in the Hampton-Alexander achieved a level five qualification awarded by the Chartered review and we will work towards achieving the targets set Management Institute.
This included a module on managing by the Women in Finance Charter.
Historically, women have operational risk which was tailored to the specific issues been less well represented in the investment management in Rathbones.
We will continue to support this type of industry and addressing this imbalance is a key priority.
development where the formal recognition of We are working hard to appoint more women in graduate learning is appropriate.
trainee positions and are also trying to encourage more applications from women to our work experience and Continuing professional development CPD financial career programmes.
Our client-facing employees continue to meet and mostly exceed the required CPD targets set by our regulators.
We continue to target the progression and development of Investment managers have the opportunity to further existing female employees with opportunities for leadership improve their technical and management skills to ensure and management programmes.
In 2017, we implemented that the highest levels of client service are maintained.
significant improvements to our maternity, adoption and paternity policies.
We also introduced group coaching and online support for working parents and have put in place a diversity strategy.
We will establish a diversity task force with executive representation in early 2019.
We are continuing a training programme covering diversity, inclusion and unconscious bias.
Rathbones prides itself on being a real Living Wage employer and pays Living Wage Foundation rates of pay to internal employees and subcontractor staff.
44 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Modern slavery This year, our focus is on embedding the due diligence checks.
Our key staff will receive modern slavery training to ensure Rathbones is committed to maintaining and improving our that they understand how modern slavery may manifest itself practices to tackle slavery and human trafficking violations and what they can do to mitigate the risk when engaging with with respect to our own operations, our supply chain and suppliers.
To raise awareness, we will also communicate more our services.
We welcomed the introduction of the Modern widely to staff what we are doing in this space.
At the end of Slavery Act in 2015 and used this as an opportunity to build the year, we also plan to review the due diligence checks we on our existing policies and develop a focused approach to have carried out to understand the effectiveness of our addressing the risk of modern slavery.
Rathbones already approach and update accordingly.
has a range of relevant initiatives in place such as our policy on stewardship, being a real Living Wage employer, and our equal opportunities and whistleblowing policies.
Since 2017, Rathbones has been working towards a set of Employees objectives to improve and refine our approach to ensuring that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in our supply chains.
This is a three-year plan and is 721 a key component of the development of our wider sustainability strategy.
1,220 To further develop our approach, we set ourselves a set of objectives over the next three years.
These include carrying 1,400 out a third-party risk assessment, developing prioritised actions based on the results, introducing a modern slavery 0 300 600 900 1,200 1,500 screening process, training our staff and communicating Number of employees Headcount at what we are doing.
in SAYE 31 Dec 2018 Number of employees in SIP In 2018, we engaged a third-party sustainability consultancy, Carbon Smart, to carry out a modern slavery risk assessment of our operations and supply chain.
This was important to us because, although we are a professional services business in Number of employees by length of service years a highly regulated market and therefore low risk, we do know that no supply chain is risk free.
Carbon Smart mapped our annual supplier spend based on sector and location to identify 0-15 1 160 16-30 209 areas of elevated risk in our supply chain.
The majority of 31-45 31 our spend is in the UK with a small proportion in the US and Canada and the majority is with professional services, which is low risk.
However, the risk assessment did show that there was an elevated risk, although still below the UK average and well below the global average in the following sectors: Paper and paper-based products Electrical equipment Construction Cleaning products and other chemicals Number of employees by age range In addition, we have identified two sectors, which have an elevated risk relative to the rest of our supply chain but are themselves low risk.
These are hotels and 16-20 19 21-35 568 telecommunications.
36-50 473 51-65 325 With an understanding of our level of risk and the relevant 66 15 sectors, we were able to develop a risk-based approach, which allows us to focus our attention and resources where it matters the most.
In the event our staff wishing to procure products or services from the above sectors, additional checks must be performed.
All new suppliers in the above categories must share with us their modern slavery statements.
In addition to this, we have engaged with all our current suppliers to understand the due diligence they have in place to mitigate the risk of modern slavery in their supply chains.
com 45 Corporate responsibility report continued Anti-bribery policy We provide a wide range of core benefits such as private medical cover, income protection insurance and life assurance.
As a firm we value our reputation for ethical behaviour All employees are eligible for an annual medical examination and upholding the utmost integrity and we comply with funded by the company.
the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA clients best interests rule.
We Employees are encouraged to identify with and benefit from understand that in addition to the criminality of bribery the financial performance of the group through ownership of and corruption, any such crime would also have an adverse shares in the company.
Our Share Incentive Plan SIP enables effect on our reputation and integrity.
Rathbones has a zero employees to benefit from share-matching by the company tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and we ensure on a one-to-one basis.
Employees are also eligible to receive all our employees and suppliers are adequately trained so as free shares and join the Save As You Earn SAYE share to limit our exposure to bribery by: option plan.
setting out clear anti-bribery and corruption policies We have continued to grow our employee wellbeing offering.
Employees have access to a free, independent employee providing mandatory training to all employees assistance programme EAP offering confidential advice encouraging our employees to be vigilant and report and support to them and their families.
We have increased breaches or concerns the range and number of training, one-to-one and drop-in reporting suspected cases of bribery in accordance sessions on wellbeing-related topics and widened this to with the specified procedures include mental health awareness and mental health first aid escalating and investigating instances of suspected bribery training.
We continue to provide support for working parents and assisting the police or other appropriate authorities in through targeted seminars and training sessions, as well as their investigations.
a number of physical wellbeing sessions.
Our people can also take advantage of a vast range of Gender pay reporting voluntary benefits available, such as the cycle to work scheme, The firm published its gender pay gap data in April 2018 and flexible holidays, voluntary leave and discounts on products will do so again before April 2019.
The report is available on and services through our Reward Board benefits platform.
Employee relations We regularly review both fixed and variable remuneration and are confident that men and women are paid equally for Engagement with our employees is crucial to the continuing performing equivalent roles across our business.
Historically, success of the group.
We communicate regularly and openly there have been significantly less women in the wealth with them on matters affecting them and on the issues that management sector and as a consequence we have found it have an impact on the performance of the group and actively harder to hire senior women into the firm.
We are committed seek their feedback on these matters.
After the success of the to taking all steps possible to reduce our gender pay gap and employee engagement survey run in 2016, we will be running have had some success in increasing representation in more a second in 2019 in order to reassess employee engagement.
junior professional levels, which will in due course provide Rathbones recognises the importance of an appropriate better representation at senior levels, albeit over time.
We work-life balance, both to the health and welfare of employees are signatories to the Women in Finance Charter and the firm and to the business.
Holiday entitlement begins at 25 days per is committed to achieving 25% female senior management annum for all employees, increasing to 30 days after five years representation by 2023.
Also, the firm is mindful of the service, with the opportunity to buy up to five additional days Hampton-Alexander gender targets for executives and of flexible leave each year.
In 2018, we ran a series of flexible their direct reports and we plan to take further action working workshops for managers, focusing on how to manage to achieve these targets.
and support flexible working opportunities in the business.
We aim to focus more effort on flexible working as part of Performance and reward our diversity and employee engagement efforts.
We offer a comprehensive remuneration package, which is regularly reviewed to ensure that our employees are fairly Communities rewarded.
This includes annual equal pay audits.
This is also supported by challenging objective-setting and appraisal Donations and fundraising processes to align variable reward to the achievement of corporate goals and individual performance and to During the year, the group made total charitable donations motivate and appropriately reward performance.
of 355,000, representing 0.5% of group pre-tax profits 2017: 378,000, representing 0.7% of group pre-tax profits.
All employees have the opportunity to participate in a It also included the matching of employee donations made pension arrangement and are eligible to receive at least through the tax efficient Give As You Earn GAYE payroll a 6% contribution from the company on an employee giving scheme.
In 2018, Rathbones employees made payments non-contributory basis to a group personal pension totalling 199,000 2017: 225,000 through this scheme, which arrangement, rising to 10% with employee contributions.
is administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
The company matched staff donations of up to 200 per month made through GAYE and, in 2018, donated 166,000 2017: 161,000 to causes chosen by employees through this method.
46 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report During 2018, the Rathbone Brothers Foundations across Investing in brighter futures the country considered many requests for assistance and Sport offers the opportunity to teach key life skills to young met a number of charities.
Examples of our donations and people, and from 2012 to 2018 Rathbones has been a strong volunteering support include: supporter of female sport through our partnerships with Lacrosse Scotland and England Lacrosse.
Over that time, more A team of nine employees from the London research team than 3,500 young women competed each year in tournaments volunteered in November 2018 for a day at Divine Rescue, that we sponsored and many more were introduced to the which provides meals, clothes, hostel referrals and hospital sport through community programmes that we supported.
visits to homeless, vulnerable people, ex-offenders and 2018 represented our last year of involvement in lacrosse as substance abuse victims in the Borough of Southwark.
we feel it is important to focus more on our programmes In 2017, Divine Rescue supported 36,960 people with supporting writing and literacy for young people.
A group of six Rathbones employees from the London office The Rathbones Folio Mentorships programme, which hosted a group of 30 students from Dairy Meadow Primary started in 2017, provides talented young writers from state School in September 2018.
The event was organised by schools the transformational opportunity to be mentored Enabling Enterprise, which works with schools and teachers by published authors, one-on-one, for a year.
Alongside this, to help students develop essential skills through a range of in 2018, Rathbones also piloted a digital reading programme experiences in British companies.
At Rathbones, students in schools, in association with The Pigeonhole a digital book were set a challenge to devise and secure a loan for a new club and Harper Collins Publishers.
business venture before running the initial set-up of the The Rathbones Financial Awareness programme is another way business.
The students demonstrated their leadership in which we invest in the future of young people.
Investment and presenting skills throughout the challenge.
managers deliver presentations to 1625 year olds within our In 2018, the Cambridge office undertook a 24-hour rowing offices and at schools around the UK.
The programme aims relay event to raise funds for the Cambridge Central Aid to equip those attending with the necessary information to Society, a charity, which gives funding grants to help needy take ownership of their finances at a young age.
In 2018, the individuals and families in Cambridge and its environment.
programme was delivered to over 1,500 young people.
In May 2018, 10 employees in the Winchester office, along with 200 members of the general public descended upon the gardens of Wolvesey Castle to participate in 'The Big Sleep Out'.
The event, organised by the Trinity Winchester charity, intends to draw attention to the estimated 300,000 homeless people in England and raise money in support of the charity.
ShelterBox case study Laura Coleman is head of client marketing and has to imagine what that must be like.
The resilience of worked at Rathbones since 2014.
Laura is also a ShelterBox some of the people I have met, in the face of true hardship, response team volunteer.
ShelterBox is an international is awe-inspiring.
This is not something I would be able disaster relief charity that provides temporary shelter to do without the support of Rathbones though.
Not all and life saving supplies to displaced families.
companies would allow their staff to disappear for three weeks at short notice, even if it was to help others.
I am As a response team volunteer, Laura is on call twice a forever grateful to the company, my line manager and year ready to be deployed, sometimes with only 48 hours my team for enabling me to do what I do.
notice, to countries affected by natural disaster or conflict.
In June 2018, Fuego Volcano in Guatemala erupted killing For more information about ShelterBox, please visit hundreds, displacing over 12,000 and otherwise affecting shelterbox.
org hundreds of thousands of people.
Laura was part of the second ShelterBox team on the ground to work with the government, aid agencies and local organisations to support those affected.
In August, Laura was deployed to Ethiopia where nearly a million people were displaced as a result of conflict within the country.
This was an extremely complex response, but ShelterBox were able to help nearly 2,000 families in some of the greatest need, approximately 10,000 people, with shelter, blankets, water purifiers, kitchen sets and mosquito nets.
I am humbled and honoured to be a ShelterBox response team volunteer.
An estimated 85 million people are displaced across the world right now: I cant even begin rathbones.
com 47 Corporate responsibility report continued Environmental impact Building energy emissions arising from energy consumption at our offices and data centres were 1,248 tCO e in 2018, 2 Rathbones has been reporting its environmental impacts down 16.2% from 1,490 tCO e in 2017. since 2007.
As a responsible investor, we aim to lead by 2 example in our approach to environmental matters, striving Business travel emissions grew by 3.7% to 741 tCO e up 2 to understand the environmental impacts of our business from 715 tCO e last year.
Emissions from flights increased 2 activities and, wherever possible, act to reduce them.
Since by 12.6%, linked to the increase in headcount, whilst emissions 2017, we have produced internal reporting of environmental from rail and employee-owned car usage fell by 8.7% and impacts and emissions on a quarterly basis in order to improve 3.5% respectively.
our ability to manage year-on-year performance.
Emissions from other resource consumption, namely paper, waste and refrigerants, fell sharply by 36.1% to Our 2018 carbon footprint 226 tCO e, primarily driven by a significant reduction 2 We are pleased to report a 13.4% reduction in our overall in paper consumption.
emissions to 2,214 tCO e, down from 2,557 tCO e in 2017.
2 2 Furthermore, our emissions intensity has also reduced by around 20% despite continued growth in headcount, funds under management and administration, and operating income.
These reductions are primarily attributable to reduced energy consumption across our offices, reduced consumption of natural resources and the continued decarbonisation of the UKs electricity supply.
Our BREEAM excellent-rated head office building in Finsbury Circus is considerably more energy-efficient than our previous Curzon Street location, with almost 30% less energy consumed on an annual basis.
Total emissions tCO e since baseline year 2 3,500 3,052 2,985 3,000 2,843 2,798 2,557 2,500 2,214 2,000 1,500 Total 1,000 Baseline Energy 500 Travel Other resources 0 Operational indicators 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Vs. 2017 Staff FTE 829 867 965 1,045 1,227 1,329 14.1% Net internal area 2 of offices m 14,430 14,430 14,518 15,369 22,924 19,640 12.8% Operating income m 176.4 209.3 230.1 243.8 291.6 312.0 6.8% Funds under management and administration bn 22.0 27.2 29.2 33.2 39.1 44.1 12.8% Carbon intensity tCO e 2 Staff FTE 3.4 3.4 3.2 2.7 2.1 1.7 -19.7% Net internal area 2 of offices m 0.20 0.21 0.21 0.18 0.11 0.11 -0.1% Operating income m 16.1 14.3 13.3 11.5 8.8 7.1 -19.0% Funds under management and administration bn 129.1 109.8 104.5 84.3 65.4 50.2 -23.2% 48 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report This has delivered the following key benefits to management: Key achievements in 2018 More timely provision of environmental data, enabling Rathbones completed several important initiatives in the alignment of carbon footprint reporting with 2018 to mark the tenth anniversary of our reporting on Rathbones financial year.
Improved data quality and accuracy, reducing the number of estimations required due to unavailable Office portfolio consolidation or incomplete data.
Following the move to our new head office at 8 Finsbury Intra-year visibility of environmental performance, Circus in February 2017, last year saw further changes to thereby creating capacity for the management team consolidate our office portfolio.
Our previous head office to identify actions during the year that will influence location at Curzon Street is now sub-let and we moved year-end performance.
offices in Birmingham, taking Rathbones total office space 2 2 in 2018 to 19,640 m down from 22,924 m in 2017.
Carbon offsetting programme Last year was the first full year of occupancy at 8 Finsbury Alongside the firms growth, we have succeeded in Circus, thereby enabling a comparison of annual performance maintaining a steady carbon footprint and continue to pursue with our previous head office location.
In 2018, total energy efforts to reduce this year-on-year.
As per environmental consumption at 8 Finsbury Circus was 1,317,815 kWh against best practice, since 2011 we have taken action to mitigate an average annual consumption of 1,810,035 kWh at Curzon this footprint by supporting low carbon projects around Street between 2014 and 2016, representing a reduction of the world through a process known as carbon offsetting.
Despite a 60% increase in headcount since baseline, changes to our office portfolio have contributed With our partner ClimateCare, specialists in climate and towards a 12.3% reduction in energy consumption 576,693 sustainable development, we have to-date supported 14 kWh per annum.
projects across the world that reduce global carbon emissions and improve lives for local communities.
To compensate In addition to improvements in energy performance and for our 2017 carbon footprint we have supported two solar reduced emissions, our award-winning head office location projects in India: one delivering solar lighting and heating also provides other environmental benefits including 160 solutions for households and businesses, another producing cycle spaces, photovoltaics, and a green roof grey water electricity at a large scale to supply the Indian grid.
projects avoid carbon emissions by displacing fossil fuels, and these savings are rigorously measured and certified Improved performance management and reporting by internationally accredited third-party bodies.
Rathbones has reported its environmental performance and We work with ClimateCare to ensure our carbon offset impacts on an annual basis since 2007.
Since 2017, we have programme goes beyond reducing emissions.
In line with increased the frequency of our reporting to provide quarterly our support of the UNs Sustainable Development Goals we performance updates, analysis and trend information have selected these two projects on the basis of their delivery throughout the year, thereby creating an improved of renewable energy infrastructure in India and creation of performance management capability.
jobs in the low-carbon sector.
Orb Energy, India case study Orb Energy delivers transformational outcomes for households and businesses across India with its solar lighting and heating solutions.
With the support of carbon finance from Rathbones and others, Orb has sold over 130,000 solar units and employs over 500 people across the country.
com 49 Corporate responsibility report continued Compliance with regulations Carbon Smart has been commissioned by Rathbones for the eleventh consecutive year to calculate Rathbones carbon Rathbones complies with the regulations for reporting footprint for all offices for its 2018 annual report.
Through this greenhouse gas emissions.
Following an operational engagement, Carbon Smart has assured Rathbones that the control approach, our 2018 greenhouse gas emissions reported carbon footprint is representative of the business from business activities amounted to: and that the data presented is credible and compliant with 328 tCO e resulting from the combustion of fuel and the appropriate standards and industry practices.
Data has 2 the operation of any facilities classified as Scope 1 in been collected and calculated following the ISO 14064 part 1 this report standard and verified against the WRI GHG Protocol principles of completeness, consistency and accuracy.
Carbon Smarts 680 tCO e from the purchase of electricity by the company 2 work has included interviews with key Rathbones personnel, for its own use classified as Scope 2 in this report.
a review of internal and external documentation and In June 2018, we sub-let our previous head office location in interrogation of source data and data collection systems, Curzon Street and vacated our Birmingham office, thereby including comparison with the previous years data.
It has not been practical Carbon Smart has concluded the following: to gather data on energy use at our Lymington office and we have used typical energy consumption benchmarks Relevance to calculate the energy use at this site based on floor area.
We have ensured the GHG inventory appropriately reflects the GHG emissions of the company and serves Please note that our reported 2018 emissions do not include the decision-making needs of users, both internal and any data for the newly acquired Speirs & Jeffrey business.
In external to the company.
our 2019 report, we will include full-year performance data for the newly-acquired business and will rebaseline historic emissions to support consistency of comparison.
Completeness Rathbones continues to use the operational control approach The methodology used is in accordance with the requirements to define its organisational boundary.
Rathbones calculates of the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol total direct Scope 1, 2 and major Scope 3 emissions.
Reported revised version WRI GHG.
This includes best practice Scope environmental data covers all employees and all entities that 2 guidance using the market-based method Environmental meet the criteria of being subject to control or significant Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory greenhouse gas influence of the reporting organisation.
emissions reporting guidance Defra, October 2013 and ISO 14064 part 1.
Consistency To ensure comparability, we have used the same calculation Carbon Smart opinion statement methodologies and assumptions as for the previous year.
This statement provides Rathbones and its stakeholders In 2017, previous years emissions have been rebaselined with a third-party assessment of the quality and reliability to align with Rathbones financial year.
of Rathbones carbon footprint data for the reporting period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
It does not Transparency represent an independent third-party assurance of Where relevant, we have included appropriate references to Rathbones management approach to sustainability.
the accounting and calculation methodologies, assumptions and recalculations performed.
Accuracy To our knowledge, data is considered accurate within the limits of the quality and completeness of the data provided.
50 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Carbon footprint by scope tCO e 2 Rathbones reporting period for greenhouse gas emissions is 1 January to 31 December, aligned to our financial year.
In accordance with best practice introduced in 2015, we report two numbers to reflect emissions from electricity.
Location-based emissions are based on average emissions intensity of the UK grid and market-based emissions to reflect emissions from our specific suppliers and tariffs 2.
Data centre emissions are reported as Scope 3, as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
However, where figures are stated in this report for overall buildings electricity consumption, we have included data centres to ensure transparency of electricity use 3.
Emissions from line losses associated with electricity transmission and distribution 4.
Previously reported as 2,553 tCO e in 2017.
For some data sources sites, we have to estimate the full-year consumption based on part-year data when aligning the emissions reporting period to our 2 financial year.
These estimates have now been replaced with actual data resulting in a net difference of 5 tCO e 2 Carbon intensity The table below shows the emissions intensity of Rathbones in relation to the number of staff, office space, operating income and funds under management and administration.
Carbon intensity is the total all scopes tCO e per: FTE: m : m of operating income: bn of funds under management and administration 2 rathbones.
com 51 Corporate responsibility report continued 10 years of corporate social responsibility at Rathbones Rathbones has a long-standing commitment to action on CSR matters.
Here is a selection of our achievements over the last 10 years.
Over 2.3 million in charitable donations CDP respondent since 2006 since 2007 PwC Building Public Trust Award 2011: UN PRI signatory since 2009 Best People Reporting in a FTSE 250 2014 ICSA Excellence in Governance Award: Best sustainability and stakeholder disclosure 2013 FTSE4Good ranking: 98th percentile in a FTSE 250 One of the top 20 most active and influential members of the UN PRI Collaboration Platform CDP investor member since 2015 2015 and 2016 Over 5,000 16-to 24-year-olds engaged in Moved head office to award-winning BREEAM Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme Excellent rated building in 2017 52 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance and stewardship CSR strategy review At Rathbones, we believe in the importance of adopting In 2018, we concluded an in-depth review of CSR with the best practice corporate governance standards and managing aim of developing a framework for promoting sustainability companies and investments in the long-term interests of across the business and ensuring good corporate citizenship.
As with good governance and responsible Through consultation with key stakeholders, we considered stewardship, sustainability, at its heart, is about promoting material sustainability issues alongside key drivers for our long-term success.
This review was an important first step towards the definition of a longer-term roadmap to sustainability Environment and identified the following four pillars as most relevant to our business.
For the last 10 years, Rathbones has reported its environmental impacts and acted to reduce them.
Now more than ever, we recognise the importance of tackling Employees environmental issues and that every business, regardless Rathbones began life as a socially conscientious family of sector, must act to reduce its ecological footprint.
business and is proud to have carried those values through to today.
Most of our employees are also shareholders with Social and community a deep sense of responsibility and care for the good standing of the business within society.
The business is determined to Rathbones is part of an increasingly interconnected respect the rights and wellbeing of both our direct employees global community.
We recognise the importance of acting and those within our supply chain.
to promote wellbeing and maximise the positive impacts of our business in the societies and communities within which we operate.
By promoting the success of those around us, we can help to generate the conditions for sustainable growth in our business.
Our sustainability framework High-level sustainability drivers, themes and stakeholders Key drivers Four pillars of sustainability Stakeholders Employees Governance and stewardship Responsible investment Employees trends Diversity, transparency, Responsible investment gender pay in financial Anti-corruption practices services Remuneration Employee engagement Management structure Supply chain workers Communities action on modern slavery Increasing regulations and transparency Social and Environment Clients community Respect for human rights Climate change, low carbon investment Volunteering, charitable giving Air pollution Millennials as employees Support for community Waste and clients Suppliers initiatives Paper use deforestation Water rathbones.
com 53 Corporate responsibility report continued Already we see a growth in related regulation and the need for Looking forward transparency on social and environmental issues.
The advent We recognise that acting on sustainability issues is not only of millennials as employees and clients of our business will the right thing to do but that it is fundamentally beneficial serve to accelerate interest both in acting responsibly as a to the long-term success of the business and welfare of all business and in responsible investment opportunities.
Over the next 10 years, we anticipate that For these reasons, Rathbones will continue to increase its our stakeholders will continually raise the bar on the focus on sustainability issues.
In 2019, we will further develop sustainability standards expected of high-profile our programme of action across the four pillars identified above companies such as Rathbones.
and, by 2022, we will produce a dedicated, standalone report Secondly, we recognise this increasing focus on sustainability on our CSR performance.
issues as one of several leading trends that will impact and define businesses in every sector over the coming years.
Non-financial information statement Reporting requirement Some of our relevant policies Where to read more in the report about our impact Page Environmental matters Group sustainability policy Responsible investing 41 Environmental reporting 41 Environmental impact 48 Carbon offsetting programme 49 Employees Code of conduct Leadership and management 43 development Health and safety policy Diversity and inclusion 44 Compliance framework policy Gender pay reporting 46 Anti-bribery policy Investing in brighter futures 47 Women in Finance Charter 44 Human rights Modern slavery policy Modern slavery 45 Code of conduct Carbon Smart 45 Social matters Code of conduct ClimateCare 49 Communities 46 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Anti-bribery policy 46 Conflicts of interest policy Business model Our business model Our business model 8-9 Our market and opportunities 14-15 Our journey 16 Non-financial key performance Employee relations 46 indicators Our 2018 carbon footprint 48 The strategic report contains certain forward-looking statements, which are made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this annual report.
Statements contained within the strategic report should be treated with some caution due to the inherent uncertainties including but not limited to those arising from economic, regulatory and business risk factors underlying any such forward-looking statements.
The strategic report has been prepared by Rathbone Brothers Plc to provide information to its shareholders and should not be relied upon for any other purpose.
Pages 1 to 54 constitute the strategic report, which was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by: Philip Howell Paul Stockton Chief Executive Finance Director 20 February 2019 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018
