Strategic report Stakeholder engagement RDI is committed to becoming the UKs leading income focused REIT and, in doing so, we recognise the importance ofbuilding strong relationships with our stakeholders to ensure the long term success of the Company for the benefitof stakeholders and shareholders alike.
Indices Environment Employees Communities Investors Government & Tenants Local Authorities Suppliers Agents & Consultants 68 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 The Board of RDI has identified its key stakeholder groups, as set out in the table below, outlining how we intend to undertake appropriate engagement with our stakeholders in order to best identify, gather and incorporate stakeholder views when reviewing strategy, services and relationships with our workforce, shareholders, suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
Key stakeholder Engagement methods Persons responsible Employee satisfaction surveys HR Employees Internal communications Executive Directors Meetings and training sessions e. g. sustainability Company Secretary Breakfast with the CEO Marketing Team building sessions Whistleblowing Results roadshows Executive Directors Investors Property days, capital market days Investor Relations Manager Shareholder analysis Advisers Tenant satisfaction surveys Asset Managers Tenants Promotion of sustainability programmes Property Managers Standard contracts include a greener lease clause Marketing Leases include an AntiBribery and Modern Slavery Act clause Centre Managers Tenant review meetings Regular meetings and communication Asset Managers Agents & Consultants Suppliers All contractors must adhere to a Supplier Code of Ethics Finance Contractors compliance with our sustainability requirements is monitored Asset Managers formajordevelopments, refurbishments and construction projects Payments are made to suppliers within agreed payment terms The Group engages with all levels of Government, responding to Asset Managers Government & LocalAuthorities , and liaising with local authorities, officers andmembersonplanning matters Group actively supports a variety of charitable organisations and events Marketing Communities Employees are encouraged to take part in philanthropic activities such as Asset Managers fundraisingand volunteering Centre Managers We aim to enhance the social and economic wellbeing of the areas in whichourproperties are situated through creating employment, enhancing the built environment and contributing to local community activities.
In addition, we willalwaysstrive to minimise the physical impacts of our developments on traffic, noise, dust, waste and pollution through our contractors involvement in the Considerate Constructors Scheme Designated charities of the year at both Head Office and throughout our shoppingcentres All properties to have minimum EPC rating of D Asset Managers Environment EPRA sustainability performance measures are monitored for our managed Agents portfolioon energy, greenhouse gases, water and waste Development Manager Sustainability requirements are monitored for all major developments, refurbishments and construction projects RDI reports to the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB Real Estate Indices Assessment annually, with results to date signifying an improved performance in sustainability management, policy, implementation and measurement RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 69 Strategic report Stakeholder engagement continued Environment Employees Employees have a clear understanding of their Electric vehicle charging points Employees and Company culture career path and believe that they can reach RDI have worked with Savills and Pod Point A Code of Ethics was adopted by the Company their full potential at RDI.
People feel valued to proactively incorporate the electric vehicle in 2011 providing guiding principles to ensure at work, with line managers operating an EV charging facilities at specific sites, adherence to the strictest standards of opendoor policy and willing to listen to ideas, benefiting our customers and supporting ethical conduct, fair dealing and integrity in which can be quickly implemented.
Employees adaptation of sustainable transport modes.
The Groups philosophy are respected and are well rewarded, with During the year, we installed EV charging is underpinned by the principles of honesty, the remuneration structure aligned with that points at Birchwood Shopping, St Georges integrity, respect and dignity, and includes of the executives.
Senior management are Harrow, Priority Retail Park, and The Arches butis not limited to : seen to contribute to a positive work culture, Retail Park, Watford.
conduct befitting the reputation demonstrating a strong work ethic that Since the installations were completed, oftheGroup: permeates down to the staff resulting in low theEVcharging points have been used confidentiality of information: turnover and absenteeism in the workforce.
over 2,400times, delivering over seven The entrepreneurial nature of the executives protection and proper use of assets: tonnes of CO e savings from visitor travel.
2 and the agility of the Board to respond to conflicts of interests: Ourcustomers, on average, charge their opportunities creates an exciting atmosphere antibribery: vehicles for2 hours and 10 minutes per visit.
in which to work, with employees pulling legitimate share dealings: together as a team.
The 7kW fast charging units have been diversity: installed at all locations, providing In order to ensure the culture of the business around 30miles of charge per hour.
best practice corporate governance: is maintained, employee surveys are Drivers can access the charging points by protection of the environment: undertaken to monitor staff satisfaction and to simply registering on the Pod Point app.
ensure any grievances are quickly addressed.
to act as a considerate landlord: Toencourage the use of greener forms of An employee forum has been set up to discuss compliance with unlawful and unethical transport, the charging points are provided any matters that affect the workforce as a behaviour: and free of charge.
whole and to respond to any information or reporting of unlawful and unethical training requests that employees may have, behaviour.
ensuring that communication flows through out the Company, and employees are kept Such matters are there to encourage a friendly and healthy environment in which abreast of business developments or other matters that may affect them.
Tenants St. Georges Shopping Centre, Harrow and Other functionality includes push notification Weston Favell Shopping Centre, Northampton alerts and the ability to track retailer recently launched Mallcomm, a dedicated interaction within the app.
The pilot scheme retailer communications tool in the form forms part of our wider tenant engagement of a mobile app.
Mallcomm allows centre programme and has been a huge success, management teams to communicate with with user logins at rates of up to 95% during staff, from head office to store managers the test period.
Mallcomm will be rolled out and shop staff, on a real time basis across across the UK Shopping Centre portfolio a number of subjects including marketing, in2019.
operations, security and health and safety.
The app, which works across both the iOS andAndroid platforms, is free to download and allows retailers to share key information about their businesses with the centre management team.
70 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Communities In May 2018, team members from community shopping centre Weston Favell, supported by RDI Head Office staff, undertook a 100 mile walk from RDIs offices in Londons Piccadilly back to the shopping centre in Northampton, raising funds for local charity, Thomass Fund.
Following the path of the Grand Union canal, the team covered approximately 20 miles each day for a five-day period, with the aim of raising 10,000 for the charity which was named Weston Favells charity of the year 2017.
On arrival back at Weston Favell on the final day of the challenge, the weary walkers were met by a huge welcoming committee made up of shoppers, media, colleagues and representatives from Thomass Fund who had been following the groups progress via social media throughout the week.
The total amount of 10,488.95 raised from the walk was greatly received by Thomass Fund which provides music therapy for children with lifelimiting illnesses and disabilities in the Northampton area.
2-6 Boundary Row, Waterloo, London RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 71 Strategic report Stakeholder engagement continued Investors The Board is committed to maintaining Corporate website www.
com 2018 AGM results: an open dialogue with shareholders and 67 per cent ofvotes cast The website has recently been redesigned, engaging with both existing and potential with clear linkage to all areas of our business, All resolutions were strongly supported, investors on Company strategy, management, and improving navigation for shareholders save for the Directors Annual Report on remuneration and governance.
The Chairman to the latest updates, related presentation Remuneration which received 89.41%.
and the Executive Directors are the primary materials and regulatory shareholder The Company had received criticism for contacts for institutional investors and major information.
publishing the executives bonus targets shareholders, supported by the Head of retrospectively due to commercial sensitivity All investor materials, including video content, Investor Relations.
We take feedback from concerns.
This policy has been reviewed, are made available on the website, including investors seriously.
All feedback received is and the executives bonus targets and quarterly factsheets with all the latest news reported to the Board, along with any recent performance for 2018 have been published and an easily downloadable Excel workbook analyst coverage.
The Remuneration Committee containing all key figures and analysis.
has also made certain commitments to align Shareholders are encouraged to contact the the Remuneration Policy, which is due to be executives to raise any matters of concern and Annual General Meetings AGM reviewed next year, with current best practice to attend the AGM where they can meet and andshareholder feedback and these commitments can be found on discuss the Companys operations with the The Board appreciates shareholders taking the page98.
time to attend the AGM, which gives investors the opportunity to meet with Directors Shareholder concerns regarding the dilutive MiFID II and raise any questions they may have effect of the scrip dividend were addressed Following the restrictions under MiFID II, concerning the operations of the Company.
through the introduction of a share buyback which became effective in January 2018, AGMs are called on at least 20 business programme in April 2018.
A total of 15 million RDI has made significant efforts to improve days notice and shareholders are provided shares were subsequently repurchased and its direct investor outreach and feedback with comprehensive notes for the proposed cancelled and following an issue of 9 million programme.
With external research materials resolutions.
scrip shares a slight reduction in the number and reliable consensus increasingly difficult to of shares in issue was achieved.
It should obtain, Company compiled consensus is now 2017 AGM results: be noted that due to the current share price published on the website to allow all investors 70 per cent ofvotes cast being at a material discount to net asset access to inclusive forecast figures.
At the 2017 AGM, there was a substantial value, a scrip dividend alternative will not be vote against the resolutions giving Directors offered to shareholders for the second interim We are aware that certain retail investors a general authority to issue shares and for dividend.
have been unable to freely invest in RDI Directors to issue shares for cash.
Although shares due to a lack of clarity around which 2019 AGM: To be held at these resolutions adhered to standard UK companies are obliged to produce a Key 11.00am on 24January 2019 at guidelines, South African shareholders found Information Document KID.
As an internally 20StDunstansHill, London EC3R 8HL the authorities excessive.
Therefore, after managed Real Estate Investment Trust with consultation with South African investors, a premium listing under Chapter 6 of the St Dunstans is part of the Companys it was proposed that in future the general FCAs Listing Rules, the PRIIPs Packaged Retail London Serviced Office portfolio and will give authority to issue shares be reduced to 20 per and Insurance-based Investment Products shareholders the opportunity to visit one of cent of the Companys current issued share regulation does not apply to the Company.
the Companys properties for the 2019 AGM.
capital, of which half could be issued in cash.
Resolutions proposed are similar to last year, Although there is no requirement to publish Votes received against these resolutions at save for the retirement of Bernie Nackan a KID, the Company is looking at other means the January 2018 AGM were minimal, and this as Nonexecutive Director, and a proposed of ensuring investors are able to trade in the authority level will be proposed again at the shareconsolidation.
With the issued share capital currently exceeding 1.9 billion shares, Directors are proposing that every five issued ordinary shares of 8 pence be consolidated into one ordinary share of 40 pence each.
Ifshareholders approve the consolidation, administrative matters and related disclosureswill be simplified but the Companys shares liquidity will remain.
72 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Although no concerns have been raised by September 2017 EPRA conference investors, the Board has noted that the FRC is proposing that all shareholders be allowed to October 2017 2017 results announcement vote on a final dividend, and this matter will All materials, including the presentation, webcast and Excel download, be considered by the Board during the coming areavailable on the Companys website year.
However, we trust that shareholders will 2017 sales desk briefings x3 be pleased that the Company has continued We actively engage with equity sales teams and provide them with an abbreviated to offer a progressive dividend, and a second version of results to assist these teams to effectively market our proposition interim dividend of 1.35 pence will be paid to shareholders on 18 December 2018, following November 2017 2017 results roadshow including London, Leeds, Manchester, Cape Town andJohannesburg another strong set of results.
The voting results of all general meetings January 2018 JPMorgan Real Estate conference arepublished on the Companys website Webcast Expanding into London flexible offices https: www.
The webcast was aimed at clarifying the investment rationale, providing more context around the structural change that supports the strong occupier demand Key contacts for our shareholders underpinning these assets and answering any immediate investor questions We have included contact details for the Company and our Registrars on page 185.
February 2018 Property tour: London serviced offices The property tour was hosted by the management team together with our If shareholders have any concerns, which the new strategic partners, Office Space in Town OSIT and was aimed at UK normal channels of communication to the research analysts and institutional investors.
The well attended event included a Head of Investor Relations, Executive team presentation followed by site visits to the recently acquired London serviced offices or Chairman have failed to resolve, then our Senior Independent Director, MichaelFarrow, April 2018 2018 interim results announcement is available to address them.
All materials, including the presentation, webcast and Excel download, areavailableon the Companys website Investor meetings 2018 interim sales desk briefing During the year the Company hosted over 2018 interim results roadshow including London, Cape Town and Johannesburg 140 meetings with potential and existing shareholders, representing over 60 per May 2018 2018 interim results roadshow including London, Edinburgh and Glasgow cent of our share register.
RDI engaged with institutional investors and private wealth Peel Hunt Real Estate conference with Giles Fuchs CEO of OSIT as a panellist June 2018 managers, with varying mandates across United Kingdom Shareholders Association UKSA was hosted at one of our multiple geographies, and hosted the United newly acquired London serviced offices Kingdom Shareholders Association for private Investor day and site visit shareholders at one of our newly acquired The management team and its strategic operational partners, OSIT and RBH London Serviced Offices during the year.
Hotel Group, hosted an investor day and property tour in London.
The focus of the day was on landlords becoming service providers and the importance that Shareholder engagements take the form active asset management plays in generating long term sustainable and growing of group meetings: one on one meetings: income.
The Company presented a strategic update on its recent hotels and conference telephone calls: investor days: serviced office acquisitions and hosted a panel discussion.
All materials, including property site visits and the AGM.
Investor videos of the strategic presentation and panel discussion, are available on the Companys website meetings are typically attended by at least two members of the executive team and our Head of Investor Relations.
July 2018 Roadshow Birmingham Where significant views were expressed, either August 2018 Roadshow London which was largely targeted at private wealth investors during or following the meetings, these were recorded and circulated to all Directors.
A summary of our investor engagement A list of all future key events can also be found on the website at programme is shown opposite.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 73
