Strategic report Corporate social responsibility We participate annually in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB Real Estate assessment and have increased our GRESB score for the third consecutive year.
We report on sustainability performance using latest EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations sBPR.
RDI acknowledges the importance of EPRA Sustainability Best Practices advancing sustainability reporting practices Recommendations within the real estate industry, providing We are proud to have received our first investors and other stakeholders with greater EPRA award for reporting in accordance transparency, and has further enhanced with the EPRA Sustainability Best Practices its sustainability disclosure to align with Recommendations sBPR.
The EPRA sBPR the majority of core requirements of the Awards recognise companies for disclosing third version of sBPR.
In this report we have the bestinclass annual sustainability introduced metrics on employee training performance reports which aim to improve and development, performance appraisals, comparability and the quality of sustainability employee turnover, injury and absentee rates reporting for listed real estate companies and asset health and safety assessments.
We have also provided further details on The third version of EPRA sBPR, published in energy consumption and waste management September 2017, has introduced the social across our portfolio.
In addition, we have set and governance impact categories and new a target to undertake third party verification performance measures within the guidelines.
of selected EPRA environmental performance measures in 2019.
2-6 Boundary Row, Waterloo, London Key achievements in the year 11% 75% 17% GRESB score Happiness Score Reduction in increased 11% following recent carbonfootprint employee survey 56 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 EPRA 10% 97% Sustainability Like-for-like Average H&S Q Best Practices reduction in Compliance score Recommendations greenhouse across UK assets Award gasemissions RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 57 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued We are committed to measuring andimproving our environmental, social andgovernance performance.
Elizabeth Peace Chair of the CSR Committee We are committed to measuring and improving our environmental, social and governance performance.
We participate annually in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB Real Estate assessment and have increased our GRESB score for the third consecutiveyear.
We report on sustainability performance using the latest EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations sBPR and we are proud to have received our first EPRA BestPractice sBPR award.
CSR Committee meetings RDI completed its third full disclosure to the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Appointed Meetings assessment during 2018.
GRESB is the global Elizabeth Peace Chair Independent Non-executive Director 25 1 2018 3 3 benchmark for assessing the sustainability Mike Watters CEO 23 8 2014 4 4 performance ofproperty companies against Adrian Horsburgh Property Director 23 8 2014 4 4 a wide range of environmental, social and governance issues.
Donald Grant CFO 1 12 2016 4 4 This year we achieved an 11 per cent Our CSR Committee is chaired by Elizabeth Peace, an independent Nonexecutive Director, improvement in our GRESB score, compared to the peer group average decrease of five per and includes three of the four Executive Directors to ensure that the Groups CSR strategy is implemented into daytoday operations.
Meetings are attended by our CSR advisers, asset cent.
In addition, we were awarded Green Star status for a second year running.
Building on managers and the Company Secretary.
our high Management and Policy score, this Growing our business sustainably years performance recognises the significant We are committed to measuring and improving our environmental, social and governance effort made to improve sustainability performance in the area of Implementation ESG performance.
We participate annually in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB Real Estate Assessment and we take a proactive approach to addressing ESG issues within our assets under The GRESB Public Disclosure Assessment management.
This is reflected in our GRESB scores that have increased for a third consecutive specifically rates the accessibility of ESG year.
We report on sustainability performance using the latest EPRA Sustainability Best Practices information for listed property companies and Recommendations sBPR guidelines.
We achieved an A rating for our level of public disclosure, In the past year we have launched a programme to increase the number of our assets that above the GRESB global average of C and hold green building certificates, to verify building performance and help identify improvement improving on the B rating received in 2017. opportunities.
We have undertaken our first BREEAM In-Use assessment at our Southwark Hotel Key objectives and initiatives for 2019 target and are set to achieve a Very Good rating for performance.
Once complete, this will be one of only a few hotels certified under the In-Use scheme in the UK.
We were also very proud to continued improvement in sustainable initiatives in line with the Companys CSR receivea Bronze rating under the SKA assessment scheme for sustainable fit-out in respect of our recently refurbished food court at West Orchards Shopping Centre, Coventry.
We want to play our part in facilitating the transition to greener forms of transportation.
Electric vehicle charging points were established during the year at four of our shopping centres, which have been a resounding success.
To date, 2,457 reported charging cycles have been completed by customers, with over seven tonnes of CO being saved in the process.
2 58 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Resilient assets Resilient governance We will uphold the highest standards in ethical behaviour and support our workforce.
We seek to operateina manner that fosters open stakeholder engagement and demonstrates best practice in  risk management.
Resilient investment We undertake to realise the full potential of our investments for both our shareholders and the communitiesin which we operate.
Resilient assets We are mindful of our wider role as placemakers and we aim to contribute to the long term prosperity of thecommunities in which we invest.
In doing so, we will undertake asset management which minimises risk and maximises asset value whilst providing the best experience possible for occupiers and visitors alike.
With respect to our employees and, where CSR strategy R esilient applicable, stakeholders, the Group will: governance At RDI, CSR means understanding and proactively managing ESG risks and ensure there are no instances of Approach opportunities that can impact on income discrimination either directly or indirectly: RDI seeks to operate efficient processes growth and net asset value, whilst also taking treat all employees, prospective andprocedures that demonstrate social and account of the Companys responsibilities employees, agents, contractors, tenants environmental risk management and foster towards stakeholders, in particular investors, and suppliers fairly and equally, regardless open stakeholder engagement.
The Group employees, the businesses with which of their gender, age, race, sexuality or willalso continue to uphold the highest we work and the communities in which disability: standards of ethical behaviour and actively weoperate.
promote staff training and development support our workforce.
We seek to ensure that our governance and with a focus on fostering innovation: The Groups approach to delivering on these risk management framework, together with seek to diversify our workforce to commitments includes: our investment and asset strategy, continue support the nature of the Companys to be resilient to the everchanging economic, complying with all applicable regulation operations or the communities in which social and environmental landscape.
Our and preparing for anticipated future we operate, taking into account relevant CSR roadmap sets out a series of actions regulation, and its implications: skills, experience, knowledge, personality, targetingboth short and medium term providing confidence to stakeholders ethnicity and gender whilst maintaining our strategic objectives.
of our sound management of CSR risks responsibility to select the best candidate: through our ongoing annual participation The CSR Committee uses targets and carefully recognise our social and moral duty in the most prominent industry benchmark selected KPIs to measure progress, reported to offer opportunities to people with survey, the GRESB Real Estate Assessment: by key stakeholders within the business disabilities and doing all that is practicable responsible for the daytoday management ensuring employees receive appropriate to meet their needs: of those targets.
The CSR Committee meets training on ESG issues, and providing uphold our commitments under our Code regularly to review progress against the CSR bespoke training on sustainability topics to of Ethics which promotes honesty and roadmap, review environmental performance those that require it: integrity in business dealings and conduct data and receive updates on current, potential maintaining best practice in health and commensurate with an organisation of our and future compliance matters relating to UK safety management to the benefit of size.
Any breaches will lead to disciplinary and German CSR legislation.
tenants, contractors, customers and proceedings and, if appropriate, employees: disciplinary action: and Gender split across the Group requiring suppliers to adhere to a code of provide all employees with a handbook ethics, covering, inter alia, antibribery and outlining the Companys key policies, modern slavery: which are designed to encourage a 244 8 pleasant working environment, free from continual relationship with first class Employees Senior discrimination, undue stress or bullying.
sustainability advisers to provide management The Company recognises, respects and leadership and guidance on sustainability upholds all UK employment rights and across the business: human rights and outlaws any forms of operating a data management system to modern slavery.
ensure our disclosure and reporting is WOMEN WOMEN accurate: and fostering a culture of openness.
MEN MEN Men 56% Men 50% Women 44% Women 50% RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 59 Resilient governance Resilient investment Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued RDI is committed to maintaining its culture In line with best practice, we voluntarily R esilient of openness and transparency.
There is a reported RDIs gender pay gap.
The most governance continued strong work ethic amongst staff and team recently published analysis is set out below.
Performance spirit is fostered through regular meetings Good progress was made during 2018 in and team building days which encourage Mean Median relation to CSR governance.
better working relationships and provide the Gender pay gap 20% 11% forum for sharing ideas with the executives in Each year our CSR targets are structured to Gender bonus pay gap 47% 28% a less formal environment.
As the Company ensure the continual improvement in GRESB Proportion of females expands, and the number of employees Real Estate Assessment score is maintained.
receiving a bonus 99% and responsibilities increases, the Board The GRESB results are categorised into Proportion of males Committees have ensured that the necessary Implementation and Measurement, to which receiving a bonus 94% internal controls have been implemented, a score is attached, and Management and and that executives and employees remain Putting this in perspective, at RDI womens Policy, which is also scored.
The Group has well rewarded.
The Board recognises the mean hourly rate is 20% lower than mens.
consistently scored well in Management importance of culture and providing a good Inother words, when comparing mean hourly and Policy, demonstrating our commitment working environment to attract and retain rates, women earn 80 pence for every 1 that to governance in this area.
To this end, an employee menearn.
survey was undertaken again this year to However, like many other companies in We have developed and published a Board provide a forum for confidential feedback.
our sector, we have a lower proportion of approved stakeholder engagement policy The Board was pleased that there was a females in senior roles than we would like, covering all areas of our business and generally positive response to the survey, asdemonstrated below.
elevated the prominence of stakeholder whilst providing for areas of focus for further impact in Board decision making.
Engagement improvements to employees satisfaction and Proportion of females and males initiatives are reported on quarterly to the health and wellbeing.
ineach quartile band Board through the CSR Committee.
See our It is our aim to extend diversity within published policy on page 69. the Group and acknowledge, accept and Female Male The Company has met its obligations under accommodate the differences between Upper 37% 63% the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme for 2018 individuals.
The Group strives to treat all Upper middle 16% 84% and continues to monitor upcoming changes employees, prospective employees, agents, Lower middle 25% 75% to legislation.
contractors, tenants and suppliers fairly and Lower 60% 40% equally, regardless of their gender, sexual RDI has its own dedicated Health and orientation, family status, race, colour, Safety Manager whose role it is to provide We are satisfied that the apparent divergence nationality, religious or political belief, guidance and support to tenants, contractors, in pay is wholly attributable to female ageordisability.
The key representation in higher-paying roles.
RDI is objective being to improve reporting committed to ensuring that equivalent roles The Company is committed to having an consistency and risk management across two attract equivalent pay, regardless of gender.
appropriate level of diversity that reflects the geographical locations, which has received nature of the Groups operations and which Employee turnover has been modest during considerable attention this past year.
best supports the achievement of strategic 2018.
All employees are based in the UK objectives.
Over the last year diversity across Focused sustainability training as delivered to or Germany, where there are few human the Group and the Board has remained all employees based at the Groups head office rights issues.
No human rights concerns or unchanged.
The Nominations Committee and across its operational locations has been whistleblowing reports were received from regularly considers skills, experience, incorporated into the Company induction employees during the year.
knowledge, personality, ethnicity and gender format and available resource materials for of the Board and has set a target to extend existing employees.
Ensuring our employees the female representation at Board level to are made aware of and educated in atleast one third by 2020. sustainability issues helps bring sustainability to life and allows for the integration of many initiatives into everyday activities throughout Employees and diversity the workplace.
The Companys staff induction programme now includes sustainability 1 1 1 Total Men % Women % awareness with attention drawn to the Board non-executives 7 7 5 71 86 2 29 14 Groups CSR strategy and initiatives.
Board executives 4 4 4 100 100 Senior management 8 9 4 50 56 4 50 44 Other employees 232 206 128 55 64 104 45 36 Total including Board non-executives 251 226 141 56 65 110 44 35 2 All employees working part time 50 49 16 33 34 67 2 All employee leavers total 44 21 1 Figures for 2017 are shown in brackets.
2 All employees excludes Board nonexecutives.
60 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Our Tenant Energy Data TED initiative Resilient Performance has gone from strength to strength during investment We are proud to announce that the provision its second year in operation.
The initiative is of the REEB utilities data analysis has enabled Approach aimed at understanding how the Company the Committee to set an energy reduction The Company seeks to implement an effective can support and influence tenants to reduce target.
The target commits RDIs managed investment strategy that realises the full their energy consumption.
TED continues assets to reducing energy intensity by 25 per potential of our investments for both our to be a complex task and we are exploring cent based on a 2017 baseline by the year shareholders and the communities in which we ways to enhance the exchange of utility 2030. operate throughout the investment life cycle.
In 2018 tenants data Other highlights from the year: coverage for the hotel sector has doubled, The Groups approach to delivering on this which given their relative size and availability continued Health, Safety and commitment includes: of data has made a material difference to the Environmental HSE compliance audit identifying investment risks during quality of our reporting and its disclosure.
scores across our UK Retail and Shopping acquisition due diligence and opportunities This contributes to an enhanced general Centre locations were maintained above to add value: awareness of how we may be able to support 90 per cent: considering the social and environmental assets outside of our operational control on undertook various Fire Risk Assessments performance of our assets: matters relating to energy efficiency.
and Water Hygiene Audits with external monitoring and measuring our resource auditors across the UK Shopping Centre A tenant engagement programme was consumption to identify efficiencies, portfolio to ensure ongoing compliance: completed at our UK Shopping Centres, particularly relating to energy: the results of which are being analysed regular monitoring of the UK portfolios reducing our carbon emissions footprint with the objective of developing an action EPC risk, to ensure all assets and units and the operational costs for our plan designed at maintaining a high level of have a valid EPC rating attached: tenants:and tenantsatisfaction.
continued to participate in fundraising maintaining a high level of tenant activities and charitable activities at R esilient satisfaction.
each UK Shopping Centre, which aids in assets fostering a great community spirit: Performance Approach installing electric vehicle charging points This was an area of focus for the year, and we at four of our retail centres with significant RDI will undertake asset management which are pleased to report considerable progress electric vehicle catchment areas.
These are maximises net asset value whilst providing the has been made.
provided free of charge: and best experience possible for occupiers and The Company has again invested time with visitors alike.
improved data from our German portfolio its CSR advisers to prepare utilities and waste to provide greater coverage of the The Groups approach to delivering on this data sets aligned to the majority of EPRA portfolios energy use.
commitment includes: sBPR 3rd version core requirements.
The engaging with and contributing to utilities and waste data set has been collated Energy Performance charitable and community initiatives on an across the 38 properties where available, Certification EPC risk ongoing basis: representing over 150 data points across the The Companys exposure to EPC risk from two geographic locations.
The utilities data engaging with local authorities and the forthcoming MEES and present Section has been analysed in accordance with the Real supporting their community campaigns: 63 legislation has been well managed, with Estate Environmental Benchmark REEB in every applicable UK property having a valid collaborating with tenants to conceive and order to support the setting of a corporate EPC rating.
To future proof our portfolio, the promote joint community projects: target for energy reduction, given the solid Committee has established a target minimum understanding, enhancing and promoting foundation formed during the last 12 months EPC rating of D for all planned refurbishments the Groups role as a placemaker, with on provision of an improved data set aligned and upgrade works to our portfolio assets.
a focus on creating and maintaining to the majority of EPRA sBPR 3rd version prosperous communities in the local areas core requirements.
Performance data where we invest: The Company is committed to measuring During the year, the CSR Committee has ensuring key environmental and social and monitoring the environmental impact of focused on green building certification across risks are well managed when the Group energy, water usage and waste management the portfolio.
The Committee identified and is undertaking development activities which falls under its operational control.
RDI supported the certification of the food court and throughout the management of our has adopted the EPRA sBPR 3rd version as development at West Orchards Shopping portfolio: and the basis of its reporting in accordance with Centre, Coventry, which achieved a Bronze SKA where possible, facilitate the transition to core requirements.
In addition, the Holiday Inn Express hotel greener energy use.
in Southwark was nominated for suitability to undergo assessment ahead of certification to BREEAM InUse for which a rating of Very Good will be achieved.
Various other assets and developments are being considered for certification as the Committee recognises the increasing need for properties to be refurbished, managed and operated responsibly.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 61 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued EPRA sustainability performance measures for our managed portfolio Absolute Abs Like-for-Like LfL Units of % coverage Impact area measurement EPRA sBPR code Indicator Index 2017 2018 % change 2017 2018 % change no.
assets MWh ElecAbs, Electricity Landlord Procured Whole Building 7,357 5,873 20% 4,204 4,802 14% Energy ElecLFL Landlord Procured 5,637 5,413 4% 5,501 5,272 4% Common Parts Shared Services Total 12,994 11,286 -13% 9,705 10,074 4% 63% Proportion estimated 1% 17% Renewables 39% 42% DH&C-Abs, District heating Landlord Procured Whole Building 4,235 3,693 13% 4,235 3,242 23% DH&C-LFL andcooling Landlord Procured Common Parts Shared Services 2 Total 4,235 3,693 -13% 4,235 3,242 -23% 75% Proportion estimated 0% 44% Renewables 0% 0% FuelsAbs, Fuels Landlord Procured Whole Building 5,953 6,014 1% 4,232 4,656 10% FuelsLFL Landlord Procured 1,374 1,524 11% 1,368 1,005 27% Common Parts Shared Services 2 Total 7,327 7,537 3% 5,600 5,661 1% 60% 1 Proportion estimated 0% 23% Renewables 0% 0% Total Energy 24,556 22,516 -8% 19,540 18,977 -3% 2 Tonnes CO e GHGDirAbs, Direct Scope 1 1,349 1,388 3% 1,031 1,043 1% Greenhouse gas 2 GHGDirLfL emissions 2 GHGIndirAbs, Indirect Scope 2 location based 5,661 4,461 21% 4,492 4,000 11% GHGIndirLfL 2 Scope 2 market based 7,409 6,159 17% 3,498 2,897 17% 2 Scope 3 471 309 34% 319 243 24% Total Scope 1, Scope 2 Location, Scope 3 7,481 6,158 -18% 5,842 5,286 -10% 1 Proportion estimated 1% 23% 3 Cubic metres m WaterAbs, Water Landlord Procured Whole Building 99,480 84,776 15% 13,223 18,744 42% 29% Water WaterLfL 1 Proportion estimated 0% 67% Metric tonnes WasteAbs, % weight by disposal Recycled 264 274 4% 231 233 1% Waste WasteLfL route Off-site Materials Recovery Facility 436 312 28% 404 291 28% landlord-managed Incineration with energy recovery 755 878 16% 713 824 16% Total 1,455 1,464 1% 1,348 1,347 0% 44% Recycled 20% 19% -1% 17% 17% 0% 2 Off-site Materials Recovery Facility 30% 21% -9% 30% 22% -8% 2 Incineration with energy recovery 52% 60% 8% 53% 61% 8% 1 Proportion estimated 19% 30% 18% 26% EnergyInt Energy kWh million net rental income 259 224 14% 209 188 10% Normalisation GHGInt GHG tCO e million net rental income 124 122 2% 100 81 19% 2 WaterInt 3 Water m million net rental income 1,064 842 21% 141 186 32% No.
of assets Energy, GHG, Water 39 38 Disclosure coverage Waste 15 16 Total No.
In Organisational Boundary ManagedAssets 41 38 Acquired during reporting period 9 Sold during reporting period 12 1 Estimation methodology used: Energy, GHG, Water prorata estimation based on nearest available period of recorded consumption using primary evidence.
Waste estimation based on industry standard conversions volume to weight.
2 Where we have received more accurate data for energy and waste we have made restatements to the 2017 absolute performance measures.
We have restated greenhouse gas emissions accordingly, to reflect these changes.
62 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 EPRA sustainability performance measures for our managed portfolio Absolute Abs Like-for-Like LfL Units of % coverage Impact area measurement EPRA sBPR code Indicator Index 2017 2018 % change 2017 2018 % change no.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 63 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued 2 Building certification and labelling Cert-Tot % floor area m covered in managed boundary % of managed portfolio with BREEAM in use Very Good 1% % of managed portfolio with SKA Ratings Bronze 6% Total 7% EPRA social and governance reporting to version 3 sBPR Social performance measures EPRA code Performance measure Indicator 2018 Employee gender diversity Board of Directors Female 18% DiversityEmp Male 82% Employees Female 45% Male 55% Gender pay ratio Gender pay gap Mean 20% DiversityPay Employee training and development Average hours 14.4 EmpTraining Employee performance appraisals Proportion of employees 48% EmpDev New hires Total number and rate 60 25% EmpTurnover Turnover Total number and rate 44 17% Employee health and safety Injury rate per 100 hours worked 0.3% H&S-Emp Absentee rate per days scheduled 3% Number of work related fatalities 0 Asset health and safety assessments Proportion of assets 21 H&S-Asset Asset health and safety compliance Number of incidents: unresolved within the 0 H&S-Comp requiredtimeframe Community engagement, impact assessments and Proportion of assets 26% ComtyEng development programmes As per mandatory greenhouse gas Our methodologies use prorated calculation EPRA commentary or likeforlike replacement.
During 2019 we disclosure, our organisational boundary The Company has enhanced its environmental for environmental disclosure is based on will review our data management processes to performance data disclosure to align with the increase data accuracy and reduce estimation.
the principle of operational control, and majority of EPRA sBPR 3rd version.
therefore includes all property assets where In terms of absolute energy consumption We present consolidated property energy, we are responsible for the procurement of change, electricity consumption decreased greenhouse gas GHG, water and waste data energy, water and waste services.
A total of by 13 per cent and gas consumption on both an absolute Abs and like-for-like 38 assets fall within the boundary for 2018 increased by 3 per cent in the past year due LfL basis, covering assets in our UK and and 41 for 2017 reporting periods.
We have to a combination of property disposals and German portfolios.
We believe that adopting provided actual or estimated data to cover increased occupancy and heating demand this approach provides greater transparency all of these assets for the current reporting across our multilet properties.
District heating and comparability for our stakeholders in period.
Estimation is only made where consumption again recorded an annual respect to the environmental performance actualbilled or metered data availability falls reduction due to reduced demand within ofassets under management.
within six months or less from the period to ourGerman shopping centre assets.
64 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Our LfL portfolio for the purpose of the EPRA In relation to intensity of environmental Please see page 66 for further information disclosure is mostly composed of our UK and performance, we have chosen to use onour absolute scope 1 and 2L GHG German Shopping centres.
These properties net rental income as the denominator emissions and reporting methodology.
have the largest environmental impact of all tobe consistent with our GHG disclosure We expect to continue to enhance our data assets under management.
We recognise that other reporting programme during the course of in electricity consumption was less pronounced normalisation factors may be more the next year to provide better insight into four per cent.
Water consumption saw appropriate for use in the future, with where energy and water data is submetered a 29per cent increase, however a large a particular focus to ensure that LfL exclusively to tenants, as well as improve proportion of water data was estimated performance changes can be properly the data accuracy and coverage of our data duetoan issue related to supplier billing.
We will introduce reporting management system.
onperformance against our energy intensity target in 2019.
Governance performance measures Composition of the highest Number of executive 4 GovBoard governance body Board members Number of independent 1 Chairman nonexecutive Board 4 independent nonexecutives members 2 nonexecutive Average tenure on the 4.6 years governance body Number of independent 1 nonexecutive Board members with competencies relating toenvironmental and social topics Process for nominating Narrative on process Nominations Committee reviews the mix of the Board to identify any potential GovSelec and selecting the highest areaof weakness.
governance body Diversity is considered.
An external executive search agency is engaged when searching for a new nonexecutive.
A long list of diverse candidates with the right experience is drawn up.
Candidates with the right experience will be invited for an interview.
A smaller number of candidates will be shortlisted.
Those shortlisted will be discussed by the Nominations Committee.
The best two candidates will be interviewed by the CEO followed by an interview with the Nominations Committee.
Indepth discussion between the Nominations Committee and all the independent nonexecutive to consider each candidate.
Final recommendation will be made to the Board followed by an announcement tothe shareholders.
For more information, please refer to RDIs 2017Annual Report page 71 Process for managing Narrative on process Directors are not to accept any other appointment or any arrangements which GovCoI conflicts of interest might be expected to lead to a conflict of interesting arising, without the consent ofthe Board.
Any possible appointment is discussed with the Chairman to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest or that a Directors independence is not compromised.
The Company maintains a Conflicts of Interest Register.
For more information, please refer to RDIs 2017Annual Report page 71 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 65 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Mandatory GHG emissions reporting table % 2018 2017 Change Direct greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e 2 combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 1,388 1,349 3% Indirect greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e Scope 2L location based 4,461 5,661 21% 2 purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2M market based 6,159 7,409 17% Total carbon footprint in tonnes of CO e Total scope 1 and 2L 5,849 7,010 17% 2 Scope 1 and 2 intensity tCO e m net rental income 58 75 23% 2 The boundary of RDIs carbon emissions Methodology CSR advisers statement disclosure is based on the principle of RDIs carbon emissions disclosure has been As RDIs strategic adviser on corporate operational control.
Therefore, emission produced in accordance with guidance social responsibility, Savills would like to sources within real estate assets owned issued in the ISO 140641:2006 international acknowledge the continual improvement and managed by RDI are included in the standard and the GHG Protocol Corporate demonstrated by RDI in terms of their focus reported emission figures.
We do not have Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised on how they have chosen to implement, responsibility for any emissions sources Edition.
Location based emissions factors are maintain and improve their CSR strategy.
that are not included in our consolidated sourced from the UK Government for each RDIis a proactive Company that considers statement.
Emission sources relating to respective reporting period and International their CSR responsibility to be embedded occupier activities that do not fall under the Energy Association to cover German assets.
within their core operations and integrated operational control of RDI are excluded where We reported both the location-based and within their investment strategy for short, possible.
Where landlords obtain energy market-based emissions resulting from medium and long term growth.
Our and data split of consumption in tenant purchased electricity to comply with the engagement with the Company has shown demises and landlordcontrolled areas is updated guidance on the reporting of Scope that employees have a high level of interest in unavailable, emissions associated to the whole 2 GHG emissions under the GHG Protocol.
CSR initiatives, are well equipped to support buildings energy consumption are included The locationbased method uses an average their implementation and by ensuring that in Scope 2.
For 2017 and 2018, there have emission factor for the national grid on sufficient time and resources are made been no reported fugitive emissions from which electricity consumption occurs.
The available, RDI effectively tackles both the airconditioning refrigerant leaks and topup market-based method reflects emissions straightforward and the more challenging of refrigerant volume.
from the electricity that companies have targets set.
chosen to purchase in the market.
Where a We confirm that environmental data published Data notes marketbased emissions factor is unavailable in this report provides a true representation Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduced the residual mix or locationbased factor of the Companys current performance.
Savills by 16 per cent due to a combination of has been applied.
Markets differ as to what will continue to support RDI over the coming changes to our property portfolio in Germany, contractual instruments are commonly year, to guide and assist in improving the data areduced demand for heating and a decrease available or used by companies to purchase collection and reporting and to attain their in UK grid emission factors.
energy or claim its specific attributes.
chosen to use a supplier specific emissions rate.
This method has been used in alignment Jonathan Hale with the GHG Protocols quality criteria.
In Associate Director alignment with UK DEFRA Environmental Savills Reporting Guidelines, we have used the 25 October 2018 conversion factor for the year the emissions took place.
Data is disclosed in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
66 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 CSR target roadmap Progress achieved against CSR targets set for 2018 Resilient governance Resilient investment Resilient assets Develop a stakeholder Independently verify the performance Set a property wide relative engagementprogramme to of our assets through certification reduction target for total energy providea strategy, policy and action of our portfolio during operation, consumption on a likeforlike basis plan for mobilisation across the refurbishment, new construction in terms of energy per unit floor 2 managed estate to cover tenants, using appropriate green building area kWh m. communities and employees.
Review the Company induction Continue to maintain high levels Facilitate the transition to greener format to include a section of tenant satisfaction through an forms of transportation via the specifically on sustainability for the engagement programme in order installation of electric vehicle benefit of all new employees and to act on the findings from the most charging points across appropriate to maintain awareness amongst recent survey.
Harmonise Company Health, Safety Ensure employees are made aware Improve data across our German and Environmental HS&E policies of Company initiatives which assets to ensure the ability across RDls two geographical supporttheir health and wellbeing to measure key performance locations.
and gain an insight into their indicators KPIs can be realised.
Good progress Sound progress Some progress CSR targets for 2019 Resilient governance Resilient investment Resilient assets Continue to develop a German Health, Continue to independently verify the Undertake energy audits across our Safetyand Environmental programme to performance of our assets through managed assets to identify actions to achieve alignwith our UK approach.
25% reduction in energy use by 2030 against 2017 baseline year.
Review and report on progress made.
Undertake third party verification of our EPRA Demonstrate our commitment to procuring Improve monitoring and reporting of waste environmental performance measures.
100% renewable energy in so far as data and performance across our managed .
Implement a pilot scheme at selected assets Complete an employee focus session on Expand the tenant satisfaction survey for an Environmental Management System healthand wellbeing.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 67
