Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report On behalf of the Board, I present the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance CRSEC We are committed to putting Committee Report for the financial the safety of our consumers year ended 31 December 2018. and employees first, and to The Committee, along with the RB management team, has ensuring that we conduct worked hard building on the foundations set in 2017, which was the first full year of the Committees operation.
following report outlines the role, responsibilities and activities of the Committee during 2018.
Pam Kirby Chair of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, At the start of 2018, RB reorganised the business under RB Ethics and Compliance Committee 2.0 for long-term growth and outperformance by creating two focused, accountable and agile business units: Health and Hygiene Home.
As I stated in my report last year, the Committee has ensured that momentum is maintained with regard to delivering the planned safety, quality and compliance objectives within and across each business unit.
As a manufacturer, we are mindful of the emerging risks relating to the sustainability of our products and packaging using plastics.
In addition, we want to reduce our environmental footprint, including reduced emissions.
We have monitored and supported the varying requirements arising from such issues to ensure RB is equipped to manage its obligations and remains a responsible global citizen, on behalf of all its stakeholders.
More details on our sustainability aims, activities and progress can be read from page 12 and online at www.
Each year, the Committee has a detailed standing agenda of matters to be considered and reviewed.
In addition to our regular agenda reviews, we have carried out in-depth reviews in specific areas.
These include: General Data Protection Regulation GDPR compliance: anti-bribery compliance: the Modern Slavery Act Statement: delivery of the RB 2.0 programme: approval of our Plastics Pledge and Breast-Milk Substitute Marketing Policy and Procedures: oversight of the revised RB Code of Conduct and associated mandatory employee training launched in 2018: safety and compliance risks and mitigation: and environmental matters.
Some of the key achievements in the reporting period follow.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 87 Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report continued FTSE4Good accreditation Speak Up processes and systems into RBs to ensure that all RB secured continued accreditation for the 15th consecutive cases are investigated in a timely manner and the outcome year in the FTSE4Good Index, the worlds leading global reflected in proportionate and fair decisions, including the responsible investment index measuring the performance of improvement of internal processes and the overall culture companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and ofcompliance.
With the acquisition of MJN in 2017, RB needed to satisfy a number of mandatory FTSE4Good RB received a total of 296 Speak Up cases during 2018 in both inclusion criteria for the marketing of Breast-Milk Substitutes Health and Hygiene Home.
From those cases, 202 were from BMS to retain FTSE4Good accreditation, and became the third Health, 86 from Hygiene Home and eight related to RB Group.
BMS manufacturer to do so.
All cases were or are in the process of being investigated.
The complete report can be viewed online at www.
com Ethical Marketing and Infant and Child Nutrition IFCN responsibility policies-and-reports.
Early in 2018, two major milestones were achieved in relation to the IFCN business, namely: Plastics We approved and launched RBs statement on plastics in June Infant and Child Nutrition Pledge outlines RB 2018, on World Environment Day.
Our overriding objective is commitments on infant nutrition and our support for responsible use of plastic for packaging, using the 4R approach exclusive breastfeeding in the first six months of life.
reduce, replace, reuse and recycle.
Further details can be found at: www.
Policy & Procedures on the marketing of BMS establishes our mandatory marketing practices in higher-risk Modern Slavery Act Statement countries, in support of the aims and principles of the World In May 2018, RB published its Slavery and Human Trafficking Health Organization WHO International Code of Marketing Statement following the Committees recommendation to of Breast-Milk Substitutes of 1981.
The Statement can be found at: www.
com addresses management systems, governance, monitoring media 3415 .
It was reassuring that external reviews of our Statement by, forexample, the Business & Human Rights Resource Centre, As part of RBs commitments to monitoring and transparency, recognised the increased transparency we have brought to bear during 2018 we concluded our first external audit and on this agenda.
Our commitment to uphold the United Nations published the resulting audit report and corrective action plan.
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights remains In 2019, two further audits are planned, with resulting public central to our operations and our work with suppliers around reporting planned for late 2019.
At local market level, all the world.
alleged non-compliances reported are followed up, and corrective action plans implemented, as appropriate.
In June Global Responsible Advocacy Policy 2018, RB took appropriate action in response to the allegations At the end of 2018, RB launched its Global Responsible of non-compliance raised by the International Baby Food Advocacy Policy, which aims to make transparent our Action Network IBFAN in its report for the three-year period influencing activities and practices.
This is further evidence of ended June 2017. the progress we have made in establishing RB as a responsible company and manufacturer.
The Committee assists the Board The CRSEC Committee has final oversight of all BMS-related in discharging its responsibilities regarding this policy, which reporting.
com responsibility infantcan be found at www.
com media 3684  for further related materials.
pdf Ethics & Compliance E&C Climate change and the Task Force on Climate-related Following the integration with MJN, an expanded E&C function Financial Disclosures TCFD was established to reflect RBs strong culture of integrity and We are developing our understanding of risks associated with tosupport the business to live its core value of Responsibility.
climate change impacts and this supports our response to the In addition to a Group E&C team, RB now has dedicated TCFD.
We worked with  LLP PwC to compliance professionals in both business units and in several review our activities and reporting in support of TCFD in 2018: different jurisdictions, to assist the Company in ensuring it we will report further on this and our approach from 2019 conducts business in an ethical way that complies with onwards.
Climate change was and continues to be a material applicable laws, regulations and internal policies.
issue within our sustainability activity and we will be reviewing our strategies and operational activity on energy and water Speak Up service specifically, and climate change more broadly, during 2019.
During 2018, one of RBs main priorities was to increase This includes considering risks arising from both low carbon awareness of the confidential Speak Up service available for all transition policies and physical climate impacts in the context employees and third parties to ask questions and raise concerns ofTCFD.
on potential violations of regulations, internal policies or any misconduct observed in RB.
The E&C team integrated MJNs Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 88 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GDPR Shareholder engagement We focused on overseeing the delivery of the critical In 2018, fellow Board members and I, along with the SVP elements for compliance with GDPR prior to the May 2018 Investor Relations and the Chief SQRC Officer, met with various implementation deadline.
Online compliance training institutional investors to share our progress on CRSEC matters, was completed by our employees, privacy controls were where we gave a deeper insight to the committed programme implemented for new GDPR requirements of consent, of work overseen by the Committee, detailing the collection, retention and deletion, and an operational crisis and comprehensive nature of the programmes and activities since incident management process implemented to comply with the inception of the Committee and our ongoing areas of focus.
the 72-hour breach reporting requirement for any notifiable personal data breach.
The Committee monitors the delivery Committee priorities for 2019 of broader privacy requirements, and this matter is on the Review the most material sustainability issues facing RB and Committees standing agenda.
RB appointed a Group Data develop strategies looking beyond our current 2020 targets Protection Officer and instituted a new Privacy Office team.
Continue monitoring governance and compliance as each At country level, Heads of Privacy in each relevant EU country business unit develops operationally cluster were appointed in both Health and Hygiene Home.
Embed new standards, systems and ways of working into South Korea Humidifier Sanitizer HS each of the business units The HS issue in South Korea was a tragic event, with many Oversee the progress on the remaining remediation and parties involved, and the Committee oversees the efforts infrastructure programmes tomitigate its impact and alleviate the suffering caused.
Advance risk anticipation and mitigation efforts Wecontinue to make both public and personal apologies to Support the efforts to further instil our Responsibility value victims.
In August 2018, Oxy RB extended its compensation into all aspects of our Group plan for the Oxy RB Category I & II users categorised to date in Support other countries to comply with new data protection Round 4.
The South Korean government opened Round 4 to regulations that follow GDPR standards new applicants on 25 April 2016 for an indefinite period and continues to receive applications.
Further details on the event Enhance Ethics & Compliance offline training processes and controls and our remediation efforts can be found at www.
Review the existing processes and roll out a new integrated policy for third-party due diligence Safety, Quality and Regulatory Compliance SQRC remediation and infrastructure programmes I would like to acknowledge and thank our former Chairman of The Committee has continued its oversight of the SQRC the Board, Adrian Bellamy, who stepped down as a member of remediation and infrastructure programmes and 2018 has seen the Committee and Board in May 2018, for his counsel and the completion of three programmes designed to strengthen input while a member of the Committee.
the safety and compliance framework along with a successful pilot of a new Product Lifecycle Management system that is I would also like to thank my fellow Committee members, now in design for global roll-out.
ChrisSinclair, Nicandro Durante and Mehmood Khan, for their diligence and service to the Committee, and all my fellow We have monitored quality, safety and sustainability leading Board colleagues for their strong support and focus on our and lagging indicators which have driven real-time improvement work throughout the year.
Finally, but not least, the efforts of actions where needed and which are demonstrating improved the RB management team in the timeliness, quality and rigour performance in areas such as quality and employee health and of reporting to us are very much appreciated.
The Committee has also been briefed and provided guidance on issues as they have occurred during the year, such I look forward to meeting as many of you as possible and to as the temporary manufacturing disruption at an IFCN European answering any of your questions at the Companys AGM on facility, and the recall of Durex latex-free condoms.
RB 2.0 Pam Kirby The risk and control challenges around the RB 2.0 Chair of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and reorganisation were reviewed and continue to be closely Compliance Committee monitored, to track implementation of the programme and 18 March 2019 mitigate risk.
The Committee met regularly with operational management at its meetings to review each of the RB 2.0 workstreams and also to consider the reputational, legal and regulatory risks and controls.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 89 Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report continued Activity during the year Items considered by the Committee at meetings during Standing agenda items reviewed by the Committee the year during the year February 2018 Governance in RB 2.0 Report of the Compliance Management Committee Status of key programmes: GDPR update Product Lifecycle Management System design SQRC, including review of 2017 KPIs and implementation for reporting, update on transformation programmes, REACH chemical legislation compliance organisation and priorities Trackwise system implementation for change control Approval of the Sustainability Report Product Integrity Review to evaluate product compliance Breast-Milk Substitute Marketing status of the portfolio Policy and related procedures Product Safety Evaluation Report review of the portfolio May 2018 Quality risk review Report of the Ethics Management Committee 2017 audit findings remediation and 2018 Audit Plan Quality, Health & Legal compliance updates and key priorities Safety, Human Rights Sustainability updates Approval of Modern Slavery Act Progress of embedding RB Code of Conduct within RB Statement and MJN July 2018 Approval of Plastics Strategy and the Fraudulent activity or reports raised under the Breast Milk Substitutes Pledge whistleblowing procedure Evolution of RB Compliance Changes in governance matters by way of technical updates Programme throughout the year from management SQRC key issues and programmes Regular discussion without executive or management status update presence October 2018 Plastics update peer benchmarking, future strategy 2019 Sustainability strategy GDPR update Review of the Committees terms of reference and recommendation to the Board for approval Composition Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board The members of the Committee during the year were: on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which reviews membership in terms of skills, knowledge and Composition Tenure during the year experience.
The Board is satisfied that each member of the Pam Kirby Chair Chair and member of the Committee Committee is independent and that Committee members as for the entire year a whole have competence relevant to the Companys sector Adrian Bellamy Retired from the Committee and the and industries in which it operates.
On joining the Committee Board on 3 May 2018 and during their tenure, members receive additional training tailored to their individual requirements.
Such training includes Nicandro Durante Member of the Committee for the entire year meetings with internal management covering CRSEC matters.
All members of the Committee receive regular briefings from Chris Sinclair Member of the Committee from senior executives on matters covering governance, regulatory 1 May 2018 and legislative developments, and RB practices and policies.
Mehmood Khan Member of the Committee from 1 July 2018 The Deputy Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee for the full year.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 90 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Meetings Evaluation The Committee is expected to meet at least three times per During the year, the Committee undertook a self-evaluation year.
During 2018, the Committee held four scheduled of its performance using a detailed questionnaire and analysis meetings, and the attendance of members at the meetings is software provided by Independent Audit Ltd, the results set out in the table on page 70.
The CEO and CFO, the Chief of which were reported to the February 2019 Committee SQRC Officer, the Chief Internal Auditor, the SVP General meeting, due to the October meeting being held in advance of Counsel & Company Secretary and the Head of Ethics & the finalisation of the results.
Questionnaires were submitted Compliance regularly attend meetings.
Other Board members to the Committee members, the CEO, CFO and SVP General are invited to attend all meetings.
Other senior management Counsel & Company Secretary.
The questionnaire was again attend when deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Time is based on four main themes: getting the right picture: role and allocated at each meeting for private discussion with the Chief responsibilities: quality of controls: and the manner of working SQRC Officer, the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and the with RB management.
The 2017 evaluation had identified Chief Internal Auditor without other invitees being present, as the need for closer contact with management, to assess well as a private meeting of the Committee members.
attitudes for improved risk analysis and consideration of the Committees longer-term strategic work goals.
The Committee Committee meetings usually take place ahead of Board was pleased with progress made on these issues.
They did not meetings and the Committee Chair provides to the Board an re-emerge in the 2018 evaluation, but it was acknowledged update of the key issues discussed at each meeting.
Copies of that there is always more work to be done by the Committee.
Committee papers are provided to all Board Directors in In summary, the results concluded that the effectiveness and advance of each meeting and minutes of each Committee performance of the Committee remain strong.
The Committee meeting are provided to the Board.
and management will focus on the following areas in 2019: ensuring reports provide the right level of detail and are Role and responsibilities presented in a way that makes it easy for the Committee to The Committee is part of the Groups governance framework understand the important issues: and and supports the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in ensuring the integrity of the Groups corporate responsibility looking sufficiently at the root cause and accountabilities in and sustainability, ethics and compliance strategies, policies, the analysis of incidents.
Its role and responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which can be found at www.
In November 2018, the Board approved the Committees proposed changes to its terms of reference, to take account of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and recommended best practice.
We review our terms of reference annually.
The Audit Committee has a monitoring function in respect of risk management and internal control systems, especially financial controls, but which also includes the assurance framework established by management to identify and monitor risks identified by the CRSEC Committee.
The Committee liaises with the Audit Committee as appropriate.
com Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 91 Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report continued RB Code of Conduct Our training on ethical behaviour is centred on our Code of Conduct, which was approved and relaunched in 2018.
Living our values means everybody at RB must place the issue of responsibility at the centre of their working life.
We conduct business honestly and with integrity and do the right thing.
We act fairly and treat others with respect.
We look for opportunities to improve our products, develop the talent of our people and innovate for results.
We drive for outperformance and take responsibility for our work, for the impact we have on society and the environment in which we operate, and for delivering sustainable results to our stakeholders.
Our people are encouraged to raise concerns through our Speak Up hotline, which RB continues to promote.
The Code of Conduct covers areas such as: Our consumers and Our Shareholders and Our people customers stakeholders Our global marketplace Fair treatment Product safety Keeping accurate records Fair competition Health and safety Reporting consumer-adverse Protecting confidential Anti-bribery and antievents, safety concerns and information corruption Respect for human rights quality issues Data privacy Working with suppliers Employee privacy Marketing activities Insider trading and securities Protecting the environment Interactions with healthcare law compliance Political activities professionals Interacting with Shareholders, analysts, the media and the public Government investigations Protecting Company assets Use of electronic resources Conflicts of interest Exchanging business gifts and entertainment Doing the right thing wherever we are located Collaboration, and supporting each other for the good of our employees, consumers, communities and Shareholders, is how we succeed.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 92 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
