Stakeholder engagement Employees How we engage: In 2018, following our RB 2.0 reorganisation, we reinforced our employee communications and connections through different channels, including more employee-led storytelling.
We created a modern learning experience platform learn.
com to help access bite-size Understanding the learning and build key capabilities across RB.
needs and concerns of Ownership is one of our core values: one element that supports this is our all-employee share plan.
This plan was relaunched in 2018 to increase employee engagement and give wider access everyone who engages to employee share ownership.
The uptake of the plan is highly encouraging, with more than 20,000 employees currently with us and our brands participating across the Group.
Our Culture Pulse survey showed that some 86% of employees is critical to delivering say they are proud to work at RB, a level that is among the best in the industry.
impact that is at the Why we engage: Corporate cultures can never be static: heart of our purpose they must evolve.
We are evolving our culture to deliver on our objective of growth and sustainable outperformance.
We want to understand our employees changing needs of Healthier Lives and and expectations.
86% of our employees are We maintain strong stakeholder relationships to identify those proud to work at RB.
Source: Culture Pulse needs and deliver them well.
These relationships create greater biannual culture survey.
scale and opportunity to build a better business, better society and better environment.
Considering these relationships focuses our activity, prioritising key issues for growth, innovation, impact and a resilient future.
FOCUS ON EMPLOYEES We know that working in partnership is critical in helping us Our employees as ambassadors understand and embrace new opportunities, operate responsibly, with trust and transparency and reach more We had a busy year in 2018.
Purpose continues to be people for greater social impact.
akey engagement driver for current employees and newhires.
Reporting to meet our stakeholders needs Our approach to sustainability reporting has changed for 2018.
In the area of diversity, our #HeDaresSheDares video In the past, RBs Annual Reports and Sustainability Reports campaign went viral on LinkedIn, while #BustYouRBias were separate.
However, our stakeholders expectations are addressed the issue of unconscious bias.
changing and we have adapted our reporting accordingly.
com youll find additional corporate performance We supported One Young World with some of our information across all aspects of our reporting agenda.
brightest talent sharing RBs purpose-led initiatives on Onsustainability specifically, www.
com responsibility has aglobal stage at The Hague.
The RB Global Challenge been expanded and streamlined, helping our stakeholders to 2018 invited over 16,000 student entrepreneurs across navigate our different sustainability projects and challenges, 19 markets to share their innovation ideas with us and our approach to these issues, as well as case studies and details allfinalists were offered employment with RB as of partnerships.
Each section of this content is supported by RB management trainees.
These documents provide further information on each topic, including additional case studies, performance data, We continued our RB Give Time programme which methodologies and links to our policies and standards.
provides every employee with two days of paid time togive help to a cause of their choice.
com responsibility Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 12 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements FOCUS ON PRODUCTS People using our products We have a range of stakeholders across our many brands so we engage in regular dialogue with consumers and consumer groups.
Particularly important is the context ofour Infant and Child Nutrition IFCN business.
For mothers who are unable to breastfeed, or who choose not to do so, our role is to provide the highest quality products that help meet the nutritional needs of mothers, infants and children.
Wepromote the recommendations of the World Health Organization WHO for exclusive breastfeeding in the first six months of life, and the introduction of safe, age-appropriate and nutritious complementary foods thereafter.
We have a key First 1,000 responsibility to adopt, implement, enforce and monitor appropriate policies and procedures to ensure our marketing practices on Breast-Milk Substitutes BMS are days ethical and responsible.
Our Breast-Milk Substitute Pledge and Marketing Policy supports high-quality See more www.
People using our products Communities How we engage: Our brand equity investment programmes How we engage: We engage through our social impact educate consumers and enhance awareness of important social investment strategy.
We now focus on four areas that have a issues.
For IFCN, we promote WHO recommendations for direct connection with our business: sexual health and rights, exclusive breastfeeding in the first six months of life.
malnutrition and stunting, health and hygiene and environment.
Why we engage: Innovation is at the heart of everything we do.
To innovate effectively, we listen to our consumers, and Why we engage: We can change the world for the better develop products that meet their needs.
We always put the bymaking a lasting impact on communities worldwide and safety of our consumers first and lead and act with integrity.
transforming the health and lives ofmillions of people.
Doing good is integral to what we do.
FOCUS ON PARTNERSHIPS Partnerships in the community Our new social impact investment strategy pledges to achieve several goals by 2025.
These include reinvesting 1% of annual net profit in social programmes, doubling our current social investment from 10million to 20million, and tripling our employee volunteering to 100,000 hours per year.
We also pledged to inform one billion people through health and hygiene educational programmes and behavioural change communications.
Partnership with like-minded innovators is in our DNA: it defines our business.
Throughout 2018, we were at the centre of a global network of expert individuals and organisations, all working together to create healthier lives and happier homes.
For example, RB announced its three-year partnership with the China Children and Teenagers Fund CCTF to significantly reduce stunting in the first 1,000 days of life with a focus on the nutritional 20m needs of mothers and babies in western China.
Were also a long-term partner with theUniversity of Hull on initiatives from workplace employability skills training to joint By 2025, we pledge to R&Dchallenges.
reinvest 1% of our annual net profit in social programmes.
com responsibility Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 13 Stakeholder engagement continued Human rights How we engage: We engage with a range of experts within the human rights space, including the Danish Institute for Human Rights.
We routinely communicate with suppliers, investors, consumer groups and civil society and sector experts.
Why we engage: We are committed to further integrating the United Nations UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into RB.
We want to exercise significant influence over human rights in our value chain, supporting human and labour rights wherever possible.
Environment How we engage: We routinely participate in environmental panels with external stakeholders, including suppliers, In partnership with peers, RB co-sponsored an investors, consumer groups and civil society and sector experts AIM-Progress supplier capability workshop on responsible on a variety of matters including plastics and palm oil.
sourcing in Shanghai, China in September 2018.
Why we engage: We can exercise significant influence over greenhouse gas GHG emissions, the water impact of our products and use of water in our manufacturing sites, the reuse and recycling of waste, and responsible sourcing.
Partners How we engage: We drive product improvements by collaborating with technology partners, regulatory specialists, consumer research companies, academic institutions, Aligning to the SDGs innovation and licensing experts, and environmental and sustainability consultants.
Our material issues align to the United Nations UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
The indicators Why we engage: To ensure our customers receive the best which are most relevant to our operations are: products and service possible.
Our aim is to compete in our markets effectively while remaining a fair partner to our SDG 2: ZERO HUNGER suppliers, and adhering to appropriate human rights standards.
Our acquisition of MJN means we now contribute to ending stunted growth in children.
This has lifelong health and Shareholders developmental impacts.
How we engage: We communicate with Shareholders through our Annual General Meeting AGM, our Annual SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Report, investor presentations and roadshows, as well as Many of our brands play a role in good face-to-face meetings with institutional investors, involving health and well-being.
They include Durex, both management and the Chairman to discuss remuneration Dettol, Gaviscon, as well as Lysol and our and governance matters.
Our investor meeting held in May Mortein insecticide products.
2018, attended by the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairs, along with RB management was well SDG 5: GENDER EQUALITY received.
The Investor Forum engaged with RB in preparing We are committed to gender equality and for this meeting.
delivering SDG 5 through our RB policies and practices, and through our programmes Why we engage: To build trust and transparency with in communities where we work around existing and prospective debt and equity investors.
SDG 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Our Harpic and Lysol brands are closely associated with our programmes RBs support of the New emphasising the importance of good Plastics Economy Global sanitation and good hygiene.
Commitment and our own Plastics Pledge both strengthen our commitment Alongside the above primary UN SDGs, we recognise that to responsible use of plastics there are others where we can play a role.
In our online across our packaging materials that supplement this Annual Report, we formats.
com responsibility Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 14 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Defining our material issues Shareholders We engage with a range of stakeholders to consider the Maintaining momentum on executing RB 2.0 and improving most material issues for our business both regarding current our operating performance while creating the strategic activities and looking forward.
These include consumer flexibility of two structurally independent business units.
groups, communities where we work, our peers and suppliers, experts, healthcare professionals, policy makers, NGOs and Fulfilling the value-creation opportunity of our governments and investors, and of course our own teams.
They help us to identify our material issues and ensure we are responding to their needs through our purpose and strategy.
Growing the business organically and through appropriate acquisitions as part of our mediumand long-term valueKey changes year on year creation model.
We have undertaken a new review of our most material issues Building the bench strength and the culture of the by surveying internal and external stakeholders through Corporate Citizenship, a specialist agency in this field.
The organisation both at a Board level and management level.
outcome of this review will inform our strategy and activity Staying focused on governance and risk management, development in 2019, with the aim of improving our overall andensuring we are a leader in sustainability.
performance and risk management in areas of climate change and social impact, contributing to delivering the Paris Communities Agreement on climate change, delivering the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights and increasing our alignment with Ensuring our projects and programmes support our four the UN SDGs.
Our focus on stakeholder priorities Building partnerships to deliver the greatest impact from Employees our programmes.
Evolving our culture to deliver growth and sustainable Partners in supply outperformance.
Creating the best products for our customers around Giving all employees the freedom to succeed while living theworld.
our values of entrepreneurship, achievement, responsibility, partnership and ownership.
Implementing the 4R approach reduce, replace, reuse and recycle for plastic packaging.
Ensuring we always do the right thing and have a reputation for safety, quality and regulatory compliance SQRC.
Environment Improving gender balance, leadership development, Reducing GHG emissions in our operations and across andengagement and retention across all functions thelife cycle.
Improving water efficiency in our operations and minimising People using our products water impact in our products, our sites and our communities.
Driving the principles of ethical marketing and putting theconsumer at the heart of everything we do.
Reducing waste and increasing reuse and recycling.
Enhancing awareness of good health and hygiene through Responsibly sourcing key ingredients and materials.
Human rights Creating a world-class SQRC organisation.
Further integrating the UN Guiding Principles on Business Delivering our Infant and Child Nutrition Pledge and BMS and Human Rights into our work.
Marketing Policy, as detailed on page 13.
Improving workplace safety and labour standards within ourvalue chain to reduce the risk of modern slavery.
Promoting diversity and inclusion within our value chain.
Delivering societal benefits through our brands and their products.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 15 Non-financial information statement The information below is intended to help our stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial matters, following the new non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414C 7, 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
Reporting requirements Policies and standards which govern our approach Additional information and risk management Environmental matters Environmental policy Group Environmental 1 Responsible sourcing of natural raw Management System materials policy Stakeholder Engagement page 12 Plastics Pledge Better Environment page 22 Employees RB Code of Conduct Stakeholder Engagement page 12 Our Values Better Business page 18 Occupational Health & Safety CRSEC Committee Report page 87 Speak Up policy Gender Pay Gap Report RB Corporate Diversity & Inclusion Policy Group Occupational Health 1 & Safety Management System Human rights Policy on Human Rights and Responsible Stakeholder Engagement page 12 Business Better Society page 20 Modern Slavery Act Statement Commitments to international standards Social and community matters Social Impact Investment Our commitment to auditing Breast-Milk Substitute BMS and and transparency on BMS Marketing Policy Stakeholder Engagement page 12 Consumer Safety Better Society page 20 Anti-bribery and anti-corruption RB Code of Conduct Better Business page 18 Speak Up policy CRSEC Committee Report page 87 Policy embedding, due diligence and outcomes Risk Management and Principal Risks page 40 CRSEC Committee Report page 87 Principal risks and impact of business activity Principal Risks page 42 Description of business model Our Business Model page 02 Non-financial key performance indicators From pages 16-23 1 Information not in the public domain.
Most of our reporting on these topics and KPIs are contained in our Strategic Report under the sections entitled Business Model, Stakeholder Engagement, Better Business, Better Society and Better Environment, and Risk Management or are incorporated into the Strategic Report by reference for these purposes from the pages noted.
RB has formulated appropriate policies and due diligence procedures regarding all the non-financial information presented in this Annual Report.
We make it our responsibility to follow legislation and policy diligently.
Insights into key policies and due diligence procedures, and the basis and methodological principles for the collation of our key sustainability metrics, can be found online at www.
com responsibility insights Gender diversity Board Directors Senior managers Other employees Definition: the percentage of women in our global workforce.
Target: expand our focus on diversity and talent by improving 8 2017: 8 male 424 2017: 392 male 20,624 2017: 19,910 male the retention rates of women from managers to senior managers.
This is in line with our goal of doubling the number 3 2017: 3 female 139 2017: 127 female 16,147 2017: 15,427 female of women in senior management roles from a 2016 baseline.
GHG emissions Our GHG data includes emissions from operations covered by the Group Financial Statements for which we have operational control.
Where we acquire new businesses, we include their emissions from the first full calendar year of our ownership onwards.
Due to the acquisition of MJN in 2017, our 2018 data now includes acquired Infant and Child Nutrition IFCN sites.
In 2018, our GHG emissions from our entire operations, including manufacturing, R&D, offices and distribution centres, were made up of: Scope 1: 148,214 tCO e 2017: 100,443 emissions from combustion of fuel in our facilities 2 Scope 2: 247,856 tCO e 2017: 164,205 emissions from energy supplied to us, such as electricity, heat, steam or cooling 2 Total emissions from Scope 1 and Scope 2 activities in 2018 were 396,070 2017: 264,648.
We calculate our emissions intensity per unit of production, which in 2018, including our newly acquired IFCN sites, equated to 0.0521 tCO e. 2017: 0.00278.
2 We reported the above on a market-based approach in line with the WRI WBSCD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Scope 2 Guidance and our Reporting Criteria.
Following a location-based approach, our Scope 2 emissions for 2018 were 309,179 tonnes of CO e 2017: 214,424 and our total Scope 1 and 2 tonnes of CO e were 457,393.
Please note 2 2 restatement of 2017 GHG emissions for Scope 1 and 2 due to correction of an identified calculation error.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 16 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
