STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE ACCELERATING REAL CHANGE The hard work and commitment of our people has enabled us to build one Renewi and deliver our committed synergies for the year.
We are engaging our people through the integration process and accelerating real change to deliver future growth Our people bring Renewi to life Our people are at the heart of Renewi.
It is the hard work they put in every day that has driven a successful first year for Renewi.
Our skilled and passionate team has enabled us to deliver our committed synergies for the year and build a firm platform for future growth.
We have been through a significant period of change since our merger, with the launch of a complex integration programme across the The Renewi logo reflects our position at the held Town Hall meetings at each of our Benelux.
This involves much more than the centre of the circular economy and captures locations, during which our leaders presented delivery of cost synergies.
Our goal is to create our vision to bring new life to used materials.
our achievements and strategy as well as a strong, cash-generative business with one We have brought our brand to life over the past launching our new values.
The face-to-face efficient operating model, robust and scalable year so it is seen, lived and felt by our people.
format of the sessions enabled our people processes and a widely recognised and We have been through a significant rebranding to ask questions and have open discussions appealing brand, underpinned by a skilled and process with new signage on our buildings, around how we will shape our future together.
trucks, stationery and uniforms to name a few.
It has been important for our people to see the Working together for the first time Over the past year we have been focused new brand come to life around them so they Since our merger, we have all adjusted on bringing our people together to build can focus on our Renewi future.
to become open to new ideas and new a winning team.
It has been equally ways of working.
We have met and important that our people feel part of one On 28 February 2018, we celebrated our starting working with new colleagues, Renewi team, as we eradicate our legacy one year anniversary as Renewi, and all we over a broader geography and with a clear brand names.
have achieved together in this first year.
com 60 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 2 KNOWN Communicate the transition vision and case for change and begin to create ownership of the solution Renewi-wide magazine called Renews are just 1 3 some the channels we have been using to communicate.
CLEAR REAL We never underestimate the benefits of faceAlign leaders around the Translate the transition to-face communications, and so we have run strategic aims, ambition vision into reality for Flagship Events wholly dedicated to our and scale of change people in the organisation divisional and functional leaders gathering to The iRenew and define what it means present and discuss our integration successes for them Network is and challenges.
We have a regular rhythm of Renewi Leadership Team calls with our top 120 based on 5 leaders and a number of functional leadership principles, calls and events for functional leaders including finance and SHEQ.
to make change: Equipping our leaders to 5 4 manage the transition Throughout the integration we have been STICK HAPPEN taking every opportunity to become better together.
Whilst this has greatly benefited our Ensure there is capability Move the organisation business it has also involved significant change in the organisation to towards the end state and for most of our people.
equip people to work in Ensure there is new ways Successfully leading the change process has full transition required knowledge and leadership.
It has been important to recognise the different phases of the change process and ensure we take our people with us on the journey.
Our focus has remained on maintaining engagement and continuously communicating As part of this adjustment, we ran our Benelux Communicating widely in a time of change through change.
divisions, for a number of months, with We have a goal to over-communicate during two management teams due to the strict times of change and this rule has never An important part of this has been to appointment process with the Works Councils.
been as important than during our postprovide our people with the necessary skills, The parallel running of duplicate management merger integration phase.
There is a range training and support.
We have done this teams had a number of challenges but was of integration change happening which has using a range of tools and processes.
One of dealt with skilfully by our Managing Directors.
affected the majority of our people in the the most important has been the iRenew Benelux, whether that be a new line manager, Network.
iRenew was launched in March Our teams have also pulled together through a new system or new ways of doing things.
2018 and although still in its infancy, it has adversity.
When a fire broke out at our legacy ambitious plans to upskill Renewi leaders Icova facility in Amsterdam in May 2017, they We have developed a Communications Matrix with comprehensive change management all came together to ensure continuity for our to ensure we are able to offer multi-channel capability which will be an integral part of how customers.
Good teamwork and planning solutions to our communications needs.
between the two legacy teams, who had only matrix outlines the main online and offline been working together for a few months, channels available within Renewi and the enabled us to continue to serve our customers audiences that the channel will reach.
TV by diverting waste to our nearby locations.
screens, merger newsletters and our new For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 61 | STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE CONTINUED Working with our peoples representatives To be able to deliver the next waves of growth, OUR VALUES WERE our Renewi team will work even more closely to shape the journey LAUNCHED ON OUR together, as well as being open to new ideas In the Benelux, Works Councils and Unions and ways of working.
have specific rights regarding corporate FIRST BIRTHDAY.
WE activities and restructuring plans.
Early Our values have been carefully crafted over and constructive engagement with both ARE PROUD THAT the past year.
They are the foundation for Works Councils and Unions has been very everything we do.
They guide the way we important throughout the process to deliver THESE VALUES WERE behave and make decisions, outline what is organisational changes in a smooth and important to us, how we operate and what NOT CREATED IN A negotiated manner and in full compliance differentiates us from our competitors.
Most with good employment practice.
The Works BOARDROOM BY A importantly, they show that how we do things Councils have proved to be a very constructive is just as important as what we do.
partner in the integration process.
SMALL GROUP OF Our values were launched on our first During the last year, we have worked with PEOPLE, BUT WERE birthday.
We are proud that these values Works Councils and Unions to: were not created in a boardroom by a small CRAFTED AND SHAPED group of people, but were crafted and ` Complete the appointments in our BY OUR PEOPLE shaped by our people.
Executive Committee The initial behaviours which shaped our ` Define management structures values were crafted by our top 120 leaders at our first Renewi Leadership Conference in ` Implement a unified and digitalised September 2017.
In the following months, Our six values are split into two categories: collaboration platform these behaviours were turned into concrete values by our Executive Committee and senseWHAT WE ARE HOW WE ACT ` Agree full operating models and tested with focus groups across Renewi.
Using organisational structures in Commercial this approach, we have been able to ensure Divisions that the values are owned and felt throughout the organisation.
` Agree transition of back offices to new Shared Service Centre SSC Each of our six values has an attributing idea to live by.
This explains the meaning of each ` Agree site consolidations and future ways of Safe Accountable value in a concise way and therefore makes working in industrial cleaning the values clearer and more memorable.
The Safety above Do what we say values each have four subsidiary behaviours all else well do ` Launch our new values which are the which give further context to their meaning foundation for everything we do and how they can be used in practice.
Defining a new culture, values We have solid foundations in place and will and behaviours live our values to build on this to accelerate The success or failure of the merger was our growth journey to integrate, improve based not only on the financial stability and CustomerInnovative and expand.
operational gains from bringing the two focused Do it better companies together but also importantly on every day Add value for our the ability to define and embed a new culture, customers values and behaviours.
This has involved taking the best from both companies to create something new.
It has been important not to rush this process.
We have taken our time to carefully listen to our people and decide together the kind Sustainable Together of company we want Renewi to become.
Make a daily Always open and The journey to defining this started with the difference to our respectful launch of our new vision and strategy.
These foundations have helped provide clear direction planet for our people on our growth journey ahead.
com 62 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Safety is our first value we put safety above all else For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 63 | STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE CONTINUED We have also measured the gender pay gap across the remainder of our business.
These investigations show a similar position with a negligible mean pay gap and higher difference in bonus levels.
As part of our new Renewi culture, we are working on new ways to attract more women and are working on improving their leadership capabilities and progression with inclusivity firmly at our heart.
Around 16% of our workforce is female, with approximately 1,023 women employed.
We currently have two female Board members following the appointment of Jolande Sap on 1 April 2018.
This report does not contain information about any policies of the business in relation to human rights, since it is not considered necessary for an understanding of the Measuring our success the integration process.
Whilst retention rates development, performance or position of We have spent a lot of time and effort ensuring are good, our absenteeism level is too high and Renewis activities.
that our integration programme is a success.
additional measures are being taken to reduce However, the success of how we are doing this.
During the year Renewi reviewed its policies cannot be defined without feedback from our concerned with combating the possibility of key stakeholders our people.
Our ethics human trafficking and slavery in any of its We benefit enormously from our diverse businesses or supply chains.
In compliance The first Renewi employee survey called Pulse workforce.
Our people come with different with the Modern Slavery Act 2015, our was launched in March 2018.
The survey aimed backgrounds and from a wide range of cultures, statement on this matter is considered to test the pulse of the organisation and gain creating a vibrant workforce where we can all and approved by the Board on an annual an insight into how our people are feeling in a learn from one another.
One of our six core basis and can be found on our website: number of key areas such as their work, team values is together which means that we are www.
always open and respectful to each other.
Over 62% of our people completed the We work across all boundaries to listen and survey across a range of blue and white collar learn from one another and value everyones functions and across our full geography.
The importance of results showed that in general our people diversity, equality and non-discrimination is GENDER DIVERSITY enjoy their work and working together, they highlighted in our Code of Conduct which can are satisfied with their manager and the be found on our website: www.
conditions at their workplace and are proud to work at Renewi.
More than 75% of respondents We are an equal opportunities employer, are engaged with their job and committed to which means that full and fair consideration 16% Renewi.
is given to applications from, the continuing employment, career development and We take the outcome of this important survey training of disabled people.
We will use the outcome to of our workforce are female improve together for the future.
This starts with The UK Government has set regulations understanding the results at lower levels and for annual Gender Pay Gap Reporting then creating team-managed action plans to GPGR for UK companies with more than improve together.
For our UK trading entity Renewi UK Services Ltd, the data suggests 25% The retention of our people is also a key indicator that although our total female population of our success.
In Renewis first year of operation, employed is significantly lower than our total retention levels have been high.
Despite an male population 82%, the difference within increasingly tight and attractive labour market, the mean pay gap category is negligible.
of the Board members of Renewi plc we are encouraged that many of our employees The full GPGR can be found on our website: are female are keen to continue our exciting journey through www.
com 64 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 65
