Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 41 Corporate Responsibility The Corporate Responsibility Report is an integral part of our Annual Report and Financial Statements.
This section highlights progress on our 2018 corporate responsibility objectives.
The full 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report is available at www.
com go CRReport Non-financial information statement RELX is required to comply with the reporting requirements of sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006, which relate to non-financial information.
The list below outlines for our stakeholders where this information for RELX can be found: Reporting Requirement: Environmental matters 51 52 Employees 47 Social matters 43, 45, 49, 50 Human rights, 42, 46, 49, 50 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters, 42, 46, 49, 50 Policies, due diligence processes and outcomes 45 46 Description and management of principal risks and impact of business activity, 60 63 Description of business model 16, 23, 30, 35 Non-financial metrics 14 52 42 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Corporate responsibility Scientific, Technical & Medical We define corporate responsibility Elsevier, the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical and medical information, plays an important role in advancing human CR as the way we do business, welfare and economic progress through its science and health information, which spurs innovation and enables critical working to increase our positive decision-making.
To broaden access to its content, Elsevier supports programmes where resources are often scarce.
Among impact and reduce any negative them is Research4Life, a partnership with UN agencies and up to 175 publishers: we provide core and cutting-edge scientific impact.
It ensures good information to researchers in more than 100 developing countries.
As a founding partner and the leading contributor, Elsevier management of risks and provides over a quarter of the material available in Research4Life, encompassing approximately 3,000 Elsevier journals and 20,000 opportunities, helps us attract e-books.
In 2018, there were over 1.8m Research4Life downloads from ScienceDirect.
and retain the best people and In 2018, Elsevier launched Scientific African, an open access collaboration between the Next Einstein Forum and the NEF strengthens our corporate Community of Scientists, which will provide African researchers with a new platform to boost the impact and discoverability of their reputation.
Elsevier also continued involvement with Innovate for Life, an accelerator launched by Amref, an Africa-driven It means performing to the highest commercial and ethical international health NGO, to help African entrepreneurs develop standards and channelling our knowledge and strengths, as solutions to African health challenges.
To support early-stage global leaders in our industries, to make a difference to society.
innovators, the Elsevier Foundation is providing funding, as well We regularly survey key stakeholders, including in 2018, as access to knowledge and scientific networks.
shareholders, employees, governments and communities where we operate, to help us identify our material CR issues Risk & Business Analytics and to set and test our CR objectives.
The Board of Directors, Risk & Business Analytics tools and resources help law senior management and our Corporate Responsibility Forum enforcement keep communities safe and help protect society by oversee CR objectives and performance.
detecting and preventing fraud across a range of business sectors and at US federal, state and local government levels.
In the year, We concentrate on the contributions we make as a business LexisNexis Risk Solutions provided the Police Department in and on good management of the material areas that affect Keene, Texas with a free Community Crime Map tool, enabling all companies: citizens to view incidences of crime in their neighbourhood.
Our unique contributions Risk and Business Analytics colleagues developed the ADAM 2.
Governance programme in 2000 to help the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children find missing children.
People missing child alert posters to law enforcement, hospitals, 4.
Customers libraries and businesses within specific geographic search areas.
In 2018, we expanded an email alert function to allow those opting 5.
Community in, to receive an email notification when a child is reported missing 6.
In 2018, five children were found through ADAM, bringing the total number of children recovered to 182 since the 7.
Environment start of the programme in 2000.
During the year, we supported the launch of a new training course for UK police to help find missing We are committed to the United Nations Global Compact UNGC children more quickly, working with Amber Alert Europes Charlie to which we are a signatory and are dedicated to advancing the Hedges and Missing People.
We hosted pilot training for the UNs Sustainable Development Goals SDGs by 2030.
London Metropolitan Police at our head office in London which covered such themes as mental health, child sexual exploitation, homelessness and family breakdown and how to provide 1.
Our unique contributions additional support, including Missing Peoples free, 24 7 helpline.
We make a positive impact on society through our knowledge, To address the US opioid epidemic, LexisNexis Risk Solutions is resources and skills, including: taking a multi-faceted approach to help customers address the Universal sustainable access to information problem.
Using our healthcare, identity, and law enforcement data sets, we proactively identify risky providers and individuals, Advance of science and health complex prescription drug diversion schemes, and aid care Protection of society coordination efforts for the addicted.
Promotion of the rule of law and justice Fostering communities Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Corporate responsibility 43 REACT Digital expertise to deploy educational resources quickly in emergencies The private sector wants to support childrens education in emergencies with their skills and expertise, but do not know how to be most effective.
REACT matches leading corporations with education needs on the ground in real time.
We are using tech solutions The Global Business Coalition to tackle the global education crisis.
for Education uses the collective power of business and other stakeholders to Sarah Brown address education challenges GBC-Education Executive Chair around the world In 2018, LexisNexis Risk Solutions launched To date more than 60 firms have signed up to the Rapid Education Action REACT online the digital platform.
One of them, software 60 platform for the Global Business Coalition for company Cerego, brokered a partnership with companies have Education GBC-Education to allow companies Thaki, a charity supporting education for joined REACT to to pledge and deploy their resources quickly refugee and migrant children in Lebanon.
ensure education in emergencies and disasters.
The aim is to Thaki founder, Rudayna Abdo, says: Providing for the most get millions of displaced and marginalised online literacy training for dispersed migrant disadvantaged children whose learning has been disrupted communities comes with many challenges.
children around by humanitarian crises back into education.
We were introduced to Cerego through REACT the world which is helping us pursue a successful, REACT was established to channel private scalable, affordable, self-paced solution that sector engagement in support of Education can be replicated across geographies.
Cannot Wait, a fund dedicated to education in emergencies launched at the 2016 World Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul, Turkey.
44 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Across RELX 1.
Our unique contributions continued We created new functionality for the free RELX SDG Resource Legal Centre, which advances awareness, understanding and LexisNexis Legal & Professional promotes the rule of law and implementation of the UNs 17 SDGs to end poverty, protect the access to justice through its products and services.
planet and ensure prosperity for all people by 2030, with a new content management system to make it faster and easier to In the year, we expanded our Rule of Law Cafs which bring upload content on to the site.
The RELX SDG Resource Centre site a range of stakeholders together, including customers, features articles, tools, news, events, networking and original government, NGOs and law societies to discuss opportunities to research, including in 2018, a review of SDG 3 which showed that go beyond legal minimums to advance the rule of law to new related research resulting from a collaboration between jurisdictions.
In addition to London, there were Cafs in New York, academic institutions and private industry represents a fraction Washington DC and Kuala Lumpur.
of the total scholarly output average of 1.5% over the period, In the year, we supported the launch of the UNGCs Peace, however it has a field-weighted citation impact, a measure of Justice & Strong Institutions Action Platform during UN General quality, nearly four times that of research undertaken by academic Assembly week and also hosted senior women lawyers from the institutions alone.
We held two SDG Inspiration Days in the year Middle East region in London, Washington DC and New York City.
which brought together business, government and civil society Delegates met with judges, lawyers, law professors and to scale engagement on the SDGs.
To advance the SDGs, the theme representatives of professional organisations, legislative bodies, in Silicon Valley was the role for disruptive technology and in and governmental institutions and explored the approach of peers Amsterdam, building partnerships.
The SDG Resource Centre to human rights, intellectual property and sustainability.
was a tool for women entrepreneurs participating in the WE Empower UN SDG Challenge, a global business competition for Exhibitions women entrepreneurs advancing the SDGs.
Reed Exhibitions events strengthen communities and support 2018 marked the eighth year of the RELX Environmental our CR focus areas.
In 2018, we advanced show sustainability Challenge, focused on providing improved and sustainable access including with the launch of Proud Experiences in London, the first to water and sanitation where it is presently at risk.
The $50,000 event of its kind focusing on the LGBTQ travel market, which will first-prize winner, Flexcrevator, will progress an innovative pit move to New York City in 2019.
Over three days, attendees were latrine emptying device developed by North Carolina State matched with international exhibitors to explore opportunities University.
The $25,000 second-prize winner was Handypod, in a LGBTQ global marketplace estimated by media partner The an affordable sanitation solution by Cambodia-based social Telegraph, in attendance throughout the event, to be worth enterprise, Wetlands Work, developed for floating communities $211 billion.
There were masterclasses on issues surrounding and those seasonally affected by flooding.
The prize was issues arising for LGBTQ travellers, including whether they announced during the UNGCs CEO Water Mandate meeting should boycott or support local populations in destinations during 2018 World Water Week in Stockholm: we supported the where LGBTQ rights are curtailed.
In the year, Reed Exhibitions attendance of three former RELX Environmental Challenge introduced Bio-Mass Innovation Expo in Milan.
PSI 2018, for winners at World Water Week, allowing them to meet founders the promotional products industry, became one of the first and build networks in their field.
trade shows to ban plastic cups.
Pollutec also celebrated its 40th anniversary, a showcase for environmental equipment, technologies and services.
Circular economy was a key theme to reduce the health and environmental impacts of plastic waste and pollution.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Corporate responsibility 45 2018 OBJECTIVES Achievement OUR 2030 VISION Advance and make Scientific African launched at the Use our products and expertise to advance the SDGs, among them: publicly available Next Einstein Forum in Kigali, research on the state of Rwanda SDG3: Good health and wellbeing science underpinning Launched SDG Perspectives SDG4: Quality education the SDGs project, showcasing the impact of SDG10: Reduced inequalities the SDGs on scholarly debate SDG13: Climate action Produced RELX SDG Graphic on SDG16: Peace, justice and strong institutions the state of science underpinning SDG 3, good health and wellbeing Enrich the SDG Resource Centre to ensure essential content, tools and events on the SDGs are freely available to all Partner with the Enabled ADAM email alerts: 500 National Center for registrations 2030 is the deadline for the UNs Sustainable Development Goals: we aim to do our part towards their achievement.
Missing and Exploited Supported course for UK policing Children to expand on missing cases, encompassing ADAM programme engaging the media and right to 2.
Governance email alerts to US privacy, return processes and consumers: advance ongoing support and prevention In 2018, we launched the newly revised and updated RELX Code course for UK policing on of Ethics and Business Conduct the Code with a message to all missing cases training staff.
The Code provides the standards for our corporate and Roll out RELX Rule Expanded Rule of Law Cafs to individual conduct and, among key issues, covers fair of Law Cafes across New York, Washington DC and competition, anti-bribery, conflicts of interest, employment multiple jurisdictions Kuala Lumpur: quarterly in London practices, data protection and appropriate use of Company Advanced Rule of Law activities, property and information.
It also encourages reporting of including Middle Eastern women violations with an anonymous reporting option where legally lawyer study tours and support for permissible and prohibits retaliation against anyone for mobile courts in Malaysia reporting a violation he or she believes may have occurred.
Advance sustainability Established Event Sustainability The Code supports the principles of the UNGC and stresses our content across show Committee comprised of Reed commitment to human rights.
In accordance with the UNs Guiding portfolios Exhibitions portfolio directors Principles on Business and Human Rights, we have considered Developed Environmental Event where and how we operate to determine how we can have the Charter greatest positive impact on the human rights issues of modern slavery and human trafficking.
For more information on human New functionality for Built new content management rights see Supply chain on page 50.
In 2018, we updated our SDG Resource Centre system Modern Slavery Act Statement which highlights how we are including integration of Reached 100 partner content working internally through our supply chain and externally with UN and other partner sources from UN Development content partners to address the risk of slavery and human trafficking.
Programme, among others We maintain a comprehensive set of compliance policies and procedures in support of the Code.
These are reviewed at least annually to ensure they remain current and effective.
Our policies 2019 OBJECTIVES and procedures help us comply with the law and conduct our Meaningful support to advance SDG 3 good health and business in an open, honest, ethical and principled way.
In the case wellbeing, including Elsevier Foundation Women in Water in of our anti-bribery efforts, they comprise part of our adequate Africa leadership workshops procedures for compliance with applicable laws.
Workstream on improving financial inclusion for low-income citizens Employees receive mandatory training on the Code both as new hires and at regular intervals during their tenure in order to Meaningful support of SDG 16 peace, justice and strong maintain a respectful workplace, prevent bribery and protect institutions, including support for UNGC SDG 16 Action personal and Company data.
Mandatory periodic training covers key Platform Code topics in depth and is supplemented by advanced in-person Meaningful support of SDG 11 sustainable cities, including training for higher-risk roles.
focus of Reed Exhibitions World Efficiency Solutions and a Good Cities 2019 Inspiration Day India In 2018, we took a number of steps to further enhance and embed Create new RELX SDG Graphics on the state of science our culture of compliance across RELX, including the global underpinning the SDGs delivery of multiple culture of compliance training sessions across the Company.
We offer employees a confidential reporting line, Broaden RELX SDG Resource Centre to include content from managed by an independent third party, accessible by telephone new partners and enhance functionality, including of SDG News Tracker or online 24 hours a day, 365 days a year as allowed under applicable law, employees may submit reports to the confidential line anonymously.
46 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review The Statement of Investment Principles for the RELX UK pension 2.
Governance continued scheme indicates that social, environmental or ethical issues that Reports of violations of the Code or related policies are promptly may have a financial impact on the portfolio or a detrimental effect investigated, with careful tracking and monitoring of violations on the strength of the employer covenant, are taken into account and related mitigation and remediation efforts by Compliance when making investment decisions.
CR issues are relevant to teams across the business.
other investment decisions we make.
Among our sustainable investments is Agworld, a farm management software platform We remained diligent in our ongoing efforts to comply with that allows farmers, agronomists and agricultural contractors to applicable bribery and sanctions laws and to mitigate risks in capture, manage and share on-farm data and recommendations these areas.
Our anti-bribery and sanctions program includes to improve land management sustainability and increase yields.
the enforcement of detailed, risk-based internal policies and procedures on topics such as doing business with government 2018 OBJECTIVES Achievement officials, gift and entertainment limits, gift registers, and Expand corporate Business unit simulation training complying with complex sanctions requirements.
Relationships security incident response and response plan with third-parties and acquisition targets are evaluated for risk preparedness using a enhancements: updates to RELX using questionnaires, references, detailed electronic searches, combination of technology, Board and Know Your Customer screening tools.
We monitor and assess awareness training and PwC Building Public Trust Award the implementation of our anti-bribery and sanctions programs by simulations for Cyber Security Reporting in continually reviewing and updating our policies and procedures: the FTSE 350 conducting periodic programmatic risk-assessments, and Establish risk mitigation Completed enterprise-wide legal conducting quality assurance reviews and internal audits on the framework for monitoring compliance risk assessment, operational aspects of the programmes.
operational effectiveness identifying key risks and Following the 2017 roll-out of a Company email PhishMe button, of key internal compliance mitigation controls which allows employees to make immediate reports, we marked controls Executed 2018 Compliance our annual Cyber Security Awareness Month with the Great Testing and Monitoring Plan Phishing Challenge to help staff identify the difference between including completing quality phishy and legitimate emails.
In the year, RELX won the PwC assurance reviews of GDPR Building Public Trust Award for Cyber Security Reporting in the compliance and intermediary FTSE 350. due diligence As a signatory to the UNGC and its principles, encompassing Engagement on rule of RELX Tax and LexisNexis Legal & tax law Professional South Africa labour, environment, anti-corruption and human rights, we collaboration on tax law demonstrated leadership by maintaining our LEAD company codification in Africa status, participating in UNGC SDG Action Platforms: Health is Everyones Business: Decent Work in Global Supply Chains: Supported Tax Aid and Tax Help Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions: and Water Security through for Older People, who provide Stewardship.
We serve on the boards of the UNGC networks in the free tax advice for low-income and other beneficiaries UK and Netherlands.
We produce an annual Communication on Progress report, required of signatories annually, where we attained the Advanced Level.
2019 OBJECTIVES Continue corporate security incident response Globally, in 2018, RELX paid 415m in corporate taxes.
We are a preparedness: expand ISO 27001 data protection responsible corporate taxpayer and conduct our tax affairs to compliance certification ensure compliance with all laws and relevant regulations in the countries in which we operate.
Tax is an important issue for our New Culture of Compliance manager communications, stakeholders and society at large.
We have set out our approach to training and resources tax in our global tax strategy.
This incorporates our Tax Principles Advance work on African tax law codification project along with additional disclosures around where we pay taxes and our broader contribution to society, available on our corporate OUR 2030 VISION website: www.
Continued progressive actions that advance excellence in corporate governance within our business and the marketplace In the year, the RELX Tax team continued to engage with a range of policy makers and special interest groups to share practical experience of corporate engagement on tax laws and the ways such laws can advance government policy objectives.
In the year, we also scoped projects on the rule of tax law both in the United Kingdom and South Africa.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Corporate responsibility 47 Our employees have the right to a healthy and safe workplace, 3.
People as outlined in our Global Health and Safety Policy.
We concentrate Our over 30,000 people are our strength.
Our workforce is 51% on areas of greatest risk for example, warehouses, events and female and 49% male, with an average length of service of 9.2 years.
As a primarily office-based company, we also focus There were 42% female and 58% male managers, and 28% female on manual handling, slips, trips and falls.
To reduce our severity and 72% male senior operational managers.
rate lost days per 200,000 hours worked, we conduct risk assessments and work with a third party in the US to assign a Female Male nurse case manager to each complex or severe claim.
There Board of Directors 4 36% 7 64% were 8 lost time incidents in the year.
Senior operational 99 28% 258 72% In the US, where we have the largest concentration of employees, managers our programmes promote workplace wellbeing through health All employees 16,400 51% 15,700 49% screenings, online assessments, stress awareness training and S enior operational managers are defined as those managers up to and including smoking cessation courses, with financial incentives for three reporting lines from the CEO with a role in planning, directing or controlling participation.
the activities of the company.
Dedicated health and wellbeing programmes are now available to more than 70% of our employees.
We also maintain a network At year end 2018, women made up 36% of the members of the of more than 90 Wellness Champions.
The two Executive Directors on the Board are male.
The wellbeing award scheme which allows all employees, in Nominations Committee considers the knowledge, experience partnership with their local Wellbeing Champion, to submit a and background of individual Board directors.
proposal for a wellbeing initiative at their location.
The proposals Our Diversity and Inclusion D&I Statement articulates are judged with the winning proposals granted funding.
In the our commitment to a diverse workforce and an environment year, we developed a partnership with Shaw Mind Foundation to that respects individuals and their contributions, regardless deliver a series of webinars to all staff on supporting mental of gender, race or other characteristics.
We updated our D&I health at work.
Strategy to include nine progress indicators including pursuing 2018 OBJECTIVES Achievement best practice in candidate assessment to prevent unconscious bias in recruiting processes and ensuring positive gender Conduct a Global Employee Survey conducted globally: 90% portrayal in our marketing.
Opinion Survey including response rate, highest to date questions on culture, ethics CEO review of results: cascaded to We maintain a D&I Advisory Group composed of a senior business and wellbeing business leaders action plans in and HR leader from each business unit, supported by a broader development D&I Working Group with more than 150 participants.
In 2018, our Employee Resource Groups grew to over 40 networks, such as Update D&I Strategy D&I Strategy approved by senior including the launch of D&I leadership: nine priority actions womens forums and pride groups, to facilitate support, progress indicators mentoring and community involvement.
We held our first-ever D&I governance updates Diversity Awareness Month with a competition open to all First global Diversity Awareness employees in order to showcase commitment to D&I across RELX Month and a video with testimonials from senior leaders on why D&I External partnership to Engagement with Shaw Mind matters to them.
raise awareness of mental Foundation: webinar made health across RELX available to all employees RELX is a signatory to the Womens Empowerment Principles, a UNGC and UN Women initiative to help companies empower Research support for Foundations women and promote gender equality.
In 2018, we became a mental health and the SDGs project member of the Business in the Community Gender Campaign.
2019 OBJECTIVES We comply with employee-related reporting requirements and, in 2018, we published our first UK gender pay gap data as part of the Progress UN Equal Pay International Coalition commitments UK legislation.
At RELX we commit to raising awareness and Establish a dashboard for D&I metrics educate our employees on pay principles and equal pay.
We invest Develop mental health metrics and response plans in research to identify causes of pay differences and regularly evaluate our policies and processes to ensure they are aligned to OUR 2030 VISION our D&I vision.
We commit to building a robust framework for Continued high-performing and satisfied workforce through monitoring pay equity across the enterprise.
We have formally talent development, D&I and wellbeing: scale support for made these pledges to the Equal Pay International Coalition UN external human capital initiatives General Assembly week in New York.
48 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Advancing the RELX SDG Resource Centre Access to critical knowledge to advance the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The RELX SDG Resource Centre was an essential tool for the women entrepreneurs who took part in the We Empower UN SDG Challenge for women from around the world supporting the SDGs through their businesses who are helping to create the world we want by 2030.
Amanda Ellis Former New Zealand Ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva, Senior Special Adviser for International Diplomacy and the SDGs at the Julie Ann Wrigley Global Institute of Sustainability The RELX SDG Resource Centre advances awareness, understanding and implementation of the 17 global goals The free RELX SDG Resource Centre Scientific African will provide African sdgresources.
com advances researchers with a new platform to boost the 75,000 awareness, understanding and impact and discoverability of their research.
sources in the implementation of the 17 UN SDGs which RELX SDG Resource Also in the year, we held two RELX SDG aim to end poverty, protect the planet and Centres SDG Inspiration Days to showcase the SDG ensure prosperity for all people by 2030.
News Tracker for Resource Centre and the importance of up-to-the-minute The site provides leading edge articles, knowledge to advance the SDGs bringing news on the SDGs reports, tools, events, videos and legal together more than 100 business colleagues, from around practical guidance from across RELX.
government representatives, NGO leaders, the world It also features content from partners, and young people.
including the UNGC and the United Nations RELX SDG Inspiration Day Silicon Valley Development Programme.
focused on disruptive technology to advance In 2018, we released original research on the the SDGs and SDG Inspiration Day Amsterdam state of science underpinning SDG 3 good concentrated on The Power of Partnerships to health and well-being and added content from advance the SDGs: what partners, what Scientific African.
This is a partnership responsibilities, what innovation, and how to between the Next Einstein Forum and Elsevier, scale and measure impact.
Partners on the bringing state-of-the-art technology and events included the UNGC, the Ban Ki-Moon processes to create an open access Centre for Global Citizens and the Responsible megajournal to accelerate scientific Media Forum.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Corporate responsibility 49 2018 OBJECTIVES Achievement 4.
Customers RELX Editorial Policy RELX Editorial Policy Working In 2018, we surveyed more than 533,000 customers through update and training Group, internal and external Net Promoter Score measuring customer advocacy and stakeholders, contribute to business dashboard programmes.
This allows us to deepen our updated Policy understanding of customer needs and drives improvements.
RELX Editorial Policy in Action Results are reviewed by the CEO and senior operational training in development managers and communicated to staff.
New CR as a Sales Tool CR as a Sales Tool Working Group In the year, we updated our Editorial Policy to incorporate respect curriculum: Customers demos for human rights and to encourage pluralism of sources, ideas and the SDGs Outreach to business unit sales and participants.
We strengthened the privacy provision, added directors and employees from in responsible use of artificial intelligence and our commitment newly acquired companies to transparency.
We are developing training to help colleagues Recommendation to include the understand the Editorial Policy in action.
RELX SDG Resource Centre in The RELX Quality First Principles Working Group focuses on client materials quality in content, data and business processes.
In 2018, our Introduce RELX Winners chosen for the first operations in the Philippines won the Philippine Quality Award Accessibility awards to Accessibility Leadership Award Proficiency in Quality Management Level 2, the highest national recognise exceptional and Practioners Award quality award in the Philippines for businesses demonstrating employee efforts to All-employee communications excellence in managing and delivering quality.
advance accessibility We are committed to improving access to our products and 2019 OBJECTIVES services for all users, regardless of physical ability.
Our Accessibility Policy aims to lead the industry in providing Roll out new Editorial Policy accessibility solutions to customers, with products that are Expand online content for CR as a Sales Tool operable, understandable and robust.
In 2018, members of the Develop Accessibility Advisory Board Accessibility Working Group logged over 200 accessibility projects and Elseviers Global Books Digital Archive fulfilled more than OUR 2030 VISION 5,000 disability requests, 84% of them through AccessText.
org, Continue to expand customer base across our four business a service we helped establish.
units through excellence in products and services, the result of active listening and engagement, editorial and quality In 2018, we launched the first RELX Accessibility Awards to standards, and accessibility: a recognised advocate for ethical showcase how accessibility ensures more accessible products marketplace practice and services and a better user experience for all our customers, including people with disabilities.
Among the winners were two colleagues from LexisNexis Risk Solutions who created a 5.
Community computer-automated, web accessibility code scanner that checks product code against the leading international accessibility RE Cares, our global community programme, supports employee standard: Section 508 WCAG 2.0AA.
volunteering and giving that makes a positive impact on society.
In addition to local initiatives of importance to employees, the For the first time, in 2018, Forbes named RELX as one of the programmes core focus is on education for disadvantaged young Worlds Most Innovative Companies, one of only 20 European people that advances one or more of our unique contributions as companies to place among the top 100. a business.
Staff have up to two days paid leave per year for their own community work.
We donated 3.7m in cash including through matching gifts and the equivalent of 13.9m in products, services and staff time in 2018.
42% of employees were engaged in volunteering through RE Cares and we reached 25,000 disadvantaged young people through time, in-kind and cash donations.
A network of 215 RE Cares Champions ensures the vibrancy of our community engagement.
50 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review We have a comprehensive Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier 5.
Community continued Code, available in 16 languages, which we ask suppliers to sign Each September, we hold RE Cares Month to celebrate our and display prominently in the workplace.
It commits them to community commitment.
During the Month, we raised funds following applicable laws and best practice in areas such as $159,949 to date to help global fundraising partner, SOS human rights, labour and the environment.
We ask suppliers Childrens Villages, enable girls working in dangerous conditions in to require the same standards in their supply chains, including Yamoussoukro, Cte dIvoire to pursue an education.
By the close requesting subcontractors to enter into a written commitment to of 2018, 50 girls were in school or receiving vocational training.
The Supplier Code states that where Participants also received child rights training, with companion local industry standards are higher than applicable legal sessions for parents to help them safeguard their childrens requirements, we expect suppliers to meet the higher standards.
An awareness campaign involving parents and local Through our SRS database, we track key suppliers and those leaders was conducted in collaboration with three community located in medium and high-risk countries as designated by our level committees, where girls involved in the project spoke out supplier risk tool.
This incorporates eight indicators, including about the dangers of child labour based on their own experience.
human trafficking information from the US State Department and We held our annual global book drive, yielding 7,200 books for Environmental Performance Index results produced by Yale local and developing world readers and announced the winners University and partners.
The tracking list changes year-on-year of the eighth Recognising Those Who Care Awards to highlight the based on the suppliers we engage to meet the needs of our exceptional contributions to RE Cares of ten individuals and three business.
We ended 2018 with 89% of suppliers on the SRS RE Cares teams.
Individual winners from across the business tracking list as signatories to the Supplier Code.
We have travelled to RELX-supported projects in Phnom Penh, Cambodia embedded the Supplier Code into our sourcing process as a with VOICE www.
au, a humanitarian organisation criterion for doing business with us and have a total of 3,082 working with people in crisis in Cambodia.
suppliers who have agreed to the Supplier Code in 2018, up from 2,937 in 2017.
2018 OBJECTIVES Achievement We engage a specialist supply chain auditor who undertook Foster development of Focus of RE Cares, RELX global 84 external audits on our behalf in 2018.
An incidence of youth employability skills community programme, in 2018 non-compliance triggers continuous improvement reports Partnerships with charities summarising audit results, with remediation plans and focused on youth employability submission dates agreed and signed by both the auditor skills and supplier.
$300,000 seed funding, over three years, through the Elsevier The roll-out of our US Supplier D&I programme continued in 2018 Foundation for Imperial College with efforts to improve the mix of diverse suppliers, with a focus on Londons Invention Rooms minority-, womanand veteran-owned businesses.
In total, 11% of US spend was with diverse suppliers.
Among them was SHI Research impact of RE Study of 9,000 employees showed Cares on staff retention positive correlation between International.
SHI is both a minority-owned and woman-owned volunteering and tenure, with enterprise and provider of IT products and services.
Their reduced attrition Diversity Business Development Initiative builds and maintains a community of diverse suppliers and partners.
They continue to Average tenure: 10 years for grow an effective Tier II program by accessing their Services volunteers vs 7 years RELX Partner database utilising certified HUBZone, minority-, woman-, average veteran-and small disadvantaged-owned businesses.
2019 OBJECTIVES 2018 OBJECTIVES Achievement New RELX global fundraising partnership Increase number of 3,082 2017: 2,937 Create guidance for calculating pro bono contributions suppliers as Code signatories OUR 2030 VISION Continue using audits 84 audits completed, including Through our unique contributions, significant, measurable to ensure continuous six 2nd tier audits advancement of education for disadvantaged young people: improvement in supplier 34% reduction since 2017 in open investments with partners for maximum impact performance and audit findings compliance Continue to advance Proactive engagement with 6.
Supply chain the US Supplier D&I diverse suppliers with a focus on Given the importance of maintaining an ethical supply chain, programme minority-, womenand we have a Socially Responsible Supplier SRS programme veteran-owned businesses encompassing all our businesses, supported by colleagues with 11% diversity spend: increases in expertise in operations, distribution and procurement and a spend with veteranand dedicated SRS Director from our global procurement function.
minority-owned businesses Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Corporate responsibility 51 2019 OBJECTIVES 2018 OBJECTIVES Achievement Increase the number of suppliers as Code signatories 40% of locations to 41% achieved achieve five or more RELX Continue using audits to ensure continuous improvement Environmental Standards in supplier performance and compliance Purchase renewable Reached through purchase Continue to advance US Supplier D&I programme electricity equal to 80% of of European green tariff, US OUR 2030 VISION global consumption Green-e certified and Asian Gold Reduce supply chain risks related to human rights, labour, the Power renewable energy environment and anti-bribery by ensuring adherence to our certificates Supplier Code of Conduct through training, auditing and Achieve ISO 14001 Certification achieved at remediation: drive supply chain innovation, quality and Environmental additional sites Philadelphia, efficiencies through a strong, diverse network of suppliers Management System Raleigh and Boca Raton certification at three Equivalent to 25% of employee additional locations headcount 7.
Environment Our environmental targets reflect our environmental impacts and 2019 OBJECTIVES were set following input from stakeholders.
Targets are set using 55% of locations to achieve five or more RELX Environmental the science-based target methodology and include a commitment Standards to certify 50% of the business against the ISO 14001 Environmental Purchase renewable electricity equal to 90% of global Management System standard by 2020.
In 2018, we purchased consumption 81% of our electricity from renewable energy and Renewable Achieve ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Energy Certificates.
Full performance data can be found in the certification at three additional locations 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report www.
We attained an A in CDPs Climate Change programme.
OUR 2030 VISION In 2018, RELX was one of 11 businesses which partnered with Further environmental knowledge and positive action through the Mayor of London on ambitious projects to cut pollution and our products and services and, accordingly, conduct our emissions in excess of UK government thresholds.
business with the lowest environmental impact possible Our Environmental Champions network, employee-led Green 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Teams and networks, such as the Publishers Database for Responsible Environmental Paper Sourcing, also provided Absolute performance Intensity ratio 2018 Variance 2017 2018 Variance 2017 significant insight into managing our environmental impacts.
Our Environmental Standards programme sets benchmark Scope 1 direct 7,477 -9% 8,231 1.00 -11% 1.12 performance and inspires green competition between offices.
emissions tCO e 2 In 2018, 36 sites 41% of key locations achieved five or more Scope 2 74,279 -12% 84,590 9.91 -14% 11.50 standards and attained green status.
The RELX CFO, our most location-based senior environmental champion, wrote to all staff on World emissions tCO e 2 Environment Day, sharing our environmental priorities and Scope 2 16,004 -27% 21,831 2.14 -28% 2.97 recognising environmental achievements across the business.
market-based emissions tCO e 2 We have a positive environmental impact through our Total energy MWh 179,228 -4% 186,228 23.92 -6% 25.32 environmental products and services, which spread good 3 Water m 332,490 -4% 344,918 44.38 -5% 46.90 practice, encourage debate and aid researchers and decision Waste sent to 12% -1%pts 13% 0.09 -10% 0.10 makers.
The most recent results from the independent Market landfill % Analysis System show that our share of citations in environmental Production 35,555 -3% 36,484 4.75 -4% 4.96 science represented 42% of the total market and 63% in energy paper t and fuels.
Intensity metric shows tonnes of waste sent to The 50,000 winner of Elseviers 2018 Green and Sustainable landfill m revenue.
Chemistry Challenge was Prajwal Rabhindari, President of the Research Institute for Bioscience & Biotechnology in Nepal.
He is creating a water-based leaf extract of the guava plant which possesses antioxidant and antibacterial properties as a natural alternative to fungicides and chemical preservatives to minimise post-harvest food loss affecting smallholder farmers.
52 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review 7.
Environment continued ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS 2018 Focus area Targets 2020 Performance Climate change Reduce Scope 1 and 2 location-based carbon emissions by 40% against a 2010 baseline -49% Energy Reduce energy and fuel consumption by 30% against a 2010 baseline -35% Purchase renewable electricity equivalent to 100% of RELXs global electricity consumption 81% Waste Decrease total waste generated at reporting locations by 40% against a 2010 baseline -52% 90% of waste from reporting locations to be diverted from landfill 88% Production paper 100% 100% of RELX production papers, graded in PREPS, to be rated as known and responsible sources Environmental Achieve ISO 14001 certification for 50% of the business by 2020 25% Management System Reporting locations achieving five or more RELX Environmental Standards 41% All paper we graded in 2018 90% of total production stock was graded 3 or 5 stars known and responsible sources.
We have reported on all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We have included emissions from all operating companies within the Group.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and the data has been assured by an independent third party, EY.
Details on methodology and the assurance statement can be viewed in the 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
2018 investor and other recognition Constituent of the Ethibel CDP EPA Green Power Leader FTSE4Good Index Sustainability Index Climate programme score: A Top 100 Included in Included in Forest programme score: B FTSE4Good Global Index Excellence Europe Water programme score: BFTSE4Good UK Index Excellence Global FTSE4Good Europe Index RE100 Dow Jones Sustainability ISO 14001 STOXX Global ESG Member Index Europe Certified LeadersIndices Constituent Included ECPI Indices Forbes Oekom Corporate Philippine Quality Award Included The Worlds Most Innovative Responsibility Rating Recipient Companies 2018 Prime status The full 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report is available at www.
com go CRReport Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 53 53 Financial review In this section 54 Chief Financial Officers report 60 Principal risks
