2 Protecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere North America The process to become a CFT gives me a lot of confidence in Our growing presence in the worlds largest the programme because of how professionally my interview and pest control market provides us with excellent training were done.
I'five trained Increasing short-term opportunities to grow organically and through many specialists in the past but retention through targeted acquisitions to build a pest control am amazed at how much faster Project 365 powerhouse in this key growth region.
my current trainee is progressing Central to our strategy of being because of the real world eld an Employer of Choice EoC environment.
Theres no barrier is increasing sales and service to communication and I love colleague retention to 90%.
that he feels like he can me ask Ensuring new recruits stay with anything.
This programme is really us beyond year one is a priority teaching world-class service.
as it directly impacts customer BRIAN CARRINGTON service and retention.
This year Certied Field Trainer & Technician 90% Albany, New York we launched a Certied Field of the US population is covered Trainer CFT programme using by our footprint our best eld specialists to help new hires in their first 10 weeks gain Field Technician Training Certication and to mentor 14 them throughout their first year.
new businesses were acquired last year Using scale to secure increasing share Leveraging innovation to combat innational accounts risingpestthreats As the worlds largest commercial pest control provider we offer The US National Pest Association states that residential settings and customised, expert solutions for some of the worlds biggest hotels continue to be the top places where pest professionals are companies.
Our service footprint covers 90% of the US population treating bed bugs.
To combat these tiny pests Rentokil has developed andenables us to provide full service contracts to customers with a revolutionary new digital detection system that identifies the first multiple locations.
While individual customer sites are serviced by signs of bed bug presence before a major infestation can take place.
localteams, national accounts are managed by dedicated stewards Currently around 400 prototypes have been deployed in the first full ensuring all customer needs are met, from scheduling service visits scale field trial in St Louis, Missouri.
Its a welcome solution for hotels through to billing.
Since 2015 we have delivered compound annual and residents, and the post-trial review will determine the next stage revenue growth in national accounts of 22%.
ofdevelopment and commercialisation of this exciting new product.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 3 Protecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere North America The process to become a CFT gives me a lot of confidence in Our growing presence in the worlds largest the programme because of how professionally my interview and pest control market provides us with excellent training were done.
new businesses were acquired last year Building greater pest control capability Maximising the growth opportunity throughtargeted M&A invectorcontrol From 2015 through 2017 we acquired 40 companies in North America Part of our focus for growth is new product areas.
One such area is and 2018 has been no exception.
This year weve acquired 14new mosquito control also called vector control.
Given increasing risks to businesses with annualised revenues of c. 41m, most of which are public health from mosquito-borne diseases, it is a significant growth bolt-on pest control services operations.
In addition, we havebuilt on market, not only in North America but globally.
Through our 2017 our growing specialism in aquatic pest control through the acquisition acquisition of VDCI, headquartered in Little Rock and Denver, and our in January 2019 of Aquatic Systems in Florida and further expanded recent acquisition ofMosquito Control Services in Metairie, we are our capability in the USs $600m vector control market through the now Americas No.
1 provider of mosquito control, offering a full range acquisition of Mosquito Control Services in Metairie, Louisiana.
of highly skilled services to governmental, commercial and residential customers, supported by our global centre of excellence see page 32.
For more information onvector control, please see page 33.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 4 Protecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere c. 24,000 Europe Lumnia units were installed across Europe last year Europe has delivered a highly encouraging performance in 2018, with Pest Control and Hygiene performing well and our France Workwear business 13 returning to profitable growth.
businesses were acquired this year in France, Germany, Spain and Sweden Using digital solutions to improve customer experience Whenever a Rentokil technician While nding pests on their carries out a check or makes premises is stressful for our a new recommendation to customers, managing their pest improve our prevention measures, control requirements neednt be.
that information is instantly Our myRentokil online customer available.
I can then take those portal provides secure 24 7 recommendations and instantly access to real-time information forward them to the colleague that provides easy access to in charge of that area.
Its a new documentation required for way of working, supported by pest control, including reviewing digital workows, that is perfect service recommendations and for driving a culture of continuous responding to audits.
In 2018, improvement in pest control.
84% of our commercial customers Customer feedback on myRentokil, used the myRentokil portal, up International account, Rentokil Germany from 50% last year, and Europe was a key priority.
Returning France to profitable growth Driving increased retention through throughservice excellence improvements in line manager capability Our operations in France, including our France Workwear business, Our people strategy in Europe has three pillars: colleague development, have made excellent progress this year against operational and Employer of Choice and organisational effectiveness.
A key goal for financial KPIs, returning to targeted year-on-year profitability for the 2018 has been returning our France business to year-on-year profitable firsttime since 2014.
While market conditions have proved challenging growth and core to achieving this has been developing manager for several years, our team in France has steadily implemented a and staff capability.
As a result, we have seen significant reductions Quality Agenda, focused on delivering service excellence and cost in absence and staff turnover as well as increased engagement with savings, and has made consistent progress in the areas of products, colleagues.
We have also trained more managers this year than in services, innovation, customer relationships and colleagues.
Further the previous five years combined, which has helped support a more details are available on pages 38 and 39. positive and effective working environment.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 5 Protecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere c. 24,000 Europe Lumnia units were installed across Europe last year Europe has delivered a highly encouraging performance in 2018, with Pest Control and Hygiene performing well and our France Workwear business 13 returning to profitable growth.
Lighting the way in fly control Utilising M&A to build density and increase specialist expertise In 2017 we launched Lumnia, the worlds first range of illuminated fly traps to use patented LED lighting technology rather than traditional M&A is working very well for our Europe region and our 2017 acquisition fluorescent tubes.
Lumnia attracts, kills and encapsulates insects of CWS Italy has been a strong contributor to growth.
We acquired hygienically eliminating the risks of contamination and is suitable 13 more businesses in 2018, including S&A in Westerholz, Germany for a wide range of internal environments where flies are unwelcome.
which builds on our expertise in fumigation, a growing global market In 2018 we installed just over 60,000 units across our estate, of with a compound annual growth rate CAGR of 5.5%.
S&A has which c. 24,000 were in Europe, with the products proving particularly developed a revolutionary new product which guarantees residue-free popular with customers in Switzerland, Portugal and the Netherlands, fumigation FRISIN, and this is just one example of the way in which we who have seen their annual operating costs fall from 150 for a are increasingly buying businesses that develop innovative products non-LED unit to just 45 a year for Lumnia.
More details on Lumnia and services that we can deploy at scale across our global footprint.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 6 Protecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere UK & Rest Understanding rodent behaviour helps us do a better job for customers, something we do in the most natural, humane way possible.
Other than providing of World food and water, we dont interfere with their environment and, as a Monitoring behaviour result, were able to gain important Innovation, science and training are at the heart of Rentokils to create more e cient behavioural insights.
We are pledge to be the experts in pest control and the UK is home detection tools always looking for what might to our global research and development facility, the Power We monitor rodent activity to make a potential breakthrough Centre, named after our former Chief Marketing O cer gain a greater understanding now or in years to come.
of their behaviour which helps Stewart Power.
Our investment in the centre demonstrates DR ANDY BRIGHAM us create methods to prevent General Technical Manager, Science and Service our commitment to providing colleagues with the best tools Rentokil or deter them from accessing and training to ensure a high-quality service for customers properties.
A mouse can squeeze and to meet our commitments to shareholders.
through a gap just six millimetres across roughly the width of a pencil which highlights the challenges in making properties invasion proof.
1, 700 colleagues, customers and major shareholders attended 87 o cial tours of the Power Centre 50 0 technicians have attended training courses at the Power Centre in the last 12 months Leading the pest control industry through Introducing the Power Centre to key science and innovation stakeholders Across the world, demand for pest control services continues to In 2018 c. 1,700 colleagues, customers and major shareholders attended increase, driven by rising economic activity, urbanisation, increasing 87 official tours of the Power Centre.
Visitors included service colleagues population and changing demographics.
Rentokil is leading the from the Netherlands, our Latin American management team and a industry through the development of innovative products to address growing number of prospective customers, for whom the visit was a key this growing need.
Our scientific expertise and innovation pipeline, part in their decision to work with us.
We were also very pleased to give together with partnerships with organisations and universities, anumber of our major shareholders a direct, first-hand experience of ensureswe remain at the forefront of the industry and our new how we approach innovation and technology across the Group.
PowerCentre gives us greater resources and capabilities to ensure this continues.
For more details on some of our innovations, please seepages 25 and 32.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 7 Protecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere UK & Rest Understanding rodent behaviour helps us do a better job for customers, something we do in the most natural, humane way possible.
1, 700 colleagues, customers and major shareholders attended 87 o cial tours of the Power Centre 50 0 technicians have attended training courses at the Power Centre in the last 12 months Maintaining the highest standards Testing products in the field oftechnicaltraining An important part of our work at the Power Centre is testing innovations in real environments, an essential part of gaining regulatory product Also at the Power Centre is a state-of-the-art training unit which approval.
We are currently testing new mosquito traps in the Caribbean, delivers professional, industry-accredited training to colleagues which we hope will provide greater protection to people from mosquitothrough co-ordinated training courses.
It has seven scenario training borne diseases.
We are also seeking regulatory approval for a unique rooms matching technicians working environments supermarkets, fungus which attacks cockroaches and which has been proven to hotel bedrooms, loft spaces, commercial kitchens, grain stores, be highly effective in Malaysian sewers to remove serious levels officesand washrooms ensuring technical field skills and safety ofinfestation.
procedures can be honed on site.
Over the last 12 months almost 500technicians have attended training courses at the Power Centre.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 8 Protecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere Our markets in Asia provide an excellent source of growth potential for the Group.
We have a strong 580 footprint across the region and currently operate Asia Rentokil locations in Asia from 580 locations in 12 countries, supported by over 7,200 pest control technicians and 131 eld biologists.
7, 200 pest control technicians across the region Improving community health in India, Malaysia and Indonesia Communities that are aware of Rentokil Initial continues to touch the problems that poor hygiene the lives of underprivileged can bring are the communities communities in developing that are more likely to take action.
countries through our Better When we all play our part, we Futures programme which can protect the ones we love, delivers basic health education on and enhance not only our own the importance of good hygiene lives but also the lives of those practices.
Our largest programme around us.
This is what Rentokil runs in India where since 2013 Initial stands for, and that is the Better Futures has been operating goal we want to work towards in schools and local communities.
Since our joint venture with PCI CAROL LAM in 2017, we have signicantly Managing Director increased the scope and impact Rentokil Initial Malaysia of the programme.
This year we have delivered programmes in India, Malaysia and Indonesia in schools, orphanages and slum communities, presenting modules on hand hygiene, water hygiene and u habits.
Providing aid in times of disaster Protecting the health of international athletes in Indonesia at the Jakarta-Palembang 2018 Games Lombok Island is an Indonesian island east of Bali and was shaken in More than 11,000 athletes from 45 countries competed in the 18th early August by four major earthquakes that resulted in over 350,000 Asian Games, the biggest sports event after the Olympics.
Event people fleeing their homes.
Many of those affected were housed in preparations took place over two years, including renovating and tents and makeshift structures on open fields with no protection from building sports venues, transportation infrastructures and the athletes pests such as mosquitoes and flies which carry an increased risk of village complex.
With the health and safety of participants and visitors spreading diseases.
Our Rentokil technicians joined forces with other critical to success, Initial Indonesia was appointed to provide hygiene volunteers from the Indonesian Pest Control Companies Association solutions to protect athletes and spectators from the health risks of to carry out thermal fogging and spraying around refugee camps.
cross contamination, using products from our Signature Colour range Formore information on how we support our communities, please chosen to match the vibrant colour scheme of the Games.
seeour Corporate Responsibility review onpage 52.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 9 Protecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere Our markets in Asia provide an excellent source of growth potential for the Group.
Illuminating Singapore stores with sales Driving efficiency and enhancing customer ofLumnia experience through digitalisation The success of our Lumnia product is growing across the world Across the world we use digital technology and applications to drive and earlier this year our Singapore sales team won a contract to customer service and productivity.
We have continued to deploy install and service 450 Lumnia units in 70 outlets of a leading food ServiceTrak our smartphone field service app across our Asian retailer.
Our team was able to demonstrate that Lumnia units would operations and during 2018 equipped 2,300 colleagues with the app, save ourcustomer approximately 9,000 a year in energy bills thereby improving service efficiency by 30% and reducing paper-based alone.
Thisflagship contract is generating interest among other transactions by 50%.
In addition, we have made further progress in the customers in the country, including hotels, restaurants and facilities roll-out of our myRentokil online customer portal in the region, resulting managementbusinesses.
in an increase in customer sites using the portal from c. 36,200 in 2017 to 54,000 by the end of this year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 10 Protecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere In our Pacic region we provide pest control, hygiene services and plants in Australia, New Zealand and Fiji.
We have Pacic leading national positions across all three Biosecurity is absolutely categories and a clear market leadership paramount to us.
We need to do whatever we need to do to make in pest control.
sure that were not exposing any Protecting agricultural of our agricultural industries to this sort of risk.
Stink bugs are a major 20 0 industries through We are proud to be ranked in threat as they reproduce quickly, pest control the Top 200 companies globally eat a broad variety of crops and for gender balance and equality Earlier this year 20 cargo ships resist most pesticides.
destined for New Zealand DAVID VINSEN and Australia were denied CEO of New Zealands Imported Motor Vehicle entry into port on widespread Industry Association detection on their ships of 13.
increase in short-term retention Carrying over 6,500 vehicles through our Employer of Choice from Japan, immediate thermal programme fogging was required before the ships could be allowed entry.
Rentokil was contracted to handle the project and carried out six-hour thermal fogging treatments to eradicate the bugs, returning the following day to conduct final inspection and safety checks.
The treatments were carried out in the docks, with the exception of one ship which was deemed too dangerous to be allowed access.
Strengthening Hygiene through Addressing gender imbalance in Australia increased M&A through our Employer of Choice programme We were delighted to acquire in early 2018 Cannon Hygiene Services.
We are proud to be ranked in the Top 200 companies globally for The business, which operates across nine countries including Australia gender balance and equality by Equileap.
However, we seek further and New Zealand, fits very well with our existing operations, and allows progress in areas where we perceive the balance to be unequal.
In us to increase our coverage in key markets and gain synergies from Australia we are trying to triple our number of female pest control enhanced density and combined infrastructures.
Cannons Australian technicians currently 10 out of a total of 418 and this year ran our and New Zealand businesses have contributed to overall regional first Women in Pest Control workshop, discussing topics including Ongoing Revenue growth of 11.2% and Ongoing Operating Profit recruitment, workplace arrangements and communication.
Community was set up to act as a central hub to exchange ideas and follow-up actions agreed, including designing a range of more femalefriendly uniforms, introducing flexible working hours and using more women to recruit female employees to the business.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 11 Protecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere In our Pacic region we provide pest control, hygiene services and plants in Australia, New Zealand and Fiji.
Award-winning digital innovation Making further inroads in our Employer inNewZealand ofChoice agenda At the annual Building Service Contractors of New Zealand awards Our people are our biggest source of competitive advantage and inMay 2018, Initial New Zealand was announced winner of the the key to profitable growth.
In the Pacific this year we introduced BusinessInnovation Award for myInitial, our online customer portal a number of initiatives designed to attract and retain key talent.
The awards bring together cleaning companies Successes include: improving line manager capability, overhauling from across New Zealand to celebrate the industry and recognise recruitment materials to promote Rentokil Initial as an Employer success.
Explaining their decision, the judges considered myInitial of Choice, and recruitment training for all frontline managers.
to go beyond a value-added product, demonstrating innovation that Theintroduction of new service colleague on-boarding specialists is relevant for the New Zealand market, and providing a partnered who establish mentoring relationships with new joiners has been solution for both clients and service contractors that clearly improves particularly encouraging, resulting in an increase in short-term retention overall standards.
In addition, our Glassdoor rating by Australian colleagues rose from 1.4 to 4.2 by the end of the year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
