Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Social Responsibility We are committed to doing business responsibly and We now source all shell eggs and mayonnaise from cage-free acknowledge that The Restaurant Group has a significant role and or free-range sources since November 2017 when all to play in the communities and the wider environment in which shell eggs used in our restaurants converted to RSPCA we operate.
This report sets out the principal areas of focus Assured Free Range.
Furthermore, we are committed to and activity for 2018 in the areas of nutrition, sustainable and ensuring that eggs used as an ingredient in our supply chain ethical sourcing, nurturing and developing our employees, will be cage-free and or free-range by the end of 2023 at the engaging with our communities and reducing the environmental latest.
Work is already underway to achieve this goal.
impact of the Group on the wider environment.
We are a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange Non-Financial reporting information Sedex, which facilitates measurement and improvement in The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to disclose ethical business practices across the supply chain.
We require certain non-financial reporting information within the annual all of our suppliers to be registered and risk assessed with report and accounts.
Accordingly, the required disclosures Sedex.
All suppliers must also meet the requirements of can be found on the following pages in the Strategic report our Responsible Sourcing Policy which has been introduced or are incorporated into the Strategic report by reference for to our direct suppliers and disseminated throughout each these purposes from the pages noted : supply chain.
information on environmental matters page 19 In order to benchmark our sustainability performance in information on our employees page 16 our sector, we are members of The Sustainable Restaurant Association.
In 2018 we maintained a 2-Star rating that was information on social, community and human rights matters achieved in 2017.
We are targeting a 3-Star rating in 2019 page 16 at our next assessment.
information on anti-corruption and anti-bribery page 17 As in previous years, there continues to be no genetically information on diversity page 16 and in the Corporate Governance Report on page 25. modified foods or artificial trans fats in any of our products, and we have banned colours that cause hyperactivity in Sustainable and ethical sourcing children from all of our products served to children.
We practice responsible sourcing throughout our supply chain, ensuring our customers get good quality, high welfare Nutrition and Health We are committed to offering a healthy choice for our and sustainable food on their plates.
We offer a free side of vegetables with all kids meals and use fresh fruit and vegetables in many of our All of our suppliers must be certified to the British Retail Consortium Food standard or equivalent, as a minimum, and dishes.
The nutritional balance of menus is incorporated into the design process and we are committed to increasing the we conduct routine supplier audits to ensure our suppliers are operating to our high standards.
number of lower calorie, salt and sugar options available on all future menus.
We are committed to sourcing sustainable fish and as such Weve reduced the amount of salt in our bespoke products introduced a detailed policy in 2016, within which we commit to sourcing Marine Stewardship Council MSCcertified fish, purchased directly from suppliers, in line with the Department of Health Responsibility Deal for 2017.
With over 95% of all where available.
We also work with our suppliers and farmers both UK and non-UK to provide further emphasis and products purchased adhering to 2017 Salt targets.
guidance on farm antibiotic use.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 15 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Allergens Our people Frankie & Bennys and Chiquito offer a Coeliac UK-accredited Gluten Free menu to cater for those with Coeliac Disease.
We believe that great customer experience is key to our This menu offers a wide range of dishes, and we have added business success, and therefore our most important assets gluten-free burgers, pastas and pizzas in Frankie & Bennys, are our people.
At the end of December 2018, we employed to provide greater choice to our guests.
more than 22,000 people across all of our brands.
Our teams in all of our restaurants and pubs take huge pride in their work Our allergen information is available online on our brand and focus on providing the best guest and customer service, websites, which allows us to provide accurate information to they are passionate about food and drink and support our guests.
It allows guests to create their own bespoke menu each other.
In 2018, the Group successfully added a further based on their particular allergies, intolerances, or vegetarian 42 branches in our highly successful Concessions and and vegan preferences.
Pubs divisions, creating new jobs and opportunities in major transport hubs and within local communities.
Serving alcohol responsibly We operate Challenge 25 in Scotland and Challenge 21 in The year for us was one to re-examine our people processes, England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
and ensure we can not only attract talent, but have the ability to identify and grow our internal talent, then encourage We continue to support Drinkaware and all menus now display and support all of our employees so that they can reach their the Drinkaware logo to promote responsible drinking.
We offer a wide range of alcohol-free beers, mocktails, soft Our commitments drinks and milkshakes.
Many of our Concessions restaurants The Restaurant Group is committed to a policy of being a fair also offer a low alcohol wine option.
Employment with the Group offers everyone equal rights, and career development and promotion Food safety prospects, regardless of age, race, gender, sexual orientation, The health and safety of our customers and employees is disability or religion.
We ensure as far as possible that the of paramount importance to us.
The Group has extensive diversity of our teams reflects the diversity of the customers we procedures to ensure we mitigate risks to our guests and serve.
Details relating to the gender diversity of our employees teams as far as possible.
We have very clear procedures and are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 25. standards in place and, to enforce these, we employ external auditors to perform a rolling programme of independent If an employee is disabled in any way, or becomes disabled safety audits and carry out benchmarking of our restaurants.
during their employment with us, then our policy is to offer assistance and explore ways of overcoming any difficulties As at 30 December 2018, over 98% of our restaurants scored they may have at work, and make adjustments to help them 4 stars or above including pass in Scotland under the Food wherever possible.
Hygiene Rating Scheme, a sign of excellence in both food safety and hygiene, with 87% at 5 stars or a pass in Scotland.
Our commitment to equality and human rights is discussed We have invested significant time and resources in health and in the induction for all employees and covered in the online safety matters across the Group, to further enhance the clean, policies and employee handbook which are accessible to all.
safe environment for our customers and staff.
The policies include an Equality and Diversity Policy, a Family-Friendly Policy, and a Harassment and Bullying Policy.
The various management skills courses offered cover the responsibilities of the management team in upholding these policies to ensure a safe and respectful working environment.
16 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Regarding anti-corruption and bribery, it is our policy to In 2018 we focused on providing communications that were conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner.
accessible, relevant and interesting to all of our employee We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption population, a significant proportion of whom English is not and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with their first language.
We introduced a new communications integrity in all our business dealings and relationships.
and engagement tool called Yapster, which is a social All expense claims relating to hospitality, gifts, or payments media-style application which our team can download to to third parties must be submitted in accordance with our their phones and other devices.
The platform has a translate expenses policy and record the reason for expenditure.
function to help all employees engage with the tool.
As well Anyone offered, or asked to make, a bribe, or who suspects as receiving regular business updates, the team can chat in any bribery or corruption has occurred, is obliged to notify their branch or regional groups, and collaborate directly with the Company Secretary without delay.
So far as we are aware, everyone in the organisation, including our central support there were no incidences of bribery or corruption during 2018. team.
This innovation will be hugely helpful in 2019 as we launch our health and wellness focus, ensuring we nurture The Group pays all of its employees at least the National our people and give them the support they need in the areas Minimum Wage or for over 25s the National Living Wage of physical and mental health.
Tips are not included in this rate, and all gratuities are additional to their hourly rate and are We launched another Save As You Earn share option scheme paid directly to the employees.
Cash tips are self-declared, in 2018, which all employees with more than three months and only the tips paid by credit card have tax deducted by employment were invited to join.
They can purchase TRG the Group.
Also, unlike some of our competitors, no card shares at a discounted price after saving each month for processing administration fee is taken by the Group.
Our year In 2018, we reported 56 accidents under the Reporting of We conducted our annual all-employee engagement survey Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations in 2018 and were pleased that engagement levels remain 2013, with no deaths or dangerous occurrences.
This number high, with almost 85% of employees declaring they were continues our recent trend of year-on-year reductions.
Proud to work for TRG and nearly 80% happy to recommend working here to others.
Over 92% of respondents said that Our talent search they respected their manager, and our overall employee We have worked hard building the TRG external recruitment satisfaction rate rose from 74.9% in 2017 to 76.3% in 2018. brand to enable us to attract the best external talent.
We have Our focus areas of work life balance and especially increased our presence on LinkedIn and other key recruitment performance management from the previous survey saw sites and also have an internal employee referral scheme significantly higher positive responses this year.
We now have 13,000 followers on LinkedIn, and use this application extensively to recruit In 2018 we created a charity partnership with Cancer vacant roles throughout the organisation.
Research UK CRUK and all employees from the Leisure brands and our central support office team worked together Our internal recruitment team employed 324 managers into to raise funds for this incredible cause, chosen by the team our restaurants and pubs for Assistant, Deputy and General members themselves.
Some of our colleagues also took time Management roles.
out to volunteer for the charity and in each region charity champions worked hard to coordinate our activities.
The Our nurturing and encouragement champions also had the opportunity to visit one of CRUKs We have a dedicated learning and development team whose research facilities to see where the funds they were raising aim is to ensure all our employees are the best they can be.
were carefully used to improve treatments and learned about the charitys work.
The current fundraising total has so far In our Pubs division, we launched L2 and L3 Professional Cookery and Level 3 Hospitality Supervisor Apprenticeships.
reached almost 150,000, which is a fantastic achievement.
In Leisure and Concessions, we offer 6 Apprenticeships from L2 Team Member and Chef to L4 Foundation Degree for General Managers.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 17 Corporate Social Responsibility continued We continue to focus on identifying talent and using these Our communities identified talent pools for succession planning and internal promotion.
With our career pathways and the pipeline of Engaging with our communities is our passion and we are apprentices, we hope to maintain, or even further increase, keen to fully support our teams with their fundraising efforts internal progression and development across the Group.
Over many years we have supported a number of local and national charities.
Our learning and development On the job learning is an essential part of developing our In 2018 we formed a new people and forms the majority of their training.
However, to partnership with a national give them the technical knowledge required in areas such charity, across our Leisure as Allergens and Food Safety, and in 2018 especially, GDPR brands and the team in our awareness, and to check their understanding, there are also central support office together.
eLearning modules and tests that must be completed.
These employees were given the opportunity to pick the Everyone in the Group has access to our FLOW eLearning charity they would like to work centre, which holds a host of TRG specific learning materials with and they chose Cancer that support employees from their first day with the Group Research UK CRUK.
Teams all over the country have and ensures they are able to perform their role safely and spent the year hosting many different events and giving their effectively.
FLOW also holds more generic learning materials time to raise money for this amazing cause.
Charity for our managers on key topics such as leadership, coaching champions in each area were also given the chance to visit and performance management.
83,000 eLearning modules one of CRUKs research facilities in Birmingham and were were completed on the FLOW system in 2018, up from 74,000 given an insight into the incredible work their scientists are the previous year.
doing to improve treatments and save lives.
As well as online learning, face-to-face learning is also Through events such as sponsored runs and walks, important, and in 2018 there were 253 workshops run by our mountain climbs, head-shaving, a support office bikeathon, in-house dedicated learning & development team.
The new bake offs, raffles and all manner of sales, our fantastic management induction programme and all the workshops teams have raised almost 150,000 in 2018, which is are now run across brands and give our management teams a fantastic achievement.
the chance to learn from each other, share best practice and build on their development plans.
Our Concessions Division, mainly based in airport locations around the country, work extremely hard for a range of Our future leaders charities including: All new managers into our restaurants are enrolled on the Manager in Training MIT programme.
This gives them The School Club Zambia a structured pathway to be a successful leader with us.
The charity was founded in 2011 programme covers all aspects of operational management to work in partnership with and hospitality, as well as leadership skills, and is designed community schools in Zambia to reflect the culture, behaviours and values of the Group.
to ensure children have access to a relevant and sustainable External hires work with experienced managers in restaurants education, helping them designated as Centres of Excellence for up to six weeks.
become financially selfDuring their training, they experience a variety of learning sufficient, up-scale their vocational events and are supported by their line manager and the education, and improve their employment potential in the learning and development team.
Since our partnership began in December 2013, we have raised nearly 50,000 with donations largely coming from a proportion of the sale of selected dishes sold at some of our Concessions pub brands.
18 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Since 2009, the Concessions team have also raised money Our environment for The Guide Dogs for the Blind Association and sponsored 17 Guide Dogs through various fundraising The Group recognises its responsibility to minimise its impact activities and sponsored events.
on the natural environment and continues in its commitment to reduce its energy consumption and carbon emissions, Our Pubs Division is situated in locations that are in the very water usage and waste.
heart of their local communities.
Each individual pub tends to support a local charity to champion throughout the year, Energy Consumption and Carbon Emissions examples of which might be the Red Fox on the Wirrals We continue to promote our energy saving campaign to all long-standing relationship with Claire House Childrens restaurants through the timely supply of accurate reporting.
Hospice or Haighton Manors relationship with Space Operational managers have the information they need to Centre, in Preston.
allow them to monitor and reduce energy consumption levels through an online portal and centralised data resource.
In addition, multiple pubs co-ordinate to support national During 2018 the Group has continued to invest in energycharities, National Jumper Day raising money for Save the saving technologies by installing intelligent extract controls, Children, and participating in National coffee morning cooling and refrigeration controls and trialling both enhanced week for Macmillan nurses.
cold-room insulation and thermostatic radiator valves at certain sites.
As our pubs are very dog friendly, they encourage widespread backing for dogs charities, joining in local dog The Group still maintains Carbon Saver Gold Standard walks and supporting The Guide Dogs for the Blind accreditation, showing nine years  Association and Dogs Trust.
commitment to reducing carbon emissions.
The Group also continued to be accredited by the Sustainable Restaurant Charities Aid Foundation Association, scoring highly in the Environment section.
2018 Give As You Earn showed an 9th consecutive year of LFL energy consumption The Group has teamed up reduction.
The reduction of over 2,600,000 kWh is equivalent with the Charities Aid to over 800 tonnes of carbon.
This equates to a saving of 2.6% on LFL measurable sites.
Foundation to allow our team members the facility In 2018, we continued to track and control our gas volumes to donate to their favourite charities directly from their using the same operational engagement strategy as electricity.
The result was a reduction of over 2,200,000 kWh, which is salary.
This enables employees to make a regular donation in a tax efficient equivalent to over 400 further tonnes of carbon.
This equates to a saving of 3.0% on LFL measurable sites.
Greenhouse gas emissions We will continue to work hard to ensure we make a difference both to our local community and the wider world We report Scope 1 and 2 emissions defined by the Greenhouse Gas protocol as follows: around us.
Scope 1 Direct emissions : combustion of fuel and operation of facilities: and Scope 2 Indirect emissions : consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 19 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Greenhouse gas emissions data Water Emissions data in respect of the 2018 reporting period, is For water, the Group benchmarks restaurants and pubs as follows: by average daily usage and uses data validation to highlight high users.
Where usage increases or is marked as high, the CO e tonnes 2 location-based method restaurant or pub is surveyed for efficiency initiatives and leak Emission Type 2018 2017 fixes, ensuring that we prevent water wastage and remain Scope 1: commercially controlled in this area.
Previous savings have Operation of Facilities 568 734 annualised but we are still currently tracking ongoing savings of over 70,000 in 2018.
Combustion 18,180 18,237 Total Scope 1 Emissions 18,748 18,971 The Group continues to take advantage of the fide-regulation Scope 2: of the water market.
We were able to combine our Scottish Purchased Energy UK 34,127 45,865 and English volumes to achieve preferable terms, as well as Total Scope 2 Emissions 34,127 45,865 added value benefits such as centralised billing and account Total Emissions 52,875 64,836 management.
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratio Waste Year-onThe Group has further improved its diversion from landfill to Year 99.9%, with a significant number of sites diverting 100% of 2018 2017 Variance their waste from landfill.
We have also started to track the Total Footprint recycling rate which is 44% for 2018.
In 2019 we plan to Scope 1 and optimise our schedules to improve this performance by Scope 2 CO e 52,875 64,836 -11,961 2 segregating more at source.
Turnover 679.1m 679.2m n a Intensity Ratio Pages 4 to 20 form the strategic report.
Scope 2 location based method Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: tCO e 100,000 0.078 0.095 -18.0% 2 For comparative purposes, does not include Wagamama.
Kirk Davis Scope and methodology: Chief Financial Officer Our methodology has been based on the principles of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, taking account of the 2015 amendment which sets out a dual reporting methodology for the reporting of Scope 2 emissions.
TRG only 15 March 2019 reports the location-based method.
We have reported on all the measured emissions sources required under The Companies Act 2006 strategic report and Directors report Regulations 2013, except where stated.
The period of our report is the calendar year 2018.
This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3.
Conversion factors for UK electricity location-based methodology, gas and other emissions are those published by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 2018.
Change in location-based methodology is driven by a number of variables, primarily: reduced electricity and gas consumption: higher use of propane in pub sites in line with higher sales: the use of vehicles for which emissions are in scope has also fallen: carbon factors as referenced above have also decreased significantly year-on-year as efficiencies are made and more renewable fuels are used in the generation mix.
20 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018
