Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Corporate responsibility As the largest property portal in the UK, Rightmove is Recruitment committed to its responsibility as a corporate member Recruiting the right people with capability and experience to of society.
How we operate our business underpins the drive growth is vital to our business plan.
The highly competitive contributions we make to our workplace, our marketplace, market for technology and customer centric skills means that the environment and wider society.
At the heart of we are strongly focused on maintaining a happy, collegiate everything we do are the Rightmove Hows, the essential working environment and providing a comprehensive range values and behaviours our employees exemplify, which of benefits to attract and retain the best people.
reflect our culture and benefit both the business and the We also believe that long-term commitment from wider communities in which we operate.
Rightmove employees is key to our culture and success.
For a relatively young company we are proud that 70 people have celebrated ten or more years service, which represents over 14% of our employees and we believe contributes to The Hows our strong people survey results.
Referrals from existing employees are a valuable source of new recruits, typically ensuring a higher quality candidate Do the right thing for consumers and customers with a better cultural fit.
In 2018, 8% of new employees were introduced to Rightmove by an existing employee.
Build great teams because Rightmove is people Employees with disabilities Be curious and go out of your way to understand It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full Share honestly, early and often and fair consideration for all vacancies.
During the year we continued to demonstrate our commitment to interviewing T ake responsibility and make things that matter happen and employing those people with disabilities who fulfil the Make complex things as simple as possible minimum criteria for a role and we endeavour to support and retain employees who become disabled during their Drive improvement, we can always be better employment with us.
Dont be afraid of mistakes you can learn from People development and training To ensure our colleagues can work to the best of their ability, Be approachable and appreciate what others do we continue to invest in extensive training and leadership Enjoy the journey, be part of it programmes, designed to equip them with all the necessary skills to provide exceptional service to our customers and consumers.
All new employees joining Rightmove are given the best introduction to the business and our customers through attending two How Rightmove fits together courses based at our Milton Keynes and London premises.
They also attend an off-site residential induction course to introduce them to Rightmoves culture and values.
We recognise that all our employees are unique and have different needs and learning styles.
We offer learning Making a difference to our opportunities covering both technical and non-technical employees in the workplace skills that are aligned to our collaborative and inclusive culture: including workshops, on the job training, attendance at We believe that our people are the key to Rightmoves conferences, coaching and mentoring, online learning and success and our most valued asset.
We have always strived professional qualifications.
In 2018, 5% of our employees to make Rightmove a great place to work and embedded this were promoted into new roles.
We are proud of our into our strategic management objectives.
We are proud of development culture and the skills mobility it promotes.
the energy, talent and experience our people bring to the In 2018 alone 12 members of our customer experience business.
Our open and supportive culture is shaped by the team joined our technology teams in a variety of Rightmove Hows and these values manifest themselves technical roles.
in our fast-paced and highly customer-oriented approach in our commitment to being an exciting, innovative and digital-led company.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 29 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued Employee benefits by every manager and we are never complacent about Whilst we believe that being a great place to work helps us the importance of acting on colleagues feedback.
We are attract the best talent we also reward all our employees proud of another set of strong results from the survey with with a range of competitive benefits.
highlights including: 91% of respondents think Rightmove is a great place to work: Rightmove contributes towards a group stakeholder pension 95% of respondents enjoy working in their team: and plan.
Opt out rates are low and currently 95% of employees 92% of respondents are proud to tell people they work are members of the pension plan.
We also offer private for Rightmove.
healthcare complemented by a cash plan scheme for all our employees medical needs.
We believe employee engagement is vital.
Harnessing and directing that engagement leads to the Groups It is important that our people can directly benefit from their performance, therefore it is pleasing to note that 90% contribution to the success of Rightmove and we offer two of respondents understand how their role contributes all-employee share plans.
Every employee can join the to achieving the business plan.
Groups Save As You Earn Scheme Sharesave, which allows employees to save money from their salary with the option to An employee engagement score will again form part of the purchase shares at a discount after three years.
In November senior management bonus criteria in 2019, demonstrating 2018, the Groups tenth Sharesave contract matured allowing the importance of employee engagement to the continuing employees to benefit from the Groups success and strong success of Rightmove.
share price growth over the last three years.
67% of our Equality and diversity employees currently participate in Sharesave.
Rightmove is committed to equality of opportunity in all our Awards under the Rightmove Share Incentive Plan were employment policies and practices.
Our recruitment and 1 again made to every qualifying employee.
This year, 500 selection processes focus on selecting the best candidate shares were awarded to each employee in January 2018 and for each role, regardless of their age, gender, sexuality, a further award of 475 shares was made in late December.
full or part-time status, disability and marital status.
In January 2018 the Groups first SIP free share award We recognise that a diverse workforce reflects Rightmoves became available for employees to sell, subject to tax, broad consumer base and our many customers.
Our people allowing them to benefit from the strong share price have a wide range of experience, skills and perspectives that growth since 2015. we believe promote innovation, constructive challenge and We offer flexible working arrangements, fully support partsuccess.
Drawing on a wide variety of personal attributes time working and reduced hours to allow our employees helps us anticipate what our customers expect from their to balance their work and family commitments.
A flexible Rightmove membership and what home hunters want from holiday scheme, was introduced in 2018, allowing employees Rightmove, which drives value in the way we do business.
to buy or sell up to five days or the part-time equivalent The Board continues to focus on succession planning and of holiday each year to suit their personal circumstances.
developing potential within the senior management team.
The scheme is popular, with 22% of employees taking During the year Russell Reynolds conducted a succession advantage of buying or selling holiday in 2018. and capability review covering high potential employees Engagement within our leadership team.
The review covered independent We encourage employee involvement and keep colleagues capability interviews, internal referencing and psychometric informed of the Groups activities through town halls, profiling.
The intent of the review was not only to provide business performance updates with senior management independent feedback on succession, but to provide an and quarterly sales conferences.
opportunity for personal development to help these employees be the best they could be.
We have an employee recognition scheme, based on the Rightmove Hows which allows us to focus on how we work, As at 31 December 2018, 36% 2017: 26% of our leadership 1 not just on what we achieve.
Every month, we focus on one team, were female.
The Board is keen to strengthen female of the Rightmove Hows and employees have the opportunity representation in senior roles and has been a contributor to to recognise colleagues demonstrating these behaviours.
the Hampton-Alexander Review, a Government sponsored initiative which aims to increase female leadership within We conduct bi-annual Have your Say people surveys to the FTSE 350.
Rightmove has met its Hampton-Alexander gauge what our employees think and how they feel about Review target of 33% female leadership by 2020 two years working for Rightmove.
The survey results are followed up ahead of schedule.
1 Adjusted for the 10:1 share subdivision effective 31 August 2018.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements At 31 December 2018, female representation on the Board We are confident that all Rightmove employees are paid was 50%, this combined with our strong female leadership equally for working in the same jobs and we are pleased to team representation resulted in us being placed second in the report that men and women are almost equally represented 2018 Hampton-Alexander FTSE 100 Women Leaders table.
The main contributor to Rightmoves gender pay gap is the mix in Rightmove communities A breakdown by gender of the number of directors and comprising the highest and lowest quartile salaries.
employees as at 31 December 2018 by various classifications Women are under-represented in the higher paid senior as required by the Companies Act 2006, is set out below: management and technology teams and men are 1 2 under-represented in the customer experience teams.
Directors Hampton-Alexander Senior management All Rightmove employees Technology is a sector challenged by a lack of gender diversity, but accepting the status quo is not part of the Rightmove culture.
We continue to have an equal gender 11 12 split within our technical team leader positions and were 4 4 257 267 21 20 pleased with the progress of our internal talent pipeline which has seen opportunities for several females to progress from Customer Experience roles to positions in our technology teams.
Female 50% Male 50% Female 36% Male 64% Female 35% Male 65% Female 51% Male 49% Below is our gender pay gap as at April 2018, together 1 2 with a description of some of the initiatives that we have Directors Hampton-Alexander Senior management All Rightmove employees implemented to improve our gender balance going forward.
Difference between male and female pay 2018 2017 11 12 Mean Median Mean Median 4 4 257 267 21 20 Difference in hourly 3 rate of pay 28.2% 36.4% 30.6% 37.0% 4 Difference in bonus pay 63.8% 45.6% 70.4% 36.5% Female 50% Male 50% Female 36% Male 64% Female 35% Male 65% Female 51% Male 49% 3 Calculated using Rightmove Group Limited pay data from April 2018.
4 Calculated using 12 months of Rightmove Group Limited bonus pay 1 The Hampton-Alexander cohort comprises members of the Executive data to 5 April 2018.
Committee and their direct reports.
2 The Senior Management Team comprises the Hampton-Alexander cohort, excluding the executive directors.
Gender pay Rightmove has published its second gender pay gap report, containing data as at April 2018.
Since publishing our first gender pay gap report in 2017, we have taken a number of actions towards closing our pay gap.
We have seen an improvement in our gender pay gap closing our mean pay gap by 2.4% and mean bonus pay gap by 6.6% that shows we are making positive progress.
We are aware that some of the initiatives we have started will have an impact in the long-term, but not on the 2018 figures.
Full details can be found on the Companys website at plc.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 31 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued We work hard to create an environment where men and All of our employees undergo annual training in the areas women have the opportunity to build careers throughout the of fraud, anti-bribery, GDPR and information security to business and believe that our open, collaborative culture is key ensure they remain up to date and alert to the signs of to that objective.
We are committed to a number of actions to unethical practices.
balance our teams in a fair and transparent way, including: We have a dedicated Safety and Security section on our Balance for all Addressing imbalance website designed to help consumers stay safe and avoid We continue to offer We are participants in the fraud when searching for their next home.
workshops to women 30% Club cross-company Protecting customers and consumers data before, during and after mentoring programme.
This maternity leave to retain supports our internal talent Protecting the data of our customers and consumers is talent.
We also offer pipeline to bring more talent incredibly important to Rightmove.
We continue to invest workshops to men and diversity into senior manager heavily in data and security protection and our fraud, data women to help consider roles.
We have eight females protection and information security teams all work vigilantly how best to balance work participating from varying to ensure that the data is kept secure and that we remain and family life.
We match this compliant with legislation.
Over the last 18 months, with the with eight mentors from our We are launching a introduction of the General Data Protection Regulations in senior management team Thoughtful Leadership to mentees from other May 2018, we have reviewed and strengthened our policies programme for everyone participating organisations.
with a people responsibility, and processes in line with the new, more stringent legislation.
to support our diverse Our internal talent pipeline Anti-Bribery and Corruption culture and thinking style.
provided job role changes and promotion opportunities Rightmove has zero tolerance to any form of bribery and To support our commitment for 31people.
to providing a diverse corruption, both within our business and in any dealings thought culture we are Our graduate programme with our customers, suppliers and other third parties we launching a series of in technology has attracted may deal with in the course of our business.
We will not Mentoring Circles great new talent to join us conduct business with any service provider, customer with external keynote and contribute to increasing or supplier which does not support our anti-bribery speakers who will provide balance in our technology objectives.
Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy stimulus for discussion teams.
can be found on our website plc.
We continuously review all job specifications and our Human rights including modern slavery interview process to ensure Rightmove does not have a specific human rights policy, universal appeal and fair however we do have a framework of policies and statements progression for all to ensure we attract the best talent.
covering equal opportunities, dignity at work, disability, anti-slavery and anti-bribery that adhere to internationally recognised human rights principles.
Being a trusted Rightmove is absolutely committed to preventing slavery marketplace and human trafficking in its business and supply chains.
We seek to uphold the highest standards of honesty and Rightmove is the largest property portal in the UK, integrity in all our business dealings and relationships and advertising over one million properties for sale and to rent on we have a zero-tolerance approach to the mistreatment of behalf of our customers, who are estate and letting agents, people in our employment and wherever possible, employed new homes developers, commercial property agents, and in our supply chain.
Our Modern Slavery Statement can be overseas agents and property owners, who pay to advertise found on our website plc.
their properties across our platforms.
We carry out vetting checks on all of our customers before we allow them to Whistleblowing advertise on Rightmove.
At Rightmove, we believe that by following clear and transparent business practices and consistently applying Rightmove is committed to ensuring the property adverts high ethical standards in all our business dealings, we can we display are accurate and genuine.
Our dedicated data contribute to a fairer and honest marketplace where quality team monitor the website to ensure that any customers and consumers know that we can be trusted.
potential misleading or inaccurate adverts can be We operate a whistleblowing facility for employees if they investigated and removed if necessary.
suspect anything inappropriate or experience any serious misconduct or wrong doing in our business.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Making a difference Making a difference to our communities to our environment 2018 saw the launch of our charitable fundraising initiative We are conscious of playing our part in tackling climate On The Move.
The initiative has an objective to raise funds, change and always encourage the efficient use of resources and awareness, for charitable causes by connecting people that contribute to environmental damage.
particularly in our home town of Milton Keynes.
As an internet-based business with most staff employed in During the year over 50 employees came together to take two office locations, our direct environmental footprint is part in the Milton Keynes Marathon, raising funds for two small.
We continue to encourage our employees to minimise charities which are important to many Rightmovers: local their use of resources and recycle materials wherever possible charity the Winter Night Shelter in Milton Keynes and with dedicated recycling bins provided in both our offices.
The team raised over As an operator of an online property portal, our main 45,000 in total, with Rightmove donating an additional environmental impact is from the power usage of our data 26,000 split between the two charities.
Our procurement policy is to purchase hardware In the spirit of connecting people, the On The Move initiative with the best computational performance which uses the also aims to evoke a wider sense of community amongst least electrical power.
those that take part and their supporter base.
In 2019 we We encourage our employees to use public transport rather will see the campaign broaden its reach outside of the direct than driving between our two office locations in London and Rightmove family, by expanding our fundraising team to Milton Keynes.
We encourage participation in our Cycle to Work invite the local community to partner with us and participate scheme and have many keen cyclists.
We have also introduced in our charitable efforts.
Our aim is to see employees and the the option for staff entitled to a company car to select hybrid local community running and fundraising as one team, all in electric cars as an alternative to petrol or diesel engines.
In the name of charitable causes and community spirit.
2018, our fuel card provider Allstar, continued to partner with With the success of the On The Move campaign in year Forest Carbon to capture the CO emissions from our fleet 2 one, we were delighted to continue our ongoing partnership of company cars and turn them into new UK woodlands.
with the Milton Keynes Marathon by becoming their primary As an online business, we naturally work in a near paperless sponsor, and the race now officially being known as the environment.
However, we recognise that our responsibilities Rightmove MK Marathon.
Additionally Rightmove will host do not stop with how we operate internally and we encourage the Rightmove MK Marathon Race Village, a family-friendly all our customers, business partners and suppliers to use entertainment area for spectators and runners alike, which online records and reduce printing, especially emails.
brings our local community together and celebrates the Wherever possible we have replaced paper-based services hometown of Rightmove.
and communications with online alternatives, including We also continue to support our local community in Milton e-communications for shareholders, online customer Keynes in a multitude of ways, including sponsoring many membership forms, management information, marketing of the citys sporting teams.
2018 saw us sponsor Milton reports and product documentation.
Keynes City volleyball and ice hockey teams for the first By far our biggest environmental contribution continues to time, and Milton Keynes College football team for the third be the way Rightmove has changed the way people search consecutive year.
Our partnership with Milton Keynes for property.
Our platforms are designed to optimise the College also included us working with three of their sports information available to home hunters, giving our customers science students in the final stages of their qualification with the ability to advertise high quality photographs, floor plans work placements, including offering employees free fitness and property particulars all on screen and available instantly.
This benefits both our All these innovations have helped to reduce the carbon employees by promoting a healthy lifestyle at work, but footprint generated by prospective home buyers and renters also gives the students vital data to use in completing their through reliance on printed media and making unnecessary qualifications.
The placement is a two-year course and we travel journeys to visit unsuitable properties.
will welcome them back in 2019.
Our employees are also able to donate directly from their monthly salary to any charity or recognised cause that is important to them as an individual, through the Charities Trust, which provides a tax efficient means of giving.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 33 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued Greenhouse gas reporting Our overall emissions are down 12.9% on the previous year The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors with emissions per employee also showing a reduction of Report Regulations 2013 requires all UK quoted companies 10.0%.
This is mainly attributable to: to report on their greenhouse gas GHG emissions, which lower fuel consumption due to the leasing of company cars are classified as either direct or indirect and which are divided principally a diesel fleet with increased fuel efficiency: between Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
a reduction in electricity consumption due in part to closing one floor of our London office for a period of three months Direct GHG emissions Scope 1 are emissions from sources for refurbishment during 2018, and new meters being that are owned or controlled by Rightmove, specifically installed increasing the accuracy of the readings: Company cars.
Indirect GHG emissions Scopes 2 & 3 are a change in the Defra factor used for calculating electricity emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the emissions: and Group but that occur at sources owned or controlled by an increase in average headcount.
These include our electricity consumption at our Milton Keynes and London offices and our Data Centres.
We continue to monitor and look for ways to improve our carbon footprint.
We do not have responsibility for any other material emission sources.
We have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Health and safety Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised At Rightmove, our approach to the effective management edition, ISO 14064 Part 1 2006 and emission factors from of health and safety is to treat it as an integral part of UK Governments Conversion Factors for Company business management.
The Groups policy on health and Reporting 2018. safety is to provide adequate control of the health and safety risks arising from work activities.
This is delivered through The Group is required to report Scope 1 and 2 emissions consultation with, and training of, employees, the provision for its reporting year to 31 December 2018.
Scope 3 is not and maintenance of plant and equipment, safe handling and mandatory, however, the Group has again chosen to report use of all substances and the prevention of accidents and Scope 3 emissions as it relates to electricity used in Data causes of ill health.
During the year, we continued our fire Centres, in which the Group rents space to house and safety, first aid and workplace safety training.
operate various servers, which host our platforms.
FTSE4Good Index Emissions have also been calculated using an intensity Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the metric, which will enable the Group to monitor how well we FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the are controlling emissions on an annual basis, independent of performance of companies demonstrating strong fluctuations in the levels of their activity.
As Rightmove is a Environmental, Social and Governance ESG practices.
people business, the most suitable metric is Emissions per TheFTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of Employee, based on the average number of employees market participants to create and assess responsible during the year.
The Groups emissions per employee are investment funds and other products.
shown in the table adjacent.
We are pleased to report that having been independently Rightmove emissions by scope assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, FTSE Russell 1 Tonnes CO e 2 the trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Scope Source 2018 2017 Russell Company has confirmed that Rightmove has Scope 1 Company cars 484 495 satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of Scope 2 Electricity 187 255 Scope 3 Outsourced data centres 206 257 theFTSE4Good Index Series.
Total 877 1,007 Total Scopes 1 & 2 only 671 750 Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions normalised per employee tCO2e 1.8 2.0 Scope 1 & 2 emissions 2 normalised per employee tCO2e 1.4 1.5 1 UK emissions factors have been used for all data.
All emission factors have been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually: www.
2 Based on 495 2017: 479 employees taken as the average number of employees in the Group throughout the year.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-Financial Information Statement Rightmove aims to comply with the new Non-Financial Reporting Directive requirements.
The table below sets out where relevant information can be found in this Annual Report.
Reporting Requirement Policies Relevant Information Environmental matters The Company does not have a specific policy on environmental issues, however, more information on our business impact on the environment can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report, pages 33 to 34, which also contains the statutory carbon emission data on page 34 Employees Employee Handbook, which includes: Chief Executives review, page 10 Code of Conduct Corporate Responsibility Report, Whistleblowing Policy pages 29 to 32 Human rights Modern Slavery Statement Corporate Responsibility Report, page 32 Data Retention Policy Privacy Policy Social matters The Company does not have a specific policy on social matters, however, information on how our business supports the local and wider community can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report, page 33 Anti-bribery and Employee Handbook, which includes: Corporate Responsibility Report, page 32 corruption Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Code of Conduct Business model Strategic Report, pages 14 to 15 Principal Risks Strategic Report, the EU Referendum, page 28 Strategic Report, principal risks and uncertainties, pages 25 to 27 Non-financial key Operational key performance indicators, page 16 performance indicators Rightmove plc annual report 2018 35
