Governance Sustainability Committee report Rio Tintos long-term future is inextricably linked to the contribution we Membership make: to the people we employ, the communities we work in, and the The members of the Committee during the year and to the date of this environment in which we operate.
report were: Megan Clark chairman One of our key responsibilities as a Committee is to ensure that the Groups Michael LEstrange approach is consistent with this sense of purpose.
That means embedding health, safety, asset security, environment, and community and social David Constable to 5 March 2018 performance into our business strategy and tracking our progress against Sam Laidlaw each.
Italso means reviewing how Rio Tinto assesses and manages its most Simon Henry from 1 May 2018 material risks.
Our Committee helps provide the governance, on behalf of the board, that supports the Groups contribution to local and global Our key responsibilities sustainable development.
Our scope is to oversee, on behalf of the board, the management processes, standards and strategies designed to meet Rio Tintos commitments, and Our operating environment, and the expectations of our stakeholders, are manage its risks, in the key areas of sustainable development.
So alongside our established approach to operational and include safety, health, environment including water management and local issues, the Group considers emerging and global priorities, including climate change, land access including closure and legacy management, the UNs Sustainable Development Goals.
relationships with communities, and the human rights of employees, contractors, suppliers and others in our value chain.
The Committees activities in 2018 reflect this broad outlook.
We describe our work in detail in the report below but as a snapshot, Iwould like to The Committee has the authority and access to resources to investigate all give you three examples: matters falling within its terms of reference.
These terms of reference are published on the Rio Tinto website, and feature a full list of our The first is safety a core priority for the Group, for me, and for everyone responsibilities, which include: on the Committee.
Despite the significant reduction in the Groups all injury Reviewing the Groups relevant policies, and overseeing the frequency rate at managed operations over the past ten years, the tragic management processes designed to ensure compliance with them.
loss of three colleagues in 2018 is sad evidence that we have not succeeded Monitoring managements commitment to the behaviours required in eliminating fatalities from our operations.
We are determined to do so.
We have reviewed the circumstances of each ofthese events to ensure Assessing the Groups health, safety, security, environment and lessons were learnt, and applied across the Group.
Vehicles, driving and communities framework.
process safety are key risks for the Group and remain areas of focus.
Reviewing reports from management on fatalities and other serious Various initiatives are being undertakento address these risks, including incidents, considering recommendations for improvement, and receiving collaboration between Group Safety and Asset Management to develop follow-up reports on their implementation.
Reviewing the measures for the safety component of the short term incentive plans for the executive team, and assessing performance The second is overseeing how Rio Tinto supports communities, and against them, making recommendations to the Remuneration thelocal environment, when it closes an asset.
This year, we visited the Committee as a result.
Ranger uranium mine operated by Energy Resources of Australia, which Reviewing and approving the proposed annual plan for independent is68% owned by Rio Tinto, to understand the details of the closure and audit and assurance projects within our scope, and reviewing their rehabilitation programme there.
It gave us important insights into outcomes and recommendations.
thekeyissues the Group considers as it manages such closures.
Carrying out a formal review each year of the role and responsibilities ofour Committee, its organisation and effectiveness, and its The third example reflects Rio Tintos engagement with stakeholders termsofreference.
onitsrole in a low-carbon future a strategic priority for the board.
TheCommittee has endorsed integrating the management of the Groups Our year in review climate change risks and opportunities into the Groups corporate strategy.
We met five times in 2018, covering a wide range of activities, which are It has overseen the work being done to enable disclosures, in early 2019, summarisedbelow.
inline with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD.
Safety We were deeply saddened by the tragic deaths of three of our colleagues, As these examples show, our work has a wide range, but it is driven atSorel-Tracy, Quebec April 2018, Richards Bay Minerals July 2018 and byacommon theme: promoting the long-term success of Rio Tinto, Paraburdoo August 2018.
We reviewed the circumstances surrounding andhelpingensure it is generating value for our shareholders and these incidents and made sure lessons were learnt from these terrible contributingto widersociety.
events, including risk and hazard identification and focus on leadership and engagement.
Rio Tinto has completed a risk normalisation focus across the business and will be implementing common leadership coaching in 2019.
Megan Clark Sustainability Committee chairman 27 February 2019 Sustainability Committee report Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 95 Governance Sustainability Committee report continued As part of our other work related to safety this year, we: Our other work included: Carried out deep dives into the risks and controls for the Groups process Approving new targets for health management and water safety programmes, and its controls on toxic and asphyxiant gases.
managementto take effect from 1 January 2019.
Reviewed the outcomes of the Groups 2017 short term incentive plan Reviewing the 2017 sustainable development report, and thesustainable inrelation to safety, and the 2018 safety targets for fatalities, all injury development sections of the 2017 Annual report.
frequency rates, and critical risk management: we also reviewed the Evaluating the Committees performance, resulting in, among other design for the 2019 targets.
outcomes, the Committee agreeing to assume an increased focus Assessed Rio Tintos safety and health performance compared with peers ontheimpact of climate change on our business.
from mining and other industries, as represented in the ICMM, and found that Rio Tintos safety strategy is aligned with industry best practice.
We also held our first ESG investor seminars in London and Sydney.
Our performance on occupational illness rates matches ICMM peers.
How the Committee spent its time Environment Safety and health 30% In 2017, the Committee oversaw the internal audit teams review of the Sustainable development assurance application and effectiveness of our controls in relation to our tailings and and reporting 26% waste water facilities.
In 2018, we received regular reports as part of our Environment, closure and climate change 17% oversight of the subsequent targeted technical reviews of our key facilities, Communities and social performance 15% and of the development of improvement plans, including training on Risk management overview and deep dives 11% effective tailings management.
In January 2019, the tragic tailings dam Whistleblowing oversight 1% disaster at Vale S. A. s Feijo Mine in Brumadinho, Brazil, served as a further reminder of the vital importance of this work, and the Committee has sought further updates on our certification and assurance processes for our tailings and waste water facilities at all current and legacy sites.
Rio Tinto is contributing to the industrys review of standards and responses to this This illustration does not include time spent by the Committee on disaster.
More information on how we manage tailings from our operations formalities, administrative items, the Committee performance evaluation, is available at riotinto.
or attending site visits and the ESG investor seminars.
Communities Our process We continued to provide oversight of the Groups communities and social The chairman of the board, the chief executive, the Health, Safety performance strategy, with a particular focus on relationships with and Environment Group executive, the Corporate Relations Group communities and human rights, including in our supply chains.
executive and the Group General Counsel regularly attend our meetings.
Some of the initiatives we have overseen in relation to human rights, and the work being done to contribute to our local communities, is set out in The Committee chairman reports to the board after each meeting, the Sustainable development section on pages 52 to 63 of this report.
and our minutes are tabled before the board.
All directors have access to the Committees papers.
Closure and remediation An important focus this year, was our review of the key issues involved in Our sustainable development strategy and performance are described managing the closure and remediation of assets, including the Groups in detail on pages 52 to 63 of this report as well as in our sustainable existing legacy sites and its closure plans over the next decade.
We development report, which can be found on our website.
reinforced the need to carefully manage the impact of closure with our communities, including in terms of employment, enterprise development and the environment.
Our visit to the Ranger uranium mine, described in the chairmans letter on page 6 was part of this work.
Governance and reporting Each year, we review the Groups key risks associated with health, safety, security, environment, and community and social performance.
In 2018, this included a discussion on the integration into Group strategy of the risks and opportunities presented by climate change, and a review of the Groups reporting in this area, including our governance, scenario assessments, business resilience, risk management framework, and targets and metrics.
We also reviewed and approved the Groups assessment of its most material sustainability topics, a process which combines feedback from internal leaders and subject-matter experts, and considers stakeholder expectations as well as an analysis of the external environment.
