S St tr ra ate teg gic ic r re ep po or rt t Sustainable development Our business by its Our business is often the major source of jobs and livelihoods and sometimes, one of few avenues to opportunity.
We take this very nature must responsibility seriously.
We employ 47,500 people in around 35 countries.
have sustainability In Mongolia, we are the single largest private sector employer: approximately 93% of our employees there are Mongolian.
In Western at the centre of its Australia in our Iron Ore product group, we employ 10,500 people: 13.5% of the residential strategy.
workforce are members of Indigenous groups from the Pilbara region.
We are a major employer in the Saguenay, in Quebec.
We also work with about 37,000 suppliers in more than 120 At Rio Tinto, we produce materials essential locations, supporting the employment of many to human progress.
Achieving this purpose thousands more.
In 2018, we paid $4.7 billion requires us to work, as often as not, in inwages and other employment costs, and remote locations and sensitive, beautiful $12.3billion on goods and services, often environments, often on land owned by supplied locally, by local businesses.
Our values, experience and weinvested $192 million to strengthen the health, history tell us that we must work in a way that education, cultural heritage and environment of delivers real, lasting benefits for the owners of the places that so many of us call home.
our company as well as the wider communities in which we operate.
We must care for our This is how economic development and employees, respect and care for the environment prosperity is created, and sustained.
while we operate, and rehabilitate the land when we cease.
We must contribute our fair share to To be clear, protecting the environment is local and national economies, including via taxes, also critically important.
Rio Tinto has long and do so transparently.
These beliefs are the acknowledged the reality of climate change foundation of our views on sustainability.
and its potential to have a negative impact on our business, our communities and the world Our values, experience This year, we again took stock of the issues around us.
In 2015, we supported the outcomes facing our business, as well as the societal and of the Paris Agreement and the long-term goal and history tell us that economic trends changing the global landscape, to limit global average temperature rise to well we must work in a way and developed an approach to sustainability that below 2C, recognising that doing so will require ensures material issues are integrated into our governments and companies alike to approach that delivers real, business strategy and corporate governance.
climate change with more ambition and action.
lasting benefits for the The expected outcome is commercial success coupled with a meaningful contribution to the We believe we are doing our part from helping owners of our company world around us.
to develop technology that can make aluminium as wellas the wider smelters entirely GHG-emissions-free to providing This approach comprises every facet of the work the world with the materials it needs to build the communities in which we do, but begins with running a safe, responsible new, low-carbon economy, from electric vehicles weoperate.
Safety is important to to smart phones.
This year, we also exited fossil RioTinto not only because we care for the people fuel production, becoming the only major mining we work with, but because a safe business is also company to do so.
Responsibility also starts at home, with a commitment to the safety, rights As much as we have done, there is more to do.
and wellbeing of our employees, the integrity of We are not where we want to be on safety, or our business and supply chain, and respect for the diversity.
We appreciate that the changing nature environment.
Profitability enables us to meet our of work presents opportunities for our business, commitments to our shareholders and assume but also significant challenges for many of our leadership in other areas, including sustainability.
Managing the coming closure of certain sites, and doing so In this section, we focus on We work hard to leave a lasting, positive legacy, well, will reflect our commitment.
topics central to sustainability everywhere we work.
Our long-term economic at Rio Tinto, and summarise our contribution is one way we do this.
In 2018, However, as our performance in 2018 illustrates, 2018 performance.
For a fuller Rio Tinto paid billions in taxes and royalties commercial success can indeed be coupled with 1 report on the year, please see our to governments around the world.
Our direct a meaningful contribution to the world around us.
2018 Sustainable development economic contribution was $42.8 billion.
Over the report, available on our website.
past five years, our business has contributed more The pages that follow aim to illustrate than $200 billion to countries and communities, thiscontribution.
Further important everywhere we operate.
We do not always build informationrelating to our and maintain roads and bridges, schools and approach to sustainability hospitals, ourselves but the billions we issetout on page 63 contribute support each of these.
1 Our 2018 Taxes paid report will be published in April 2019.
com Strategic report Proud to be recognised for sustainability by Dow Jones & FTSE4Good again in 2018 Our sustainability framework Our three pillars each contribute to the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
Pioneering materials for human progress We are helping to pioneer a more sustainable future through examining our own global carbon footprint, forming smart partnerships and producing materials that contribute to a low-carbon economy.
Collaborating to enable longterm economic benefits We collaborate with others to enable long-term benefits where we operate working with governments at all levels and community partners to help make a difference in peoples lives.
Running a safe, responsible and profitable business The foundation of our approach is to run a safe, responsible and profitable business.
UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs Sustainable development | Running a safe, responsible and profitable business Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 53 Strategic report Sustainable development continued 2018 performance against targets Goals Performance To reach zero fatalities, and to eliminate 3 fatalities at managed operations workplace injuries and catastrophic events All injury frequency rate AIFR at 0.44 Running a safe, target: 0.38, up5% on 2017 1.45 million CRM verifications responsible and target: 1.2million profitable To minimise exposure to critical fatality 77% of managed operations achieved health-risks by verifying that effective thistarget business controls are inplace at all managed operations by the endof2018 To reduce the rate of new occupational 15% increase in the rate of new illnesses each year occupational illnesses since 2017 To achieve approved local water targets in all 79% of operations met their 2014-18 managed operations with material water risk watertargets target 100% Staying safe, keeping others safe, and being responsible are core to who we are To improve diversity in our business by: 22.6% of senior management were women, as a company.
Profitability allows us to - Increasing women in senior management upfrom 22.4% in 2017 meet our commitment to our shareholders by2%each year 25% of our Executive Committee were women while contributing to the worldaround us.
- Aiming for 50% women in our graduate intake, 36% of our graduate intake were women, with 30% from places where we are developing down5% from 2017 Running our business in this way means new businesses 31% of our graduate intake were from the not only meeting production, financial and places we are developing new businesses 1 productivity targets, but also paying close 17.7% of our total workforce were women attention to safety and wellbeing, inclusion Improving our employee engagement An eight-point increase in our and diversity, and ethics and integrity.
andsatisfaction EmployeeNetPromoter Score eNPS It means thoughtfully managing our Two-point increase in employee satisfaction operational environment, including score eSAT resources like water and air, and the Six-point increase in average monthly rights, traditions and heritage of the engagement on Yammer communities where we operate.
1 G ender distribution for our total workforce is based on managed operations excludes non-managed operations and joint-ventures as of 31 December 2018.
Less than 1% of the workforce gender is undeclared.
Running a safe, responsible and profitable business: priorities for 2019 Safety and wellbeing Environment Achieve our first fatality-free year, in part Set new water targets for 2019-23. by building stronger leadership in the field Establish easier internal systems that around health and safety critical risks.
Continue to work with joint-venture Introduce a programme to further partners and other industry safety enhance our management of tailings risk.
leaders to learn new ways to improve our health and safety performance.
Communities Continue to strengthen employee mental Continue to build technical excellence health and wellbeing, including by incommunities and social performance.
expanding initiatives like Iron Ores Update and strengthen our approach long-standing peer support programme toregional economic development.
into other product groups and countries.
Continue to strengthen our ability toprevent Focus on major hazard risk management, the causes of communitycomplaints.
particularly around water and tailings facilities and process safety.
com Strategic report Safety and wellbeing Our number one priority is to keep our 1 Safety and health performance 2014-18 people, contractors 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Fatalities at managed operations and suppliers safe.
from safety and security incidents 3 1 1 4 2 Fatalities at managed operations 4 fromhealth incidents All injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.44 0.42 0.44 0.44 0.59 Number of lost-time injuries 228 199 206 220 381 Lost-time injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.27 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.37 New cases of occupational illness 3 per 10,000 employees 29 25 47 32 17 2 Number of employees 47,500 47,000 51,000 55,000 60,000 1 D ata relating to fatalities, all injury frequency rate and lost-time injury frequency rate includes all employee and contractorexposure hours and incidents.
New cases of occupational illness are reported for employees only.
2 I ncludes our share of joint ventures and associates.
3 N umbers adjusted from previous years to ensure comparability over time.
4 H ealth fatality in 2017 was reclassified as non-work related.
Safety Our goal is zero fatalities: our performance Our values at work Our number one priority is to keep our people, in2018shows that we have a lot more to do.
contractors, communities and suppliers safe.
From2013-18, our AIFR improved by 32% Some of the best people in the industry work Webelieve that all accidents and health risks butdeteriorated by 5% since last year.
at Rio Tinto, and we want to make sure this arepreventable, so we concentrate on identifying tradition continues.
We do this by fostering and managing these and where possible, Wellbeing a culture where every voice is heard, every eliminating them.
Rio Tinto promotes a healthy and balanced idea is encouraged and everyone is supported.
lifestyle, work-life balance, good nutrition, This year, tragically, three people lost their lives.
regular exercise, and access to health care Inclusion and diversity In April, a maintainer lost his life while working allelements of wellbeing.
We also have an Respect is core to how we work.
We employ people ona furnace rebuild at our Sorel-Tracy plant in increasing focus on mental health.
based on job requirements alone.
In July, a security guard at discriminate on any grounds, and we do not Richards Bay Minerals in South Africa was fatally Mental illness is one of the most rapidly growing tolerate discrimination.
And in August, a heavy haul truck causes of long-term sick leave and labour market driver was in a fatal accident at our Paraburdoo exclusion across developed countries despite This year, we revised our policy on inclusion mine in Western Australia.
improved rates of detection and methods of and diversity, jointly owned by the board and intervention.
We provide mental health training Executive Committee, in order to articulate We have been deeply affected by these losses, for managers because studies have suggested explicit expectations around behaviours and and our thoughts remain with the families and that these improve occupational outcomes for personal accountability.
We also implemented many friends, colleagues and communities employees with mental health problems.
our gender-neutral paid parental leave in every affected.
Wehave offered support after each country where we operate, making 18 weeks of paid tragedy and completed full investigations.
One way we support mental health is through our leave available to primary carers, including single Employee Assistance Programme, which gives parents and employees in same-sex relationships.
We continue to focus on eliminating fatalities employees access to professional coaching, advice in other ways, including through our critical risk and support for themselves and their families.
It We employ people with disabilities and make management programme, embedded at more can help with many types of concern, including considerable efforts to offer suitable alternative than 60 sites this year.
This programme financial and legal questions, childrens needs, employment and retraining to employees who systematically identifies major hazard risks family relationships, advice for supporting an ill become disabled and can no longer perform low-probability, high-consequence events parent, balancing work and home life, and dealing their regular duties.
and helps us to manage them through standards, with change and stress.
More than 95% of our analysis, external reviews and rigorous verification employees are covered by this programme, with On gender diversity, we are still not where we want of controls.
the remainder supported by on-site counsellors.
to be: our overall percentage of female employees decreased by 0.3% to a Group-wide 17.7% 6,963 In 2018, we improved how we categorise This year, in Australia, we were also pleased women: 32,419 men.
Although the number of occupational illness.
The rate of new cases of thatwe achieved White Ribbon Workplace women in operations roles increased from 5% to occupational illness rose by 15% from 2017 the Accreditation, which recognises our work to 15%, only 22.6% of our senior management roles main types recorded being musculoskeletal raise awareness of, and to eradicate, domestic are held by women 112 women: 383 men up from disorders 33%, noise-induced hearing loss 32% violence, particularly that which affects our 22.4% in 2017 117 women: 406 men.
We have extended senior management as general managers, Group the programme to Canada and the US, where advisers and chief advisers as well as employees in employees in need can take up to ten days of leadership roles who report directly to Executive paid extra leave, work flexible hours and receive Committee members.
Women represented 15% of financial aid and emergency accommodation.
the directors of our principal controlled subsidiary undertakings during 2018 20 women: 112 men.
Sustainable development | Running a safe, responsible and profitable business Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 55 S St tr ra ate teg gic ic r re ep po or rt t Sustainable development continued Running a safe, responsible and profitable business continued Our gender pay gap this year was 1% in favour of operations on human rights.
Ensuring that we do men overall and 2% in favour of men like-for-like.
no harm is a core consideration in our social risk We are addressing these issues for example, analysis and impact assessment processes.
we are working with recruitment agencies and Wealso integrate human rights considerations universities to bring more diverse graduates into into our health, safety, environment, communities our business.
We are working to substantially and security and procurement practices, and into increase the number of women employed at all our business performance audits.
Where our levels to help boost the percentage of women standards and procedures are stricter than existing in senior management.
In 2018, there were 62 laws or regulations, we apply our own standards.
women in our graduate intake 36%, and our aim is to make this 50%.
We also target improving This year, we were named the top extractives the proportion of women in senior management company in the Corporate Human Rights by 2% each year.
Benchmark for continuing to improve how we approach the management of human rights risks.
Engaging our employees We know that having engaged people will make More detail on the steps we have taken to prevent our business more productive, and we have human rights issues in our business and across 36% regular dialogue with all our employees, at all our supply chain can be found in our Modern levels.
Our chief executive held well over 30 town Slavery Act statement online.
Our policies and women in our graduate hall and small group discussions in 20 locations: statements relating to human rights, together intake in 2018 still he also conducted webcasts to present annual with a list of the international standards we short of our 50% target and half-year financial results to our global follow, are also available on our website.
This year, he also launched open-door sessions, where employees at manager level and below can stop by and talk to him Operational environment about whatever they like.
We also use Yammer, an internal social networking app, to support We aim to minimise the potentially adverse engagement: in 2018 nearly half of our impact of our operations on the environment employees were on Yammer, and average and on the communities where we operate.
monthly engagement across nearly 2,000 This involves establishing very clear internal groups was up six points year on year.
This year, standards and practices that are in line with our board held its first-ever employee AGM and sometimes go beyond international and in Brisbane, where directors discussed our local regulations.
purpose, strategy, culture and values, and answered questions on a wide range of topics.
It also means having open dialogue with local We also run global engagement surveys twice communities and other stakeholders.
We operate each year to understand employees views joint community monitoring programmes and and perceptions.
share air-quality monitoring information, including on our website.
Human rights We respect and support human rights everywhere Water we work, in line with the Universal Declaration of Water is a valuable resource and is vital to our Human Rights.
The human rights issues that have operations.
We use it to process ore, manage dust, the most potential to affect us centre around produce hydroelectric power and as drinking water.
operational security, land access and Each of our sites has its own unique water context resettlement, Indigenous peoples rights, labour from environments where water is scarce to places rights, environmental issues such as access to with high rainfall.
water, and issues related to migration such as access to local health services.
For the 28 Rio Tinto sites where water management is a material risk, we set site-specific targets for the We continue to support employees right to period 2014-18.
These include the security of the belong to a union and to bargain collectively water supply, managing the quality of water fora fuller discussion, please see our 2018 returned to the environment, and balancing our Sustainable development report.
We do not operational needs with regulatory requirements employ forced, bonded or child labour.
and those of local communities and Traditional Owners.
79% of sites met their five-year targets.
We have due diligence processes and systems We remain committed to continuing the water inplace, such as social impact assessments, target programme and will set new targets community engagement plans, grievance for 2019-23. mechanisms and digital tools that identify community sentiment.
This in turn allows us to In 2019, we will start reporting our practices prevent and minimise the adverse effects of our against the commitments outlined in the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM position statement on water stewardship.
com Strategic report Environmental performance 2014-18 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 88% Freshwater used billion litres 401 465 467 460 465 of water used at Oyu Tolgoi is recycled Land footprint disturbed square kilometres 3,595 3,616 3,696 3,629 3,592 Land footprint rehabilitated square kilometres 485 497 541 533 502 Waste Our approach to tailings management is in Working with non-managed assets Our main types of waste are mineral waste such line with the ICMM position statement, and We hold interests in companies and joint ventures as waste rock, slag and tailings and non-mineral we continually review and audit our practices, that we do not manage and control.
In 2018, the waste such as used oil and office waste.
We are working with our two largest were the Grasberg copper-gold mine in is not possible to reuse or recycle waste, we build industry peers to better manage risks associated Indonesia, managed by PT Freeport Indonesia facilities to manage it in ways that minimise with tailings and water storage facilities, and also PTFI, a subsidiary of Freeport-McMoRan, and the adverse environmental and community impact, participating in two research projects led by the Escondida copper mine in Chile, managed by BHP.
disposal costs and future liabilities.
Roughly 31% University of Western Australia, specifically on of our mineral waste has the potential to react reducing tailings risks.
And we are working to We work closely with our partners in these joint with air and water or break down to create help develop and update tailings management ventures through formal governance structures potentially harmful contaminants like acid and guidelines in Australia and Canada.
and technical exchanges to learn and improve metalliferous drainage AMD.
So we have in performance.
We encourage all our partners to place rigorous and regularly monitored controls To raise awareness on tailings risks and good embed a strong safety, security and human rights to prevent and mitigate the potential harmful practices, we hold regular webinars where culture in their workforces, and have a two-way impact of AMD.
internal and external experts share their process for sharing health and safety practices knowledge with our employees.
We also continue including fatality prevention initiatives, such as In 2018, we safely stored or disposed of 886 to develop our executive reporting protocol, critical risk management CRM and learning million tonnes of mineral waste predominantly andwe are piloting an integrated control critical lessons.
waste rock and tailings and 274,245 tonnes of effectiveness tool to monitor progress and non-mineral waste.
At Grasberg, we have traditionally engaged withPTFI through five forums: the Operating, Managing tailings In 2018, following our 2017 site reviews, we Technical, Exploration and Sustainable Mining processes create residues called tailings.
created and have started delivering seven Development Committees and the Tailings Where it is not possible to reclaim and reuse training modules to increase understanding Management board.
In December 2018, we these, they are discharged normally as slurry andcapabilities around effective tailings completed the sale of our entire interest to storage facilities.
We manage the operation management, particularly for nominated role in the Grasberg mine for $3.5 billion.
of tailings and or large water storage facilities at personnel under our tailings standard.
We also 32 sites worldwide, including closed and legacy completed technical risk reviews at five sites to We also own a 30% interest in Escondida and sites not yet fully rehabilitated.
We also have strengthen our technical assurance process.
give regular input on strategic and policy a further fournon-managed operational sites These were in addition to business conformance matters through its Owners Council.
Escondida and 14non-managed legacy sites with jointaudits at 14 sites that assessed compliance with has recently commissioned one of the largest venturepartners.
Group Internal desalinisation plants in the world, announcing Audit also completed an independent assurance in2018 their intention to extract significantly There were no tailings or water dam related process to assess our approach to tailings risk lessgroundwater from the arid region around failures at our managed operations in 2018. management: we have good fundamentals in themine from 2020 onwards.
Atour non-managed operations, we work with place, but we will continue to learn, evolve and our partners to minimise the environmental improve our approach.
and social impacts and risks associated with tailings management.
com 57 S St tr ra ate teg gic ic r re ep po or rt t Sustainable development continued Running a safe, responsible and profitable business continued Environmental regulations This year, we joined other leading multinational While we reported no significant environmental companies in endorsing The B Team Responsible incidents with a major or catastrophic impact Tax Principles, which aim to drive fairer, more in 2018, we were fined $284,683 by the sustainable tax systems and global standards of governments in Canada, Mongolia and the responsible tax practice.
In addition, every April, US.
The concerns outlined by each have since we publish a Taxes paid report, detailing how been addressed: more details can be found much tax we pay and where.
in the Directors report on page 140 and in our Sustainable development report on our website.
We are also working to improve the transparency of our supply chain.
Our supplier code of conduct Ethics and integrity clearly lays out our expectations on human and We have clear standards around antitrust, labour rights, safety and the environment.
Our bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, Know Your Supplier KYS procedure enables us benefits, sponsorships and donations, data to understand legal, ethical and reputational risks privacy, fraud and third-party due diligence.
of working with certain suppliers.
We use this Our code of conduct, The way we work, provides with all new suppliers meeting the risk criteria a clear framework for how we should conduct and, from the end of 2019, will also include it our business, no matter where we work or in contract renewals.
We have centralised where weare from.
monitoring for relevant third parties we work with 5,922 in 2018.
We recognise that our reputation has been damaged by the ongoing investigations into We have a dedicated third-party due diligence the impairment of our coal investment in team within our Ethics & Integrity function Mozambique and payments made to a consultant to facilitate risk-based KYS and Know Your in relation to the Simandou project in Guinea, Customer KYC due diligence assessments activities that took place more than six years ago.
On the former, we reached a settlement in 2017 The assessments cover bribery, corruption, Today, we remain focused on with the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA, human rights, money laundering, trade sanctions who believe we should have impaired the asset and other areas which may result in potential acting with integrity, being six months earlier than we did.
Importantly, the legal, ethical or reputational risks.
We apply transparent and continuing to FCA found no evidence of fraud or systemic automated monitoring of relevant third parties failure.
Both the Australian and US authorities are tohighlight significant changes in our risk profile.
foster a culture in which our pursuing claims against the Group in relation to employees never need a the impairment of our Mozambique coal project.
We believe these cases are unwarranted and reasonto do the right thing.
Talk to Peggy intend to strenuously deny the allegations incourt.
In 2018, a key activity was making ongoing improvements to Talk to Peggy, our On Simandou, after commissioning an confidential and independently operated independent investigation, the board took the whistleblowing programme available to all decision to self-report to the authorities in employees, contractors and community theUK, the US and Australia.
Key statistics for the year: co-operate fully with the relevant authorities, 679 incidents reported either through butthe conduct and timing of these Talk to Peggy, compliance managers investigations are outside our control.
or team leaders, down approximately 5% on last year.
Today, we remain focused on acting with We substantiated or took corrective integrity, being transparent and continuing to action for 34% of reported incidents.
foster a culture in which our employees never need a reason to do the right thing.
In October, we publicly committed to disclosing on our website our contracts with, and taxes and payments to, governments, as well as the identities of the owners of companies with which we work beneficial ownership.
We are on the board of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, which works to improve transparency and accountability in the extractive sector.
And we are working closely with governments and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD on new tax reporting codes and policies to ensure consistency in our reporting procedures.
com Strategic report 2018 performance against targets Goals Performance By 2020: 36% of managed operations ontrackto To demonstrate local economic benefits meettargets Collaborating fromemployment and procurement of 59% of managed operations are actively goodsand services by reporting yearly managing and making progress towards toenable longagainst alocally defined target achievement of 2020 targets.
Sites that have indicated a risk of non-attainment are focused term economic To be effectively capturing andmanaging on identifying suitable intervention to ensure community complaints and reducing repeat attainment.
benefits and significant complaints each year Direct economic contribution 2014-18 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 1 Value add $ million 30,504 27,734 20,065 18,888 29,178 Our aim is to partner with communities 2 Payments to suppliers $ million 12,331 14,123 15,253 17,896 21,370 and governments to nurture and grow Community contributions $ million 192 176 168 187 264 sustainable economies.
We do this by creating jobs both directly and 1 S um of payment to employees, governments and returns on capital invested in operations.
2 Includes our share of joint-ventures and associates.
indirectly by paying taxes and royalties, and by nurturing entrepreneurship where we can.
This includes sourcing from local suppliers and helping Collaborating to enable long-term economic benefits: to educate and train people in local priorities for 2019 communities for the skills of the future.
Continuing to increase local employment and procurement from our local communities We also work to maintain and preserve andsurrounding areas.
cultural and community heritage, for Having more informed conversations with civil society organisations about environmental, example, through our work cataloguing socialand governance issues, as well as partnership opportunities.
and preserving ancient rock art in the Finding and strengthening long-term partnerships for regional economic development.
Partnerships are key to developing sustainable solutions.
In 2018, we began Working with shared purpose We have an Indigenous strategy for Canada and extending our collaboration to link Our goal is to add value to every community in Australia that focuses on understanding and communities with government agencies which we have a footprint.
In 2018, we spent $192 improving social, economic and cultural wellbeing.
and other businesses, to help them succeed million on 994 community programmes covering To achieve this, and to help with approvals and even when we are nolonger present.
health, education, environmental protection and permits, we create community agreements.
This is on top of the taxes and royalties we pay to regional and federal These agreements are the basis of many of our governments, which in turn contribute to local relationships, and are an essential part of the andnational economics and infrastructure see planning, operation and closure of everyproject our 2018 Taxes paid report to be published in and operational site asset.
commitments on land use, cultural heritage, environment, employment andprocurement.
Our communities and social performance CSP We have 40 comprehensive agreements and standard also helps us to identify relevant more than 120 global exploration access economic opportunities for communities.
Our agreements in placeacrossthe business.
CSP targets for 2016-20 include creating more $192m local contract awards and jobs.
2017: $176 million spent on community At the end of 2018, 36% of our sites were on track programmes to meet their targets by 2020.
Sites that reported a risk of not achieving their 2020 targets are focused on identifying suitable interventions to ensure attainment.
Sustainable development | Collaborating to enable long-term economic benefits Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 59 S St tr ra ate teg gic ic r re ep po or rt t Sustainable development continued Collaborating to enable long-term economic benefits continued Socioeconomic development is about more than employment and social investment.
It is about effortsto make local communities successful and resilient over the long term.
Regional economic development tomarkets, and support for improved quality Global engagement Socioeconomic development is about more than and grazing all in return for adopting better We take an active role in a variety of dialogues with employment and social investment.
Other incentives will eventually include the global community on social issues as well as efforts to make local communities successful and assistance to diversify herders income as well the environment.
This allows us to both harness resilient over the long term.
This, in turn, requires as other financial support, including access to opportunities and address collective challenges meaningful partnerships at the local level, with loans and insurance against loss of herds.
that we cannot effectively tackle on our own.
both governments and community organisations.
We contribute in other ways as well, often Rio Tinto is a member of many trade and industry In 2018, for example, we launched a partnership through our network of local suppliers.
Our associations, which we join where membership with the government of Western Australia and payments to suppliers comprise a big part of our provides value to our business, investors and South Metropolitan TAFE Technical and Further global economic contribution this year such other stakeholders.
We believe engagement is Education to develop the first nationally payments totalled $12.3 billion, out of a total important even where there is a wide range of recognised certificates in Automation and Remote direct economic contribution of $42.8 billion.
views with which we do not always agree.
This partnership aims to train people not favour any political party, group or individual.
in the new skills required for the automation age We also support regional economies through We do not involve ourselves in party political and certify those skills, so they are easily our procurement processes.
For example, local matters, nor make any type of payments to transferable across industries.
businesses in Australia can use a special portal political parties or candidates.
to find and bid for contracts, and we offer 30-day In Mongolia, we are part of the Sustainable payment terms to help smaller businesses with For example, we support, or are members of, Cashmere Project, an initiative to strengthen cash flow.
In 2018, we spent A$1.9 billion on a range of initiatives and organisations ranging the supply chain of high-quality cashmere.
goods and services from Western Australian from the ICMM to the UN Global Compact to This project works to give Mongolian herders businesses alone.
EITI and this year, the World Economic Forum.
better-than-market prices, more direct access Rio Tinto in the Queensland Community In 2015, we announced an A$2.6 billion investment in far north Queensland, Australia, for the construction of a bauxite mine, processing and port facilities.
At the request of Traditional Owners, it was named Amrun, the Wik Waya name for the area.
Starting in 2019, Amrun is expected to produce up to 22.8 million tonnes of bauxite per year.
The first shipment left port in December 2018, six weeks ahead of schedule.
Amruns economic impact has been felt across Australia: we have made more than A$2.1 billion in purchases from more than 1,200 Australian suppliers over 800 from the state of Queensland.
Western Cape York businesses alone have supplied more than A$240 million worth of goods and services.
We are working to address local community needs: because working parents in the area face child-care pressures, we are funding a programme that encourages local educators to open new daycare facilities.
We are also funding education, employment and training opportunities for the local Indigenous community.
We are also helping to safeguard the environment: the nursery we planted is today 86,000 seedlings strong.
These seedlings will be used to support rehabilitation across our Weipa operations, including Amrun.
And last year, as part of their work to counter baby turtle predation, our team potentially saved approximately 7,600 turtle eggs.
com Strategic report Pioneering materials forhuman progress The metals and minerals we produce have Greenhouse gas and energy performance 2014-18 an essential role to play in the transition 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 to a low-carbon economy, and we believe Greenhouse gas emissions intensity our portfolio is relatively well positioned 1 indexed relative to 2008 71.1 72.9 74.4 79.7 81.7 for the future.
While climate change 1 Total energy use petajoules 420 440 458 433 450 presents complex challenges, we are aiming to be part of the solution.
1 Numbers adjusted from previous years to ensure comparability over time.
One way we are doing this is by working to reduce the amount of energy it takes to mine and process our materials.
We are also Pioneering materials for human progress: priorities for 2019 committed to being open about our own Identifying shortand long-term opportunities that allow our carbon-intensive assets to challenges and activities and have published transition to a low-carbon footprint.
our first Task Force on Climate-related Continuing to optimise AutoHaul for safety, environmental and productivity gains.
We are Finalising design and starting construction of Koodaideri intelligent mine in the Pilbara.
forging innovative partnerships to help to Building excellence through technical career paths RioExcel which is being phased in and reduce carbon emissions from our activities will be fully in place in 2019. and to bring more sustainable products to Continuing to empower and harness the creativity of our employees through our Pioneering the market.
Our products are needed for Pitch programme which invests in innovative ideas around safety, environment, community innovative energy solutions and a lowand productivity.
Climate change: risks but also opportunities We do so by creating scenarios based on the Across our The global climate is changing, largely due to International Energy Agencys IEA Sustainable human activities.
If left unchecked, climate Development scenario.
We are assessing the company, 71% of change will create significant risks and hardship resilience of the commodities we produce to for both human life and natural ecosystems.
potential market-related impacts of climate the electricity change, as well as the potential exposure of We support the aim of the United Nations Paris our operations to related physical risks.
Such used is now from Agreement to limit global warming to less than considerations play into our decision-making renewable energy: 2C above pre-industrial levels.
Our operations in many ways, and we are working to: are energy intensive, and we are working to Integrate more renewable energy sources hydro, wind and reduce emissions, manage risk and build our in our operations, such as the hydropower ownresilience to climate change.
We are also we use at our Canadian aluminium facilities.
putting the transition to a low-carbon future Find ways to reduce our greenhouse gas andfuture energy scenarios at the heart of emissions, which have dropped by 43% our business strategy.
since 2008, and by 7.9% since last year.
Explore opportunities within our portfolio to develop battery storage technology.
Focus on copper as part of the solution for global electrification and renewable energy sources, and aluminium as a key driver of light-weighting cars, trucks and other transport.
You can read more detail on these and other actions in our first TCFD report, available on our website at riotinto.
Sustainable development | Pioneering materials for human progress Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 61 S St tr ra ate teg gic ic r re ep po or rt t Sustainable development continued Pioneering materials for human progress continued Materials of the low-carbon future activity at every site.
This includes progressively Many of our products are well suited to developing rehabilitating land throughout the life of an energy solutions, such as renewable energy operation: in 2018, we rehabilitated 24% of the land storage and electricity transmission.
Copper is we disturbed for mining.
We also look to incorporate the primary conductor in the worlds electrical closure into the design of our assets, as well as how infrastructure and plays a significant role in to optimise decommissioning, remediation and any the electrification of transportation and smart long-term management obligations, such as water technologies.
By 2027, we expect our Oyu Tolgoi treatment.
And we continually assess the potential mine in Mongolia to become one of the worlds top to repurpose and reuse sites for future economic or producers of copper, demand for which is linked to social benefit.
In some instances, wemanage the use of renewable energies and electric vehicles.
historic sites for the long term.
Aluminium has always been the leading choice This work is highly collaborative, involving for sustainable product development due to its sustained input from our employees, landowners, lightweight, strength and infinite recyclability.
In some We are the first company Its properties make it ideally suited to lighter regions, regulations for large mine closures are and more fuel-efficient vehicles.
And as battery undeveloped or untested.
We are working with our in the world to become storage technology develops, lithium is expected stakeholders and peers to better understand the certified under the to play an increasing role in the low-carbon opportunities around closure, to find solutions to economy, particularly in markets such as the the challenges and to engage governments to Aluminium Stewardship US, EU and China.
The pre-feasibility studies of create effective and proportionate policies.
Initiative ASI, the highest our Jadar lithium project in Serbia have continued to progress this year.
We manage a number of historic post-production internationally recognised sites, often inherited through acquisitions or standard for robust Groundbreaking partnerships mergers.
We rehabilitate these sites and, where In 2018, we announced Elysis, a pioneering and when we can, we transfer them to local environmental, social partnership with Alcoa, supported by Apple authorities or third parties.
and governance practices and the governments of Canada and Quebec.
This joint venture will further develop a revolutionary Intelligent mining across the aluminium process that eliminates direct GHG emissions Through our Mine of the Future programme, we lifecycle of production, from the aluminium smelting process, replacing harness new and emerging technologies to make them withpure oxygen.
The technology will our operations safer, more efficient, and more use and recycling.
be developed and licensed for use in both environmentally friendly.
In 2018, for the first time, existingand newsmelters.
our driverless trains 2.4 kilometres in length delivered iron ore from our mines to our ports We are also the first company in the world in the Pilbara in Western Australia.
With the to become certified under the Aluminium programme fully implemented, we have now Stewardship Initiative ASI, the highest completed more than 1.6 million kilometres in internationally recognised standard for robust driverless mode, reducing risk at level crossings environmental, social and governance practices and cutting light vehicle travel across the Pilbara across the aluminium lifecycle of production, by 1.5 million kilometres a year.
This has led to immediate benefits such as our partnership with Nespresso We also approved funding for the Koodaideri iron to supply responsible, sustainable aluminium ore mine in Western Australia, the worlds first for their coffee capsules by 2020. intelligent mine.
In addition to technology already in use across Rio Tinto, such as autonomous Our Ventures team is exploring partnerships and trucks, trains and drills, the site has more than 70 other opportunities that will allow us to expand design innovations in scope.
Fully integrated mine even more into the metals and minerals of the operation and simulation systems, including future, as technology continues to change the digital twin technology, will improve safety, way we live and work.
maintenance and productivity and will be accessible in real-time in the field.
Koodaideri will Closure: ending production set a benchmark for our industry in terms of Planning for the future of our sites is a core automation and the use of data.
business function, which is governed by our Closure Steering Committee.
Using technology to construct assets intelligently, and with respect for the environment and local A centralised closure group supports all our communities, is also a priority.
At our Amrun businesses and oversees work to minimise the bauxite mine in Queensland, Australia, we used impacts and risks and to maximise benefits for innovative modular engineering techniques to stakeholders.
A number of our assets are coming build the wharf more safely, faster and with a to the end of their operating lives.
At the end of smaller environmental footprint.
We also used 2018, we had almost $10 billion set aside on our virtual reality to help the local community and balance sheet for the cost of closing these sites.
Traditional Owners understand how the mine and surrounding areas would eventually look.
Today, Last year, we developed a strategy to help drive we oversee activities at Amrun in real-time, using greater consistency and effectiveness in the the latest technology and predictive mathematical planning and implementation of our closure tools to run operations safely and efficiently.
com Strategic report Our approach to sustainability Governance and materiality Task Force on Climate-related Assurance Financial Disclosures TCFD The Sustainability Committee reviews our We engaged an independent external assurance approach to ensure consistency with our purpose organisation,  LLP, to In June 2017, the Financial Stability Board and values, the effective management of material provide the directors of Rio Tinto with assurance released its final report on the recommendations sustainability risks and our contribution to on selected sustainable development subject of the TCFD.
This voluntary framework seeks to sustainable development more information matters, as explained on pages 290 and 291. encourage businesses to disclose climate-related on page 95. risks and opportunities.
For our operations,  LLPs assurance climate-related risks and opportunities span Every year we review the sustainability topics that statement satisfies the requirements of subject several areas ranging from managing our carbon matter most to our business and stakeholders.
matters 1 to 4 of the ICMM assurance procedure.
emissions, water usage where water is scarce, Following the Global Reporting Initiative GRI See pages 92 to 94 of the governance report for through to understanding how the products we Standards, this year we prioritised our material more information on our external auditors produce fit into the low-carbon future.
topics, combining an analysis of the external and internal assurance.
environment with feedback from Rio Tinto We have provided information relating to leaders and subject-matter experts while Notes on data theseareas under the relevant pillar of our also considering stakeholder expectations.
The data summarised in this section relates sustainability framework.
In addition, we have to calendar years, and unless stated otherwise, provided disclosure, as envisaged by the TCFD, We also have a robust infrastructure in place for parameters are reported for all managed in our TCFD report, which can be found on capitalising on opportunities and mitigating risk: operations without adjustment for equity our website at riotinto.
a clear strategy, comprehensive policies and interests.
Where possible, we include data standards, and rigorous audits to verify progress.
for operations acquired before 1 October of the reporting period.
Divested operations are Non-financial information statement included in data collection processes up until This section pages 52 to 63 provides the transfer of management control.
information as required by regulation inrelation to: We report against GRI standards and the requirements of other select reporting Environmental matters frameworks, and reflect the ten principles of Our employees the ICMM and the mandatory requirements in Social matters the ICMM position statements within our policies, Human rights standards and procedures.
For more about our Corruption and bribery data definitions, our reporting of GRI disclosure requirements and our alignment with the ICMM, In addition, other related information see our Sustainable development report, that canbefound as follows: will be published in March.
Business model pages 14 and 15 Principal risks and how they are managed pages 64 to 72 Non-financial key performance indicators pages 20 to 23 Sustainable development | Our approach to sustainability Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
