Royal Mail plc | Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement Listening to and engaging with our stakeholders Why it is important to engage We at Royal Mail, as the Universal Service Provider, and as we grow our operations outside the UK, are very focused on the diversity of our stakeholders.
The support of our stakeholders is integral to our success and the ongoing sustainability of our business.
We actively seek their views on the roles and responsibilities of the Group.
Our stakeholder engagement activities Shareholder relations AGM are set out in detail in our Corporate Communication with shareholders is given Responsibility Report, which will be high priority within the Group.
We do this The Annual General Meeting AGM is published in June 2018.
This highlights the through a range of channels.
We proactively normally held in July each year.
It is importance of engaging with stakeholders in encourage stakeholder engagement.
The full an opportunity for shareholders to ask the following ways: Annual Report and Financial Statements with questions and to hear directly from the information on the Groups strategy and its Board on the Groups performance and to earn and retain trust and respect and implementation are made available to all our strategic direction.
The Board members protect the Royal Mail brand: shareholders.
It can be found on our website are also available after the meeting for to demonstrate active and visible at royalmailgroup.
We also publish on shareholders to speak to informally.
leadership in stakeholder engagement: our website our first quarter and nine month Each resolution is proposed separately.
trading updates and half year results.
They to help provide positive outcomes for local The voting is conducted by poll and contain timely information about the Group.
communities: and shareholders can vote for or against or Presentations are given following the withhold their vote.
to ensure the continued provision of the announcements of the half year and full Universal Service in the UK.
At the 2017 AGM, all Directors were year results.
They are available to watch live subject to re-election.
The exception were It is important for us to understand the and on replay on our website.
Matthew Lester, who stepped down after concerns of our stakeholders, including those The Annual General Meeting is used to the AGM, and Nick Horler, who stepped who may be vulnerable because of their age, communicate with all investors.
The Board down prior to the AGM.
Our 2017 AGM was race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender, encourages shareholders to attend and well attended.
All our proposed resolutions status in the community or any other factor.
See the case study on were passed, with votes in favour ranging As such, we have a dedicated, regular and this page for details on our 2017 AGM.
inclusive programme for engaging different Following the meeting, the results of votes stakeholder groups in a culturally appropriate There is regular dialogue with our lodged for and against each resolution manner through informal and formal events.
The Chairman and were announced as soon as possible to the the Senior Independent Director SID are Our stakeholder engagement policy London Stock Exchange and displayed on also available to consult with shareholders.
is published on our corporate website the Groups website.
The Board regularly receives an update on www.
com interaction with investors and shareholders The Groups next AGM is on Thursday to ensure it has an understanding of their 19 July 2018.
Details of the business to be views.
In addition, the SID provides a point discussed will be found in the Notice of of contact for those shareholders who wish AGM.
In accordance with the Code, this to raise issues with the Board, other than is posted to registered shareholders at through the Chairman.
least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
It will also be available on our website at royalmailgroup.
com 64 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18
