Building a more sustainable bank Our Stakeholders Having an understanding of our impact across all stakeholders, and engaging them in ways that allow their views to be heard, continues to help inform our strategy.
Topic Specialists Media & Public Voices Includes consumer groups, nonIncludes journalists and social media governmental organisations, and influencers.
They bring issues affecting customers, communities and the academics.
They research, advocate and campaign to influence change environment to public attention through on behalf of customers, communities multiple channels.
Customers All individual and Investors business customers, Policy Makers past, present Includes UK Government Includes politicians, government and and future.
Investments, retail and institutional regulators.
They take issues through investors.
They are interested consultations and into policy reform.
in financial and non-financial They make recommendations, performance in the short, medium regulations and the law.
Bank Representatives Includes colleagues, suppliers, Below are four examples of and partners.
They are responsible A table of 2018 stakeholder for product and service delivery engagement issues and outcomes engagement that have informed the and are the face of our brands.
banks strategic thinking in 2018: can be found on the Sustainable Banking pages at rbs.
com Colleague Advisory Panel Climate and sustainable finance Customer sentiments and opinions were Set up as a pro-active response Engaging with investors, regulators, captured by film and external experts to changes in the UK Corporate academics and campaigning NGOs was presented their views and gave insight.
Governance Code, the panel is an key to advancing our climate strategy The strategy should be to collaborate, additional channel for colleagues to in 2018.
Their views fed into our policy map everything out on AI in a engage directly with the Board.
changes on mining, power and oil and systematic way and engage.
Approximately twenty colleagues gas sectors.
from across the Group will meet Tom Ilube The strengthened energy financing twice a year to discuss key issues.
Technology Advisory Board Member policies of RBS implement many of This is a great opportunity for the ShareActions recommendations for Customer Listening Event Board to gather opinions on important more robust management of climateConsumer advocacy group Which?
topics and for colleagues to share their related risks.
They also make RBS the hosted a listening event with NatWest views on issues ranging from the banks bank with the strongest energy sector customers.
Our CEO and senior strategy to social purpose, wellbeing policies out of the top five UK banks.
management team heard views on and inclusion.
ShareAction, May 2018. service, products and ways to bank.
"Lena Wilson ""The evening was a another great Colleague Advisory Panel Chair Artificial Intelligence and Ethics opportunity to engage directly with The Sustainable Banking Committee our customers outside of our day to day and Technology Innovation Committee interaction."
"Listening to, and acting on hosted a joint engagement session customer feedback is vital in our efforts to debate ethical considerations to improve customer service. """
Ross McEwan Chief Executive 14 Our Colleagues Engaging our colleagues is critical to delivering on our strategy and ambition as a bank.
Being better for our colleagues means we are better for our customers, and this makes us a better bank.
Creating a Healthy Culture Our opinion survey has shown the level, helping them become the Building a healthy culture is one of our highest ever score when asking future leaders we need.
We have clear cultural colleagues if they feel safe to speak up, opportunities available through the goals to reinforce Our Values and set as well as understanding the process programme align to the banks Critical ourselves cultural priorities each year, of how they do that.
There are five regularly engaging our management.
were raised compared to 290 in 2017. people capabilities that we have We gather feedback from our identified that will help build the right Performance and Reward colleagues through our listening knowledge, skills and behaviours Our approach to performance strategy, and through metrics and key and help the bank to be successful management provides clarity for performance indicators to assess our now and in the future.
We have our employees about how their progress and respond accordingly.
developed a Capability Checker to contribution links to our ambition We do this along with feedback from support our colleagues in identifying and all our employees have goals regulators and industry bodies.
the capabilities most relevant to their set across a balanced scorecard of Almost 60,000, 80%, of our colleagues current and future roles, aligning measures.
Further progress has been completed our most recent opinion learning to those capabilities.
made in making sure employees are survey, the highest participation in paid fairly for the work they do and are Our Female Development Programmes the last five years.
The results were supported by simple and transparent focus on supporting women to reach the most positive we have seen since pay structures.
We simplified our Value their full potential and manage their we started measuring engagement in Account construct, making it easier careers effectively.
They support 2002 and showed we are changing the for our employees to understand the our aspiration to be fully gender culture of the bank for the better.
Key value of their fixed pay and to bring balanced by 2030. measures of engagement, leadership it more in line with industry best and our culture have improved practices.
We are confident that we Sales Excellence is our complete significantly, and we are now above pay our employees fairly.
We keep bank-wide sales programme.
the global financial services norm in all our HR policies and processes under It teaches the tools and techniques of our comparable survey categories.
In the UK, that enable those in sales roles to The results are encouraging, and our rates of pay continue to exceed be the best at ethical, needs-based show that our hard work is paying off.
the Living Wage and we ensure selling.
It covers both core and However, we recognise that we have people performing the same roles advanced techniques that help to more to do to continue to nurture this are paid fairly and consistently.
More uncover the full financial needs and culture, and we encourage colleagues information on our remuneration goals of customers and present to tell us what they think via the policies can be found in the 2018 compelling options on the ways we bi-annual colleague survey and our Directors Remuneration Report in the can help.
Over 60% of the appropriate regular comments boards.
When 2018 Annual Report and Account's.
colleagues have already completed colleagues wish to report concerns a Sales Knowledge Assessment level relating to wrong doing or misconduct Developing Skills and Capabilities 1 and training for all front line sales one of the ways in which they can do We have launched the NextGen talent colleagues, sales specialists and sales this is by raising their concerns via development programme for high leaders is underway.
Speak Up, our whistleblowing service.
potential colleagues at managerial 15 Health and Wellbeing other high performing norm companies.
campaign Live Well, Being You.
Our As a strong component of making We continue to embrace the rapid month long wellbeing campaign in RBS a great place to work, wellbeing acceleration of digital wellbeing by May 2018 focused on each of our initiatives have successfully delivered offering our colleagues online and four pillars with a specific focus on against three pillars: Physical, Mental on-site wellbeing tools and resources.
Mental Health Awareness Week and and Social with the final fourth pillar, This year weve seen over 20,000 onsite World Mental Health Day in October Financial Wellbeing well established health checks completed across a 2018.
In 2018 we again supported and continuing to build momentum.
We continue to our colleagues through change and Our internal wellbeing index has support the Time to Change pledge and have fully utilised the services of our increased by 3% taking us 1% above this year launched our new wellbeing Employee Assistance Programme.
Inclusion Becoming an inclusive bank is not an optional extra for us.
We will only achieve our ambition to be number one for customer service, trust and advocacy if we understand the needs of all of our people and our customers.
Quite simply, if were a more inclusive place to work, great people will want to work here and more customers will want to bank with us so its a business imperative.
Ross McEwan, CEO We are proud to be building an inclusive A key focus during 2018 was the LGBT Innovative: bank which is a great place for all roll out of a Disability Career and Our LGBT agenda continues to deliver colleagues to work.
Our inclusion Personal Development Programme a better experience for our LGBT guidelines apply to all our colleagues for colleagues with disabilities which colleagues and customers, reflected globally to make sure everyone feels specifically supports development within our policies and ways of included and valued, regardless of their and career progression by addressing working, across our locations globally.
As at 31 December 2018 common barriers colleagues with While reflecting local legislation and our permanent headcount was 67,400. disabilities can face.
jurisdictional requirements, these 49% were male and 51% female.
are clear that LGBT colleagues and Ethnically Diverse: customers are welcome at RBS We continue to focus on building Our Inclusion plans apply globally and and will be supported.
Our are formed around 5 key priorities: plan focuses on positive action and We attended 19 Prides globally in 2018, Gender Balanced: includes reciprocal mentoring, including in India and Poland where We continue to work towards our targeted development workshops and we want to show our support to our target of having at least 30% senior leadership programmes and ensuring LGBT colleagues and customers in women in our top three leadership we have a Black, Asian and Minority countries where LGBT inclusion is not layers in each of our businesses by Ethnic BAME focus on recruitment, as progressed as in the UK.
2020 40% on aggregate and to be talent identification and promotion.
Inclusive Culture: fully gender balanced across the We introduced formal UK targets in We continue to support our c. 20,000- bank by 2030.
2017 to improve the representation of strong colleague led networks.
As at the 31 December 2018 we have, non white BAME colleagues in our top We have flexible working practices on aggregate, 37% women in our four leadership layers to at least 14% in place across the organisation and top three leadership layers, and our in line with the working age UK BAME externally we are a Top Ten Employer pipeline c. 4000 of our most senior population identified by the Office for for Working Families.
During 2018, we supplemented our The reported mean pay gap for the As at the 31 December 2018 we have unconscious bias learning c. 80% bank in Great Britain is 36.6% median on aggregate 8% non-white colleagues of colleagues trained with wider 36.8%, and mean gender bonus gap in our top four leadership layers.
We inclusion and diversity learning for is 66.7% median 44.0%.
employ 14% non-white BAME staff all our colleagues to create a solid Our positive action approach is across the UK.
platform for behavioural and cultural helping us to improve the balance Given our focus on becoming more change.
ethnically diverse and desire to be For more information on our Inclusion transparent, we have used the same Disability Smart: work, including our positive action methodology as gender pay gap We have plans in place for all segments approaches, refer to rbs.
com and reporting to look at our ethnicity of our pan-bank disability plan.
It the Sustainable Banking pages at pay gap.
addresses areas for improvement rbs.
including branch access, accessible The banks mean ethnicity pay services, improving colleague gap in Great Britain is 10.7% median adjustment processes and inserting 15.8%.
The figures also show a mean accessibility checks into our key ethnicity bonus gap of 24.7% median processes and practices.
16 2018 Gender profile Grade #Women #Men %Women CEO 1 7 9 44 CEO 2 37 72 34 Gold Rated Disability Disability Confident Stonewall Global Platinum rated for our Standard Employer Leader Diversity Champions Gender work CEO 3 243 412 37 Business Disability Disability Confident Stonewall Business in the Forum Scheme community CEO 4 1438 1760 45 Target 287 493 37 population CEO 3 and above Note: We report to reflect our organisational CEO levels.
This method more accurately describes our gender balance at leadership pipeline levels.
As well as being more reflective of our organisational structure, this enables comparison to be made externally.
Platinum rated for our The Times Top 50 Top 10 Employer for Member of Ethnicity work Employer for Women Working Families Bloomberg Global Business in the Business in the Working Families Gender Equality Index Male Female community community Bloomberg Global Gender Equality Index Executive Employees 76 75% 26 25% Directors of Subsidiaries 220 80% 54 20% There were 376 senior managers in accordance with the definition contained within the relevant Companies Act legislation, which comprises our Employer of the Year Exemplary level employer executive population and individuals who are 2018 Women in Finance Carer Positive Scotland directors of our subsidiaries.
Human rights and Modern Our Customers The bank also has policies and Slavery Act Our relationship with our customers processes such as Our Code, the Yes At RBS we are committed to our is governed by a wide range of Check and Speak Up and is an early responsibilities to respect and uphold risk considerations, including our adopter of the Living Wage to support human rights across our business Anti-Money Laundering AML and the banks position on Modern Slavery.
The Modern Environmental, Social, and Ethical Slavery Act 2015 MSA forms part ESE risk assessments on current Our Suppliers of our approach to human rights.
and new customers, to consider In 2018 we updated and enhanced Our second statement is available on whether any of their activities carry our Sustainable Procurement Code, our corporate website alongside our human rights infringements.
now referred to as the Supplier Code Human Rights Position Statement.
Our of Conduct SCoC available on rbs approach covers our customers, our Our People.
The SCoC continues to be a people and our suppliers.
All of our people are legally contractual requirement - we expect recruited subject to local jurisdiction our suppliers to uphold the same values and in the UK must meet 1998 and commitments we have made on Immigration Act requirements.
Getting financially fit Financial Health Checks are fast, free and can be the stepping stone to a brighter financial future.
Branch colleague Hannah Findlay recently carried out a Financial Health Check with a customer who wanted to increase her overdraft to cover a credit card payment.
The customer had four credit cards with different banks, and when she discovered their combined balance was more than 18,500, she was shocked.
Hannah explained that, instead of extending her overdraft, she could consolidate the debts and pay them off over five years half the time of the credit card companies, with roughly a sixth of the interest, and a saving of around 300 a month.
1 17 7 Managing currency payments For businesses with customers all over the world, managing payments in different countries can be costly and complicated.
Thats where FXmicropay our automated foreign exchange management service can help.
Weve worked with a large car hire company to develop digital foreign exchange and payments strategy.
Now they can instantly price in more than 60 local currencies, get real-time customised reporting of the foreign exchange transactions, and hedge against currency fluctuations.
To improve FXmicropays accessibility to a broader range of customers we have recently made the service available on SAP Commerce Cloud to support their customers with multi-currency payments via their platform.
This reduces the technology integration of the service to a couple of hours, freeing up more time to focus on making their business the best it can be.
Our Values Doing the right thing Thinking long term We do the right thing.
We know we succeed only when our customers and communities We take risk seriously and manage it succeed.
We do business in an open, direct We prize fairness and diversity and and sustainable way.
exercise judgement with thought and integrity.
A new mortgage without touching a piece of paper Moving house is seen as one of the most stressful things you can do in life but our new paperless mortgage process is helping to change that.
Whether customers are buying a new home, re-mortgaging or switching from another provider, they can now get a mortgage without having to post a single piece of paper.
The paperless process involves customers uploading documents via a safe temporary portal and providing a digital signature.
Not only is it an average of 8 days quicker, its also saving customers the hassle of printing documents, finding a stamp and popping to the post box.
Now they can apply at a time and place to suit them, whether thats at home, on the move, or even waiting for the kids to finish their swimming lesson.
18 18 Balancing the books After three decades spent growing profits for big businesses, Girish Shah decided to put his skills and experience to work for himself, launching My Controller Accountants in 2017.
I looked at the statistics, and saw so many start-ups failing, he explains.
The main reason was poor cash flow.
While they had good ideas, they didnt know how to run the business.
My passion was to see the number of businesses that fail, reduce.
For Girish, one of the benefits of banking with NatWest is the support we provide for businesses like his, and those of his customers.
He regularly attends bank events which allow business owners to network whilst also learning how to grow and manage their business.
And hes a big advocate of FreeAgent accountancy software thats available for free for our business customers.
Its just one way were making financial management as simple as possible so our customers can get on with the important business of growing their business.
Our Values Working together Serving customers We care for each other and work We exist to serve customers.
We earn their trust by We bring the best of ourselves to focusing on their needs and work and support one another to delivering excellent service.
Cutting the queue No-one likes waiting especially now we can do so much with just a click or a swipe.
Thats why our partnership with Qudini is proving so successful.
When customers arrive in a branch, we explore what theyre hoping to do, and whether its something they can or want to do online, on the spot or at home.
If not, their details are added to Qudini and theyre immediately given an indication of waiting time something customers tell us they appreciate.
Qudini means less waiting time and no standing in line.
Because customers receive notifications as they move up the queue, they can even pop into a shop without missing their turn.
And the data were gathering helps us understand customer behaviour so we can make long-term improvements too.
Cutting queues is just the start.
19 19 Our Customers Our ambition is to build the best bank for customers and reach No.
1 for customer service, trust and advocacy.
Measuring Our Latest Customer Advocacy Performance Scores We track customer advocacy for our We are aware that there is a significant Our brands are our main connection key brands using the net-promoter gap to achieving our ambition to be with customers.
Each takes a clear and score NPS, a commonly used metric No.
1 for customer service, trust and differentiated position with the aim of in banking and other industries across advocacy.
Colleagues across the bank helping us strengthen our relationship the world.
This is measured through are fully focused on delivering a more with them.
For this reason we measure independent customer surveys in which consistent service which is right first customer advocacy by brand.
customers are asked how likely they time.
In addition, our digital innovations would be to recommend their bank to a continue to attract strong customer friend or colleague, on a scale of 0-10, advocacy, proof that when we get the with a score of 10 being extremely likely product and service proposition right, and 0 being extremely unlikely.
Personal Banking Improvements in customer service have been offset by branch closures which have reduced customer advocacy.
This has been most keenly felt for the Royal Bank of Scotland whose reputation continues to be impacted by legacy issues.
Q417 Q118 Q218 Q318 Q418 12 11 12 12 13 -22 -17 -6 -14 -21 -9 -10 -5 -6 -11 Northern Ireland -7 -5 -7 -6 -6 Republic of Ireland NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland data sourced from Ipsos MORI FRS using 6 month rolling data.
Latest base sizes: 3,111 for NatWest England & Wales : 421 for Royal Bank of Scotland Scotland.
"Based on the question: ""How likely is it that you would recommend brand to a relative, friend or colleague in the next 12 months for current account banking?"
Base: Claimed main banked current account customers.
Ulster Bank data sourced from Coyne Research using 12 month rolling data.
Question: Please indicate to what extent you would be likely to recommend brand to your friends or family using a scale of 0 to 10 where 0 is not at all likely and 10 is extremely likely.
Latest base sizes: 274 Northern Ireland: 297 Republic of Ireland.
20 Business Banking Business Banking continues to be affected by operating model charges.
Our Business Banking customers have also been heavily impacted by branch closures.
Based on interviews with businesses with an annual turnover up to 2 million.
Latest base sizes: 1134 for NatWest England & Wales, 455 for Royal Bank of Scotland Scotland.
Question: How likely would you be to recommend bank.
Data weighted by region and turnover to be representative of businesses in Great Britain.
Commercial Banking Our Commercial Banking NPS has fallen recently, however it remains ahead of the rest of the market.
Our NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland brands are ahead of the rest of their respective markets.
Based on interviews with businesses with an annual turnover over 2 million.
Latest base sizes: 558 for NatWest England & Wales, 103 for Royal Bank of Scotland Scotland.
Trust We measure Trust by asking customers how much do you trust the bank to do the right thing?
Scores for NatWest have fluctuated during 2018 and, over the last five years, have improved in line with the market.
Trust in the Royal Bank of Scotland has also improved over the last five years, but legacy issues are still in customers memories and it remains the least trusted bank in the sector.
Measured as a net % of those that trust RBS NatWest to do the right thing, less those that do not.
Latest base sizes: 891 for NatWest England & Wales, 215 for Royal Bank of Scotland Scotland.
21 How we create value Our long term success is dependent on serving our customers well and generating value for society through our products, services and facilities.
Our business activities Our customers We provide financial services to personal, commercial, large Financial corporate and institutional customers.
We make use of shareholder capital and other forms of We believe in treating customers fairly, offering flexibility financial capital, including 360.9 in how customers choose to bank with us and providing billion in customer deposits.
extra help to vulnerable customers and those in financial difficulty.
This means keeping their funds safe and secure, improving financial capability and supporting enterprise.
Natural We make use of energy and Our business model resources such as paper and We earn income from interest gained on loans to our water to conduct our business personal, business and commercial customers, as activities.
We have committed well as fees from customer transactions and to RE100 and pledged 100% other services.
renewable electricity in our global operations by 2025.
We pay interest to customers and investors who have placed deposits with us and bought our debt securities.
We also pay customer benefits, through loyalty products like our Reward Account.
Infrastructure We rely on online and mobile The attributable profit generated is either rebanking, our high street and invested to improve products and services for Post Office branches, mobile our customers or returned to shareholders.
vans, telephony, webchat and self service options like ATMs and cash deposit machines.
In support of these channels during 2018 our Our products and services technology systems have been We provide a comprehensive range of banking available 99.96% of the time.
products and related financial services to personal, business and commercial customers.
We serve our customers 24 7 through the Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and Ulster Bank networks of branches, Human and Relationships dedicated business relationship managers, mobile We rely on an engaged, healthy banking, digital banking, contact centres, intermediary and inclusive workforce to channels and ATMs.
deliver our strategy to 19 million customers in the UK and We are helping people to build and grow businesses Republic of Ireland.
through innovative enterprise programmes and financing.
We support commercial customers and large finance projects and also offer financing, risk management and trading solutions through our NatWest Markets business.
How we create value for our customers and society Prevented 598,174 cases of attempted fraud amounting to 251.7 million in the UK.
Keeping money safe Protecting and accessible for Trained over 150,000 colleagues and customers as part of our customers our customers Friends Against Scams commitment to provide training to one million people across the UK by end 2020.
Empowering Over one million Financial Health Checks with our personal, Building customers to make private and business customers.
financial better financial MoneySense has been running for over 24 years, during which capability decisions and it has helped over 6.5 million young people learn about money.
achieve their goals One of the largest UK employers with a workforce of A responsible 67,400.
We recruited 231 graduates and 285 apprentices.
Jobs and business supporting the economy employment across Payment of 1.36 billion in tax to the UK Government, 1 the UK and Ireland which supports central government and local authority lending 30.0 billion gross lending to SMEs and mid-corporates in Commercial Banking.
Helping people More than 390 jobs created by businesses participating in NatWests Supporting develop, build and Entrepreneur Accelerator programme since April 2018. enterprise grow businesses Our Skills & Opportunities Fund distributed 1.35 million from a total of 2.5 million to support people to start or develop a business now or in the future.
72% of our active personal current account customers used Improving Offering customers either mobile or online channels.
digital more choice and We have a TechXpert in every branch empowering customers ways to bank capability to take advantage of digital and mobile banking.
Addressing the risks Target of 10.0 billion of funding to sustainable energy projects Transition to and opportunities between 2018 and 2020. a low carbon climate change We enhanced our energy lending policies to reduce fossil economy presents to us and fuel exposures.
our customers Our colleagues Our employees volunteered 100,368 hours.
Community make a difference We supported the Indonesia Tsunami DEC Appeal, and charitable supporting raising over 120,000. giving charities and local Good causes received 4.4 million through colleague generosity.
communities Building a great place Progress continued on our inclusion agenda to value diversity An inclusive to work that reflects in all its forms to be gender balanced, ethnically diverse, disability culture the society we are smart and LGBT innovative.
proud to serve 45,043 first time buyer mortgage customers.
We are helping We supported the UK Governments Help to Buy schemes, customers to get Housing helping 7,700 customers on a Help to Buy mortgage scheme, onto the property ladder totalling 1.4 billion.
We welcome the growing prominence of the Sustainable Note: Development Goals SDGs.
It has helped us to understand our own 1 Comprises 348 million contribution against the framework and global goals.
In 2018, we corporate tax, 583 million irrecoverable VAT, 180 completed an assessment of our business activities against the million bank levies and SDGs and we are engaging with a range of stakeholders to help us 250 million employer further align our strategy to the SDGs in 2019. payroll taxes.
