Rotork aims to be a 'great place to OUR PEOPLE work' with strong core values globally.
Our people are key to our success and to delivering our initiatives and Growth Acceleration Programme.
We have recently introduced a One Rotork set of values, building on our strengths to date and defining what it means to behave Our people as One Rotork to achieve our Vision.
This includes how we work together and act as one globally.
ne rotorH- & culture We aim to link our workforce planning with our strategy, values and behaviours and our people activities such as our reward systems.
We believe that one of the outcomes of achieving our Vision is that Rotork will be the best place for our staff to build their career.
Talent attraction and development We want to be the first choice for the talent who match the needs of our business.
We conducted an external assessment of our senior leaders and this provided the data to prompt action to fill some skill gaps.
In particular we have improved our capabilities in Operations, Procurement and Site Services.
We have also now internalised our Talent process following our hire of a Talent Acquisition and Development Director.
A global training audit helped us understand further the key global capability builds to focus on and our senior leaders have already undertaken Change Management training with the Center for Creat ive Leadership.
Training and development in our key capability build areas supports the future needs of our business and invests in our people.
We are committed to the development of our people through training and development but also through social, sports, wellbeing and charitable activities.
We are committed to our early careers programme with apprenticeship schemes for young people into different aspects of our business.
We also continue our membership of the Manufacturers Standardization Society MSS, who offer undergraduate and graduate scholarships in relevant disciplines.
Rewarding and retaining our people In 2018 we have focused on introducing a more  approach at Rotork.
A revised Performance Management Approach enables consistency globally and ensures total organisation alignment to our Vision and sets the standard on what high performance looks like at Rotork.
40 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Board of directors by gender Total global employees Non-executive and by gender executive directors as at 30 April 2018 as at 31 December 2018 6 78.6% Male Male Female 3 21.4% Female Using this as a foundation we have Whilst our percentage of women on the Diversity and inclusion adjusted our compensation arrangements Board was viewed as on target in both years, We are committed to creating a diverse to include differentiation between higher our Board structure changed during 2018 a workforce and inclusive culture, where and lower performance and announced number of times and by 31 December 2018 everyone is respected, can be themselves a new annual cycle for compensation.
was again 33.3% with three women on the at work and thrive in our Company.
We actively review decisions around Rotork Board out of nine.
Cl performance, talent and compensation to Our Respect at Work and Equal ensure fairness between genders.
"Whilst we have made progress in our Opportunities Policies ensure fair and ""' z Executive Committee and their direct objective treatment is promoted across z Our reward and benefits arrangements reports in relation to gender in 2018 we recruitment and employment relating to age, m "" are benchmarked in each country we still have work to do and have brought a race nationality, ethnic origin, disability, sex, operate, taking into account number of women into our business in the sexual orientation, religious belief or marital cost considerations."
All employed staff latter part of the year.
All employees have a responsibility to participate in the Rotork bonus scheme challenge to create a better gender ensure the policy is successfully implemented.
globally and many staff participate in profit balanced workforce.
This is reviewed as We work wherever possible and with linked share ownership schemes which give part of our talent process and is a standing occupational health experts to overcome staff a financial interest in the Group.
We item on our Board agenda.
any obstacles for employees including also provide various pension arrangements, those with disabilities by making designed to provide retirement benefits, We have prioritised a number of new appropriate adjustments.
based on local laws and practices.
activities: Demonstrating our commitment to Rotork has not yet published its 2018. gender diversity by pledging our Employee engagement Gender Pay Report for our two reportable z support to the 30% Club.
"z We believe that motivated and engaged UK entities with more than 250 employees. """
people are good for our business and this is We also report on our total UK workforce Participating in 2018 in the Hampton also key for their own health and wellbeing.
as we believe that every employee should Alexander Review pilot buddy E count, male or female and will benefit from programme between FTSE 100 and We did not undertake an annual survey this the actions we take.
z.... year: this has been a more manual process V, Continuing to update our family friendly previously and we are moving to a 'pulse' Globally, women currently represent 21.4% and flexible working arrangements.
online approach in order to more frequently of our people, an increase from 20% in Reviewing further our policies and and easily gain feedback from our people.
Moving towards a more even processes to ensure they are inclusive distribution of men and women at all levels for all.
We have appointed a Communications is a key goal.
Director so we can ensure that our people are Communicating more frequently regularly kept up to date on various employee We published our figures to the Hampton internally on the subject of gender matters, including our financial and bonus Alexander Review.
balance, our approach and progress.
8 scheme performance and our Growth Aiming for 30% of our apprentice 2018 :::: Acceleration Programme progress.
We use as at intake to be female.
z team briefings, our intranet: Konnect, all 30 June - Interviewing at least one female for all 2017 2018 z hands town halls as well as WebEx and video senior roles that go to search.
"0 films which we have successfully used across Women on Board 33.3% 28.6% ""' :::: Updating our Code of Conduct."
the world by translating into local languages.
Executive Committee We believe that communication is key 0 and Direct Reports 14% 17.4% Tracking diversity through our talent z during periods of change in particular and reviews and Board meetings.
are overinvesting during this time.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41 Committed to the highest standards CORPORATE SOCIAL of ethical behaviour.
RESPONSIBILITY High ethical standards are fundamental to the way in which we do business.
Respecting internationally proclaimed Ethics human rights, promoting an open and honest culture, having a zero tolerance to bribery and corruption worldwide, and selecting suppliers with sound reputations in the marketplace are important principles and values for the Group to adhere to.
Ethics policies Our Ethics and Values Statement sets out the standards of behaviour that Rotork expects from anyone acting on Rotork's behalf.
It can be viewed on our website at http: www.
com en documents publication 4433 and is available in eight different languages.
We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact and the UN Global Compact principles are set out in our Ethics and Values Statement demonstrating our commitment to supporting and respecting human rights.
In 2019, we will be launching a new Code of Conduct which will replace our Ethics and Values Statement.
This will provide a clear framework for decision making by our people in line with our core values, and set out details of how we expect our people to conduct themselves on a day to day basis.
Benchmarking Rotork pie is a constituent of the FTSE4Good equity index series which is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate social responsibility standards.
We continue to meet the standards set by FTSE4Good.
Whistleblowing Rotork encourages the reporting of any suspected wrongdoing through its Whistleblowing Policy which can be found on the Rotork website http: www.
The Whistleblowing Policy gives whistleblowers various ways to alert senior management to any suspected wrongdoing, including an independent external whistleblowing hotline to assist in facilitating the reporting of any concerns confidentially.
"42 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 0 m ""' :::: :ii: At the end of 2018, the Audit Committee All whistleblowing concerns, however received a full report on all 2018 activity received, are investigated thoroughly and the for anti-bribery and corruption, both Board receives summary reports on a regular developments and improvements."
During 2018, the whistleblowing hotline received nine calls and 18 concerns were raised through other channels.
Modern Slavery Act The whistleblowing reports received Rotork has published its Modern Slavery covered a broad range of potential issues Act Statement for the 2019 financial year, related to breach of Rotork policies, human which can be found on the Rotork website resources issues and dishonest behaviour.
Rotork's 2018 Anti-bribery and corruption Modern Slavery Statement sets out steps Rotork has a zero tolerance policy to Rotork has taken during the 2018 financial bribery and corruption worldwide, year to ensure slavery and human trafficking irrespective of country or business culture.
are not taking place in its business or supply Cl Our Ethics and Values Statement makes it chains and proposed steps for 2019.
"Progress clear that our employees will never offer, ""' z pay or solicit bribes in any form."
In 2019, Suppliers z Membership of FTSE4Good and UN we will be publishing a new Anti-Bribery We have a global supply chain for goods n m Global Compact was maintained.
Our Group Gifts and services that supports our businesses A review of our third party selling and Hospitality Policy, which was updated around the world and recognise that we arrangements was completed.
in July 2018, clarifies where gifts and have suppliers in countries that are identified A review of our anti-bribery and hospitality are acceptable and the actions in the Global Slavery Index as high risk.
corruption policies and procedures that our staff are required to take when was completed.
they intend to give or receive them.
As reported in our Modern Slavery Modern Slavery training course was Statement, we have a new supply chain launched.
In 2018, we completed a comprehensive strategy as part of our Growth Acceleration 2018 Modern Slavery Act Statement review of our third party selling Programme.
This includes a comprehensive was published.
The final report contained review of our supply chains, with a focus on recommendations to further mitigate significant supply base consolidation.
Our the risks that our agent networks present.
new central strategic sourcing team, led These recommendations are now being put by a new Procurement Director, will be into effect and include a reduction in the responsible for ensuring that our suppliers number of agents that we engage, a more act in accordance with our ethical principles.
2019 targets thorough process for their appointment and stringent ongoing monitoring requirements.
We expect our suppliers to meet our high Roll out a new staff code of conduct ethical standards and comply with our across the Group.
Also during the year, our internal audit Supplier Code of Conduct which sets out Complete implementation of the team completed the first phase of their our expectations.
This can be found on the recommendations from the third review of our anti-bribery and corruption Rotork website at: http: www.
com party selling arrangements review.
policies and procedures and reported their en about-us index codeofconduct.
Our Complete a further comprehensive findings to the Audit Committee, giving suppliers must adhere to the core values bribery risk assessment.
further assurance as to the proportionality contained in the code and require their Update and relaunch the anti-bribery of our policies and procedures.
The second own supply chain to adhere to them too.
and corruption training for all phase will be completed in 2019. employees to include an introduction Rotork Controls Limited and Rotork UK 8 ::: from the CEO and launch a short Rotork has developed and delivered Limited, the Group's main UK trading training course on gifts and z anti-bribery and corruption training to all companies, and Rotork pie, are signatories - hospitality.
z employees working in sales and purchasing to the Prompt Payment Code.
"This ensures Take further opportunities to 0 roles, as well as to senior accountants, all suppliers are paid according to the terms ""' establish tone from the top and ::: managers and directors including the Board."
agreed and encourages good practice :!
The training is delivered as an e-learning to be passed down our supply chains.
All employees who completed the In addition, Rotork Controls Limited and course over 12 months ago are also required Rotork UK Limited report on their supplier to do a refresher course.
Both courses have payment practices in accordance with the been made available in numerous languages.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 43 Rotork considers it important to CORPORATE SOCIAL contribute to and engage positively in RESPONSIBILITY the communities in which we operate, CONTINUED and to be a good community neighbour around the world.
Community involvement Overview In Winston-Salem, USA, employees Our team in Wolverhampton, UK, We regard this as part of our ongoing donated food to victims of Hurricane collected and donated Easter eggs and Florence, which hit the North Carolina responsibilities as a good corporate citizen.
cash for the Acorns Children's Hospice.
coast, and to the local food bank, as This links to our values which include Our Leeds, UK, team collected 85 Toys well as donating Christmas gifts for producing a positive and beneficial impact for the Mission Christmas Appeal.
children through the Salvation Army in the communities in which we operate.
Rotork contributes 0.1 % of profits to In addition to these local charitable and In Tulsa, USA, employees donated more nominated international charities and a community activities, Rotork has reviewed than 420 pounds of food to the Eastern further 0.1 % of profits to local charitable its support to major charities this year to Oklahoma Food Bank.
ensure these are closely aligned to our own In Bath, UK, our apprentices raised 650 business activities.
We have supported through various different fundraising Local charity committees at each of our sites three major charities in 2018: Engineers activities for the Royal Brampton and support charitable causes that are important Without Borders, Pump Aid and Harefield Hospital and Cry - Cardiac to them locally with volunteer work, Renewable World.
Risk in the Young, preventing young fundraising and making donations.
This sudden cardiac deaths through empowers local employees to decide how awareness, screening and research, to distribute funds and support their local and supporting affected families.
Local community involvement highlights from the year include: Our India team provided support following the Gaja Cyclone which affected most parts of South India in 2018.
Our employees donated relief items such as water bottles, milk powder, biscuits, candles & matches, sanitary napkins, mosquito coils, blankets and medicines.
Members of the corporate social responsibility team visited the affected areas in person and donated the relief items themselves.
Our China team donated the cost of an operation to Heart 2 Heart, a charity that provides lifesaving heart operations to children of families unable to afford them, and who would otherwise not survive.
The team also donated to Shanghai Sunrise, a charity that provides high school education to underprivileged children by sponsoring one student through three years of high school.
In Houston, USA, employees raised money and participated in the MS150, a two-day 150 mile bike ride to raise awareness for Multiple Sclerosis.
Aid Pump Aid's mission is to achieve lasting technologies, meaning that communities positive change in poor and rural no longer go without convenient access to communities by improving the quality, water when their pump breaks down.
availability and use of water through training local entrepreneurs.
They use Pump Aid also support subsistence farming simple but effective pumps to provide through irrigation: low cost access to access to safe water, child-friendly toilets effective irrigation is key to building and handwashing stations.
They also help in improvement sustainability by supporting and training of waste management in urban poor communities so that they can maintain settlements.
"Contributed to Pump Aid Rotork's contributions will help to install more pumps and enable a number of mechanics to benefit from training in how to maintain a wider range of pump 21,000... G Progress 0 Engineers Without Borders inspires We are also exploring not just inspiring ::: and supports people to respond to global the next generation of engineers through ""' z A new set of core principles challenges using science, technology and Rotork staff becoming ambassadors z guiding the charities supported "" m engineering and showcases the important themselves and delivering workshops but at Group level."
role engineering plays around the world also volunteering through collaborative 42,000 contributed to Engineers with the aim to ignite passion for engineering projects in alignment with our Without Borders.
engineering and increase enrolment own objectives.
Rotork is 21,000 contributed to Renewable supporting ambassadors to deliver Worl d. workshops in primary and secondary 12,000 contributed to The Forever schools to encourage young people Friends Appeal RUH Bath, UK.
to explore the most pressing human Variety of donations made to development issues and inspire them to Contributed to Engineers charitable causes relevant to the reflect, discuss and realise how they can local communities of Rotork's Without Borders be part of the solution by becoming operating sites.
With Rotork's support, in 2019 they will focus specifically on workshops 42,000 that focus on access to water and power.
2019 targets To continue donations to charitable !Renewable War d causes.
Rotork will: Donate 0.1% of Group profits to Rotork's nominated international Renewable World alleviates poverty A sustainable supply of energy means charities.
"in the developing world through the that healthcare is more accessible because Donate 0.1% of Group profits to installation of community-owned clinics can keep vaccines, HIV tests and charitable causes local to Rotork's "" snakebite anti-venom in fridges."
0 ::: provide clean energy to improve crop Continue to align donations and yields, enable communication and z objectives closely with our - trade and support the growth of organisational culture and aims.
"Education is improved as 0 Review our involvement to identify ""' ::: children can study in the evenings, and ways of working, including schools can open later for adult education."
volunteering more closely with the Contributed to Renewable Wo rld 0 z Affordable energy improves health through communities we operate within to the use of clean lighting and cooking become better corporate social sources, and because clean water can partners.
be pumped direct to households.
21,000 Additionally, we continue to support the Royal United Hospitals, Bath, UK in their building of a new Cancer Unit via their Forever Friends Appeal.
To date we have donated 36,000 as part of our commitment to donate 50,000.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 45 Rotork is fully committed to the health, CORPORATE SOCIAL safety and wellbeing of its employees RESPONSIBILITY and contractors.
We ensure compliance CONTINUED with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements and strive to continuously improve our health and safety performance.
Overview Policies, procedures and systems of safe working are in place, supported by training Health to ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees during their working day.
Health and safety training for all employees who join Rotork is included in their induction programme.
Additional and safety training is conducted that focuses on hazard identification and mitigation, risk assessment and action planning and is refreshed when applicable.
"The fundamental principle of ""if we cannot do a job safely, we will not do the job"" is maintained and communicated to all those who work for or on behalf of Rotork."
Across the Group, health safety & environment teams are engaging in continuous improvement activities to improve our safety performance, this includes obtaining a greater understanding of the root cause of incidents.
Following a lost time injury or a near miss that had a potential high consequence, a safety alert is issued to all subsidiaries so they can learn from the events and avoid a repeat of the event occurring.
Progress The target for 2018 was to have a Lost Time Injury Rate LTIR below 0.34.
The LTIR for 2018 was 0.32 which, although a slight increase on the previous year, was below target.
The LTIR is a calculation of accidents resulting in one day lost time, divided by the average hours worked, multiplied by 100,000.
"Lost Time Incident Rate 1111 '14 '15 '16 '17 '18 46 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Cl Our proactive approach is aimed at Assurance activities continuously identifying weaknesses in Our businesses continue to embrace the ""' z l our safety processes and removing or challenge for continuous improvement z m mitigating risks when they are identified."
of our health and safety standards.
"The Progress "" This drive for continuous improvement assurance process continues to develop and the openness of the culture, has and to highlight and mitigate significant The 2018 LTIR rate was below the driven a further 18% increase in near miss risks in the business."
The assessment looks target set for the year.
We at significant risk areas and identifies A number of sites have gained or continue to link health and safety with gaps in our processes or improvements maintained certification to our continuous improvement activities that can be made.
where improvement events have to identify been a slight drop from 87% to 85%, and resolve health and safety issues.
manufacturing sites have returned back to 86% and overall the service division Occupational health has dropped from 88% to 83%.
This There have been no occupational change has occurred due to more detailedn z audits in the Asia Pacific Region.
"Rotork l z continues to promote the wellbeing "" 2019 targets of its employees."
This includes both Conclusion physical health and mental wellbeing.
Whilst there was a small increase in E The method adopted to set the LTIR lost time injuries compared with the m target is the calculated average of z Awards and recognition previous year, the overall long term.... V, the previous three years' LTIR results.
To ensure high standards of health trend is downwards.
Increased reporting This sets the LTIR target for 2019 at and safety performance, a number of near misses and prompt actioning below 0.30. of businesses within the Group have of issues raised across our sites is an gained or have maintained certification area where we can make significant to OHSAS18001.
These include improvement in the coming year.
facilities in Bergamo Italy, Leeds UK, Wolverhampton UK, and Singapore.
"0 "" :::: ""I: z - z 0 The fundamental principle of ""if we ""' :::: cannot do a job safely, we will not do the 0 z job"" is maintained and communicated '' ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47 Rotork is fully committed to the CORPORATE SOCIAL prevention of pollution, to comply RESPONSIBILITY with all legal and regulatory CONTINUED requirements and to reduce our environmental impact by targeting key areas such as energy consumption, water consumption and waste."
Introduction We have a number of policies in place to help us to reduce our environmental impact Helping the with a particular focus on energy reduction and managing environmental emissions.
We continue to operate an assembly only philosophy in the majority of our business environment units where we utilise specialist suppliers for most of our manufactured components and assemblies.
This philosophy has resulted in the majority of our energy use being on lighting, heating, cooling and IT systems.
Strategy We will improve our operational efficiency and enhance our environmental performance in order to secure the continued sustainability of the Group.
We will work as a business, and in the local communities where we operate, to ensure that the environment on which we depend is maintained for future generations.
We will encourage all employees to behave in an environmentally responsible manner by supporting our factories and offices in reducing waste, saving energy and water and using technology to reduce travel.
We will continue to work in partnership with regulatory bodies and respect the regulatory framework in which we work.
As an environmentally responsible business, we will be open and transparent and report regularly to all relevant stakeholders on our environmental performance.
Organisational boundaries The environmental report covers all operations and processes within the physical boundaries of the facilities and business transportation by company cars or vans or any private cars and hire cars used for business purposes only.
Transportation of products by third parties are not covered by the report.
48 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Emissions per fm of revenue have decreased from 19.2 TnCO e to 2 17.0 TnCO e '' 2 Where energy consumption cannot be Energy consumption verified, normally due to the size of the Overall electricity consumption has facility, then an estimation of the energy decreased by 1.5% on the previous year Cl use per square metre of floor space although it has increased 45% compared Progress occupied has been made.
This estimation with the baseline of 2012.
"The current ""' z is based on The Chartered Institution of programme of consolidating sites has Site consolidations and upgrades to l z Building Services Engineers CIBSE Guide F started to show an impact on electricity equipment and infrastructure have m "" - Energy Efficiency in Buildings."
This consumption but this has been offset by contributed to a 4% reduction in our estimation equates to 0.9% of total some operational changes such as installing overall emissions.
a new paint plant in Bangalore India and Lighting upgrades have also increased production at our Lucca site contributed to a reduction in The baseline year remains at 2012. which increased operational hours electricity useage.
Progress A number of improvement activities through Absolute gas consumption increased by 2.6% compared with the previous year and the year have helped reduce the energy increased by 96% compared with the consumed at our sites.
The site consolidation 2019 targets and upgrades to equipment and baseline year of 2012.
"The increase is.. mainly due to colder weather in North z infrastructure have contributed to a 4% l To support the increase in the number z America during early 2018 and increased reduction in our overall emissions during of energy related projects that are "" the year."
When normalising emissions for gas consumption by the paint plant in occurring across our business, the Lucca due to the site working increased the increased turnover, there is an 11 % following targets have been set for all E hours.
When considering only gas reduction in emissions on the previous year of our large energy consuming sites: consumption used for heating buildings, m and a 5% reduction on the baseline z - normalised on degree days, the overall of 2012.
V, Promote energy efficiency consumption of gas has reduced by 19%.
throughout the business with focus This change has been driven by the Lighting upgrades have been completed on high impact projects to deliver a consolidations that have been occurring across a number of our facilities, most 2% saving on electricity: and noticeably the completion of LED lighting in the last quarter of the year.
Further reduce gas consumption on installation in Lucca Italy with an heating normalised on degree days In 2018, Liquid Petroleum Gas LPG estimated energy saving of 35,000 kWh of by2%.
Some of the smaller consumption decreased by 9.8% on the previous year and decreased 7.2% subsidiaries have also installed LED lighting 0 compared with the baseline of 2012.
"The "" during the year such as Mississauga ::: Canada and Mexico."
"Further investment is decrease in consumption has been driven ""I:."
z by efficiency in the paint plant in Shanghai planned during 2019 to install LED lighting - z China and sites moving away from LPG at some of our smaller locations to help in 0 the reduction of emissions.
"forklift trucks to electric forklift trucks. ""'"
::: 0 Work continues to reduce emissions from z paint plants in both Leeds UK and Lucca Italy.
Leeds have changed the treatment chemicals which is estimated to save 75% of emissions.
Lucca have an on-going project to move completely away from solvent based paints.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Helping the environment continued The amount of hazardous waste produced audit programme during 2018.
The internal Overall oil consumption has increased compared with the previous year by 20% has increased from 374 tons to 496 tons audit ensures that all manufacturing sites but decreased 34% compared with the mainly due to the increased production in are either internally or externally audited Lucca Italy.
The amount of hazardous waste annually and that lower risk sites are baseline year of 2012.
The main reason for this increase is heating oil that has been going to landfill decreased from 374 tons to audited at least twice every three years.
purchased for the Taunton UK facility.
Our 361 tons as the remainder of the hazardous waste was used in waste to energy plants.
sites in India which were previously high oil Environmental incidents users continue to reduce consumption with There have been no reportable improved consistency of the electrical Overall waste has increased by 21 % on the environmental incidents during 2018. previous year and by 24% when normalised supply and solar power which minimises Systems are in place to address any the use of back-up generators.
This increase has environmental incident that occurs at our been driven by increased production in Lucca subsidiaries and the robustness of these Italy and the consolidation of sites which To support the continued focus on energy emergency systems are reviewed as management, our UK businesses were has generated increased waste as sites are part of our internal audit process.
recommended for recertification to closed.
No hazardous waste is generated The suitability of emergency ISO50001.
The internal audit process from our continued support of the nuclear response systems are also ensures that those sites that are not industry: before any actuators are returned to included in the internal audit.
certified to ISO50001 are managing their site for repair or overhaul the customer must energy and are looking at ways to increase provide a decontamination certificate prior their energy efficiency.
Water conservation Awards and recognition We continue to look for measures which To ensure high standards of environmental will reduce our water usage and during performance, a number of businesses 2018, we managed to reduce our water within the Group have gained or have 3 3 consumption from 45,315m to 44,380m, maintained certification to ISO14001.
When normalised for These include facilities in Bergamo Italy, increased turnover, this equates to a 9.6% Wolverhampton UK, Bilbao Spain and reduction on the previous year.
Additionally we are looking to certify more of our manufacturing sites Waste and recycling during 2019, including Bath UK, Lucca Italy and Shanghai China.
We have continued to examine our value chain this year to understand how our waste is treated after it leaves our sites.
This Internal audit investigation found that some of our waste The management system that sites have to that was previously described as recycling by comply with has been designed to allow our waste management companies was certification to ISO14001.
This ensures that actually used in energy recovery.
Whilst the key environmental risks such as emissions proportion of waste that is going to landfill to air, water and ground, waste control has remained static, the amount recycled and minimisation activities and energy dropped to 69% as 8% of waste generated reduction are managed both at a corporate by the business goes to energy recovery level and also locally.
always areas in which we can improve our environmental performance, no major issues were identified from the internal 50 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Reporting G In January 2019, EEF the UK manufacturers' organisation undertook an assurance audit of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions report.
"0 ::: The business reports on GHG emissions are in line with the GHG Emissions Protocol developed jointly by the World Business Council ""' z for Sustainable Development and the World Resource Institute."
No significant issues were identified during the assurance audit.
"z """" m Greenhouse gas is measured across three different scopes: Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Emissions that are direct GHG Emissions that are indirect GHG Emissions that are indirect GHG emissions from sources that are emissions resulting from the emissions from sources not owned or owned or controlled by Rotork."
These generation of electricity, heating and directly controlled by the entity but include emissions from fossil fuels cooling, or steam generated off-site related to the entity's activities.
burned on site, emissions from but purchased for heating.
Scope 3 GHG emission sources owned or leased vehicles, and other currently required for GHG reporting direct sources.
include transmission and distribution, losses associated with purchased electricity and steam, and well-to tank emissions for all energy, business travel and transport.
Absolute scope 1 and scope 2 emissions have decreased by 3.9% compared with 2018 and increased compared with the baseline year of 2012 by 20.2%.
Emissions per million of turnover have decreased 11.3% compared with the previous year from 19.2 TnCO e to 2 17.0 TnCO e and decreased 4.8% compared with the baseline of 2012.
"2 Conclusions We continue to focus on reduction in electricity consumption across the business and upgrading equipment to provide greater energy """" efficiency."
The consolidation of sites and upgrades in some of our facilities has resulted in the overall reduction of our Scope 1 and 0 ::: Scope 2 emissions by almost 4%.
Whilst there has been an increase in waste, there was an expectation that this would occur when the z consolidation of sites occurred.
"- z 0 ""' ::: The strategic report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by 0 z Helen Barrett-Hague Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 4 March 2019 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51"
