StS rtart aegic r tegic repor eport t | G | Goovverna ernancnce | Fina e | Financial ncial ssttaattement ements | Other s | Other inf informa ormation tion Responsibility leader Global sustainability leader FTSE4Good of the Transportation Royal Mail is a constituent of the industry group in the Dow FTSE4Good Index, ranking in the Jones Sustainability Indices top eight per cent of companies Our performance 85% Industry leader in the FTSE Gender pay report shows men of people in the UK think Women on Boards Leadership and women are paid broadly Royal Mail is an important part Index the same of local communities Ipsos MORI Corporate Image Survey Winter 2017 29% 60m 9% reduction in Road Traffic Won the Lifetime Achievement reduction in carbon emissions Collision Frequency rate Award for payroll giving since 2004-05 Annual R Annual Repor eport t a and Fina nd Financial S ncial St ta at tement ements 2017-18 s 2017-18 | | 47 47 Royal Mail plc | Corporate responsibility to provide notifications of the estimated time of delivery.
We have also launched Corporate responsibility new digital tools for Parcelforce Worldwide customers.
They offer real-time tracking of parcels and the opportunity to specify in-flight Our corporate responsibility CR strategy is an integral part of delivery options.
In Europe, GLS expanded its FlexDeliveryService.
It is now available in realising our core strategic priorities.
The objectives at the heart 20 countries.
This service makes it easier for of our business and corporate responsibility strategies are the online shoppers to take delivery of goods they have purchased abroad, with a wide range of same to generate sustainable shareholder value.
delivery options to their home country.
Royal Mail is a key delivery partner for small Our CR strategy comprises six key objectives: is reliable and complete.
Assurance is and medium enterprises SMEs in the UK.
performed in accordance with internationally Deliver economic and social benefit to the We provide simple, flexible and value for recognised reporting standards ISAE communities we serve money postage choices.
Our number of additional e-commerce platforms Drive colleague advocacy for the Group 2017-18 assurance statement will be and online marketplaces into our Click & and its community role available on our website from June 2018 at Drop service.
They include Shopify, Magento www.
com responsibility Manage the environmental impacts of our and Not On The High Street.
business and operations makes it easier for small retailers using these sites to purchase postage and print Deliver our transformation responsibly Social and environmental risk address labels.
management Operate with integrity Our Corporate Balanced Scorecard includes We assess risks arising from the social Communicate our management of three customer service performance indicators.
and environmental issues relevant to our corporate responsibilities openly In 2017-18, our mean business customer business at least once a year.
We use our risk and transparently satisfaction score remained stable at 78.
Our management framework to determine their consumer satisfaction score improved by one criticality.
The risks deemed most critical to Our CR objectives support the delivery of point to 73.
We were disappointed to record an the Company are set out on pages 40-45, our business strategy.
We report progress increase in the number of customer complaints, in the Principal Risks section of this report.
against them under the areas of customer, from 517,000 to 565,000.
This was driven More information about our approach to people, community, environment and primarily by the growth in tracked parcels.
risk management is given in the Governance suppliers.
Our CEO has overall responsibility Complaints across some of our main complaint section, on pages 69-73.
Members of the senior leadership types, such as misdeliveries and redirections, key performance indicators are available on team take responsibility for each of the major reduced during the year, as a result of ongoing pages 18-19. strands of our CR agenda.
We continue to work to improve the We are committed to communicating with scanning of items and ensuring that appropriate Measuring our progress our stakeholders openly and transparently.
details are written on the Something for You We are independently rated as a leading We welcome the UK Governments card, if a customer is not home to take delivery responsible business.
In 2017, we were Non-Financial Reporting Directive.
named global leader of the Transportation to increase transparency around companies industry group in the Dow Jones We also ask our own people how customerresponses to social and environmental issues.
We were ahead focused they think our products and services In line with the requirements of the Directive, of over 135 companies in ground-based are, in our annual Employee Survey.
this section summarises information relating transportation, marine and aviation We achieved a customer focus score of 70, to Royal Mails position and performance in industries.
We have been included every year an increase of one point compared with the relation to social and environmental matters we have been eligible, since our flotation.
We publish a full We were also included in the FTSE4Good report on the outcomes and impacts of our Global Index again in 2017.
We were ranked in Scam mail activities in our annual CR report.
It is prepared the top eight per cent of companies included.
We are committed to tackling the scourge of in accordance with the Global Reporting This was because of our environmental, scam mail.
We will never knowingly deliver Initiative GRI Standards: Comprehensive social and governance performance.
Scam mail is upsetting and distressing for option.
It is reviewed by the Board prior to victims and their families.
Royal Mail works being published.
The CR policies and reports Our customers closely with law enforcement agencies and referred to in this chapter are available at the We are proud of the role we play in connecting the National Trading Standards Scams Team following address: www.
com customers, businesses, organisations and to tackle this issue.
communities, including those in remote and as a result of a range of initiatives, we have We engage an external auditor to assure our rural areas.
Our vision is to be recognised stopped over three million items of scam key non-financial performance indicators.
as the best delivery company in the UK mail from reaching customers.
They cover customer, people, community and across Europe.
This means putting the investment and environment metrics.
customer at the heart of everything we do.
Our people The assurance process involves data Our people are fundamental to our ability We are adapting our business to respond testing and a review of the key structures, to achieve our strategic priorities.
We rely to fast-changing consumer expectations.
systems, processes and controls for on them to fulfil the Universal Service and We are investing in technologies that give managing and recording information.
This to go the extra mile to deliver high quality customers more visibility over their deliveries.
is done to ensure that the data we report customer service.
Engaging our people within In the UK, we are using our PDA technology 48 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information a fair, rewarding and customer-focused companies in a list of best French employers aimed at the transport partners that culture is essential for our future success.
deliver parcels on their behalf.
It includes a recommended set of road safety measures and communications materials.
They include Pay, pensions and terms Creating a culture of ownership awareness-raising posters, safety stickers Around 91 per cent of Royal Mail employees & conditions for vans and items promoting GLS 10 golden are shareholders in the Company.
Twelve per Royal Mail is proud to be a responsible employer.
rules of road safety for delivery drivers.
cent of the Company was gifted to eligible We believe good employment conditions lead to Royal Mail employees on, and following, better service standards for consumers.
Around It is with great regret that we report that four privatisation.
All of our eligible full-time 71 per cent of our UK employees work full time, people lost their lives in connection with our employees received a maximum of 913 Free with 29 per cent part-time.
Over 98.7 per cent of activities in the UK in the past year following Shares, regardless of grade.
Employees that our UK employees are on permanent contracts.
We liaise closely with have been with Royal Mail since privatisation All permanent Royal Mail and Parcelforce the relevant authorities.
We complete our have each received dividends before tax of Worldwide employees earn considerably own detailed investigations to determine the over 863. above the Living Wage.
They receive benefits root cause of each accident and identify any associated with permanent employment, such lessons that can be learned.
Investigations Our Save As You Earn SAYE scheme, which as paid holiday and a good pension.
We are are discussed at Board level and outcomes launched in 2014, matured in December committed to continuing to provide the best are communicated across the Group.
More than 36,000 employees entered pay and terms and conditions in our industry.
the scheme to be able to exercise options During the year, there was an increase in sick In turn, we continually work with our unions over 15 million shares at a 20 per cent absence, from 4.63 per cent to 5.09 per cent.
to agree changes to our labour model and discount.
At year end, over 21,000 employees Musculoskeletal and mental health issues working practices to enable our business to had exercised that option.
remain the leading causes of long-term remain competitive.
During the year, we reached an agreement with Health and safety We launched a five-year mental health the Communication Workers Union CWU on The health, safety and wellbeing of our strategy, Because Healthy Minds Matter.
a new pensions, pay and pipeline deal.
We kept workforce is an enduring priority for us.
It aims to increase awareness of mental colleagues informed of our negotiations with We publish our group-wide Health and health issues: reduce the associated stigma: the CWU through internal communications and Safety policy on our website.
This outlines and provide tools and guidance to help regular face-to-face events.
We held around our commitment to maintaining a safe and colleagues and their loved ones in times 1,000 town hall briefing sessions across healthy workplace.
We reached over 43,000 In 2017-18, we recorded a Lost Time frontline colleagues.
We also briefed around We also launched a pilot Mental Health Accident Frequency Rate LTAFR of 0.54 per 2,500 frontline managers across a series Ambassador programme, supported by 100,000 hours worked.
That is an increase of events.
See the Chief Executive Officers our unions.
Around 9,000 managers have of 9.4 per cent compared with 2016-17.
Our review on page nine for more information completed a new, mandatory mental health LTAFR was impacted by an increase in falls about the new deal.
More than 700 managers occurring while postal staff were out on have, in addition, completed our face-to-face deliveries.
These types of accidents accounted Mental Health First Aid Awareness training Engagement and culture for 40 per cent of all lost time accidents in course.
Around 85,000 mental health Engaged employees are essential to the 2017-18, as a result of the adverse weather information booklets have been distributed to customer-focused culture we are building.
during the second half of the year.
Employee engagement is one of the two Road traffic collisions are another common people-related key performance indicators In May 2017, we launched a three year cause of accidents.
We are working hard on our Corporate Balanced Scorecard.
partnership with Action for Children, Mind to reduce the number of accidents we It is measured through our annual and Mental Health UK as part of our strategic are involved in.
The Road Traffic Collision Employee Survey.
The Frequency Rate is one of the measures on our partnership covers training, awareness-raising, We saw an increase in our employee Corporate Balanced Scorecard.
This year, we communications, pro-bono support and work engagement score, from 57 points to 59. reduced our Road Traffic Collision Frequency placements and fundraising.
See page 51 for Engagement levels also play a part in Rate by nine per cent.
We continue to invest in more information.
This influences training driver training and road safety campaigns to and recruitment costs.
In 2017-18, our promote safe driver behaviours.
We increased Building on work we undertook in the employee turnover rate remained low at the frequency and scope of our road safety prior year, we also launched a range of 7.2 per cent.
This compares well against the communications to cover more key risk areas.
initiatives to tackle musculoskeletal injuries.
1 average UK turnover rate of 23 per cent.
They include driver distractions and vulnerable We developed new training materials road users.
We updated our driver training During 2017-18, GLS Denmark was rated as for our people.
We delivered an internal to improve awareness of our most common one of the countrys best employers by Great communications campaign to promote safe road accident type: slow manoeuvring.
In their summary statement, lifting techniques, especially when handling conducts an annual road safety campaign, award judges praised GLS Denmarks parcels.
In addition, we created an e-learning approach to work life balance and personal development.
GLS France was ranked 11 out Safety metrics 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 of almost 100 freight transport and logistics Sick absence % 5.09 4.63 4.51 4.74 Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate 0.54 0.49 0.49 0.70 1 Total UK turnover rate taken from www.
co. uk survey-analysis  162496 2 Reduction in road traffic collisions % 9 12.3 N A N A 2 Reduction in road traffic collisions was added to the Corporate Balanced Scorecard in 2016-17.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 49 Royal Mail plc | Corporate responsibility course for managers to help manage reporting regulations.
We were pleased to Inclusive workplaces musculoskeletal problems in the workplace.
find that, as in previous years, the average We are proud to be part of Stonewalls salaries paid to men and women are broadly Diversity Champions programme.
On a mean basis, women are It campaigns for equality for lesbian, gay, Promoting diversity paid 2.1 per cent more than men.
Women bisexual and transgender people LGBT.
Royal Mail employs a diverse mix of people are paid more on a mean basis due to the Stonewall helps us identify areas for that reflects the communities we serve.
fact that we have a greater proportion of improvement within our LGBT programme.
We are committed to being an equal women in senior positions.
On a median This year, we focused on promoting opportunities employer.
We proactively seek basis, men are paid 1.5 per cent more than transgender awareness and trans-inclusive to recruit people from socially excluded women.
The difference in median pay rates policies and facilities.
It is our policy to provide equal is because men are more likely to select sub-group of the LGBT steering group opportunities for our employees.
We do so work that qualifies for allowances, such as held a Gender Intelligence workshop in based on an individual's performance and shift work during the evening or at night.
We also launched a transgender skills, with no discrimination.
Our full Gender Pay Report is available at the awareness film featuring transgender Royal following address: www.
com Mail employees from across the country.
In addition, members of our LGBT&Friends At our year end, 33 per cent of our Board Diversity Steering Group attended Pride and were female.
This accords with Lord Davies Sparkle events across the country, including Ethnic diversity recommendation of 33 per cent female Glasgow, Manchester, London, Isle of Wight Royal Mails ethnic profile is broadly Board representation by 2020.
representative of the UK population.
Around management level, 31 per cent of our 10 per cent of our employees declare colleagues are women, compared with themselves to be from ethnic minority 17 per cent in operational grades.
In 2017-18, Training and career development backgrounds.
We work with Business in the Royal Mail was named as one of The Times We are committed to investing in our people Communitys BITC Opportunity Now and Top 50 Employers for Women for the fifth at all levels.
We aim to provide our employees Race for Opportunity programmes.
In February 2018, we with the tools, knowledge and resources to promote best practice in equal opportunities.
were named top of our industry in the FTSE deliver our business strategy while offering Women on Boards Leadership Index.
The fulfilling careers and opportunities for index ranks almost 900 companies from ten Supporting people with continual development.
different industries on their combined gender disabilities We invested 9.8 million in training, diversity and social impact score.
As a Level 2 employer of the Disability delivering the equivalent of around Confident programme, we are committed 18,000 training days.
More than 1,100 We are addressing the gender balance to employing people with disabilities and logistics employees attended our Fleet across our organisation through a number of supporting disabled employees during Management training programme.
We launched a Managerial Cover employment.
Approximately 11 per cent 500 colleagues were trained on new parcel programme for frontline manager roles.
of our employees identify themselves as sorting machinery.
This will enhance This is about providing dedicated resource having a disability.
We make reasonable our capability in the parcels market.
This to cover days off and annual leave.
As well adjustments to the workplace to support will enable us to offer a better service to as developing the skills of existing frontline employees who are, or become disabled.
employees, the programme ensures that We provide training as required, for example the operation continues to run smoothly GLS Denmark undertook a large-scale in assistive technology and software.
while the permanent manager is absent.
The learning and development project to make programme is due to create around 800 new This year, our Disability Steering Group it easier to share knowledge and experience managerial roles across the country.
To date, reviewed our Disability Confident and across departments.
Around 300 site visits we have promoted 54 females into frontline Reasonable Adjustments training and toolkits took place.
Colleagues in adjacent fields are managerial roles.
We have placed a further to ensure they provided managers with the working together to share best practice.
42 female new joiners into these positions.
right guidance when supporting disabled colleagues.
The review identified several Our communities changes that will be made to simplify the This year, we are celebrating the Royal Mail seeks to be an integral, valued tools that we offer.
100th anniversary of the first women in and trusted part of every community that Britain getting the right to vote through our service reaches.
Our main contribution a multi-faceted internal and external to communities is our social and economic communications campaign.
We are inviting colleagues to nominate one hundred UKPIL GLS inspirational women to be profiled in our Gender distribution internal communications, to celebrate Female Male Female Male number of people the achievements of women in our workforce.
We also released a special Vote Royal Mail plc Board 3 6 100 stamp issue featuring images from 3 the Suffragette movement.
Senior Management 730 1,619 50 301 Management 1,460 5,445 Gender pay 3,414 3,105 We conduct a Company-wide pay review on Administration 1,387 970 an annual basis, to identify any discrepancies in salaries paid to males and females.
Operational 20,967 105,556 1,953 9,132 This year, our review was conducted in accordance with the new UK gender pay gap 3 Includes direct reports of Chief Executive's Committee members.
50 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information impact.
We leverage our assets our core the oversight of risk management on behalf Our environment business competencies, infrastructure, people of the Board.
These committees support Managing our use of natural resources is and brand to benefit good causes.
Our the establishment, communication and a strategic imperative for us.
Increasing Corporate Responsibility Policy outlines how integration of risk management throughout our efficiency and reducing resource use we interact with, and manage our impacts on, the business.
Climate-related risks and helps us to control our costs and support the communities that we serve.
opportunities are assessed and managed business performance, and conserve the using the Companys overarching risk natural environment in which we operate.
We make the seventh biggest contribution of management framework.
In line with the Our Environment Policy sets out our any UK company to the UK economy.
One in TCFDs recommendations, we consider environmental impacts.
This includes every 194 jobs in the UK is provided by Royal both physical and transitional risks in this energy, water and waste as well as how Mail.
We make a significant contribution to assessment, amongst other types of risk.
we work with customers and suppliers on social inclusion.
That is through the vital environmental issues.
employment and earnings that we bring to To date, we have not identified any climatesome of the UKs poorer regions.
related risks that have been assessed as We refreshed our environment strategy to reaching principal risk level.
However, we help drive continuous improvement in our In 2017-18, Royal Mail contributed recognise that climate change presents both performance.
The five-year strategy has the 7.1 million directly to good causes and risks and opportunities for our Company.
following key objectives: schemes for disadvantaged groups.
That Our main climate-related risks include price includes around 440,000 in matched giving Embedding internal and external rises as a result of resource scarcity, and the and grant schemes to support employees environment standards: financial impact of adapting our business to fundraising for charities and good causes.
Actively anticipating and responding to In addition, our people donated 2.7 million These risks are balanced by opportunities.
emerging environmental issues: to hundreds of charities and good causes They are improving our energy and fuel across the UK.
Over the last 29 years, our Adopting existing and new technologies efficiency, and reducing associated operating people have given 60 million through our to help us to reduce our emissions and costs.
We develop risk controls and mitigation payroll giving scheme.
We won the Lifetime resource use: plans for climate-related risks identified Achievement award at the National Payroll as reaching certain risk and impact levels.
Building environmental awareness and Giving Excellence Awards in 2017.
We also monitor emerging policy-related risks.
encouraging behavioural change in our We align our policy engagement with our We launched a new mental health charity workforce: and, overall climate strategy.
partnership in 2017, with Action for Children, Promoting the benefits of strong Mind and Mental Health UK.
As part of our The RMC reviews business unit risk registers environmental management with partnership with Action for Children, our on a regular basis.
It ensures that all risks on customers and through our supply chain.
lead charity partner, we are raising funds the Companys consolidated environmental to deliver the 'Blues Programme'.
Over the We will monitor our performance against our risk register are reflected in business next three years, this aims to help around strategy using three existing targets.
They units risk registers as appropriate.
Where 8,000 young people aged 15-18 years.
It is a are: reducing our total carbon emissions, climate-related risks and opportunities six-week course delivered by specialist youth reducing our water consumption, and are identified, individual business units are workers.
It enables young people to identify increasing waste diverted from landfill.
required to factor the actual and potential situations that can trigger anxiety, fear or impacts into their strategies and financial depression and teaches them a range of planning as necessary.
Climate change risks and coping strategies.
opportunities Our public commitment to reducing our We partner with the charity Missing People We welcome the recommendations of the carbon emissions relates to the identified to distribute missing person alerts through Taskforce on Climate-related Financial climate-related risks and opportunities.
our network of handheld scanners.
For the Disclosures TCFD, an industry-led Our target is to maintain our carbon third consecutive year, we funded the charitys taskforce founded by the Financial Stability emissions at 20 per cent below the levels in Child Rescue Alert system.
The recommendations aim to 2004-05 until 2020-21.
Around two-thirds members of the public to sign up for alerts to standardise climate-related financial of our carbon emissions are derived from their mobile phones.
We also funded Missing reporting to make it easier for investors our vehicles and transport.
Therefore, a vital Peoples crisis line over the Christmas period.
to assess the impact of climate-related part of maintaining our performance against This provides round-the-clock support for the risks and opportunities.
They encourage our carbon emissions reduction target is families of missing people.
companies to make disclosures on improving our fleet fuel efficiency.
We closely governance, risk management, strategy In the Netherlands, GLS works with Heppie, monitor our fleet fuel efficiency.
We take into and metrics to support their approach to a Dutch charity supporting deprived children.
account the volume of mail items we handle addressing the impacts of climate change.
GLS participates in excursions and covers and the amount of fuel we use to deliver the costs of around 50 bus tours per year.
In 2017-18, we emitted 4.8 per cent Expectations for reporting in these areas GLS also transports equipment for the less CO e per cubic metre of items carried, will grow.
As a first step, we have convened 2 charity.
In Germany, employee volunteers compared with the previous year.
an internal working group to oversee the visited nursing homes over the festive period, adoption of the TCFDs recommendations.
decorating Christmas trees and spending time We anticipate reporting further on these areas Carbon emissions with elderly people in six cities.
This includes through our 2018 The table below sets out our Group carbon launched a new volunteering programme, CDP submission.
Our total 2 supporting employees, transport partners UK carbon footprint decreased by four per Our approach to risk management is detailed and delivery drivers to volunteer their time to cent compared with the previous year.
The Risk Management engage with local causes.
normalised basis, emissions decreased by Committee RMC and Audit and Risk 4.1 per cent per 1 million revenue.
Committee have overall responsibility for Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 51 Royal Mail plc | Corporate responsibility 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 CO e Emissions 2 Total UKPIL GLS Total UKPIL GLS Total UKPIL GLS 000 tonnes Scope 1 451.1 436.6 14.5 458.2 444.9 13.3 473.7 458.4 15.3 Scope 2 118.1 98.3 19.8 134.4 116.3 18.1 152.2 134.1 18.2 Scope 3 83.8 83.8 87.7 87.7 88.7 88.7 Total 653.0 618.7 34.3 680.3 648.9 31.4 714.6 681.2 33.4 Tonnes CO e per 1m revenue 81.3 84.7 88.8 2 Scope 2 market-based 38.3 8.5 29.8 40.3 14.3 26.0 40.7 14.1 26.6 We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse gas emissions according to the Defra Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013 and have utilised the UK Government 2017 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting in order to calculate carbon dioxide equivalent emissions from corresponding activity data.
The standards classify a companys GHG emissions into three scopes.
Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Royal Mail, such as the fuel used in our vehicles.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy, such as the emissions from our electricity consumption and district heating.
We have reported all material Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for which we consider ourselves responsible and exclude immaterial sources such as fugitive emissions from air conditioning in owned vehicles.
Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions not included in scope 2 that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions.
For Royal Mail, this includes GHGs emitted through the use of third party road or air freight for the transportation of mail.
Scope 3 emissions are included in UKPIL reporting only.
In 2017-18, UKPIL emissions including the number of alternative fuel or advanced Improved heating controls at GLS Denmarks Scopes 1, 2 and 3 were 29.1 per cent below technology vehicles in our fleet.
Our longerTaastrup depot helped to save a further those in 2004-05.
This is the baseline year for term ambition is to transition to a low carbon 172,090 kWh of energy.
Maintaining fleet and ensure that we are investing in a this performance will be challenging.
Parcel fleet that meets future legislation.
Waste and water management volumes are increasing.
Demands on our We aim to minimise the amount of waste we We also use telemetry systems to promote vehicles and fuel consumption will continue send to landfill.
In 2017-18, our target was to safer and more efficient driving.
We are pursuing energy-saving divert 93 per cent of our waste from landfill.
42 per cent of our vehicle fleet is fitted with opportunities across our fleet and property In total, we diverted 99 per cent of our waste telemetry.
In 2017-18, using telemetry saved portfolio.
We are exploring more efficient from landfill, six per cent more than our target us approximately 500,000 litres of diesel, ways of balancing the air, rail and road for the year.
equating to 1,300 tonnes of CO e. 2 transport that we use to deliver mail items.
Water is a precious natural resource.
We are We are training our employees in more Reducing our use of air transport helps to committed to reducing our consumption energy-efficient behaviours.
lower our CO e emissions and reduce costs.
In 2017-18, our target was to reduce During 2017-18, we replaced air transport our water consumption by three per with road services between Newcastle and Fleet emissions cent compared with the previous year.
This has reduced As provider of the UKs Universal Service Unfortunately, we narrowly missed our associated CO e emissions by approximately Obligation, we have a requirement to maintain 2 target, reducing the amount of water used by 3,000 tonnes per annum.
a large fleet of vehicles to enable us to one per cent.
deliver mail to over 30 million addresses, During 201718, GLS have added a number six-days-a-week.
The growth in parcels is of alternative fuel vehicles to reduce their Our suppliers driving up our energy demand.
Five electric vehicles In the UK, we contribute around 2.3 billion our responsibility to reduce emissions were introduced in GLS Spain, along with to the economy annually procuring goods and associated with our fleet and help improve 10 natural gas vehicles in Romania.
GLS services from around 5,000 suppliers.
Royal air quality in the communities in which we Italy continues to use low emission forms of Mail suppliers are required to comply with our operate.
Our approach to reducing fleet transport with 64 electric vehicles and five Responsible Procurement Code of Conduct.
emissions focuses on three key areas.
cargo bikes in regular operation.
The Code sets out the ethical, social and They are: investing in new vehicles and environmental standards that we expect.
This technologies, changing driving styles, and Buildings emissions includes compliance with the Ten Principles of making our transport network more efficient.
Reducing energy use in our buildings is the United Nations Global Compact.
Suppliers We are undertaking a number of trials and another key priority.
We reviewed our use of must also comply with our mail security initiatives in our current fleet to drive down gas boilers to heat our buildings.
As a result, procedures and our approach to anti-bribery fuel consumption.
When older vehicles we replaced 43 boilers with modern, energy and corruption.
Although we work extensively come to the end of their lifecycle, they are efficient condensing boilers.
These are able to address any risks and ensure our suppliers replaced with new vehicles that meet the to recover emitted water vapour to generate have corrective action plans in place, there are latest emissions standards.
still occasional instances where suppliers fail includes electric and liquefied natural gas to meet the standards we expect from them.
We continue to replace inefficient fluorescent LNG vehicles.
This year, we purchased We may, ultimately, terminate dealings with lights with LED lighting.
This year, we fitted 100 electric vans to be used by postmen and a supplier if we find that our codes are not LED lights at a further 30 UK sites, including women on their delivery rounds.
We have being complied with.
Delivery Offices and staff car parks.
Several commissioned nine electric-powered heavy Ethical principles are embedded in the GLS sites in Denmark also benefitted from goods vehicles to trial for transporting mail Partner Code used by GLS Germany.
The new LED lighting saving approximately between distribution centres in London and Code requires suppliers working with GLS to 75,000 kWh, the equivalent of 26.4 tCO e. 2 the South East.
Over time, we plan to increase 52 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information adhere to principles relating to anti-bribery Our taxation strategy and corruption and health and safety.
Further Our taxation strategy is published on information about our approach to supply our website, at the following address: chain risk management is available in our www.
com responsibility 2017-18 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Our taxation strategy sets out our taxation principles.
There is also a detailed Anti-bribery and corruption description of our approach.
Royal Mail Royal Mail has a strict zero-tolerance policy has a low risk appetite in relation to tax on bribery and corruption.
We are committed to complying the UK Bribery Act are embedded within our with all applicable tax laws.
We will make Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy.
This is decisions in relation to tax with due regard available on our website.
to our reputation, integrity and status as a Group whose shares are listed on the London Our Business Code of Conduct sets out the Stock Exchange.
standards and behaviours we expect of our colleages.
This includes our zero-tolerance The Strategic Report was approved by the approach to bribery and corruption.
Board on 16 May 2018 and signed on its We encourage our people to report any behalf by: instances of bribes or suspected bribes to Group Compliance, or through our confidential Speak Up line.
GLS Code of Business Standards, updated in 2018, also reinforces our strict approach to any form of Moya Greene corruption.
The Code is available to all all GLS Chief Executive Officer employees.
It is translated into 20 languages.
16 May 2018 We provide our people with online and face-to-face training to support our approach to bribery and corruption, as well as annual compliance campaigns for colleagues within operations.
We monitor the outcomes of this training regularly.
Where knowledge gaps Stuart Simpson are identified, we adapt our training and issue Chief Finance Officer internal communications to ensure that our 16 May 2018 people remain informed on our approach.
Further information is available in our 2017-18 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Human rights We are committed to upholding and respecting human rights.
Our commitment is embedded in our company-wide Corporate Responsibility Policy, our Responsible Procurement Code and our Business Code of Conduct.
In addition to obeying the laws, rules and regulations of every country in which we operate, we implemented and commit to respect the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Fundamental Conventions.
They cover freedom of association, the abolition of forced labour, equality and the elimination of child labour.
Our risk of human rights violations is relatively low.
But, we recognise that human rights violations, including forced labour and trafficking, can occur in all sectors and countries.
As a responsible business, we are committed to playing our part to help eliminate it.
Our Modern Slavery Act statement details the steps we take to help prevent any incidence of modern slavery both in our own business and in our supply chains.
It is available at the following address: www.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 53
