t R n e m a p o l e v w e d d n a n m g i s e D a t R e t e a i l r i a l s F i l l i n g a n d d i s t r 52 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As a plastics converter, RPC has greatest control over the earliest stages of the plastics product lifecycle: raw materials, design and development and manufacturing.
However the influence of actions at these stages reaches far beyond our manufacturing boundaries.
RPC aims to have a positive impact on all stages of the lifecycle on the environment, our employees and communities in which the business operates.
This section sets out our approach to doing business responsibly through the lens of our key stakeholders including our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community.
At present the Group has limited formal central policies in respect of RPCs employees, human rights, social matters or the environment.
Due to the decentralised nature of the Group many of these issues are covered at a divisional or site level.
Part of the implementation of an enhanced governance framework includes the adoption of a number of additional policies and procedures in these and other areas that will provide a consistent base level of compliance going forward.
Further information and examples of our approach will be found in our forthcoming RPC Responsibility Report.
The plastic product lifestyle Closed loop process Responsible procurement reduction in waste to landll Research & development In-house recycling of new materials such as biopolymers Sustainable raw material source Lightweighting Consideration of target demographic Use of recycled material Reduction in product waste Product protection Recyclability Sustainability Reduce: Energy consumption Increased shelf-life Waste Product protection Water consumption Carbon emissions Product protection efficient transportation i b u t i o n l a s o g p n s i i l d c y n c o e i t R a r e n i c n i M e s a u e n R u f a c t u r i n n g o i t c e l l o c l a s o p s i d e s U Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Strategic Report Our direct environmental impacts Water efficiency RPCs environmental strategy is delivered throughout the business units by Water is an important part of the manufacturing process, primarily as a cooling a dedicated Sustainability Group who implement and oversee initiatives.
RPC aims to reduce the impact on the environment by monitoring how As an energy intensive business, RPC has a major focus on reducing energy much water is used for each tonne of product manufactured to ensure that consumption, with considerable steps being made over the years to do so.
water usage is kept to a minimum.
Improvements have been made across the Group to reduce water usage or to reuse it within a closed loop system RPC also looks to manage and reduce consumption of water, which is a key which reduces evaporative losses.
Going forward, the Group is implementing resource used in the cooling processes.
In terms of waste, a number of sites are new programmes to identify and fix water leaks and wastage across all working towards zero waste to landfill and have a specific focus on minimising business operations.
plastic pellet waste into the environment.
Water usage has improved as a result of acquisitions which have a lower Energy efficiency average consumption than the rest of the Group.
The Group excluding acquisitions has recorded a slight increase as a result of some one-off water The manufacturing process to convert plastic is by nature energy intensive leaks, installation and testing of new cooling systems and Health & Safety which represents both a considerable cost to the business and the majority of initiatives requiring more stringent hand washing requirements across direct environmental impact from the Groups business.
This year the Group kWh tonne electricity consumption, which includes full year impact of previous acquisitions, was 1,508, 23.3% lower than the previous Waste and recycling year.
Excluding the impact of the new acquisitions Letica and bpi the Group has Polymer is a valuable resource and manufacturing sites operate at a high improved energy consumption as a result of continued focus and investment in efficiency in terms of salvaging raw materials.
Any material that cannot be more energy efficient production.
reused is segregated and collected for recycling.
The same applies to many other materials that are handled throughout the Group such as scrap metal, RPC is continually working to improve the energy efficiency of manufacturing cardboard boxes tubes, wooden pallets and shrink wrap.
A number of processes through projects ranging from lighting alterations to replacing older manufacturing facilities are certified as zero waste to landfill or are working manufacturing machines with more energy efficient models and the purchasing towards this.
RPC are also a signatory to Operation Clean Sweep, an industry of renewable energy.
Nearly one fifth of RPC sites have now been accredited initiative to reduce plastic pellet leakage into the environment.
to ISO 50001 Energy Management System, a part of which requires sites in the UK to put in place a plan to reach energy reduction targets of 1.5% per year between 2015 - 2020.
Distribution To further reduce the environmental impact of the Group, RPC is focused Although energy efficiency and the reduction of electricity usage per tonne on ways of improving distribution, for example, by increasing full loads of is a major focus of the Group, there are a number of areas that offset Group deliveries, identifying areas where back loads could be used in the transport improvements.
The Group strategy to lightweight packaging, for example, network so that vehicles are not empty on return journeys and coordinating adversely affects the electricity KPI as the same amount of energy is logistics within geographic regions.
required to run the processing machines, but with a lower throughput of materials.
Lightweighting benefits are however seen at other stages of the packaging lifecycle such as reduced raw material consumption and lower transportation impacts.
23.3% Reduction in reported energy consumption in 2018 The Group is implementing new programmes to identify and fix water leaks and wastage across all business operations.
54 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The Groups desire to improve the performance of the plastic products it The circular economy and end-of-life solutions manufactures at its facilities does not end when the item leaves manufacturing A circular economy as opposed to a linear economy make, use, dispose sites.
RPC has taken a proactive stance with customers in designing plastic is one in which resources are used efficiently to extract maximum value.
packaging and products to optimise reuse and recyclability as well as to ensure These resources should then be recovered and regenerated into new products end-of-life collection.
ormaterials at the end of their lifecycle.
The use of post-consumer recyclate PCR and post-industrial recyclate PIR The unique characteristics of plastics allow them to make a strong contribution diverts end-of-life plastic from landfill and also reduces energy demand to resource efficiency.
Plastic products are light weight, versatile, durable and in comparison with the sourcing of virgin raw materials.
If it doesnt make recyclable and contribute to energy and resource savings in many markets.
economic or environmental sense to recycle then the Group supports energy RPC supports the view of a circular economy in its requirement to be more recovery from plastics through waste incineration.
resource efficient and increase plastic recovery and recycling.
The Group works collaboratively on products and programmes such as the Ellen MacArthur Foundation New Plastics Economy to further develop innovations in this field.
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Methodology Included Activities Emissions Emissions were calculated on an operational control Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions from the Absolute emissions have increased due to approach using The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: purchase of electricity and combustion of fuel.
significant acquisitions during 2016 17 financial A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard year.
with additional guidance and emissions factors derived from DEFRA and DECCs UK Government Despite the increase in absolute emissions the conversion factors for Company Reporting and the intensity ratio has decreased in 2018.
This is due IEAs CO emissions from fuel combustion.
to the Groups continued focus and investment in 2 more energy efficient production.
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 2018 2017 Scope 1 emissions Fuel combustion 29,881 20,828 Scope 2 emissions Electricity 743,526 552,919 Total GHG Emissions 773,407 573,747 Intensity ratio: Tonne of CO per 1m of revenue 206 209 2 Through acquisition the Group now operates recycling facilities that guarantee Code of conduct the value of plastic is maintained for second-life applications and ensures that All RPC businesses are expected to operate with policies and procedures which circular economy practices are encompassed by the business.
are consistent with the Groups values and standards.
The Code of Conduct covers honest and ethical conduct, conflicts of interest, treating customers fairly, Litter and marine litter is also an area of increasing focus within the plastics respecting the rule of law and specifically outlines the Groups zero tolerance industry and therefore for RPC.
As well as working to design products in line approach to bribery and corruption.
with circular economy principles the Group supports work on litter through the various organisations and trade associations that it is a member of.
RPC does not employ any child, as defined in the International Labour Organisation Convention, or forced labour in any of its operations.
Employees and ethics RPC aims to act responsibly and with integrity, respecting the laws Human rights and regulations of all the countries within which it operates as well as All businesses within the Group are supportive of human rights and are internationally accepted standards of responsible business conduct.
expected to comply with the relevant legislation, including that relating to the High standards of professional and ethical conduct are required from all workplace of the jurisdiction or country in which they operate.
employees, officers, directors and third parties who work with the Group and the current Code of Business Conduct is available and can be read in full on the The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to ensure that human rights are website www.
upheld in the supply chain.
Whilst this is generally located in the countries or regions of operation, RPC aims to engage with suppliers who source products or materials from at risk countries to promote compliance with relevant local legislation.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Strategic Report CASE STUDY R ebeccas success is SIL VER-L INED The Silver, Gold and Platinum Leadership Programmes at RPC are a key part of our management development training, helping to bring forward the next generation of senior managers.
RPC bpi protec Finance Director Rebecca Skade has recently completed the Silver Programme and it proved the ideal support for her promotion from Financial Controller.
I have always liked to be challenged throughout my career so the opportunity to take up this new role was ideal but it was equally important that I felt ready and For the first ten years of my career, prepared for my new responsibilities, she explains.
I tended to move jobs every two As well as providing me with a broad insight into to three years in order to find my many other business disciplines in addition to my next challenge.
However, after four own area of expertise in finance, what was equally beneficial about the programme was the chance to years with RPC I have no intention work with other managers from all parts of the Group.
of looking elsewhere for a new goal I now have a network of contacts with whom I can everything I want from a career is share experiences, discuss issues and seek advice.
here and I just have to go out and The Silver Programme covers a wide range of get it!
subjects including finance, human resources, marketing, operations, strategy, leadership and Rebecca Skade project management.
Participants are also asked to Finance Director, RPC bpi protec complete a special project on a chosen topic.
One thing I have always liked about my time at RPC is the fact that the company values individuals opinions and is supportive of decisions made, says Rebecca.
This was equally true of the Silver Programme, where I decided that instead of focusing my project on a business topic, I wanted to explore the issue of mental health in the workplace and again, the company was happy to run with this proposal.
A senior position within the company is inevitably time-consuming.
Rebecca has an equally busy life outside work, with keep-fit and exercise particular hobbies.
She has run marathons, undertaken triathlons and was keen not to have to give up these activities.
As part of your career development, I think it is essential that you continue to challenge yourself in your personal as well as your professional life, she explains.
RPC shares this view and wants to ensure I can achieve an effective work-life balance.
Looking to the future, Rebecca intends to continue her professional development through the Leadership Programme.
56 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED UK gender pay gap Gender diversity RPC was pleased to publish its Gender Pay Gap report in April 2018 for the The Group promotes equal opportunities for all present and potential employees 12 months to April 2017.
The regulations provide an opportunity to communicate and does not discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic origin, age, gender, race, the commitments and the initiatives that the Group are taking to increase religion, political or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
The gender female representation throughout RPC.
As a business the aim is to promote diversity of the Group at Board, senior management and organisation level at is diversity.
The culture and the everyday operations are gender neutral, however, shown below.
Whilst there is not currently a formalised Group policy on diversity the industry which the Group operates within is largely male dominated these principles are well understood and practiced throughout the organisation.
and females are underrepresented, especially in engineering roles.
As an In common with the approach adopted by the Board there is no current organisation, the aim is to make RPC a more diverse and inclusive place to work.
provision made for the setting of targets on any diversity grounds at any level Based on the UK Governments methodology, RPC has a median gender pay of the organisation although this will be kept under review and consideration gap of 15.9% across all RPC Group employees in the UK.
This is lower than given to those recommendations set out in both the Hampton Alexander and both the UK average overall as well as for those companies operating in the Parker reports.
Board Management All employees Females only represent 31% of the overall workforce at RPC.
The organisation needs passionate and talented individuals with a diversity of views that drive innovation and there is commitment to achieving an increase in female representation in the following ways: Increasing female graduate and apprentice applications RPC invests in staff and provides a range of appropriate training this starts at the very beginning of employees careers.
Building the pipeline of women starts by increasing female representation at the apprentice level by making the RPC Male 6 Male 259 Male 17,185 brand better known to female school leavers.
31 apprentices have been through Female 2 Female 63 Female 7,683 the academy since 2013 only two of whom have been female.
However, this is already improving.
In total for 2017, of the 46 apprentices hired across the RPC Group, 15% were female.
This also applies to graduates there is a Anti-bribery and corruption need to ensure the Group is attracting top female graduate talent by partnering RPC has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption in its worldwide with universities and colleges to create a brand and culture that is attractive.
business operations, whether in the public or private sector.
Its Anti-Bribery Launched in 2018, the International Graduate Development programme looks policy applies to all employees of the Company and its subsidiaries as well to develop an effective recruitment strategy using multiple sources and aims to as third party business partners where they are acting on behalf of the further build the employer brand.
Group, including but not limited to agents, consultants, distributors and joint ventures.
It extends to all business transactions in all countries in which the Overall gender balanced recruitment Group operates.
Ensuring that RPC attracts the right talent is crucial and retaining a commitment to gender balanced recruitment is important.
It is believed that achieving a Modern slavery stronger gender balance will bring benefits, and the organisation continues to The Modern Slavery Act 2015 introduced changes in UK law that focused on review how it can deliver stronger female representation through recruitment increasing transparency in company supply chains.
Its principal purpose was the and accelerated development.
consolidation of existing criminal offences relating to modern slavery including slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, provide Training and development of our existing staff law enforcement agencies with enhanced tools to address the issue and Employees need to be given the right skills to progress through the organisation increase protection for victims.
and believe that there is no perceived glass ceiling for advancement.
The Board has approved an appropriate slavery and human trafficking statement The Groups talent development programmes are significant in making this that reflects RPCs particular risk profile, the complexity of its supply chains, and happen.
Efforts are being made to build the next generation of leaders through the industry and jurisdictions where it operates.
The full statement can be found five programmes including Silver, Gold and Platinum relating to individual level on the Groups website.
The development programmes focus on identifying high potentials and creating a talent pool to get people ready to attain the next level.
RPC is entrepreneurial, customer focused and fast growing, factors which Customers and suppliers are supported and enabled by workforce diversity.
The organisation remains The Group seeks to be honest and fair in its relationships with customers and committed to building the future talent pipeline.
suppliers, to provide customers with standards of product and service that have been agreed and to pay suppliers and sub-contractors on agreed terms.
It is Group policy to maintain accreditation to the quality management standard ISO 9001 and encourage operating units to gain accreditation to any specific standards required by the markets served or by customers such as the British Retail Consortium and Institute of Packaging BRC IOP Food Packaging Standard.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Strategic Report CASE STUDY NURTURING TA L E N T through apprenticeships Woody Kamara arrived in Germany from Sierra Leone in 2011 speaking no German.
Six years later he has completed his apprenticeship in mechanics and plastics with RPC Promens Vehicles in Hockenheim, Germany: passed his exams with flying colours including winning an award as the top apprentice in chemistry: and has now embarked on a degree B. Eng.
in mechanical engineering at Baden-Wrttemberg Cooperative State University.
Such dedication and commitment are exactly the fairs in the region to promote career opportunities qualities that RPCs apprenticeship programme at RPC, helping to organise the stand and create seeks to nurture, allowing our trainees to develop information leaflets.
and grow through the entrepreneurial spirit that He also took part in a project with the local promotes and encourages career advancement chamber of commerce, training as an Energy through the company.
Scout to identify ways to reduce energy costs This support, and the extensive training he has within an organisation.
This included giving a received, have been critical to Woodys impressive presentation to representatives from many local career development.
I have been very fortunate to businesses.
He is part of RPC Hockenheims have been able to take part in numerous projects and hazard hunting team to ensure a safer working seminars, both internal and external, he confirms.
environment at the factory yet still finds time outside work to act as a childrens football coach, One important aspect of Woodys recent award is as well as playing the game himself.
that it recognises social skills and engagement as well as technical knowledge.
Woody has always After completing his apprenticeship, Woody demonstrated a helpful and positive attitude at became a Production Co-ordinator before work and has been involved in many different starting his degree course last October.
In addition, he is a great ambassador for the three years of the course, he will spend six RPCs apprenticeship programme.
He was part of a months at university and the other six working group of apprentices who visited a number of job at RPC Hockenheim.
The support I have received from all my colleagues within RPC Hockenheim has played an important part in helping me to achieve my goals, both during my apprenticeship and now my university studies, concludes Woody.
After university, I am looking forward to becoming an engineer with the company and hope I can continue to progress and make a contribution to the companys ongoing success.
Woody Kamara Apprentice, RPC Promens Vehicles 58 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED RPC works with some of the largest suppliers of polymer in the world and as Health & Safety in practice such, takes comfort from the policies and practices these companies have in From the moment one approaches an RPC site, it is clear that safety is place to uphold human rights and manage their environmental impacts in a important.
Signs giving a positive safety message and up to date safety similar manner to the Group.
statistics, for example the number of days since the last reportable lost time accident and the previous record, communicate the Groups safety aspirations.
For instance, the EU Chemicals policy known as REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals came into force in June 2007.
It has a direct Every site meeting begins with health and safety and focuses on hazards impact on the plastic supply chain, including RPC as a plastic converter.
raised in the last 24 hours and any specific safety issues or observations.
Example substances that are covered under REACH guidelines that could be Safety forums, made up of representatives from throughout the business, shape used along the plastic supply chain include monomers and pigments.
the way RPC approach safety at each site, helping to devise and implement the annual safety improvement plan.
The Group has an annual Safety Climate RPC demands that all suppliers are compliant with EU REACH regulations: Survey in which everyone in the business has the opportunity to give their before agreeing business, a supplier must confirm compliance with these opinion on how well they feel the Group is doing in building a safe business.
regulations and this may even be written in to the supplier contract.
The data at site, division and Group level is shared in order to improve areas where aspirations are not currently being met.
Health & Safety The Group Health & Safety policy, the direction of which is set out by the Board, Management and members of the safety forums carry out regular safety tours, acts as a guide to all business units who strive for a continuously improving putting time aside on site to focus entirely on safety where people work.
safety culture which safeguards those who work within, for or who visit their This involves observing how people work, discussing their ideas and concerns sites.
In addition, compliance with local legislation is expected from every site and committing resources to making it better.
and where RPCs requirements exceed local legislation, all sites must attain this standard as a minimum.
Accident statistics The Group shows an improving trend in the Reportable Accident Frequency Rate The Health & Safety culture is founded on the belief that each employee can RAFR defined as the number of accidents resulting in more than three days make the workplace safer and that in doing so, can build both knowledge and off work, excluding accidents where an employee is travelling to or from work, habitual safe behaviour which can keep them and their loved ones safer outside divided by the average number of employees, multiplied by 100,000 of 490, a of work.
sustained improvement on the result of last year.
RPC understands that industrial processes are prone to safety hazards and therefore encourages employees to recognise, identify, report and resolve hazards as this not only removes the hazards but also builds a culture of Reportable accident -8% safe working.
frequency rate Safety Its in Our Hands 490 RPCs approach to safety is built around a set of basic requirements in all areas of operations from Safety Principles to RPC Blue safety audit requirements which define the standards with which all business units must strive to comply.
Overlaying Group standards is a positive safety culture which is based around the firm belief that everyone in the Group is responsible for his or her own safety and that of all others in the business.
Each year the Groups Safety Week focuses on safety, health and wellbeing with an emphasis on community and family.
It involves the whole Group and aims to cover annual training, as well as making a permanent change for wellbeing and safety practices within the business.
RPCs 2017 Safety Week slogan Safety.
Its in Our Hands builds on the view that all employees own the safety of all sites and that everyone can positively affect the safety of the workplace, keeping ourselves, colleagues and visitors safe.
Communities RPCs accident rate has significantly reduced over time however the Group Developing and maintaining good relations with the local communities in which firmly believes it can continue to reduce the number and severity of accidents as we operate is important to us, and our decentralised operating structure means everyone works together to build a culture of interdependence.
that individual business units and manufacturing sites are able to work closely with local causes and charities of their choice.
2014 1,197 2015 753 2016 925 2017 534 2018 490 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Strategic Report CASE STUDY A dding RECY CLABILITY to a popular format One of the key design requirements for new packs is to ensure that they are fully recyclable.
Nevertheless, any solution still has to fulfil a number of other essential requirements, such as convenience and functionality.
The Doy Pack sealed pouch has become a highly popular pack format in recent years its stand-up and easy open properties are particularly appreciated by consumers and the same stand-up ability also provides great opportunities for retail display.
However, the manufacture of many of these packs incorporate laminates, and this means that they are difficult to recycle.
We believe that with X-EnviroPouch The solution to this problem is the new we have created a modern consumer X-EnviroPouch from RPC bpi protec, which is pack format and an  solely from polythene film and is therefore fully recyclable.
This modern consumer pack format sustainable packaging solution, ideal retains all the convenience benefits of a Doy Pack, for a wide variety of applications.
including the availability of a prestoclose seal that enables it to be re-closed, and is ideal for a wide Sue Mohan variety of applications.
Sales Director, RPC bpi protec For manufacturers and retailers, X-EnviroPouch can be specified with a gloss or matt print finish while allowing  designs to be created to customers bespoke formats to maximise brand image and on-shelf impact.
Our new X-EnviroPouch is an exciting development and is an integral part of our commitment to create products and develop appropriate working practices that help to protect the environment and support the requirements of the circular economy.
60 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Non-financial information statement It is the aim of RPC Group to fully comply with the Non-Financial Reporting requirements that are contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The table below is intended to clearly show all users of the Annual Report and Accounts with details how this has been achieved.
All policies referenced below, their operation and consideration of any outcomes are monitored as part of the Groups internal governance processes.
Further information can be found in the Governance and Risk Management sections of the Annual Report.
RPC policies, procedures Sub-section of the Reporting requirement andstandards Section of Annual Report AnnualReport Environmental matters Environmental policy statement Investment proposition, pages 3 & 7 Our marketplace, pages 13 15 Sustainability and the natural environment, page 13 Our business model, pages 16 19 Plastics and Responsibility, page 17 Strategy, pages 20 25 Enhancing the waste collection process, page 34 Corporate responsibility, Our direct environmental impacts, pages5261 page 53 Employees Code of Business Conduct Investment proposition, pages 2 7 Our people, page 6 Health and Safety Policy Our business model, pages 16 19 Our people, page 17 Corporate responsibility, Employees and ethics, page 54 pages5261 Code of conduct, page 54 Case study, page 55 Gender diversity, page 56 Case study, page 57 Health and Safety, page 58 Human rights Code of Business Conduct Corporate responsibility, Code of conduct, page 54 pages5261 Modern Slavery Statement Human Rights, page 54 Corporate responsibility, Modern Slavery, page 56 pages5261 Social matters Code of Business Conduct Corporate responsibility, Communities, page 58 pages5261 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Anti-bribery policy Corporate responsibility, Anti-bribery and corruption, page 56 pages5261 Policy embedding, due diligence and outcomes Risk management, pages 28 32 Description of principal risks and impact of business activity Investment proposition, pages 2 7 Our marketplace, pages 13 15 Our business model, pages 16 19 Plastics and responsibility, page 17 Risk management, pages 28 32 Polymer resin, page 18 Corporate responsibility, Our direct environmental impacts, pages5261 page 53 Description of the business model Our business model, pages 16 19 Non-financial key performance indicators Key Performance Indicators, pages 26 27 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Strategic Report CASE STUDY Skincare range C ARES for the environment In the development of packs manufactured in new materials such as bioplastics, the challenge is to maximise their environmental benefits while still producing a solution that is completely fit for purpose.
This is exactly what has been achieved by the range of flexible tubes from RPC M&H Plastics for Bulldog Skincare for Men, which use plastic derived from sugarcane.
Bulldog is the first mens skincare brand in the world to feature this raw material.
The Green polyethylene is created by farming sugarcane on sustainable land in Brazil, thousands ofkilometres from the Amazon rainforest.
While being cultivated, the sugarcane captures CO 2 We have always tried to from the air as it grows, meaning that with every make the most ethical and kilogram of Green Plastic produced 3.09 kilograms of CO are removed from the air.
Once grown, the 2 sustainable decisions we sugarcane is transformed into ethanol, a type of alcohol, which is used by Bulldogs partner Braskem can, from never testing tocreate Green Plastic.
on animals, to never using The tubes are then manufactured by RPC M&H Plastics microbeads to making all using this instead of fossil fuel-sourced material.
Importantly, the packs maintain the performance our products suitable for characteristics of traditional polyethylene.
A further environment benefit is that the sugarcane is often planted on degraded pasture land which in turn helps to recover the soil for future use as general farmland or to plant another crop of sugarcane.
Plastic from sugarcane is the latest step in this approach and we are delighted to have worked with M&H Plastics to turn Green PE into something we can use in the tubes and caps of our packaging.
Simon Duffy, Founder of Bulldog Skincare For Men
