OUR PEOPLE A valued, capable workforce RSA is building a culture of high performance driven by passionate team players who are encouraged to bring their very best selves to work.
RSAs ambition is to perform at best-in-class Pay and reward Delivering our promises to customers levels and in so doing to deliver well for our The UK has introduced Your Best Award During 2018, the Middle East RSA Oman customers and our shareholders.
We recognise which is a new bonus structure for UK customer worked towards implementing an Automated that we can only achieve this if our people share operations, technical and business support Insurance Machine which is now ready to be this ambition and feel that RSA is offering them roles.
It is designed to recognise and reward deployed at the Hafeet border post in Oman.
We want a culture of high individual performance and commitment to The machine is an end-to-end system that performance, where working together as a delivery in role including levels of attendance.
will assist travellers from all neighbouring team is valued and the business invests in From 2019, awards will be made twice a year countries to purchase the mandatory its people, so we all have the capabilities to with the first payment in June and the second insurance required to enter Oman while embrace the future.
We use Your Best U to in December.
This is the first such initiative articulate our aspiration to have an organisational pioneered by RSA Oman for its customers, Celebrating success culture that allows us all to bring our very providing an easy insurance purchase.
best selves to work every day.
In Canada, the CEO has spent time in 2018 Canada has empowered its Accident Bene ts visiting several regional of ces to deliver a claims adjusters to pilot innovative ways People Principles personal thank you to employees for their to better deliver for customers Take Flight achievements.
Our People Principles underpin the people project.
Employees are given dedicated strategies in each of our three regions and The UK has established Your Best U Shining time to work on an idea to better investigate, inform all people decisions across the Group.
Stars awards in all large site locations to recognise adjudicate, process or settle claims.
They They provide the foundations of our people and celebrate colleagues who demonstrate hang a paper airplane above their desk to proposition and ensure consistency of exceptional performance, embody our values symbolise they have taken ight and to approach across RSA, under our Group-wide and are driving our best-in-class ambitions.
encourage colleagues to ask questions about employer brand Your Best U.
Our People All category nalists of the Shining Stars their idea.
The hope is that it will inspire others Principles cover three key areas: how we Awards are invited to a dinner where the to nd ef ciencies for customers in their own approach performance, how we work and winners are announced and everyone areas of the business.
celebrates the achievements of all the nalists.
Leadership How we approach performance How we work The UK has created and launched a We seek to build a culture of high performance Connected Leaders programme in We want to build an organisation in which our driven by passionate team players who earn collaboration with Cran eld University.
people can work together effectively with our their place in the team by pushing their own This programme mirrors the quadrants in values guiding everything we do.
We believe collective our capability framework and is designed about how our people work are guided by success and individual success go hand in to disrupt thinking and be a catalyst for four principles: Delivering our promises to hand.
Decisions about how we achieve high action.
The programme is designed for customers, Leadership, Collaboration and performance among our people are shaped senior management and 120 leaders have Flexibility.
During 2018, we made several by three principles: Performance management, participated in the programme so far, with changes to how we work.
Pay and reward, and Celebrating success.
the remaining to be included in 2019.
During 2018, we made several changes to 1 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT THE END OF 2018 how we approach performance.
% of Performance management Employees Group Total The UK and Group Corporate Centre have UK & International 6,422 52% introduced Your Best Performance.
This enhanced approach to performance management Canada 2,932 24% includes process improvements such as Scandinavia 2,629 22% rating What and How separately to increase GCC 175 1% focus on behaviour and values and using a Other 86 1% five-point scale to better support differentiation.
12,244 100% Note: 1 Full time equivalent employees.
38 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Scandinavia is running a mandatory Scandinavia has refurbished its of ce spaces the opportunity to employ 50 new employees leadership programme with almost 300 to create a more exible and collaborative for Johnson.
Canada has invested time to leader participants so far.
The programme environment for employees to work in.
nd the best people for the first cohort of focuses on the transition between different Customer Service Agents, all with fresh leadership roles leading others, leading How we build capability ideas and perspectives.
leaders, functional leader and business leader Our success depends on building capability Inclusion and what behaviours, work values and time among our employees, so they are equipped Our Group-wide Diversity & Inclusion application a leader needs to apply to be to do the job.
Our approach to building D&I vision: successful in a role.
capability enables our people to pursue exciting careers at RSA.
Decisions about To create an inclusive workplace where During 2018, Canada launched an innovative how we build capability are guided by everyone can bring their best selves to work.
executive development programme in four principles: Learn and grow, Technical We do this by building greater diversity partnership with a leading Canadian Business expertise, Access to talent and Inclusion.
across all levels of our organisation and School.
This programme re ects and embeds During 2018, we have made several changes creating a more inclusive culture which Canadas Leader Expectations which were to how we build capability.
attracts, encourages and capitalises on created in collaboration with senior leaders.
To diverse perspectives, establishing a stronger complement this, a 360 assessment process Learn and grow foundation to serve our customers.
has been launched for all senior leaders The UK has introduced a Coaching and designed to address speci c capability gaps in As a Group, RSA has continued to make Mentoring Hub containing a wealth of relation to the Leader Expectations.
strong progress on the journey to ful l our tools, guides, videos and advice to ensure D&I vision.
The foundations have been put Collaboration employees get the most of any coaching in place by agreeing a Group-wide policy mentoring relationship whatever their level Since January 2018, there has been and establishing robust business-led of experience.
increased focus and investment on technical governance through the Group and Regional capability across the Group, with the launch Technical expertise D&I Councils.
Signi cant groundwork has of a Technical Capability Programme.
This been undertaken to raise awareness within At RSA Group level we have a Group additional investment has provided the the organisation, by establishing Group-wide Technical Academy which creates technical community with enhanced tools and priorities and celebrating events on a quarterly competitive advantage through building the environment needed to deliver towards basis, including International Womens Day, technical capability in underwriting, claims the overall best-in-class ambition.
This has led Pride, Dive-In Festival and International Mens and actuarial.
The academy supports all the to increased collaboration across all regions Day.
This, alongside region-led activities, technical communities across the Group and in terms of knowledge and experience such as a Board visit to Toronto where they offers several training solutions that are ready sharing.
In 2019, we will continue to heavily met with the Diversity & Inclusion Council, for employees to use and deliver.
invest in our technical capability.
has created the environment for change and The Group Technical Academy has Throughout 2018, Ireland has continued to signi cantly contributed to RSAs ability to signi cantly increased the number of training collaborate across the regions by being an build an inclusive culture.
Further details on events across the Group with twice the incubator of talent, importing and exporting our progress in the UK and Group Corporate number of delegates attending in 2018 talent across the Group, supporting greater Centre can be found in our 2018 Gender compared with 2017.
In addition to the Group collaboration and a culture of working together.
com Technical Academy, each region has an responsibility resources The Middle East encourages collaboration academy which delivers localised tailor-made across regions wherever possible.
It has Going forward into 2019, the regions will training programmes throughout the year.
been collaborating with the UK on its digital continue to make bene cial changes under Access to talent journey and has been sharing best practices each of our People Principles, as well as Canada has had the exciting opportunity to and encouraging employee development by embedding the changes we have made so grow a part of its business to help support assigning employees to support the region in far, in order to continue our journey towards a new white label insurance product it has RMS, RI and Broker relationships.
This has provided Flexibility Ireland has introduced a new relaxed dress WORKFORCE HEADCOUNT BY GENDER AT THE END OF 2018 code to celebrate Your Best Uwhere people Male Female now have the option to wear what they want to work when working in non-customer facing Year-end 2018 headcount roles.
They also encourage managers to offer Group Board of Directors 7 3 exible working to talent in their teams.
Group Executive Committee 8 2 Senior Management Group 403 197 Group overall 5,913 6,760 Notes: Based on Group permanent and non-permanent headcount.
In line with FRC Guidance, the headcount information shown in the table above covers RSA's wider workforce, including contractor, temporary and agency workers.
Senior management re ects the same group reported in Women in Finance Charter goals.
As at 31 December 2018 there were 134 males and 29 females who were directors of subsidiary undertakings included in the consolidation.
It is not a reference group that RSA uses and we do not believe it is an accurate indicator of diversity: however, it is disclosed to comply with regulatory requirements.
Note that there are 147 independent contractors in Canada and 141 independent contractors in Scandinavia for whom gender data cannot be collected.
These individuals have been excluded from the gender headcount analysis shown above.
