STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our contribution in a changing world We seek to create sustainable value for shareholders and society by managing our operations ethically, ensuring financial strength and transparency, putting our customers first, supporting our employees and minimising our impacts on the environment.
The information contained in the Corporate Doing the right thing In the UK in 2018, our supplier due diligence Responsibility and People sections of this assessments covered 330 suppliers Operating ethically is an important part of report on pages 3539, together with the 58% of our total spend, to help ensure our company culture and we have robust description of our business model on pages the organisations we work with meet our governance structures in place to support 67 and our principal risks on pages 4043 expectations.
Further information can be this.
Our Group policies and standards, form our nonfinancial information statement.
found in our Modern Slavery Statement on including our values and codes of conduct, our website.
set clear expectations on behaviour and are Corporate responsibility at RSA monitored as part of our risk appetite and Anti-bribery and corruption Over the past five years, our corporate policy framework.
Bribery and corruption are not tolerated responsibility strategy Making things better, Respecting human rights anywhere in our operations.
Our Anti-bribery together has played an important role in and corruption and Con icts of interest, Our Group-wide Human Rights policy addressing the key social, environmental and gifts and hospitality policies cover all parts of commits us to the principles set out in the ethical risks and opportunities that affect our our business and set out detailed guidance Universal Declaration of Human Rights business and customers.
Our achievements on facilitation payments, gifts and hospitality UDHR and the International Labour and actions in 2018 are set out against the and relationships with third parties, as well as Organization ILO core conventions on labour four pillars of our strategy on page 37. establishing systems and controls to ensure rights, covering freedom of association, the During 2018, we undertook a broad effective implementation.
These policies abolition of forced labour, equality and the consultation with internal and external are supported by our Broker remuneration elimination of child labour.
stakeholders to re ect on the knowledge we and Third-party contracts policies which As signatories to the UN Global Compact, have gained and review our response to key set out speci c requirements for payments we set clear expectations for our employees, responsible business issues.
We have used to brokers and procurement, including business partners and suppliers, and this to develop our Con dent Futures strategy conducting appropriate due diligence on empower them to operate in a way that which will guide the actions we take over the business partners and suppliers.
respects and protects human rights.
We do next five years to drive further progress.
Our policies are communicated to all this by raising awareness of issues, ensuring To support the implementation of this employees through our company intranet procedures are in place to prevent breaches, Group-wide strategy, we have established a and mandatory eLearning modules: this conducting due diligence and reporting Group Corporate Responsibility Committee.
is supplemented by additional resources on progress.
During 2019, we will be transitioning our such as our anti-bribery toolkit and All employees must comply with Human programmes and delivering against a new targeted training for employees in higher Resources policies and procedures which roadmap to help us achieve our Con dent risk roles.
All employees complete training ensure human rights principles are upheld.
on whistleblowing and are equipped with Our procurement teams consider human tools to identify and escalate concerns, rights when reviewing new supplier tenders, including access to a con dential third-party third-party contracts and business partners.
24 7 whistleblowing helpline in line with our Our human rights due diligence processes Whistleblowing policy.
include a supplier questionnaire requiring Our Group-wide risk management information on human rights policies and framework sets the policies and standards management practices which is reviewed we expect of our employees in all markets.
by procurement teams during the tender We monitor completion of mandatory process and ongoing supplier monitoring.
training, and operating countries complete To help ensure our suppliers meet our risk assessments that are regularly reviewed ongoing expectations on human rights, they and updated, supported by a central team to are expected to comply with our Supplier enable continuous improvement to controls.
Code of Conduct which is embedded in new contracts.
35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our direct environmental impact is limited Environment Social matters to our building portfolio and business travel The insurance sector plays an important role We work with charitable organisations and associated with our work.
We regularly in responding to the risks and opportunities causes around the world to support activities monitor and review our energy use, business presented by climate change through the data that promote employability, entrepreneurship travel, water use and waste to ensure we and insight we generate, products covering and bene t local communities, investing manage our own operations ef ciently, and natural catastrophes and our in uence 1.8m in 2018 in support of 785 organisations.
our reported carbon emissions are subject within the financial system.
We consider Our community contributions also play a to independent assurance by PwC.
the risks associated with persistent or more practical role in supporting our customers to extreme weather patterns through our risk avoid risks through awareness campaigns In 2018, we reduced our own carbon management function and support clean and partnerships focused on topics such as emissions by 3.4% per FTE against a target growth by providing insurance products for road safety, mental health and online safety.
of 4%: full emissions data can be found renewable energy projects.
During 2018, we reduced our Our investments are governed by our Group environmental impact through a focus on Our environmental policy sets out our Community and Charitable Donation policy, using online meeting software to avoid commitment to reducing our environmental which is monitored through our corporate business travel, programmes to reduce impact, engaging relevant stakeholders to responsibility function to ensure compliance paper use and working with our supply adapt and respond to climate change and and that no con icts of interest exist.
During chain in Scandinavia to improve reuse of working with industry peers through our 2018, we reviewed and updated this policy to waste materials.
memberships of ClimateWise and the UN follow best practice guidelines in our reporting Principles for Sustainable Insurance UN PSI of community investments.
No political to integrate consideration of environmental, donations are made by RSA Group.
social and governance issues into business decisions.
OUR NEW FIVE-YEAR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY Our new corporate responsibility strategy, Con dent Futures, will launch in 2019.
Con dent Futures Managing the everyday well We manage our operations responsibly and sustainably.
Our focus areas: responsible investment & underwriting, sustainable operations, responsible supply chain, customer privacy & data security, business integrity.
Building stronger relationships We develop supportive and enduring Shaping a smarter relationships with our customers, colleagues and tomorrow communities.
We do this by providing customers excellent care and support, developing our people, and making a positive contribution to the communities were part of.
Building stronger relationships Shaping a smarter tomorrow As experts in risk, we know there are many ways for people and businesses to protect the things they care about.
We can use our products, Managing the services and partnerships to help people and everyday well businesses to learn about the risks they face, and how to manage them more effectively.
com cr 36 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com Responsible investment & underwriting Excellence in customer care Sustainable operations Responsible supply chain Partnerships and A ourishing innovation to get workforce ahead of risks Customer privacy & data security Active in communities Business integrity STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PROGRESS AGAINST OUR CR STRATEGY ACHIEVEMENTS People and businesses face a wide range of Launched TruceTO road safety campaign in SAFE, SECURE risks every day.
We can play a powerful role in Toronto to promote safe behaviours among cyclists, WORLD helping our customers avoid risks by sharing pedestrians and motorists.
Developed an online safety education package for Danish teachers to use in classrooms with 710 yearWe work across our business and collaboratively with olds, reaching 12,500 young people.
partners to raise awareness of risks through engaging safety campaigns.
These cover a diverse range of Organised Swedens largest Cardiovascular rescue topics, including keeping people safe on the roads, in course to teach resuscitation techniques.
their homes and at work, and responding to the risks Collaborated with BRIS Sweden Childrens Rights in 120,000 presented by changing environments, including the Society to raise awareness of mental health issues natural and digital world.
people reached through among young people.
safety campaigns Our business will not be successful unless Hosted our first UK-wide Community Action Month, THRIVING the communities we operate in also ourish volunteering 2,000 hours and fundraising over 40,000.
We use our skills and experience to Five-year partnership with the School for Social support communities in areas we operate.
Entrepreneurs in the UK and Canada, mentoring social entrepreneurs, supporting 58,500 bene ciaries.
Our focus themes are supporting education and employability, working with social enterprise and Partnered with Welcome to assist the integration of social entrepreneurs, and enabling our employees new immigrants into Swedish society through events to support local causes they are passionate about.
We work in partnership with charities and enable our Coordinated National Re ector Day with the Childrens employees to contribute to their local communities by Accident Prevention Foundation to distribute 74,000 1.8m sharing skills, volunteering up to two days of time and re ectors in Denmark.
invested in local 300 volunteers participated in WWFs Great Canadian communities Shoreline Clean Up.
As an insurer we are well aware of the risks Celebrated our worldwide renewables insurance SUSTAINABLE presented by climate change.
We are working business covering wind, solar and bioenergy projects FUTURE actively to support the transition to a lowin support of Green GB Week.
carbon economy and improve societys Canadian colleagues adopted the Print Responsibly resilience to extreme weather.
Challenge, achieving a 40% reduction in paper use.
We manage the impact of our business on the Trygg-Hansa continued its commitment to paperenvironment by committing to reducing our own free, reaching 790,000 customers.
Were supporting our customers Engaged in industry-wide discussions on climate to adapt and respond to climate change and change through ClimateWise, the ABI and CBI.
insuring renewable energy projects around the Chaired the CRO Forum Emerging Risk Initiative world, using our knowledge to help reduce risks and producing an industry-leading paper on climate costs associated with technologies and enable the change and the role of insurance in supporting -3.4% transition to a low-carbon economy.
reduction in carbon emissions We are open and transparent about how 330 suppliers assessed against due diligence RESPONSIBLE we manage our operations.
We work questions on environmental, social and ethical issues.
BUSINESS collaboratively with customers, employees Reviewed our framework for assessing ESG and suppliers to deliver positive outcomes.
environmental, social, governance issues related to our investment portfolio.
For our customers this means striving to keep them at the heart of what we do and achieve fair outcomes Signatory to the UN Global Compact.
For our employees this means being inclusive, Contributed to the UN Principles on Sustainable 330 investing in training and development, and promoting Insurance working group developing guidance on health and well-being.
In our supply chain this means supplier due diligence ESGconsiderations in underwriting.
ensuring ethical behaviours and high standards of assessments conduct on social and environmental issues.
