OUR STAKEHOLDERS An open and collaborative approach to stakeholder engagement The Board recognises the importance of SHAREHOLDERS CUSTOMERS positive relationships between RSA and its Our performance target of 1317% return Good business starts with our customers shareholders and other stakeholders, and on tangible equity represents an attractive and we strive to keep them at the heart of is committed to fostering and maintaining shareholder return both relative to cost what we do.
While the type of customer we strong engagement with them.
Open and of capital and insurance industry norms.
serve ranges from individuals through to collaborative dialogue and interaction is in RSAs shareholders have bene ted from a large corporations, our ambition to provide the best interests of RSA and helps us to strong combined operating ratio, dividend support and excellent service is the same.
make a positive contribution to society.
growth of 7% and an increase in share We aim to be proactive and digitally enabled During 2018, the Board undertook work to 1 price over the past five years of 20%.
and provide tailored products that address map the current engagement between the The business model on pages 06 and 07 evolving customer demands and needs.
Board and its stakeholders and to identify provides the framework to deliver value to We also created a UK Customer Committee opportunities to improve further.
which was established to help ensure we the Board took steps to further improve its promote and secure positive outcomes for Details of the Boards engagement with engagement with stakeholders, including our customers.
shareholders are set out on page 56. more direct interaction with employees For more information on engagement with in Canada during the Boards visit in customers see page 56.
We have an extensive In approving the 2019 stakeholder engagement plan, the Board con rmed engagement programme Getting it right for customers that the key priorities for stakeholder with our shareholders and engagement in 2019 are shareholders, is at the heart of our business analysts to ensure that the customers, employees and regulators, strategy.
Company has access to and its commitment to continuing with capital it requires.
Stephen Hester the current level of direct and indirect Chief Executive engagement with other stakeholders.
Martin Scicluna Pages50 and 51 provide highlights of the Chairman Boards activities during the year in relation to engagement with stakeholders, together with details of how the Boards decisions are informed by the interests and views of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
1 Share price movement from 25 February 201425 February 2019 inclusive.
08 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS EMPLOYEES REGULATORS AND RATING AGENCIES FURTHER RSA is a people-centred business, with an STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ambition to perform at best-in-class levels.
RSA is committed to working with the We have 12,244 employees and we aim regulators in an open, cooperative and Environment and to recruit and retain talented individuals transparent manner.
We seek to ensure communities from diverse backgrounds by offering them a strong regulatory compliance culture In 2018, the Group invested 1.8m ful lling careers.
We aim for a culture of high throughout the Company in order to resolve in local communities through performance, where working together as a regulatory issues and to avoid or minimise payments to charities, employee team is valued and the business invests in its business impact and surprises.
Senior fundraising and supporting people.
We want our culture to be inclusive, management interacts regularly with employee volunteering.
To nd where we can all bring our very best selves Standard & Poors and Moodys, two key out more on engagement with to work every day.
During 2018, we launched rating agencies.
communities and our impact on the our new People Strategy architecture under Further details of the Boards engagement environment see pages 35 to 37. the Employer brand Your Best U, details of with the regulators and rating agencies are which can be found on page 38.
Suppliers developed and implemented several new Our suppliers are critical to our leadership training programmes, enhanced business.
We aim to treat suppliers our approach to performance management The Board continues to have fairly and consistently, for example and created our Group-wide diversity and by offering equal payment terms constructive engagement with inclusion vision.
our regulators, ensuring that Details of the Boards engagement with employees are set out on page 56. they gain a comprehensive view Pensions of the Groups governance RSA is committed to supporting fully priorities and that we understand the pension schemes and, in 2018, approved the funding agreements the issues of interest to them.
for the Groups two fide ned bene t Isabel Hudson pension schemes.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Governance To nd out more about how the RSA Group board engages with stakeholders, you can read our Governance Report: see pages 44 to 95 09
