30 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As a Group we focus on our people and contributing to the communities in which we operate.
We comply with environmental protection laws and seek to minimise detrimental effects that our activities may have on the environment Our people Also, during 2018 the Board appointed The Nomination Committee has reviewed the Ian Clark as the Non-executive Director position regarding diversity at Board level and responsible for engaging with employees.
across the Group as at 31 December 2018.
During 2018 the Board approved a formal In addition to the Companys Code of 159 diversity policy.
The Company is fully Conduct which can be found on our website committed to the elimination of unlawful at www.
co. uk about-us code-ofand unfair discrimination and values the EMPLOYEES conduct, policies are in place to support and differences that a diverse workforce brings develop the Groups employees, all of which to our organisation.
We encourage equality are subject to regular review.
Examples and diversity among our workforce, whilst of these include policies addressing equal eliminating unlawful discrimination.
opportunities, anti-harassment, flexible 79 159 working, health and safety, maternity and Sabres diversity policy aims: paternity leave, season ticket loans, training To promote equality, fairness and respect EMPLOYEES HAVING BEEN WITH THE and development, and modern slavery.
for all our employees COMPANY FOR 10 YEARS OR MORE Emphasis is also placed on employee To ensure that the Company does not wellbeing, where all employees are offered discriminate an individual, specifically due an annual health and wellbeing check, flu The Group operates out of one site in to their age, disability, gender reassignment, vaccinations, free fruit and to participate Dorking and, as at 31 December 2018, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy in the Governments cycle to work scheme.
and maternity, race including colour, The Company offers ongoing training to all nationality, and ethnic or national origin, The Company recognises that people are employees and external courses for newly religion or belief, sex gender and key to its success.
The Company seeks to promoted employees where appropriate, sexual orientation create a positive and collaborative working as well as encouraging employees to take To avoid all forms of unlawful discrimination.
environment where all employees contribute professional Chartered Insurance Institute to, and participate in, the success of the The Company is fully committed to exams for their own development.
At the business in a culture which requires the the elimination of unlawful and unfair end of 2017 the Company implemented an Company and its employees to operate in an discrimination and values the differences e-training programme for all the Companys honest, professional and ethical manner with that a diverse workforce brings to our employees focusing on business needs a work ethic which recognises the importance organisation.
We encourage equality and including topics such as anti-bribery of a healthy work life balance.
We are proud diversity among our workforce, whilst and corruption, whistleblowing and to say that 79 out of our 159 employees have eliminating unlawful discrimination.
been with the Company for 10 or more years.
As a result of the Share Incentive Plan Communication is key to fostering this introduced at the time of the Listing all environment, with Geoff Carter, the CEO, employees as at 31 December 2017 were conducting employee briefing and Q&A shareholders and further details of this plan, sessions throughout the year and his direct the Save As You Earn and Long Term Incentive reports engaging with their teams on a regular Plans introduced for employees in 2018 can basis, including appraisals which take place be found in the Directors Remuneration twice a year.
During the course of 2018, Report set out on pages 46 to 61 of this the Company introduced an all-employee Annual Report.
survey which will become an annual exercise.
Employees were asked to complete in a questionnaire about their experience of working at Sabre.
The response rate was 57%, which we hope to increase in 2019.
Of those who responded, 94% felt that Sabre met the standards expected from an employer and over 88% would recommend Sabre as a place to work.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 31 The % of women working within Sabre: Some of the causes Sabre and its employees The footprint is calculated in accordance with have supported during 2018: the GHG Protocol and Carbon Trust CT As at 31 As at 31 guidance on calculating organisational December December Macmillan Cancer Support charity the 2018 2017 footprints.
Activity data has been converted Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning donation Number and % 2 7 2 7 into carbon emissions using published Save the Children charity of women on 29% 29% emissions factors.
the Board Christmas Jumper Day donation The footprint includes data for the Groups Number and % 1 5 0 Alzheimers Society charity of women on 20% 0% offices in Dorking where its employees are employee raffle donation the Executive located.
The footprint does not include Committee St Barnabas House charity outsourced activities, for example repair shops Number and % 3 7 1 5 employee raffle donation and third party suppliers.
As the Group does of women on the 43% 20% Other local charities employees and Leadership Team not own any vehicles and business travel corporate donations.
Number and % 8 21 6 18 through private vehicles is limited, the data of women in Senior 38% 33% is not available or accurate and accordingly The Group also supports local schools by Management roles transport emissions have been excluded report to the Executive providing work experience for students, with Committee from the reporting scope.
an induction to the Group and the opportunity Number and % 71 159 66 153 to work for each department and gain an All emission sources have been reported of women working 42% 45% understanding of the business to make it as at Sabre on as required under the Large and Medium valuable a learning experience as possible for Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and the students.
One of the results of the Companys focus Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
on its people is the high employee retention The reporting period is in line with the The environment and emissions rates that have been achieved.
As of Companys financial year, which is the Sabre recognises that its business has an 31 December 2018, 79 out of the total same as the calendar year.
impact on the environment, and further headcount of 159 employees have been recognises the importance of reducing that Whilst our insurance business is considered employed for over 10 years, and a further impact.
Sabre does this by following current to be an environmentally light services 30 employees have been with the Company best practice wherever possible regarding product the Company works to minimise for between five and 10 years.
As well as reducing the Companys impact on the environmental impact of its operations providing stability this results in the availability the environment.
where it can and has a number of measures on site of many years of industry experience in place or planned, including the following: The GHG emissions data for the Group and expertise to support colleagues and the for the period from 1 January 2018 to Heating and air conditioning timing performance of the business.
31 December 2018 is set out below.
management systems to reduce switch Communities on times The emissions data is measured in tonnes Employees are encouraged to support local Low energy monitors and other technology of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e charities, and do so through events throughout 2 and covers: Recycling bins the year, with employee-run initiatives including bake sales and raffles.
During the Electric charging points for electric and i.
Scope 1 emissions being direct emissions year ended 31 December 2018 employees hybrid vehicles resulting from combustion of fuel and raised over 1,200 which was matched by operation of facilities: and During 2018 the Company removed all the Group.
In addition to matching employee plastic cups and cutlery from its kitchens.
Scope 2 emissions being indirect emissions donations, the Group supported local from purchased grid electricity and other charities and schools.
Total donations by energy for own use.
the Group during the financial year ending 31 December 2018 amounted, in aggregate, Tonnes of CO e 2018 2017 2 to 4,512 2017: 1,500.
Towards the end of Scope 1 0 0 2018, the employees launched Sabres Charity Scope 2 104 138 Employee Committee, which will increase the Total footprint Companys charitable activities and donations.
Scope 1 and Scope 2 104 138 Number of employees 159 151 tCO e per employee 0.7 0.9 2 Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 32 The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Board has worked hard to ensure application of all the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance code.
Patrick Snowball Chairman Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
