A Annual Repor nnual Report and A t and Accoun ccounts f ts for the y or the year ended 2018 ear ended 2018 St Stock code: SNN ock code: SNN sannegr sannegroup oup.. com com Corporate Social Responsibility Our communities We believe in helping and influencing the communities where weoperate.
In 2018, we continued to engage with the communities in jurisdictions in which we operate.
Our CSR strategy is orientated around three core themes: supporting initiatives that help to benefit and improve the livesof children: supporting initiatives that help in the fight against poverty: and supporting initiatives that give people a better education and start in life.
These themes were agreed by staff across the SANNE business following a dedicated staff survey.
Modern slavery SANNE is committed to preventing modern slavery and human trafficking.
We have an annual statement on our website at www.
com and we will review that approach annually and put in additional safeguards with our suppliers to reduce thisrisk.
Anti-bribery and corruption There is a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
SANNE has a Group Anti-Corruption Policy in place as part of ourcompliance programme.
Governance of corporate responsibility We remain committed to corporate responsibility at all levels inourbusiness.
As part of our business and our culture we consider our stakeholders, clients and the communities where we operate.
We consider that our strategy provides our people an opportunity to grow and develop their careers.
We are looking to build a sustainable long-term business.
Our people want to be engaged with their communities and for us to be a socially responsible business.
We are proud that our staff want to be involved in activities and to support our communities and have a positive impact on the environment.
As our stakeholders cover a wide range of interests and considering our social obligations, we are focusing on how we can progress and fulfil more of our environmental, social and governance responsibilities.
indd 41 08 04 2019 11:49:57 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility With each new office move, we have adopted a consistent Our colleagues share in our success approach to selecting the premises, which is based on the Sharing our success is something we value highly.
We have followingcriteria: implemented a number of specific initiatives that help to reward and recognise personal contribution and thereby deepen Location engagement with the Company and brand.
Being in the right location to service our clients in the country isessential.
We also carefully consider the locations accessibility by our clients, intermediaries and staff visiting Employee survey 2018 thatoffice from other locations.
In 2018, we engaged with an expert global survey provider, GLINT, to deliver our 2018 Employee Engagement Survey to our people Open plan space around the world.
We selected GLINT to conduct this survey due Having an open space, which is adaptable to suit our corporate to their extensive experience in dealing with global businesses style, is an essential part of our culture.
It allows our people to who have a large number of office locations and cultures.
management team wanted to provide everyone at SANNE with Natural light an opportunity to provide their thoughts and feedback on a wide Giving our people a modern office building, which often is range of important issues in a controlled and secure way.
All shrouded in glass, provides our teams with natural sunlight feedback from staff was kept anonymous and confidential.
More something that increases productivity amongst other things.
than 70% of staff engaged in this feedback process and as a result a series of initiatives are now being discussed within the business Building design in order to evolve our working environment and continue to make Buildings that are designed with energy efficiency in mind SANNE a great business to work for.
and deliver good lighting levels and consistent temperature control LED Lighting, BREEAM OR LEEAD - heating and New offices Airconditioning, materials & equipment used are better fortheenvironment.
Throughout 2018 SANNE has continued to invest into its office network.
During the period, SANNE moved into new offices in: Staff rest break-out area Enabling staff to take time-out away from their desk is another Jersey Amsterdam core criterion.
This is part of our modern working culture.
Malta Luxembourg Protecting our environment Singapore Japan We have implemented the following initiatives to protect and Cape Town Guernsey respect our environment: Belgrade phasing out bottled water in all offices globally and installing bean-to-cup and fresh milk coffees machines Moved into our new offices where our existing LIS-SANNE business is located inLuxembourg in February 2019 PIR lighting and use of LED lights in all offices across the Moved into our new Tokyo and Guernsey offices in March 2019 network: recycling points in all offices, for example plastics and paper etc.
: and procurement of new furniture to be environmentally friendly, meeting criteria around production and transportation.
indd 42 08 04 2019 11:49:58 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 A Annual Repor nnual Report and A t and Accoun ccounts f ts for the y or the year ended 2018 ear ended 2018 St Stock code: SNN ock code: SNN sannegr sannegroup oup.. com com Charitable engagement Throughout 2018, SANNEs people have actively engaged in their local communities.
Examples of initiatives undertaken in the year include the following: Location Initiative Mauritius SANNE in Mauritius launched SanRise, a learning centre for sustainable leadership in Mauritius.
The centre is to empower woman and youth in the Beau-Bassin community with encouragement, education and life skills training.
Together with local NGOs, trainers and policy makers are working to leverage the centre to facilitate workshops and training programmes that are aligned to the communitys needs.
Mauritius SANNE Companions, in our Mauritius business, surprised the children of Flamboyant Education Centre with an Easter egg hunt.
SANNE staff have continued to invest time and resources into helping 25 children, irrespective of race, gender, language, or religion in SANNEs own school.
The school also hosts a state of the art multi-purpose training centre which will be used for facilitating empowerment, entrepreneurship and skills development programmes for the families of the children at Centre dEveil and the wider Beau-Bassin community.
What SANNE has committed to provide to our local community in Mauritius: specialised education programmes tailored for children from underprivileged communities: counselling with the childrens parents and family members: daily healthy breakfasts and lunches: funding for extracurricular activities and school outings: and medical well-being checks.
Cape Town June charity drive to raise money for children with disabilities.
The Cape Town offices raised funds to buy diapers for the children at Nazareth House.
Cape Town Christmas charity drive to buy art supplies for the Red Cross Childrens Cardiac Hospital.
Luxembourg The team made 72 Christmas shoeboxes for children in need.
New York SANNEs New York office gave back to its community by holding a team-building event to provide personal care kits for victims of abuse, supported by New York based charity, Safe Horizon.
Jersey Staff in SANNEs Jersey office took part in a series of pub quizzes that raised money for the local charities Jersey Hospice and Jersey Cheshire Home.
Staff also took part in Jerseys annual swimarathon which raised in excess of 120,000 and helped five local charities: Brighter Futures: Caring Cooks: Jersey Centre for Separated Families: Silkworth Lodge: and MIND Jersey.
Jersey & As part of moving offices in a number of our jurisdiction we donated a number of office furniture items to Cape Town community led initiatives.
Examples include: In Jersey, we donated office desks, chairs and cabinets to Durrell the Jersey Zoo.
We also donated office furniture to new business start-ups on the island.
In Cape Town, we donated office furniture to community projects and initiatives.
indd 43 08 04 2019 11:49:59 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Governance Chairmans Introduction 46 Corporate Governance Report 48 Composition of the Board 49 SANNEs Executive Committee 52 Leadership 54 Board Effectiveness 56 Directors Report 60 Nomination and Governance Committee Report 64 Audit Committee Report 67 Risk Committee Report 74 Remuneration Committee Report 78 Annual Report on Remuneration 93 Directors Responsibility Statement 101 Independent Auditors Report 102 SANNE is very good.
They are client-led, professional and very client-centric.
Taken from our Client Survey 2018 44 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
indd 44 08 04 2019 11:49:59 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com 45 45 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
