Our impact on society Committed to building futureprosperity We recognise the responsibility we have to our key stakeholder groups, including society as a whole.
We believe that demanding high levels of corporate responsibility is the right thing to do for a principle-led business like Schroders.
We engage with our stakeholders on a range of environmental, social, governance, economic and ethical issues.
This forms the basis of our corporate responsibility strategy, which has continued to evolve throughout the year, reinforcing our commitment to act responsibly and contribute positively to society.
In 2018, our impact and commitment across a number of these areas Our suppliers has been demonstrated through work with our communities, our We rely on the use of external service providers to supplement our clients and the environment.
Following a review of the UNs 2030 own infrastructure.
This enables us to benefit from their expertise or Agenda in 2017, we are supportive of the aims of the 17 Sustainable specialist skills, as well as accessing lower costs for service delivery.
Development Goals, which represent a comprehensive agenda for We engage pro-actively with our external service providers and have addressing the worlds societal challenges.
a Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets out the high standards and Our communities behaviours that we expect from them.
This requires that the In 2018, we continued to focus on how our business can play a part in prohibition of forced labour and human trafficking, together with the ethical and responsible sourcing of goods or services, improving futures within the communities that we call home.
It is with this perspective on our activities that we renewed our focus on social areincorporated into their processes.
Our Audit and Risk Committee reviews our material supplier relationships annually to confirm that our approach remains We continued our partnerships with both the Social Mobility Foundation and disability charity my AFK, delivering two successful consistent and adds value to supplement our own infrastructure.
Futures Days and providing work placements across our business.
As signatories to the UKs Prompt Payment Code, we are committed These provided insight into the asset management industry and the to the principles regarding treatment of suppliers, which include world of work for high-achieving students from low income paying suppliers on time, providing clear guidance on terms with backgrounds and young adults with physical or learning disabilities.
our suppliers and encouraging our suppliers to adopt the code.
To complement our strong, long-term secondary school partnership Charitable giving with Mossbourne Community Academy, we joined forces with We are proud to support the communities in which we operate and Moreland Primary to extend our impact to younger pupils.
We also actively encourage our employees to do the same.
We have a long collaborated with educational charity, Guy Fox History Project Limited.
history of positively contributing to local communities through A number of Schroders employees volunteered to work with pupils at monetary donations and employee time.
In 2018, we donated Moreland Primary to create a childrens book on asset management.
2.1 million to charitable causes around the world 2017: 2.0 million, We also added a number of new partnerships and initiatives this year 447,000 of which was outside the UK 2017: 783,000.
Our charitable in support of this focus on improving futures.
This included an giving continues to focus on employee-led giving, supporting our initiative with Stemettes, a social enterprise that works to inspire and employees in charitable endeavours through a number of different support young women in Science, Technology, Engineering and matching schemes.
In the UK, 29% of our employees give through Maths careers.
As a founding member of the KickStart Money project, Give As You Earn 2017: 29%, which saw 670,000 donated by we continue to support financial education workshops delivered employees before the contributions were matched by Schroders.
across the UK and have recently partnered with TeachFirst, which will We received the Payroll Giving Quality Mark Diamond Award for the allow us to roll out a number of education-focused initiatives in 2019. scheme.
More than 307,000 was raised through our fundraising and time matching schemes.
In the US, we have been partners of READ Alliance, a charity which offers one-to-one reading to underprivileged children, for more than In addition to financial donations, we have provided gifts in kind, a decade.
organised frequent charitable collections and encouraged our employees to share their knowledge, skills and capabilities with Human rights charitable organisations through volunteering.
To support our Respect for human rights is fundamental to contributing properly to employees giving back to communities, we offer time matching for society and lies at the heart of the responsibility we have towards our volunteering hours completed outside of working hours, and up to stakeholders.
Our business model is designed to comply with applicable 15 hours of volunteering leave a year.
Last year, employees globally human rights legislation in the countries in which we operate.
We are strongly opposed to slavery and human trafficking in any form Our clients and we actively manage our supply chain to ensure that our zero Social and environmental change is happening faster than ever.
tolerance approach to human rights abuses is maintained and we Climate change, shifting demographics and the technology revolution have specific training for everybody involved in managing our are reshaping the world around us.
We believe that companies that suppliers.
While our business is undertaken predominantly in can adapt and thrive will be more successful in attracting customers, countries with a clear commitment in this area and the majority of our employees and growing their business.
suppliers are headquartered in low-risk countries, we have additional due diligence procedures in place where the risk is higher.
More As active managers of our clients money, we have a responsibility to information can be found in our Slavery and Human Trafficking identify and invest in those companies that have a sustainable future statement at schroders.
For fund managers navigating this backdrop, consistently delivering positive investment outcomes can be As a responsible investor we include human rights assessments in challenging.
A forward-looking, active investment approach is our evaluation of companies from a sustainability perspective.
This neededto understand the impact of these forces.
includes specific modern slavery assessments across our holdings in high-risk sectors.
36 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Charitable giving around the world UK 27 employees ran the London Marathon, raising more than 80,000 for various employeenominated charities Switzerland Partnered with the US Germany Special Olympics for Celebrated our 10- Volunteered with a charity more than 13 years, the Hong Kong year anniversary that provides clean water worlds largest sports supporting READ Alliance, and education to people organisation for children Hiked through Tai Lam a charity that offers in Ghana and adults with Country Park for Hike for one-to-one reading to intellectual disabilities Hospice, a local charity underprivileged children Bermuda supporting end-of-life patients Sponsored the Bermuda Amateur Singapore Swimming Association for the sixth year Joined forces with a local soup kitchen, running which aims to inspire and enable Willing Hearts, who deliver 5,000 meals daily the community to have access to aquatics to underprivileged people in Singapore This means understanding how a company interacts with society and In 2017, we were ranked as the top European Asset Manager for its environment, as well as analysing its profit lines.
We have a team Responsible Investment performance by ShareAction.
In 2018, we of investment professionals who apply experience and knowledge to received a UNPRI A ranking for our responsible investment principles.
specific situations and help to manage the risks.
We are a founding signatory of the Climate Action 100 initiative, a Our commitment to integrating ESG factors into our investment five-year collaborative engagement project to engage more than 100 process began in 1998.
We now have a team of 15 people working of the worlds largest corporate greenhouse gas emitters to improve with our investment teams across asset classes and geographies.
governance on climate change, curb emissions and strengthen ESG factors are integrated in our core investment processes and we climate-related financial disclosures.
are launching new funds designed to meet client demand for a more As well as our quarterly and annual reports, we regularly publish sustainable investment approach.
thematic research and our monthly voting records at schroders.
Stewardship At Schroders, we believe that we are owners rather than renters of Climate change capital.
Effective and responsible active ownership has long been part We believe that climate change will be a defining driver of the global of our fundamental approach to investment.
economy, society and financial markets over the coming years, We recognise that companies play a critical role in shaping futures decades and beyond.
Whether the global economy is rebuilt on for societies and the environment.
It is essential to question and lesscarbon intensive foundations or the temperature continues challenge companies about issues that we perceive may affect their toescalate, investors will be unable to avoid its impacts.
As such, we actively exercise voting powers and engage with Addressing climate change will require co-operation across a wide companies on issues such as strategy, risk, performance range of stakeholder groups, including clients, companies and and governance.
Through our engagement, we can improve our understanding of the We are committed to reporting in accordance with the Task Force issues companies face and influence their actions, helping to protect onClimate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD recommendations or enhance the value of our investments.
The overriding principle andhave also signed up to a Global Investor Statement on Climate governing our approach to voting is to act in the best interests of our Change.
The task force is committed to taking steps towards a low clients.
Where proposals are not consistent with the interests of our carbon and climate resilient investment approach.
clients, we are not afraid to vote against resolutions.
In 2018, we had more than 200 company engagements focused In 2018, we carried out more than 2,200 ESG engagements across onclimate change covering topics such as carbon emissions, carbon more than 50 countries.
We have addressed a wide range of issues reduction targets, physical risks and analysis and disclosure in line ranging from climate change to human capital management and with TCFD recommendations.
We also voted on 37 climate-related shareholder rights.
We voted at more than 5,200 company shareholder resolutions.
Our latest climate change research and AGMs around the world and instructed a vote against at least insights can be found at schroders.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Our impact on society continued The environment district heating connection We aim to minimise the impact that our own business has on the grey water capture for reuse in WCs environment.
We constantly review opportunities to minimise the kitchen cool room heat recovery to aid hot water production environmental impact of our operations and to deliver continuous improvements in our environmental performance.
Our relationships with regulators As a global business, we aim to build positive relationships with our Since 2015, we have established minimum targets for sourcing regulators around the world.
Regulators provide important oversight ourglobal electricity supply from renewable sources, targeting 60%.
of how we run our business.
Our clients interests are best served In 2018, we signed up to the Climate Group and Carbon Disclosure when we work constructively with our regulators.
Project CDP s RE100 initiative, which brings together more than 100businesses globally.
As part of this commitment, we are aiming We regularly engage with regulators and policymakers to ensure that toincrease our use of renewable energy to 75% by 2020 and 100% our business understands and contributes to evolving regulatory by2025.
By the end of 2018, we had reached a total of 65% of our requirements.
Senior management hold regular meetings with energy being supplied from renewable sources globally and we regulators to foster healthy working relationships.
anticipate our membership of RE100 will help us towards our final goal.
We also report regularly to the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee on engagement with regulators, and how changes in We continue to participate in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and regulatory regimes may impact our business processes and the CDP climate change program and have demonstrated a continual procedures.
In 2018, these reports included the implementation reduction of our electricity consumption, achieving the Carbon Saver of GDPR, MiFID II, PRIIPs and the impact of Brexit.
Gold standard for the past 11 years.
Our approach to tax We use DEFRAs conversion factors to calculate our CO e emissions for 2 We aim to comply with both the spirit and letter of the law and are all consumption apart from overseas electricity, for which we use the committed to conducting our tax affairs in an open and transparent way.
International Energy Agencys conversion factors as recommended byDEFRA.
Our data has been verified and further information is This means that we comply with our tax filing, reporting and payment disclosed in our CDP submission.
Our total carbon output in 2018 has obligations globally.
We also seek to maintain good relationships with increased by 17%.
This was largely due to one-off activities relating to the tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
This may the move of our UK headquarters and should decrease in future take the form of discussing key developments in our business and the years.
For the last four years, we have used the internationally potential impact of those developments on the amount of tax we pay.
accepted GHG Protocol Corporate Standard for reporting.
From time to time, our views on the appropriate tax treatment in any In 2018, we moved to our new UK headquarters at 1 London Wall given situation may differ from those of the tax authorities.
This move has allowed us to co-locate the majority of our this occurs, we work constructively and pro-actively to achieve an London-based employees under one roof.
The office provided the early resolution.
We comply with the UKs Code of Practice on opportunity to introduce a number of significant sustainable Taxation for Banks and are treated as low risk by HM Revenue initiatives, including: & Customs.
environmental controls to give the highest level of comfort We believe it is important that businesses behave responsibly and occupancy and daylight sensing lighting build trust within society regarding their role and contribution on tax.
With this in mind, we support initiatives to improve international removal of single use plastic from catering services transparency on taxation matters, including the Organisation for reduction in print wastage through follow me print services Economic Co-operation and Development measures on  of electronic tools that reduce paper storage country reporting and automatic exchange of information.
requirements urban biodiversity that attracts bees, butterflies, other insects and birds Total CO e emissions tonnes CO e emissions per employee tonnes 2 2 CO e emissions per employee tonnes CO e emissions per employee tonnes 18,258 2 3.7 2 2015 2015 539 6,495 12,798 19,833 5.5 2016 2016 688 5,625 10,898 17,211 4.4 2017 638 4,702 10,215 15,555 2017 3.4 2018 621 5,092 12,545 18,258 2018 3.7 Scope 1: Natural gas, oil and company own vehicles Scope 2: Electricity Scope 3: Business travel 38 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Our tax strategy, available at schroders.
com taxstrategy, sets out our approach to tax matters across the Group more generally.
This strategy Corporate awards is reviewed and approved annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
Taxes borne Taxes borne include corporate income tax on the profits arising in each country, indirect taxes such as value added tax on our expenses and payroll taxes on our employees remuneration.
The total tax borne by the Group in 2018 was 253.1 million Armed Forces European Option Finance 2017: 250.4 million.
Covenant Fund Trophy Most Dynamic Foreign Silver Award Best Asset Asset Manager of Taxes collected Management Firm the Year Companies also have an important role in collecting and administering taxes on behalf of governments, where the cost of tax is borne by others.
This includes income tax and social security payments deducted from our employees remuneration and indirect taxes charged to our clients.
These are taxes paid in addition to the Investment Europe Fitch Ratings Pensions taxes we incur as a business, which are referred to above.
Fund Manager of Investment & Investments the Year Management Quality Best places to work The total tax collected in 2018 was 223.0 million Rating: Excellent 2018 North America 2017: 238.4 million.
The combined taxes borne by us as a business and the amounts collected by us on behalf of tax authorities in 2018 were 476.1 million 2017: 488.8 million.
Further information on taxes borne and collected can be found at schroders.
Memberships working families Business Disability Forum OUTstanding Cityparents City Mental We are a member of We are a member of The We are a member of We are a member of Health Alliance working families, the Disability Forum OUTstanding, the Cityparents a network for We are a member of the UKs leading work-life professional network for city professionals who have City Mental Health balance organisation LGBT executives and shared interest in balancing Alliance CMHA.
future leaders and home family life with a their allies progressive career Business in the Community Heart of the City London Carbon Disclosure Project Armed Forces Covenant Member of the Prince of Wales We are a member of the Benchmarking Group We participate in the Signatory of the promise Responsible Business Network, Heart of the Citys Carbon Disclosure Project that those who serve or We are a member a unique group of leading alumni programme CDP climate have served, and their of the London companies committed to change programme families, are treated fairly Benchmarking Group acting responsibly London Womens Forum Stonewall Diversity Project The Lord Mayors Appeal CAF We are members and one We are members of We are members of the We are a founding patron of We received the Payroll of our employees is on the Stonewalls Diversity Investment Associations the Lord Mayors Appeal Giving Quality Mark board for the London Champions programme Diversity Project Diamond Award Womens Forum Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 39
