The right culture to deliver for our people Providing opportunities for our people to reach their full potential because making waves can be better than riding them 30 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Creating a place people want to work Providing a positive, open and collaborative working environment for our people is a key part of the value that we deliver to this important stakeholder group.
We engage with our people to provide rewarding work and support development opportunities to ensure they have the chance to fulfil their potential.
This means that we are well placed to support the business and deliver for other stakeholders.
Through our 2018 employee We foster an opinion survey, 92% of our people environment of are proud to be associated with innovation, success Schroders and 86% would and teamwork.
recommend Schroders as a We strive for goodplace to work.
Excellence Being good at what we do is a powerfulway to create value for our clients and secure a long-term future forour business.
Our people around the world We work with Innovation We challenge how things are done andanticipate future opportunities.
Teamwork Delivering value for our clients takes collaboration and a healthy respect for individual skills.
We have Passion We are realistic about what we can achieve, but we are ambitious too and approach everything we do with energy and drive.
Integrity Openness and responsibility fuel our UK 52% long-term client relationships and Asia Pacic 21% consistently delivering on our promises Europe, Middle East and Africa 19% sets us apart.
Americas 8% Our ongoing success is driven by our people.
We foster a culture of collaboration and inclusion, supporting a talented and diverse workforce.
We aim to be the most attractive place to work in our industry.
To do this we provide an inspiring and meritocratic working environment, and prioritise our employees health and wellbeing, offering a broad range of benefits.
We believe job satisfaction goes beyond the day job and encourage our people to support the causes and activities that are important to them.
How we engage The value we create We engage with employees across a variety of channels, Our people strategy is aimed at developing an agile including a UK employee forum, an annual employee workforce as we continue to attract, retain, develop and opinion survey, management briefings, videos, an motivate the right people for our business.
Our approach internal magazine and a social intranet.
Ian King is the is defined in our guiding principles document, which designated non-executive Director responsible for outlines our values.
gathering employee feedback and will attend global employee forum meetings to hear directly from employees on the issues that concern them.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31
