Our people An employer of choice Our people strategy is aimed at making Schroders the best employer in the asset management sector by providing our people with a collaborative and innovative working environment.
We are developing an agile workforce as we continue to attract, retain, develop and motivate the right people for our current and future business needs.
To ensureour people have the best environment to work in, we foster an inclusive culture thatcelebrates diversity.
Our approach to business is enshrined in our guiding principles, In line with our equal opportunities policy, we give fair consideration which we share with our employees and people looking to join our to all employment applications, including from disabled people, business, and includes our values of excellence, innovation, considering particular aptitudes and abilities.
If employees become teamwork, passion and integrity.
Our values are a key part of our disabled, employment continues wherever possible, with retraining culture, defining the high standards of behaviour that we expect from given if necessary.
For the purposes of training, career development our people.
We recruit people who embody these values and assess and progression, all employees are treated equally as part of our the performance of our people against them, celebrating those who commitment to making Schroders an inclusive place to work.
More are role models for the behaviours that we encourage.
onour approach to diversity and inclusion can be found at schroders.
Diversity of thought We are proud to have been an accredited London Living Wage We are committed to fostering an inclusive culture of diversity employer for many years.
All of our London-based employees and acrossour global workforce.
This is led by our Group Chief Executive.
contractors are paid above the London Living Wage.
Talented people who can understand and embrace different perspectives are crucial to our continued success.
This means Gender diversity at 31 December 2018 attracting, retaining and developing a diverse team regardless of vs. 31 December 2017 age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, religious beliefs or other characteristics.
We are proud to have been part of the Female Male inaugural Bloomberg 2019 Equality Index in January 2019, which recognises usas a leader in advancing gender equality globally.
Directors of Schroders plc 2018 2017 As we look to foster an inclusive culture and expand our diverse talent 3 8 pool, we have taken a number of key measures, including: 3 8 Publishing our gender pay gap over the past three years, bothinthe UK and on a global basis Ensuring that our entry level assessment centres are 1 Senior managers gender-balanced 2018 2017 263 549 Providing training to managers on diversity issues and 238 580 unconsciousbias Providing internal and external mentoring programmes toencourage diversity Introducing talent programmes to accelerate the development 2 offuture female leaders Subsidiary directors 2018 2017 Offering maternity and paternity coaching, shared parental 30 84 leaveand flexible working policies to help support employees 9 37 withchildren We have 12 employee resource groups that thrive across our business including gender equality, sexual orientation, disability, mental health and multi-cultural groups.
They are a key feature Total senior management ofouridentity as an inclusive place to work.
2018 2017 293 633 We are committed to providing equal employment opportunities and 247 617 combating discrimination.
Where possible, we monitor the ethnicity, age and gender composition of our workforce and those applying for jobs.
We were among the first signatories to the 2016 Women in Finance All employees Charter.
We achieved our initial target of 30% women within senior 2018 2017 2,034 3,005 management during the first quarter of 2017 and are now targeting 1,876 2,743 33% by the end of 2019.
At the end of 2018, we had reached 32%.
More information on female representation and our gender pay gapcan be found on page 78.
Senior managers excludes the executive Directors of Schroders plc and includes some individuals who are also subsidiary directors.
Subsidiary directors comprises directors of subsidiaries who are not classified above as senior managers or Directors of Schroders plc.
32 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Employee wellbeing Retaining our talented people We have a multi-generational workforce and it is vital that our people We have a highly engaged, experienced and stable workforce, with are provided with the support and opportunities they need to 41% of employees having been with the firm for six years or more.
optimise their health and wellbeing.
We focus on retaining our most talented employees and our retention of high-performing As well as being members of several thought leadership networks, we employees remains high, at 94% 2017: 94%.
provide a comprehensive calendar of wellbeing events for our people across five key areas: mind, workplace, body, financial and work-life As part of our focus on developing talent, 27% of open roles across balance.
There is also extensive resilience and mental health training the business globally were filled internally, an increase on previous embedded within our learning and development programmes.
This helps us to provide our employees with the opportunities and experience they need to achieve their full potential.
Engaged and highly motivated employees In 2018, we launched Spark a dedicated global learning We listen to our employees and carry out an annual firm-wide management platform offering an extensive range of digital learning employee opinion survey.
The results demonstrate that our content.
This was a significant investment in developing the employees are engaged with their roles, understand our values and knowledge, skills and capabilities of our people to keep up with a believe that we behave responsibly towards our clients.
Spark provides our people with a one-stop-shop for We recognise that good communication is key to delivering high hours of just in time structured learning.
It includes a broad range of levels of engagement and ensuring that our people understand the learning preferences to cater to all learning styles and an instantly role they play in delivering our strategic goals is a focus of our regular accessible and consistent learning experience for everyone.
We communicate regularly through a As part of the Investment 2020 and apprenticeship programmes, variety of channels, including management briefings, videos, an Schroders provides opportunities for school leavers and graduates internal magazine and a social intranet.
Annual Inside Schroders Live across the business, with a particular focus on social mobility.
A little employee meetings are held with the Group Chief Executive to discuss less than half of our 2017 trainees progressed on to other roles in the progress made by the business and future objectives and Schroders after their traineeship and the majority of those that did challenges.
Similar events are held across our offices globally.
not stay with the business took up places at university.
Employee opinion survey 2018 Competitive remuneration that reflects the performance of each employee and of the firm is important in retaining our people.
Ourapproach is explained in the Remuneration report on pages 68to 90.
Employee length of service 92% 86% Employees are Employees would proud to be recommend associated with Schroders as a good Schroders place to work High ethical standards We promote high ethical standards and have a strong culture of doing the right thing for our clients, our employees, our shareholders and other stakeholders.
We have a whistleblowing policy, under which employees can raise concerns.
A widely publicised 24-hour hotline is available for employees to report concerns anonymously.
4 years 46% 4 years to 6 years 13% Personal securities trading by employees is subject to clearly defined 6 years to 10 years 18% internal policies.
10 years 23% Employees are not permitted to solicit or accept any gifts, entertainment or inducements that are likely to conflict with their duties.
We have policies in place and train employees on identifying potential tax evasion, anti-money laundering, awareness of terrorist financing, anti-bribery, market integrity and data protection.
Due diligence is undertaken before entering any material new client relationship and this is enhanced for higher-risk countries, entities or individuals.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33
