40 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OVERVIEW WHAT TO EXPECT IN 2019 ur Responsible SEGRO framework is focused on four key areas: our people, We have the following objectives for 2019: Oour communities, our environment Our People: We will analyse the results of and our stakeholders.
The framework enables our 2018 All Employee Survey and continue us to take a holistic approach to sustainability, to improve our working practices to ensure which reflects our Purpose to create the space that we sustain our top quartile employee that enables extraordinary things to happen.
In 2018, we developed our new environmental Our Community: We will continue to strategy, which has been designed to focus provide support to our local communities on areas that we believe are material to our through the SEGRO Community Fund.
business and, therefore, that we are most able to influence.
We expect this to drive Our Environment: We will fully embed continuous improvement in our sustainable our new environmental strategy across practices and consequently to remain a market the business and continue to make leader in this area.
improvements in all areas of sustainability.
Our Stakeholders: we will continue to OUR PEOPLE drive forward our Customer Programme We employ just over 300 people across nine and seek to maintain our high customer countries to manage, create and maintain satisfaction results.
our 11 billion of assets and to provide vital Sustainability is embedded central support for the Company.
Our people are therefore critical to our success and we are within SEGROs corporate committed to making working at SEGRO an strategy.
Our commitment enjoyable and rewarding experience.
to achieving our goal OUR COMMUNITY in the most sustainable SEGRO continues to make substantial CODE OF ETHICS investments into the communities in which way possible influences we operate working with local businesses, At SEGRO, we conduct our business to the everything we do.
residents, charities, councils and municipalities.
The space we own is often close to residential DAVID SLEATH CHIEF EXECUTIVE Our Code of Ethics outlines the standards areas and we focus much of our attention that govern our decisions and behaviour on providing employment opportunities to within SEGRO.
It is aligned with our people in these areas.
Purpose and Values, as well as applicable laws and regulations.
OUR ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE SEGRO The Code incorporates policies on bribery, In 2018, we launched our new environmental SEGROs Purpose is to create the corruption and fraud, gifts and hospitality, strategy which aligns our sustainability targets space that enables extraordinary things insider trading, tax evasion, confidentiality, more closely to what we want to achieve to happen and we are committed to conflicts of interest, relationships with as a business.
The updated targets are achieving this in the most sustainable stakeholders, political and charitable challenging but achievable and will ensure way possible.
donations, raising serious concerns, that sustainability remains at the heart of As an owner-manager and developer of modern slavery and human trafficking.
how we approach asset management and buildings, we understand our impact on development well into the future.
Compliance with the Code is a condition society is wider than purely physical real of each employees terms of employment estate.
Our Responsible SEGRO model OUR STAKEHOLDERS and helps ensure that our employees helps guide our business decisions as well always act in the Companys best interests.
We prioritise building and maintaining strong as providing a framework for how we All employees receive information and relationships with our customers, suppliers and report on sustainability.
on-line training on SEGROs Code of investors, always keeping in mind the impact The model helps reflect our committed Ethics when joining the Company and of our strategic decisions on these important approach to our people, communities, are required to certify annually that they stakeholder groups.
We take continue to understand and adhere to it.
We recognise the importance of mutual time to fully understand the implications Any breaches of the Code are fully respect and trust within our stakeholder of our decisions and always aim to exceed investigated by the General Counsel or relationships in order to be able to guarantee expectations of those with whom we work.
41 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CULTURE JOBS AND SKILLS TALENT AND DIVERSITY COMMUNITY INVESTMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY GIVING CUSTOMERS ENERGY SUPPLIERS RESOURCES INVESTORS MATERIALS 42 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OUR PEOPLE GENDER DIVERSITY EMPLOYEES SERVING 1,155 CUSTOMERS 1 1 315 2017: 300 2 2 STAFF TURNOVER IN 2018 9% BOARD LEADERSHIP TEAM 2017: 9% 1.
Male 10 67% DELIVERED IN 2018 Total 100% Total 100% 3,708 2017: 3,353 1 1 2 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORE We want SEGRO to be 2 a place where everyone 92% 2016: 90% can be free to be WORKFORCE WORKFORCE COMPOSITION themselves by creating 1.
Full-time 293 93% Board figures include Mary Barnard who 2.
Part-time 22 7% aworking environment will be appointed an independent NonTotal 100% Total 100% Executive Director from 1 March 2019. which isinclusive, free e are committed to making SEGRO them individually, as well as what is happening from bias and has equal a great place to work and we invest around the business and how this might opportunities for all.
Wsignificant time and resources affect the Companys performance.
We hold engaging with our employees across all of quarterly webcasts to provide business LIZ REILLY GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR our geographies.
updates from the Executive Directors, as well as employee briefings across our Business CULTURE Units.
Last year we launched a new interactive OUR PURPOSE: intranet called The Box which is helping SEGROs culture is unique because we believe employees interact and share knowledge that it is not what we say we want our culture WE CREATE THE SPACE THAT through personal blogs and dedicated articles.
to be but what we do to bring our culture ENABLES EXTRAORDINARY to life, day in and day out.
Our uniqueness is Our employees strong engagement with our THINGS TO HAPPEN reflected in our Values, which were co-created business strategy and culture was reflected in with our employees, making them an integral our 2018 All Employee Survey which reported part of working at SEGRO.
that 98 per cent of employees believe OUR VALUES: that SEGROs strategy is likely to succeed.
As an example of bringing our Values to life, Having achieved a 91 per cent response rate SAY IT LIKE IT IS we invited all employees to stand side by for the survey, our Group wide engagement side at our End of Year Review in the UK in score of 92 per cent has ensured that we December 2018 to reflect on our successes STAND SIDE BY SIDE remain at the very top end of our benchmark.
from the year and think about the challenges and opportunities ahead of us.
At the Review, TALENT AND DIVERSITY we welcomed over 50 new employees, KEEP ONE EYE ON THE HORIZON We believe that people are at their happiest including those who joined us as part of the and most motivated when they can bring their acquisition of the Roxhill Management platform IF THE DOOR IS CLOSED whole selves to work.
We want SEGRO to be in November 2018. a place where everyone can feel free to be Our approach to internal communication and themselves by creating a working environment DOES IT MAKE THE BOAT GO FASTER?
engagement ensures that our employees are which is inclusive, free from bias and has equal kept up to date about information relating to opportunities for all.
43 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HEALTH AND SAFETY We have robust policies in place with regard In 2018, our Chief Executive and Group to equal opportunities which assist us in Human Resources Director hosted a webinar Health and safety remains central to the achieving our objectives.
We are committed for all employees across the business to share execution of SEGROs business strategy.
to ensuring that we offer equal opportunities the diversity and inclusion actions that were We take our responsibilities in this area very to people with disabilities and if an employee discussed with the Board.
The webinar was well seriously and are committed to the continued becomes disabled while in our employment, attended with employees contributing thought improvement of our strong health and safety we will offer appropriate support, retraining provoking questions and ideas for the future.
We seek to embed health and safety and facilities to enable them to continue in within our culture, as well as influencing We have publicly committed to increasing their role.
Our Diversity and Inclusion Policy is our supply chain.
This is achieved through diversity both within the sector and in our own published on our website www.
com managing risks by prevention, tighter controls, business through our support of three sectorcsr policies.
wide initiatives: Pathways toProperty, Real Every employee receives diversity training Estate Balance and the 30%Club: In 2018, we were awarded a second RoSPA as part of our induction process and in Gold Medal for achieving six consecutive we are Gold Level sponsors of Pathways our 2018 employee survey, 93 per cent of Gold Awards.
The award recognised our to Property and offer work experience to employees said that SEGRO respected their Group commitment and practical application individuals who would not otherwise have individual difference of race, disability, sexual of health and safety procedures across all of access to property as a career: orientation, gender, etc.. Our 2018 employee our business operations.
survey had additional questions to encourage our Chief Executive has signed up to the SEGRO continues to improve health and employees to give us their thoughts on how to Real Estate Balance CEO Commitments for safety standards on our construction sites make SEGRO a truly inclusive employer.
org by working closely with our contractors and .
html : and SEGRO believes in treating all employees health and safety consultants to increase equally, including in respect of pay.
he has also pledged our support to the 30% understanding and implementation of During 2018 we commissioned an Club which aims to increase the number SEGROs requirements.
independent audit by remuneration of women on boards and leadership teams Our Accident Frequency Rate for employees consultants who confirmed that any significant to a minimum of 30 per cent by 2020 in 2018 remained at zero.
The total number of differences in levels of pay between men and https: www.
health and safety incidents in 2018 remained women in our UK organisation were being Our approach to developing talent continues on par with 2017 rates.
All serious incidents driven by the make-up of our workforce, to be pragmatic we want everyone to be are thoroughly investigated, with improvement where we currently employ more men in able to maximise their potential during their plans being implemented where required.
senior roles than women, and not by paying time with SEGRO supported by meaningful men and women differently for doing the Our Group Health and Safety policy and more and stretching work experiences and through same or similar roles.
details on our initiatives in this area are on our formal training and coaching.
SEGROs median pay gap is 49.5 per cent, Our employee turnover, at a Group wide level, lower than 2017s median pay gap of 54 remained at the same level during 2018 but per cent.
This calculation represents the continues to be an area that we monitor closely average pay of all men compared to the given how valuable knowledge and expertise is average pay of all women we employ in within small, geographically spread teams.
We have disclosed this number as we believe it is important to be transparent, SAFETY ON OUR ASSETS despite not being obliged to do so because we In 2017 and 2018, SEGRO undertook a comprehensive employ significantly fewer than 250 people review of all estates across the Groups portfolio to in the UK, which can create distortion in the assess the potential pedestrian and traffic movement analysis.
The relatively high figure reflects this risk.
The estates that were considered high risk, distortion and the current make-up of our were independently assessed by traffic management workforce as described above.
experts and any recommendations have, or are being, actioned appropriately.
The work that has already SEGRO is dedicated to increasing diversity been completed has helped both our property in the business through a combination of teams tomanage the sites more effectively and our actions aimed at raising conscious awareness customers in the way they manage their yards and Due to the size and geographical coverage of our of diversity issues amongst our employees.
estates, this review will continue through 2019.
Our successes this year, for example, the We will monitor the measurements that have The review has reinforced the importance of sharing reduction in our gender pay gap, have been implemented to ensure that adequate traffic information with our customers so that we fully largely been achieved through recruitment management and safety of pedestrians remains a understand the work activities being undertaken on and training interventions and our talent priority.
All new developments will also consider the our sites.
Through this collaboration, we have been importance for spatial awareness and segregation review process.
able to provide support to assist in reducing risks, so of pedestrian and traffic movements to ensure safe far as is reasonably practicable, that could arise in a circulation on each new site.
44 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OUR COMMUNITY SEGRO PARK NEWHAM AND LONDON EGRO is committed to supporting BOROUGH OF NEWHAM the communities in which we operate Sthrough a range of measures including Through our East Plus partnership with the financial donations, volunteering, training and Greater London Authority, SEGRO is working employment programmes.
to attract new investment and create jobs in East London.
At our SEGRO Park Newham By working with local partners we are able to site we are constructing a Travelodge hotel provide a range of benefits to residents and and a distribution facility for DHL, which local businesses ensuring that our impact goes will generate and safeguard up to 250 jobs.
beyond the development and ownership of SEGRO continues to work closely with the modern warehouse and industrial space.
London Borough of Newham to help local We believe that active and regular people benefit from our regeneration plans engagement helps us to understand better through a dedicated training and employment the needs of each community we work with job brokerage service, whilst enabling our and enables us to deliver better long-term contractors and future customers to secure a economic and social benefits.
JOBS AND SKILLS COMMUNITY INVESTMENT: WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP In partnership with our contractors and customers, SEGRO aims to invest in areas in Our commitment to regeneration shapes our which we operate through the provision of We are committed to business decisions.
We aim to enhance the education, training and employment.
communities in which we operate through enhancing and improving the provision of in-kind and financial support We create training and job opportunities the local areas in which to local charities and social enterprises.
during the construction stage of our These grass-roots community groups have developments and are increasingly working we operate.
the knowledge and expertise to help local with our customers to encourage local NEIL IMPIAZZI vulnerable people develop the confidence and recruitment to create a wide range of PARTNERSHIP DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR skills they need to progress into employment, sustainable employment outcomes.
SEGRO LOGISTICS PARK AULNAY SEGRO COMMUNITY AWARD The site at SEGRO Logistics Park Aulnay was A new SEGRO Community Award was formerly a large plant for Peugeot-Citron created in 2017 to fund innovative projects employing more than 6,000 people.
When it that benefit the community in Slough.
closed, much of the sites production was The 2,000 award this year was given to moved to other geographies.
The Real Experience, a social enterprise in TOTAL CONTRIBUTION TO CHARITY Having acquired 18 hectares of the brownfield Slough dedicated to supporting long term IN 2018 land in 2015, SEGRO worked with local unemployed people back into work or helping authorities to develop logistics opportunities to them to establish a business of their own, by help bring employment back to the area.
791,941 training members of the Slough community to gain barista and catering qualifications.
Since the Peugeot-Citron closure, the 2017: 1,117,760 number of employees per hectare has SEGRO COMMUNITY FUND tripled compared to when the plant was at TOTAL EMPLOYEE DAYS DONATED full capacity.
TO CHARITY IN 2018 Since 2015, SEGRO has contributed over 340,000 to grass-roots community SEGRO PARK RAINHAM groups and charities through the SEGRO 357 Community Fund.
The fund provides training SEGRO worked with Havering Council, 2017: 283 and volunteering opportunities to the local Havering College and Havering Job Centre Plus community, helping people into employment to create Havering Works, a dedicated skills, or education.
The service NUMBER OF PEOPLE BENEFITING FROM is available to all 300 businesses in the London THE SEGRO COMMUNITY FUND Following the success of the fund in London, Riverside Business Improvement District to SEGRO increased its contribution to include help people in the local community access a its portfolio in the Thames Valley to help local 1,105 wider range of job opportunities.
In its first year charities in the Slough, Reading and Bracknell of operation, Havering Works has helped 40 2017: 1,797 areas.
The total donated in the Thames Valley unemployed people back into work.
45 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2018 SEGRO contributed 115,000 Other charitable achievements during 2018 In 2018, we supported Die Arche summer to 24 local charities.
To date, the SEGRO include the following: event which gave children and their parents Community Fund has celebrated a number of a fun-filled afternoon.
The SEGRO team achievements as detailed in the graphic below.
In the UK SEGRO continued to support also invited 30 children from Die Arche the Outward Bound Trust through a to AirHop, a trampoline park in SEGRO GIVING partnership donation.
The donation allows CityPark, where the children enjoyed two up to 24 school children from deprived hours of jumping followed by a tour of the SEGRO takes a proactive approach towards areas of London to attend an outdoor park and refreshments.
giving and encourages all employees to activity event where they can experience participate in charitable events, providing In Central Europe, SEGRO was awarded a mountain climbing, hiking, rafting and their time and skills.
In 2018, SEGRO donated trophy and certificate for our long-term cocanoeing, whilst enhancing skills, such as 277,000 in the form of direct donations, and operation with The Iskierka Foundation, one confidence and teamwork.
the financial equivalent of 135,660 through of the charities that we work with in Poland employee volunteering and 379,281 through Also in the UK, SEGRO continued to play which supports children diagnosed with assistance in kind.
an active role in supporting LandAid, the cancer.
We have worked with The Iskierka property industry charity.
We donated Foundation for five years, helping them to In June 2018, 223 SEGRO colleagues 78 40,000 to Habitat for Humanity GB publish a recipe book in 2018 for parents per cent of employees from seven different Homes which is being used to refurbish a containing healthy meal recipes to support countries participated in our third Day of derelict residential property in East London their childrens immune systems.
Giving to help a number of local charities.
to provide a home for young people leaving Colleagues built, mended, painted, advised, In Southern Europe, a team of 12 SEGRO care.
Our employees also raised money for befriended, cooked, weeded and planted employees entered the annual Mud Day LandAid by participating in the Steptober during the course of the day.
challenge in Paris, raising 6,500 to support challenge and the annual sleepout.
more than 10 different charities including In Northern Europe, SEGRO has those supporting Parkinsons Disease continued to work with Die Arche, a and Autism.
charitable organisation supporting socially disadvantaged children in Dsseldorf.
COMMUNITY REGENERATION JOBS AND SKILLS COMMUNITY INVESTMENT GIVING Slough Aspire is a skills and training facility on the Slough A contribution of 115,000 to the SEGRO Community SEGRO proactively encourages all employees to participate Trading Estate dedicated to enabling the Slough community to Fund in 2018 has been used to provide education, training in charitable causes through time and skills.
In 2018, SEGRO develop employment skills relevant to local businesses.
Since its and employment opportunities to enhance employability of donated the equivalent of: launch in October 2013, the centre has: vulnerable, young, and homeless people.
Outcomes from the London Community Fund so far are as follows: Enabled 14,312 people to engage with business 1,105 people directly benefited 277,000 in the form of direct donations professionals to improve their awareness of potential 24 organisations funded 135,660 through employee volunteering career paths 797 people attended training 379, 281 from assistance in kind Facilitated 4,320 skills and employment interventions for residents to access training, qualifications and jobs 108 gained sustainable employment Supported the career progression of 2,217 business 93 people undertook work experience professionals via networking and training opportunities 8 people came off work related benefits Supported the creation of 40 new businesses 426 accessed support and advice services 71 accessed further education or training courses 46 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OUR ENVIRONMENT EGRO is committed to owning a high the successes that have been delivered under quality portfolio of modern warehouses our SEGRO 2020 programme.
Swhich deliver sustainable performance for our customers, year after year.
When SEGRO 2020 was launched in 2012, SEGRO had 142,000 sq m certified Our SEGRO 2020 strategy has ensured that to BREEAM, or equivalent.
As we move we have made great progress on building forward, we currently have over 1.8 million design, refurbishments, energy and water sq m of buildings certified, making up over efficiency, as well as increasing the amount of a quarter of our portfolio.
We have reduced our scope 1 and 2 carbon In order to ensure that our portfolio continues footprints from a combined 21,200 tonnes to meet the demands of our customers for of carbon dioxide a year to under 6,400 the long term, in 2018, we reviewed and tonnes a year.
enhanced our sustainability strategy to take usbeyond 2020.
In 2012 we had the capacity to generate 3.4 MWh of electricity through our solar The new Responsible SEGRO strategy will photovoltaic PV array, compared to focus on the three main areas of Energy, 18.1 MWh which was generated in 2018.
This strategy ensures we consider the longand short-term We expect to maintain this excellent progress implications of our portfolio.
under our new strategy which will take us to 2025 and beyond.
Whether it is enhanced As we move our sustainability strategy forward, it is important to celebrate some of biodiversity in Milan, flood resilience in the SEGRO 2020 PERFORMANCE VS 2012 BASELINE Reduce energy intensity for SEGRO responsible space by 40 per cent 79% East Midlands or carbon Reduce water intensity for SEGRO responsible space by 20 per cent 57% neutral buildings in Reuse or recycle 80 per cent of construction demolition waste 95% Tilburg, environmental Reuse or recycle 60 per cent of excavation waste 100% innovation is at the heart Install water efficient technology in all new buildings and qualifying major refurbishments 78% of our business.
100 per cent of qualifying buildings to be at least 40 per cent more efficient BEN BRAKES 100% than our 2009 baseline GROUP SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER 100 per cent of qualifying new developments by SEGRO over 10,000 sq m 100% to be BREEAM certified Very Good or equivalent FLOORSPACE ENVIRONMENTALLY CERTIFIED IN 2018 100 per cent of new buildings to be EPC B rated or better 100% 100 per cent of qualifying refurbishments to be EPC C rated or better 95% 453,000 sq m Increase renewable energy generating capacity across the Group 3 % 2017: 466,477 sq m Target met On target to meet SEGRO 2020 objectives REDUCTION IN ENERGY INTENSITY This figure states a decrease to reflect the significant sales of photovoltaic PV since 2017.
IN 2018 FROM BASELINE We remain committed to communicating our performance transparently and we adhere to theprinciples of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards.
79% We continue to perform strongly across the Environmental, Social and Governance indices: 2017: 64% In Carbon Disclosure Project CDP we maintained our Ascore for the third consecutive year.
In Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB we achieved a threestar rating.
ON-SITE RENEWABLE ENERGY CAPACITY We were awarded European Public Real Estate Association EPRA Gold for our reporting.
We continue to be a participant of FTSE4Good.
13.5 MW 2017: 13.9 MW 47 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NEW RESPONSIBLE SEGRO STRATEGY Our new strategy was developed in 2018 LEADING PROGRAMME following the results of our first materiality Clearly defining the key driver for CLIMATE CHANGE Technical Sustainability for SEGRO.
The assessment helped us identify areas that are material to the business, which have enabled us to ensure that our strategy ENERGY RESOURCES MATERIALS ABOVE THE LINE now focuses on areas that are within our Areas of significant risk, interest or ability to influence.
Individual programmes OWN ENERGY USE CONSTRUCTION EMBODIED CARBON WASTE defined by clear, specific targets ENERGY EFFICIENT SUSTAINABLE We believe that our new sustainability BUILDINGS EXCAVATION CERTIFICATION designedto offer a clear vision WASTE initiatives addvalue to the business and ofwhatisimportant to SEGRO.
are appropriate for both today and for the business in five to tenyears time.
BELOW THE LINE WATER USE WELL BEING Sustainability aspects considered important NEW RESPONSIBLE SEGRO TARGETS to the business but not covered by KPIs SUPPLY CHAIN CONTINUITY BIODIVERSITY as not identified as material issues.
These Energy: We will reduce SEGROs carbon topics are covered under business as footprint by 40 per cent by 2025 in line with usual but may become material under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
TRANSPORT & CONNECTIVITY CONTAMINATED LAND future materiality assessments.
We will do this through: Installation of proven energy efficient technologies across the existing estate and new build portfolio.
Procurement and generation of zero carbon, renewable energy across our portfolio.
Resources: We will reduce the amount of waste our business creates.
We will do this through: Sending zero waste to landfill for all new developments by 2025.
Promoting the re-use of materials at the buildings end of life.
Materials: We will deliver low impact buildings based on a 20 per cent reduction of embodied carbon by 2025.
We will do this through: Conducting a full life cycle assessment of all our new builds.
Challenging material choice and reducing embodied carbon by 20 per cent by 2025.
ENERGY USE Our carbon management strategy is crucial to We have also continued to invest in renewable and achieving our targets.
SEGRO is responsible for on-site generation within our estates and now have procuring over one MWh of energy a minute so electricity generating solar panels producing enough it is important that we choose the right tariff for energy to power around 3,000 homes.
In 2018, we moved our German tariffs onto certified green energy and we will continue to move other tariffs over when possible.
48 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OUR ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED THE MILAN EAST DC2 DEVELOPMENT, CASIRATE, MILAN The Milan East DC2 development in Casirate, Milan buildings life cycle.
As a result, energy and water controls has resulted in the development achieving is a 34,000 sq m fully fitted industrial warehouse consumption performance were vital in shaping the an A rated Energy Performance Certificate.
which was completed in November 2018.
High levels of air-tightness and Sustainability features are not just limited to the development is an excellent example of how every good thermal insulation were partnered with low building itself.
As the building was constructed on a element of our sustainability strategy has been energy lighting installed in the warehouse.
Water previously developed brownfield site, consideration incorporated into a single project.
efficient equipment was installed throughout all was given to how the project could enhance the area areas of the project reducing the average water The development was built using Building as a whole.
In nearby wooded areas, wild plants have consumption to 12 litres per person each day.
Leak Information Modelling BIM, meaning that a live 3D been protected as part of the landscaping strategy detection and controls were also installed to help plan was in place, enabling the project to be fluid at and, in partnership with a local mozzarella farm, the prevent water losses.
The detail in the BIM model enabled us to unused land surrounding the building is used for run a full life cycle assessment during the project to A complete Building Management System has been grazing buffalo.
identify carbon saving opportunities in operation and installed to control energy, heating and water for our Lastly, we assessed how the operation of the building to provide better knowledge of the carbon impacts of customer.
In addition, metering and sub-metering could impact the local area.
In order to encourage the materials and our supply chain.
High level results has been applied to all major energy and water sustainable choices in transportation to the site, we of the analysis can be seen in the charts below.
consuming areas, allowing our customer to identify developed bus bays, parking bays incorporating savings whilst the building is in operation.
Materials and components with Environmental charging facilities for electric vehicles and cycle Product Declarations were chosen across the build Finally, we installed a 702 kW rooftop solar storage facilities.
to reduce the embodied carbon of the development.
photovoltaic PV array which generates over By deploying this array of measures, SEGRO has Additionally, all timber used was sourced from 618,000 kWh of free electricity per year, meeting 26 ensured that not only have we limited our impact certified sustainable sources.
per cent of the buildings operational energy demand.
on the environment in development, we have Energy use in operation accounts for the vast This package of quality building fabric, on-site also enabled our customer to continue to do so in majority 85 per cent of carbon emissions over the generation, high efficiency lighting and excellent local operation of this building.
60-YEAR LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT MATERIAL USE BY MASS BY STRUCTURE 4 1 1 2 2 3 3 5 4 SECTOR 1.
Vertical structures and facade 10% and refurbishment 3.
Energy Use 85% beams, floors and roofs 4.
Other structures and materials 1% Total 100% 5.
External areas and site elements 36% Total 100% 49 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INNOVATION PARTNERSHIPS Working closely with our stakeholders provides opportunities for innovation.
In 2018, two refurbishment projects on the Slough Trading Estate trialled a new recycled paint produced in Slough.
The new paint, which uses 25 per cent content that has been recycled from unused paint, not only reduces our embodied carbon by coming from local sources, but also helps reduce the 500 million litres of paint disposed annually.
To close the life cycle loop the empty cans were returned to the supplier to be recycled.
BIODIVERSITY Wehope to make the use of this paint standard when it becomes commercially available in 2019.
Most of our estates have significant landscaping areas which provide opportunities to enhance local biodiversity.
We have introduced bees into many of our developments and we now have over 150 hives across our portfolio.
With each hive holding as MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS GHG REPORTING many as 50,000 bees during the peak harvesting GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS DATA IN TONNES CO2E season, and these bees visiting over two million plants within a two mile radius, the SEGRO 2017 2018 Emissions from: hives will assist pollination of plants and crops Scope 1 emissions combustion of fuels 1,978 1,591 across Europe.
Scope 2 emissions purchased energy location based 3,965 1,944 REPORTING METHODOLOGY Scope 2 emissions purchased energy market based 3,234 1,467 This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to report Gross CO2e footprint using location based 5,943 3,535 greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Section Chosen intensity Measurement 7 of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Emissions from like-for-like estate normalised to tonnes Report and Directors Report Regulations CO e sq m of responsible space 2,126 1,341 2 2013.
As well as fulfilling these mandatory Responsible floor area sq m L4L 194,107 194,107 Greenhouse Gas reporting requirements, Intensity Tonnes CO2 0.011 0.007 SEGRO is committed to EPRA Best Practice Recommendations for sustainability reporting.
Electricity emissions are calculated using location based method.
Emissions calculations are taken from GRI guidance used here We report our data using an operational for illustration purposes only.
control approach to define our organisational Where data exists, electricity emissions are calculated and reported using the location based method, using supplier specific emissions factors for comparison purposes.
boundary, as per the Greenhouse Gas SEGROs chosen intensity measure is a like for like comparison for sites in the portfolio with SEGRO responsible CO2 in both 2017 Protocol.
The market based methodology and 2018.
This comparison uses EPRA guidance on best practice for real estate companies.
has been applied to calculate the Scope 2 Selected information within the scope of limited assurance.
emissions, however supplier-specific emission factors have been collected for UK only.
Further improvements have also been made The table above provides information on For the non-UK portfolio, the IEA emission SEGROs greenhouse gas emissions for 2018, by the procurement of zero rated green tariffs factors have been applied.
We disclose in which we are pleased to report a reduction in Europe, where possible.
Scope 1 and 2 data for both our like-for-like and absolute in like-for-like Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions were also impacted by the weather in 2018. portfolios in this report and a detailed from 2017.
The colder winter contributed to a rise in gas description of our methodology and a full use across Europe.
For SEGRO controlled The reduction is concentrated in Scope2 disclosure of emissions factors used can assets, gas use is minimal so had a limited emissions, which is largely due to be found at www.
impact, however we did see an impact in gas improvements in our reporting methodology.
SEGROs chosen GHG intensity metric is consumption in our tenanted estate.
In particular, we have been able to accurately calculated using the Scope 1 and Scope 2 state more Scope 3 emissions due to sub We continue to roll out sub level metering emissions within a like-for-like sub-set of level metering installed in 2017.
This means across our estate and invest in energy SEGROs overall portfolio.
The like-for-like that we can use actual metered data rather efficiency upgrades whenever possible.
portfolio is defined as sites which have both than estimated data and, in 2018, the dataset These actions should make reporting more been in the portfolio for 2017 and 2018, and contains less than 10 per cent estimations.
accurate in 2019 and continue to see a have remained either fully occupied or fully reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
50 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OUR STAKEHOLDERS e work hard throughout the year In October 2018, we held our second bito understand the needs and annual Customer Futures Forum in Paris Wrequirements of our customers, where we invited a cross-section of customers suppliers and investors to ensure that the from different sectors of our portfolio to decisions we take are in both their interests discuss opportunities and challenges affecting and the interests of SEGROs future success.
A wide variety of topics were discussed, including automation, robotics Only through regular communication and and autonomous vehicles, with the attendees the pursuit of continuous improvement in our agreeing it was an enjoyable and beneficial engagement and service can we ensure that event.
The insight from the Forum will help us we have supportive stakeholders and partners to continue to choose the appropriate markets for the long term.
to best serve our customers in the long-term.
CUSTOMERS We have had continued success in the results of our Customer Satisfaction Survey in 2018, Our relationships with our customers are with some of the highlights being: imperative to our business success.
We aim to be more than just a landlord, working with A total of 305 surveys were completed them to understand the dynamics of their including 15of our Key Accounts, business to facilitate their growth aspirations.
equating to around a quarter of our We believe that this collaborative approach customer base.
is mutually beneficial and consistent with our Overall Occupier Satisfaction at Group We place great emphasis aim of exceeding our customers expectations.
level remains high with 80 per cent of on building strong Throughout 2018, we have increased our respondents rating SEGRO as good focus, investment and resource into our orexcellent.
relationships with all Customer Programme, as we aim to get Customer willingness to recommend groups who have closer to our customers.
The programme SEGRO was 93 per cent.
encompasses a range of initiatives for both a vested interest in existing and potential customers with whom 86 per cent of our Key Accounts rate we hope to work with in the future.
communication, the ease of working with SEGROs success.
SEGRO and satisfaction with the property ANDY GULLIFORD We continued to host a number of sector management team highly, demonstrating CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER specific customer workshops to improve the positive relationships they have with both their and our understanding of sectorNUMBER OF CUSTOMERS their key contacts.
wide business issues and trends likely to impact property decisions in the future.
1,155 These workshops were very well received and those attending provided positive feedback 2017: 1,080 about SEGROs initiatives.
OCCUPIER SATISFACTION IN OUR 2018 SURVEY 80% 2017: 87% SUPPLIER SPEND PER ANNUM over 600m 2017: Over 600m INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS MET BY SENIOR MANAGEMENT IN 2018 204 2017: 181 51 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLIERS INDUSTRY BODIES The Investor Relations team work closely with the Business Units and our Marketing and SEGRO spends over 600 million per annum SEGRO employees continue Communications team to ensure that existing and working with over 3,500 suppliers across the to represent the Company on potential investors are kept informed about our Group ranging from small local businesses to large key industry bodies, locally, business.
The teams success is evident in it being multinational companies.
nationally and internationally, awarded the Investor Relations Magazine Award for to support improvements of We are committed to ensuring that our supply Best in Sector for Real Estate in 2018. sector standards and ensure chain is safe, secure and effective.
In support of this FURTHER INFORMATION REGARDING OUR INVESTORS CAN the sector is fully understood.
commitment we operate a strict supplier assurance BEFOUND ON PAGE 76 OF THE GOVERNANCE SECTION process that all suppliers must adhere to.
The supplier assurance process requires all new and existing suppliers to be thoroughly assessed as competent, safe and appropriately insured.
They must also agree to SEGROs Code of Ethics.
Only once this assessment process is complete can suppliers be considered compliant and able to work with SEGRO.
As at the end of 2018, 98 per cent of SEGROs entire supply chain were deemed fully compliant with SEGROs essential requirements under its supplier assurance process.
This was up from 86 per cent in 2017.
We continue to be a signatory to the UK Prompt Payment Code and, following the UK legislation, report on the payment practices for our largest UK subsidiaries biannually.
In 2018, over 95 per cent of UK invoices were paid within 30 days of receipt, with an average payment time of 17 days.
IKEA SEGRO welcomed IKEA as building located in the Port The proximity of Paris Air INVESTORS a new customer in 2018, of Gennevilliers, 5 km north Logistique to central Paris working in partnership to find west of Paris city centre.
means that IKEA will be able At SEGRO, we prioritise delivering long-term appropriate space to support to further develop its multiand sustainable returns for both our equity and The development, completed its changing business model.
channel strategy, and ensure debt investors.
in late 2018, is our first multiefficient and rapid access last As part of its drive to adapt storey warehouse in Paris and mile delivery to both its store We take time to ensure that we communicate regularly to changing customer will allow IKEA to service its network and to the customers and effectively with our investor base from large expectations and IKEA smaller store format and onwhich order online.
institutions to private shareholders, and from banks choose to take 50,000 sq m line activities.
to bondholders in order to ensure that our strategy of space at our new Paris Air and performance is understood, enabling continued confidence in our business.
SEGRO has a dedicated Investor Relations team that manages an extensive programme consisting of an Annual General Meeting, meetings with institutional equity and debt investors, attendance By taking time to understand our business model, SEGRO-Vailog was at investor conferences, presentations to investment able to offer an innovative solution which fully reflects our changing banks and a number of site visits.
In a city where land is scarce and e-commerce Executive Directors and the Investor Relations team met with 204 institutions to update them regarding demand is rapidly growing, IKEA is now well placed to continue to our performance.
improve the quality of our services and optimise our delivery for our We have enhanced the Investor Relations section of Parisian customers.
our corporate website to add consensus data gathered EMMANUEL GRILLO from the broking houses which issue independent IKEA FRANCE DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR research on SEGRO to improve the transparency for all our shareholders.
We have also added a dedicated section for our bond investors to improve our service to these important stakeholders.
