Corporate Responsibility As a private sector company with global presence and a strong public sector bond, taking responsibility defines what we do and how we do it.
We serve society on behalf of governments who trust us to provide public services, and citizens who trust us to take care of them in diverse circumstances.
In this we are also trusted to serve as a responsible employer, partner, neighbour and investment.
Being a responsible business is about more than just meeting Beyond this report, our organisation is alive with leadership our minimum obligations.
It is how we contribute and create and action.
Each component in our framework represents a sustainable value.
It is the outcomes that define us, and how continuously improving system of people, projects and we achieve them.
It is recognising that, to best protect the processes managed by global teams and fulfilled by our interests of any one group of stakeholders, we must employees, touching the lives of countless service users determinedly embrace our responsibilities to all stakeholders.
In our report we celebrate examples of exceptional contributions around the world.
Harder to share is all that From the boardroom to the frontline, we seek out exists behind the scenes, enabling them to make a opportunities to make a meaningful difference.
Nonetheless, we all stand on the shoulders of our we are required to, but because it makes good business colleagues, atop a solid foundation of shared strategy, policy sense: because we are in a good position to make that and governance.
difference: and because it is in our nature as a team of more than 50,000 people who share the same values and We believe Serco to be a responsible business, wellsense of purpose.
positioned not only to deliver quality services and value for money, but also to promote higher standards in public Externally, the focus on what it means to be a responsible services.
We are not perfect, nor are we immune to mistakes, and sustainable business has continued to grow, expanding but we do not hide our imperfections, just as we do not hide in scope and driving increased scrutiny and rigour.
our efforts to overcome them and the strengths with which we strive to improve.
In the past 12 months, for example, we have commenced measuring and reporting our Gender Pay Gap and supplier We define our responsibilities by our principal stakeholder payment performance in the UK, aligned our social groups, and the strength of these relationships is the true responsibility governance with the Corporate Social test of our progress and performance.
In this report we Responsibility Act in the United Arab Emirates, and worked on summarise how we are learning from them and responding implementation of the new Modern Slavery Bill in Australia.
to their needs whilst living the values that underpin our approach.
Alongside our customers and other stakeholders, we see industry-shaping potential in these developments: to drive Further information is available in the Corporate transparency, accountability and improved governance Responsibility Committee Report on page 102 and in our full further and deeper across the public service landscape.
For Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on the Serco, these changes complement our existing endeavours Companys website.
and are welcome opportunities to share our performance more widely and inclusively whilst helping our key stakeholders become better and more objectively informed.
Through our corporate responsibility framework, we address the most pressing needs of our key stakeholder groups.
Our efforts are not limited to these items, but this is where we focus our attention and ambitions most closely.
| 66 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements D i v a e r w n s d o e r i k n w p c o l l a u r k c s i f e v o e r c e Our corporate responsibility framework below defines our principal areas of responsibility and helps to guide practice and behaviour whilst facilitating measurement of our performance.
Our customers Our people Our world Our owners We are driven by our We are committed to We strive to manage our We are determined to public service ethos to enabling the impact on the protect our shareholders help our customers create development, wellbeing communities, economies interests and create positive outcomes for and safety of our people.
and environments in long-term, sustainable society.
which we operate value for them.
p See page 72 for information p See page 75 for information p See page 77 for information See page 79 for more 72 p 75 77 79 on our customers on our people.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 67 Corporate Responsibility Our commitment We have continued to build momentum in long-term objectives for sustainable improvement: consolidating progress and maintaining key strategies.
Our CR categories Next steps identified in our 2017 report Progress in 2018 Our priority next steps Develop a Group business ethics and Behaving with Develop a condensed Code of Conduct for temporary workers.
integrity and Further review the legislative standards for Complete our global review of Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC adequate Modern Slavery that apply in each Division treating procedures.
to ensure all local requirements are met.
people with Apply elements of the UK ABC assessment toolkit in other Divisions.
respect Continue to explore opportunities to Build respect for the new Serco Institute Our measure and report performance for and deploy its capabilities to the maximum Relaunch the Serco Institute.
customers our responsibilities to our customers at through developing strategic partnerships.
Embed our new Communities of Practice.
Continue to drive a range of initiatives Continue to develop and promote our across our custodial, health and transport proposed four principles for governing operations to address increasing violence.
outsourced public service delivery in Explore opportunities to measure and report performance for our responsibilities Better coordinate and share insight from the UK.
to our customers at Group level.
Develop and deploy a just health and safety culture framework.
Finalise and deploy our just health and Formulate and deliver Corporate and Our safety culture framework.
Divisional action plans to improve people employee engagement in response to our Deploy our safety culture assessment tool globally.
Act on our safety culture assessment 2018 survey.
Respond to Provision Five of the 2018 Continue our work to improve near-miss Replicate our new global aviation safety forum in other safety critical areas.
Promote our staff inclusion networks at Drive employee wellbeing forward as a Complete a formal review of our online incident management tool.
both the Divisional and Group levels.
Launch our new employer brand.
Launch our new cross-Divisional oversight Improve near-miss incident reporting.
Launch an annual People Report for internal and external publication.
Continue working to improve our leadership gender balance.
Develop our understanding of ethnicity as a strategic diversity focus in our regions.
Formally relaunch the Serco Foundation Complete the launch of our new conflicts Our externally.
of interest register and Group Standard world Operating Procedure for conflicts of Refresh and refocus our environment strategy.
interest: develop and deploy new fair Roll out our new environmental strategy Launch our refreshed fair competition training for managers and our new competition training for high-risk roles.
Publish new guidance for ethical and Commence reporting in line with The Improve guidance for ethical and human rights due diligence in new geographies human rights due diligence in new Companies Directors Report and Limited and partner selection and appointment.
geographies and partner selection and Liability Partnerships Energy and Carbon appointment.
Deploy our new Supplier Relationship Management solution.
Trial our new Tier 2 supply chain Incorporate risk tolerance variation into our questionnaire.
Explore opportunities to address Tier 2 suppliers in high-risk areas.
For progress and priorities relating to our responsibilities to our owners, see our Strategic Report specifically: Key Performance Indicators, pages 9 to 11: Chief Executives Review, pages 20 to 27: and Principal Risks and Uncertainties, pages 54 to 63.
| 68 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Our CR categories Next steps identified in our 2017 report Progress in 2018 Our priority next steps Develop a Group business ethics and Behaving with Develop a condensed Code of Conduct for temporary workers.
integrity and Completed Further review the legislative standards for Complete our global review of Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC adequate Modern Slavery that apply in each Division treating procedures.
In progress people with Apply elements of the UK ABC assessment toolkit in other Divisions.
respect Under review Ongoing Continue to explore opportunities to Build respect for the new Serco Institute target for Our measure and report performance for and deploy its capabilities to the maximum 2020 achieved and Relaunch the Serco Institute.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 69 Corporate Responsibility Our commitment continued Our approach to corporate responsibility is structured around our key stakeholders, focusing on how we create or contribute sustainable value whilst protecting their interests and meeting their needs with accountability and transparency.
Our stakeholder engagement We maintain strong, collaborative relationships with our suppliers and strategic partners, both centrally and locally, We are committed to proactively and regularly engaging our engaging them regularly in strategy and performance review stakeholders in open, honest dialogue that enables effective meetings, management forums and site visits.
We want to understand their priorities and points of view, communicate Our owners our own and determine how we can best define and fulfil See Our owners: Transparency on page 79 for more our responsibilities.
We actively manage our relationships with our stakeholder Our Serco Management System groups, maintaining various formal and informal means of engagement at local, regional and Group levels.
The Serco Management System SMS is our management framework.
It describes how we do business and defines the Our customers rules governing how we operate, behave and deliver our We recognise our customers to be those we serve the strategy, including all areas covered by our CR framework.
public and the governments and other organisations who engage us to provide public services.
We maintain serviceAt the heart of the SMS are: specific feedback channels for service users, such as 16 Group policy statements, owned by Group Functional dedicated customer service personnel and surveys, and Directors, signed by the Group Chief Executive and follow formal processes for engaging with our contract approved by the plc Board.
They define our strategic customers, including contract bidding and performance commitments and apply across the Group.
Individual contract customer relationships are 24 Group standards, approved by the Executive managed by our business leadership from Contract Directors Committee.
They define the minimum standards we must to our Group CEO.
We also engage customers in our industry achieve, focusing on mandatory requirements applicable research through the Serco Institute.
45 Group Standard Operating Procedures, owned by Our people functional subject matter experts and approved by the Effective leadership and line management are our principal Executive Committee.
They provide consistent means of engaging our employees.
Building trust and procedures to address key areas of control that are relationships and communicating effectively are key applied across the Group.
competencies in our Leadership Model.
We also invite employee feedback via: Viewpoint, our employee Country, Divisional and Local operating procedures build on engagement survey: Speak Up, our whistleblowing process: these foundations, complying with relevant laws and and Yammer, our internal social media platform.
We also regulations and sensitive to local customs, traditions and maintain various employee-led networks at all organisational cultures.
levels and strong relationships with our recognised trade unions.
All elements of the SMS are subject to a schedule of regular review to ensure they meet our needs and are up-to-date, Our world relevant and appropriate.
At Contract and Business Unit levels we maintain relationships with specific non-governmental organisations Employee and manager responsibilities regarding SMS NGOs with whom we consult or collaborate for delivery of compliance are clearly defined and all employees complete service outcomes.
We also engage with NGOs and charities appropriate SMS, Code of Conduct and Values training on in the regions where we operate through the Serco joining Serco and periodically during their employment.
Foundation, an independent charitable organisation established specifically for that purpose.
Our Code of Conduct Our engagement with communities those we serve and Our Code of Conduct applies to everyone who works for and those where we operate is at two levels: business-led and on behalf of Serco, helping to drive continuous and employee-led.
We are committed to proactive dialogue with consistent responsibility and behaviours across our representative bodies to understand and manage our organisation.
Based on our Values, it forms part of the SMS, impact: and facilitating employee participation in community clearly and concisely defining our expectations of operational initiatives and charitable giving, which also applies to the and behavioural compliance.
regional causes our employees choose to support.
| 70 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements In 2018 we developed a version for short-term temporary Behaving with integrity and treating people workers: revised our Supplier Code of Conduct, reinforcing with respect our expectations of compliance regarding modern slavery in Across all our regions, we aim to meet the high moral and our supply chain: and developed the first in a series of short ethical standards we have set ourselves, within the bounds of briefing videos on elements in our Code.
expected individual and corporate behaviour, with regard for relevant laws and regulatory requirements, with sensitivity to In 2019 we will review the impact, effectiveness and local cultures and with respect for human rights.
accessibility of our current Code of Conduct materials and refresh our approach to Code of Conduct training.
We have zero tolerance for any form of bribery and corruption or any activities that break any law relating to Our Values human rights, either directly or indirectly, anywhere in the Our culture is based on a set of four Values Trust, Care, world.
We will not engage in any form of human trafficking or Innovation and Pride that shape our individual behaviours use forced, bonded, illegal or child labour, nor knowingly and hence the way the Company behaves.
They help to work with anyone who does: this commitment recognises all ensure we are all working from a commonly understood base applicable modern slavery legislation.
We use international that can be consistently applied across our organisation.
human rights standards as a framework to assess, monitor, mitigate and remedy any actual or potential adverse human Our Values are incorporated into the Serco Management rights impacts that may affect our business.
System, our Code of Conduct and all existing channels, publications and resources.
In 2018 we developed our UK Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC assessment tool into a Group ABC Risk Indicator Our Viewpoint Culture Index comprises engagement levels Questionnaire, embedding it in our SMS self-assessment for each of the four Values and, alongside our Speak Up tool, completed annually by contracts across all Divisions.
whistleblowing process, enable us to regularly assess and reinforce our culture.
Culture Index results inform annual We also delivered the following in all Divisions: engagement action planning and our Values strategy.
a review of ABC adequate procedures and our Speak Up whistleblowing programme: In addition to the ways in which our Values are embedded assessment of ethics, regulatory compliance and human and reinforced continuously through Group systems and rights risks: new modern slavery awareness training for processes, each Division is responsible for the ongoing managers: and promotion of our Values at the local level, driving them continued promotion of Speak Up to increase trust in the through employee communications, recognition schemes process, whilst reviewing it for improvement.
In 2019 we will: Our 2018 employee engagement survey results indicate that continue to monitor and work actively to mitigate our employee perceptions of our Values remain similar to last ethics, regulatory compliance and human rights risks: year.
For more information, see our full Corporate review data and internal reporting to develop an effective Responsibility Report.
dashboard: continue to raise awareness of Speak Up and review how In 2019 we will continue to actively and regularly promote and we monitor live cases to ensure optimal case management reinforce our Values throughout the business whilst and closure: and monitoring employee understanding and perceptions of how further review the legislative standards for modern slavery well they are lived.
As required, we will respond with specific, that apply in each Division to ensure all local requirements focused and appropriate interventions.
For more information, see our annual Modern Slavery Statement at WWW www.
p 78 See also: Fair competition, page 78: Responsible relationships, page 78.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 71 s r e n w o r u O s r O e u m r o t w s Corporate Responsibility Our customers Duty of care Quality service delivery We place the health, safety and wellbeing of the public at the We draw on our international best practice, cross-sector heart of service design and delivery.
experience and our ability to innovate in order to help governments raise standards of public service.
We strive to prioritise, protect and promote the health, safety and wellbeing of the recipients of our services, whether they Providing reliable and high-quality products and services that are those for whom we are directly responsible, such as meet customer and service user needs is important to us.
individuals in our prisons or travelling on our transport, or To the best of our abilities, aligned to helping customers those who are the direct beneficiaries of our services, such as achieve value for money, we seek to deliver services that are patients in the hospitals that we clean and maintain.
as high-quality as possible and subject to appropriate focus on continuous improvement.
We design and deliver services in ways that focus on the needs and experiences of service users and enable and We work closely with our customers, striving to: enhance service-related outcomes.
We work to ensure that anticipate, understand and meet their needs and service users are treated with consideration, courtesy, expectations: compassion and respect, and that our provisions and deploy quality systems that deliver excellent service interactions exemplify our Value of Care.
usability for service recipients: invest in public service research and development and In 2018 we: innovate quickly and proactively, testing new ways of made use across our service delivery of Sercos doing things and improving continuously throughout ExperienceLab which specialises in citizen-centric the lifetime of our contracts: design: develop scalable, customisable solutions: and embedded our Serco Cares programme to improve transfer best practice and experience internationally and patient experience training 3,000 hospital colleagues: cross-sector.
continued to implement a broad range of coordinated, mutually supporting initiatives to address prison violence, In 2018 we: e. g. key worker training, five-minute interventions, worked to improve the relationship between suppliers improved intelligence, social responsibility units and body and contractors through our development of the Four cameras: Principles on how to better govern public services, which established a security working group across our Health should help strengthen delivery of outsourced services business to review security and address issues of across the sector: increased violence in hospitals: continued to develop how we bring various different actively worked with UK police authorities to tackle elements of management information together to enable increased violence on trains: and us to focus management attention to address potential deployed our Centres of Excellence CoEs to focus on issues and opportunities: end user experience and outcomes.
ran customer insight surveys in each of our regions: strengthened operational delivery further achieving win In 2019 we will: rates of around 50% for new bids and around 90% for continue to support our contracts, Divisions and CoEs rebids and extensions: in delivering all objectives relating to duty of care, directly relaunched the Serco Institute which sources crowd or indirectly: thinking for innovation in public service delivery: and continue to explore opportunities to measure and report deployed our Centres of Excellence to enhance best our duty of care performance at a Group level: and practice and product development.
continue to drive a range of initiatives across our custodial, health and transport operations to address In 2019 we will: increasing violence.
continue working to develop and promote our proposed four principles for governing outsourced public service delivery in the UK: better coordinate and share insight from our Divisional customer surveys: build respect for the new Serco Institute and deploy its capabilities to the maximum through developing strategic partnerships: and commence the contract managers development programme with Oxford Sad Business School.
For more information, see: Employee engagement and development on page 75.
| 72 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 u o c r l r d u O e l p o e p r u O Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Social outcomes Duty of care We aim to enhance social outcomes by designing and delivering frontline public services that make a real difference to peoples lives.
We believe that the provision of public IN ACTION services around the world for us, for our customers and for See our full Corporate Responsibility Report to find out society requires commitment to a social as well as a about: commercial contract.
We strive to maintain our public service our work with the Texas Department of Transportation, ethos and aspiration to do the best for citizens, not only for helping citizens travel safely: our customers.
the He Waka Angamua staff network at Kohuora Auckland South Corrections Facility, supporting better Aligned to our ambition for quality service delivery, we outcomes for Maori: design citizen-centred public service solutions whilst our focus on improving patient care through employee maintaining a focus on delivering particularly complex and engagement, at the GCC Patient Experience Summit in transformational services that are critical to the functioning Abu Dhabi: and of society.
our UK colleague who cared for an asylum seeker with terminal cancer.
In 2018 we: developed and agreed a new strategy for the Serco Foundation, focused on supporting non-profit organisations engaged in enhancing public service Quality service delivery outcomes: made use across our service delivery of Sercos ExperienceLab which specialises in citizen-centric IN ACTION design: See our full Corporate Responsibility Report to find out more generally: about: Justice: we have helped to safeguard society and our awards for industrial security excellence from the reduce reoffending through the provision of prison US Department of Defense: management, police support and prisoner escorting our Australian immigration detention team who services.
secured and protected several hundred detainees Immigration: we have helped to protect borders and during a category two cyclone and evacuation: manage immigration through the provision of border our Transport Solutions Provider of the Year Award control, detention centre and asylum seeker housing from the United Arab Emirates Transport Community: and welfare services.
and Citizen Services: we have contributed to local our UK custodial team who helped to restore prison community wellbeing through the provision of leisure operations in the Caribbean.
facilities and waste management services.
Health: we have helped to enhance patient experiences and maintain safer environments in hospitals through the provision of facilities Social outcomes management services.
Defence: we have contributed to the protection of national and international security through the IN ACTION provision of critical support services to defence See our full Corporate Responsibility Report to find out organisations.
about: Transport: we have helped to facilitate national travel, our work with the US Navy to help Reservists and their enabling local and regional economies and societies to families access psychological healthcare: function through the provision of air, sea, road and rail our team in Melbourne, Australia who worked at night services.
to reclaim Princes Park from vandalism ahead of a 30,000-strong public vigil: In 2019 we will: our team in Baghdad who kept Iraqi airspace open formally relaunch the Serco Foundation and increase during a local strike: and further its charitable support and impact on social our UK Leisure team who helped a girl with a outcomes: and tracheostomy learn to swim.
continue to explore potential criteria with which to more precisely define and measure our contribution to social outcomes through our operations.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 73 Corporate Responsibility Our customers continued Value for public money Value for public money Along with quality of delivery, we aspire to greater efficiency in public services and in enabling governments to deliver better for less.
IN ACTION See our full Corporate Responsibility Report to find out We are committed to enabling governments to achieve about: the best value for money for the public services we deliver.
our Premier Supplier Excellence Award from Raytheon: To deliver efficiency to our customers, we strive to: a report from the Australian Federal Human Services select and bid for opportunities where we can achieve Minister, highlighting cost-effective high performance optimal balance of value creation for our stakeholders: from Serco Citizen Services: and manage our business with commercial rigour: our London Cycle Hire mechanics who generated innovate at both the contract and corporate level: significant efficiency gains and helped increase bike fully utilise our economies of scale and our international, availability for the public.
transferable expertise: and drive a cost-effective supply chain.
In 2018 we: launched Communities of Practice CoPs which are international fora to develop, enhance and share best practice in specific capability or competencies including contract efficiency: found significant efficiencies for our customers on several next generation contracts including our MELABS contract with the Australian Defence Force in the Middle East and our CMS health insurance eligibility support contract in the US: further rolled out formal Operational Excellence training and activities across all our Divisions to help run continuous improvement exercises and improve the efficiency of our operations: and reduced our overhead costs thereby enabling us to be more efficient in our delivery to customers.
In 2019 we will: embed the CoPs and consider extending them to additional competencies: continue to review the efficiency of our contract delivery, including through the continued use of Operational Excellence: and improve our measurement of the value of outsourced services to the public.
| 74 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 s r e n w Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements o r u O s r O e u m r o t w s Corporate Responsibility Our people In 2019 we will: Safe and healthy operations act on the findings from the culture assessment tool: Our vision is zero harm.
Wherever we work, we are committed finalise and deploy our just health and safety culture to the promotion of wellbeing and the prevention of injury framework: and ill health.
We recognise that our commitment to a vision build on current work to improve near-miss reporting of zero harm is a challenging, long-term aspiration that will and safety observations: take continuous concerted effort if it is ever to be achieved drive employee wellbeing forward as a strategic priority, given our operational risks.
Our Health, Safety and building on everything we already have in place: Environment HSE strategy is designed to help clarify our launch new cross-Divisional oversight groups to drive next steps on our journey.
and coordinate our continued focus on improvement in the following safety-critical areas: Rail, Marine and We strive to: Physical Assaults: identify, assess and actively manage the hazards, impacts complete our systems review to better align the and risks arising from our operations, investigating management of safety, compliance, environment, risk and incidents and monitoring performance and systems: insurance and better inform risk management by actively encourage input from employees and others to providing an holistic view of data and performance: and build sustainable solutions: explore potential longer-term future performance promote a just health and safety culture based on active trend indicators.
and caring leadership and mutual trust, innovation and pride: and Employee engagement and development regularly review, learn and identify opportunities for continual improvement at all levels of governance.
We are committed to fostering professional development and positive working environments that enable our people to In 2018 we refreshed our Group HSE strategy in response be highly engaged, capable, passionate about public service to evolving risks and opportunities and the continuous and motivated to achieve personal success.
improvement of our health and safety governance, oversight and risk assessment capability.
The new strategy We regularly review and strive to improve levels of employee reinforces our existing principles and priorities whilst engagement and performance, including the development of introducing a more prominent focus on employee wellbeing their skills to meet current and future business needs and and increased emphasis on shared ownership, just culture addressing any behaviour identified as negatively impacting and preventive awareness.
We provide relevant training and development where necessary to enable individuals to perform their duties We also: within role.
developed a just health and safety culture framework for adoption across the business and incorporated this in our In 2018 we began to develop our approach to engagement online incident management tool: beyond a traditional annual survey by introducing a stronger rolled the Health and Safety Laboratory HSL Safety and more versatile survey capability through our new Climate culture assessment tool out across all Divisions engagement partner, Glint, which will enable us to engage with favourable results: with employees more closely and regularly throughout the enhanced our safety management system by introducing employee lifecycle.
functionality to facilitate identification and management of operational safety hazards and improve line of sight for new or changing risks: and completed a formal review of our online incident management tool against market leaders, identifying opportunities for future improvement.
Safe and healthy operations Employee engagement and development IN ACTION IN ACTION See our full Corporate Responsibility Report to find out See our full Corporate Responsibility Report to find out about: about: our new C5ISR Safety Blitz hazard and incident our Job Rotation programme, enabling our high reduction programme: potential US and Canadian colleagues to expand our participation in the Sustaining Resilience at Work their skill sets through alternative role assignments: research trial, focused on preventing occupational our Asia Pacific Emerge programme, developing stress: our managers for internal career progression: our new virtual portals providing 24 7 medical support our programmes for engaging and developing for our employees in the Middle East: and National Emirati interns, graduates and management our UK colleagues recognised for health and safety talent: and excellence by the Royal Air Force and the Ministry our Large Apprentice Employer of the Year Award in of Defence.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 75 u o c r l r d u O e l p o e p r u O Corporate Responsibility Our people continued We also: Diverse workforce and inclusive workplace supported our leaders in owning and driving their career and personal development, continued to involve leaders in our business plans and strengthened leadership communications: IN ACTION supported our managers through interventions focused See our full Corporate Responsibility Report to find out on building capability and pride: about: supported all employees through stronger promotion our listing in Forbes Americas Best Employers for of taking action to build engagement locally: Women 2018: reinforced engagement as a strategic priority by our annual celebrations of diversity in Australia, New incorporating it as a performance measure into our Zealand and Hong Kong: Performance Share Plan Awards, made to our the appointment of Ayesha Sultan to our Middle East Executive team and senior leaders globally: Executive Management Team as Managing Director for continued to build and strengthen our system of Growth: and Group and regional development programmes: our UK work to drive equality in recruitment and the delivered our Oxford Management Programme for advances in diversity and inclusion led by our LGBT a further 120 members of our global management and BAME networks.
population, bringing the cumulative total to 328: and opened the Management Programme to a broader In 2018 we: population of management roles across the business achieved our 2020 target of a minimum 25% women in whilst introducing an ongoing curriculum of virtual leadership roles, and revised our target to 35% by 2025: education for programme alumni.
recognised four official global focus areas gender, disability, BAME and LGBT, assigning each an Executive In 2019 we will: Committee Sponsor: continue working to deliver our 2020 employee refreshed and refined our Divisional D&I strategies in engagement target of 70 points or above, as defined in response to progress made since 2016, key organisational our Group performance framework: changes and the new global focus areas: formulate and deliver Corporate and Divisional action continued taking action in our Divisions to deliver regional plans to improve employee engagement in response to D&I objectives: and our 2018 survey: and reported our Gender Pay Gap for 2017 in April 12.9% and explore our options for enhancing how employee interests prepared our 2018 Gender Pay Gap report 11.9%.
are factored into Board decision-making in order to respond to Provision Five of the 2018 UK Corporate In 2019 we will work to: Governance Code.
create excitement around staff inclusion networks both within our Divisions and across the Group: Diverse workforce and inclusive workplace ensure each Division sets stretching ambitions Our business thrives because of our talented and diverse around the short and medium term: workforce, for which we must continually challenge ourselves launch our new employer brand to attract and to ensure diversity and inclusion D&I are embedded in our recruit a more diverse workforce: and culture and ways of working.
launch an annual People Report which we will share both internally and externally to keep momentum and focus.
We strive to: attract, develop and retain employees from the broadest possible talent pool: proactively manage and regularly analyse the diversity of our workforce: and promote equality of opportunity and create an inclusive and enabling environment in which all our people are treated fairly and with respect, dignity and zero tolerance for any form of discrimination.
| 76 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 s r e n w Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements o r u O s r O e u m r o t w s Corporate Responsibility Our world In 2019 we will: Contributing to communities continue to reinvigorate our governance for charitable Through our business operations we contribute to local and community contributions, focusing on the employment, small-medium enterprises, communities and improvement of community investment reporting across economies.
Beyond this, we encourage and facilitate the business.
We recognise significant levels of local community initiatives and charitable giving both from activity by our operations and our employees in all colleagues and from the Serco Foundation.
regions, but also recognise challenges in capturing the full extent of our commitment.
We will engage with the We strive to: business in order to identify and implement improvements work closely with communities to make a positive that will enable us to resume reporting our global difference and partner with local governments in order community investment performance: and to best contribute to local economies: formally relaunch the Serco Foundation externally and employ people from our local communities where build real momentum in its activities.
possible: encourage and participate in charitable activity that aligns with our Values: and ensure small firms, voluntary and community Protecting the environment organisations, and social enterprises are actively We are committed to limiting the impact our operations encouraged to be members of Sercos supply chain.
have on the environment through more sustainable business practice.
In 2018 we: strengthened our governance relating to community We strive to: initiatives and charitable giving, requiring more robust identify and assess the hazards, impacts and risks that due diligence in the consideration of any sponsorship arise from our activities and services, investigating opportunity or charitable contribution: incidents and monitoring performance and systems: developed a new strategy for the Serco Foundation which minimise adverse environmental impact through the has now been agreed by all Trustees.
Its refreshed mission implementation of environmental management systems is to support non-profit-making organisations in the that are proportional to each contract, aligned to delivery of public services through awarded grants and customer specification and contractual requirements, the secondment of Serco employees.
It has already and underpinned by the SMS: started supporting charitable causes under this new actively encourage input from employees and others to mission.
See our full Corporate Responsibility Report for build sustainable solutions: more details: and promote a commitment to the environment based on strengthened executive oversight and facilitation of our active and caring leadership and mutual trust, innovation social responsibility agenda in the Middle East in response and pride: and to new legislation in the UAE which is withdrawing legacy regularly review, learn and identify opportunities for restrictions, promoting corporate action and introducing continual improvement at all levels of governance.
In 2018 we refreshed our Group Health, Safety and Environment strategy in response to evolving risks and opportunities and the continuous improvement of our environmental governance, oversight and risk assessment capability.
The new strategy reinforces our existing principles and priorities whilst introducing a more prominent focus on specific customer priorities.
Contributing to communities Protecting the environment IN ACTION IN ACTION See our full Corporate Responsibility Report to find out See our full Corporate Responsibility Report to find out about: about: how our colleagues in North America challenge our new,  North American themselves in support of charitable causes and a headquarters: culture of health and wellbeing: our work with the Royal Australian Navy to monitor and the commitment of our team at Fiona Stanley Hospital manage a range of environmental incidents: to making a positive difference to their communities: our celebration of World Environment Day across Serco our contributions to colleagues and other stakeholders Middle East, focused on reducing plastic use and in the Middle East during Ramadan: and eliminating plastic waste: and our partnerships with local suppliers and social our work to deliver  leisure enterprises across Scotland, supporting local centres for Birmingham City Council, UK.
communities whilst enhancing service user experiences.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 77 u o c r l r d u O e l p o e p r u O Corporate Responsibility Our world continued We also: In 2019 we will roll out and embed our new Group Standard shaped future environmental strategy and driven Operating Procedure and register for Conflicts of Interest continuous improvement in our most energy and carbon across the business.
We will also develop and deploy intensive business units, including a programme of targeted fair competition training for high-risk roles.
environmental and energy reviews in our UK Justice & Immigration business and a new Energy Management Responsible relationships System for our UK Leisure business: and We build honest, respectful and transparent relationships worked with an independent energy performance and with customers, partners and suppliers who share our ethical carbon compliance consultancy to explore the standards and who follow regulatory compliance.
opportunity for science-based carbon reduction targets aligned to Government requirements.
We strive to: only work with customers, partners and suppliers who In 2019 we will: respect our Values and meet our standards of business roll out our new environmental strategy across our conduct and ethics: Divisions to further embed a culture of environmental complete legal, ethical and human rights due diligence on stewardship and drive improvements: proposed key third parties and conduct ongoing commence reporting in line with The Companies monitoring throughout the lifetime of the relationship: Directors Report and Limited Liability Partnerships complete robust analysis of requirements and establish a Energy and Carbon Report Regulations 2018: and clear management structure for third-party arrangements monitor Divisional action planning and delivery to ensure considered necessary to meet contract requirements, that Business Units continue driving improvement in their including joint ventures, strategic partnerships and most energy and carbon intensive contracts.
consortium arrangements: apply robust supplier sourcing and selection criteria: and monitor supplier performance to inform relationship Fair competition management and identify opportunities for improvement.
We strive to compete legally, fairly and ethically, making sure we promote competition in business, protect our customers In 2018 we strengthened the human rights elements in our interests and avoid situations that may, or may appear to, Supplier Code of Conduct and developed a new create a conict of interest.
questionnaire for enhanced supplier due diligence, focusing on how our Tier 1 suppliers manage modern slavery risks We strive to ensure we do not abuse any dominant market within their own supply chains.
We also completed a review position we may have, obtain competitive intelligence of our third-party due diligence process, including quality of through improper means, or enter into any agreements, reports and information provided.
arrangements or concerted business practices which appreciably prevent, restrict or distort competition.
We are We commenced reporting our supplier payment committed to engaging with competitors and trade performance per new UK regulations introduced in 2017. associations with appropriate caution.
In 2018, 83.09% of our supplier invoices were paid on time, putting Serco in the top quartile of reporting companies, In 2018 we completed significant work to develop but still with room for improvement.
appropriate processes for capturing conflicts of interest.
This has included redrafting operating procedures, In our 2017 report we advised that in 2018 we would deploy developing an online tool and producing a short video the Supplier Relationship Management solution previously explaining what a conflict of interest is and what to do piloted in the UK.
This work has since been placed under about it.
review whilst other priorities have taken precedence.
In 2019 we will: publish new guidance on ethical and human rights due diligence for new geography entry and the selection and appointment of partners: Responsible relationships review our third-party due diligence process to enable different risk tolerances to be applied at initial assessment and through ongoing monitoring: and IN ACTION trial our new Tier 2 supply chain questionnaire for See our full Corporate Responsibility Report to find out modern slavery due diligence.
about: our work with the Tasmanian Government and Australian Antarctic Division of the Department of the Environment to engage local industry support for the Icebreaker programme: driving total data transparency in medical insurance for our Middle East employees: and engaging our UK supply chain to help us minimise waste and avoid waste to landfill.
| 78 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 s r e n w Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements o r u O s r O e u m r o t w s Corporate Responsibility Our owners Shareholder returns Transparency We focus on creating long-term, sustainable value With investors, as with customers, we seek long-term protecting the interests of our owners alongside those of relationships based on transparency, honesty and clarity.
We our employees, customers and the communities in which are therefore committed to open and regular engagement we operate.
We focus as much on the preservation and growth of the We strive to maintain open, meaningful dialogue with all our business as on the maximisation of shareholder value.
shareholders, and use a variety of communication means to We believe that in a free market system, and in the long-term, update investors on performance and gain insight into the two will automatically coincide, even if there is some shareholder views, including ensuring that Board members short-term divergence.
We will realise this by executing our and the wider senior management team are available to strategy to achieve our purpose of becoming a trusted address shareholder questions and views at our Annual partner of governments, delivering superb public services General Meeting.
We seek to: provide meaningful insight into that transform outcomes and make a positive difference for our results and prospects: have management information our fellow citizens.
systems that enable efficient and effective internal and external reporting: and base our approach to executive As of 2018, an additional two performance measures for remuneration on a clear rationale in which the alignment of sustainable shareholder value generation have been included interests are recognisable and understandable.
in relation to long-term incentives alongside relative total shareholder return, earnings per share growth and return on In 2018, we delivered our annual schedule of external invested capital, which take into account progress in the reporting and shareholder engagement, including additional Groups employee engagement score and our order book.
trading and contract news updates to ensure transparency of performance and engaging with over 100 different As set out in our guidance and outlook, we expect to deliver institutional investment funds.
We have again been further progress in 2019 with Revenue growth of 3-4% recognised for our commitment to transparency with a Most anticipated and Underlying Trading Profit forecast to increase Honoured Companies award from Institutional Investor.
Revenue growth is expected to accelerate to around 5% in 2020.
In terms of our ambition of Managed risk achieving margins of at least 5% over the longer term, we In order to achieve our strategic and business objectives, believe this is still achievable.
We continue to deliver against protect our stakeholder interests and maximise our returns, our plans and make good progress against our strategy.
we seek to identify, manage and mitigate our exposure to risks through robust procedures and controls throughout the organisation.
For more information and our progress and performance in 2018, as well as our p 9 guidance and outlook, see Key Performance Indicators on pages 9 to 11 and p 20 Chief Executives Report on pages 20 to 27.
We support informed risk-taking that promotes business growth and success whilst recognising the risks associated with key decisions, and embed systematic, structured and timely risk management in our organisational processes, linked to achievement of our objectives.
We strive for early line of sight regarding increases in threat or exposure, and maintain a robust control environment that reduces negative impacts to our business performance.
For more information and our progress and performance in 2018, see: p 54 Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 54 to 63 and Group Risk Committee p 91 report on pages 91 to 93.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 79 u o c r l r d u O e l p o e p r u O Corporate Responsibility Key Performance Indicators 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 vs 2018 Var % Notes Behaving with integrity and treating people with respect Viewpoint Index: 14-17: % 70 69 69 69 1 Ethics and Integrity 18: Avg.
score 73 Upheld cases of corrupt behaviour Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Upheld cases of human rights violations Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Speak Up cases: Investigated % 95 96 97 90 94 4 4.4 2 Corrective action taken % 56 63 53 42 54 12 28.6 Disciplinary action taken against one or more individuals involved in a case % 15 24 16 9 18 9 100.0 Dismissal of one or more 120.0 individuals involved in a case % 9 6 6 5 11 6 Closed within three months % 70 48 64 89 75 -14 -15.7 Our people Employee engagement and development: Employee engagement 14-17: % 51 53 54 56 1 18: Avg.
score 69 Viewpoint Index: 14-17: % 44 46 48 49 1 Learning & Development 18: Avg.
score 60 Inclusive workplace: 3 Viewpoint Index: 14-17: % 75 67 69 70 1 Diversity & Inclusion 18: Avg.
score 77 Lost Time Incident Per 1m hours 7 Frequency Rate worked 4.81 5.79 4.98 4.18 4.93 -0.75 -17.9 8 Lost Time Incident Severity Rate % 17.53 19.10 22.96 23.68 26.14 -2.46 -10.3 9 Major Incident Per 1m hours Frequency Rate worked 0.33 0.34 0.27 0.33 0.41 -0.08 -24.2 7 Physical Assault Per 1m hours 7 Frequency Rate worked 7.04 7.19 6.92 8.96 13.12 -4.16 -46.4 10 Serious Physical Assault Per 1m hours Frequency Rate worked 0.38 0.49 0.93 0.89 1.37 -0.48 -53.9 11 Prosecutions Number 0 1 0 0 0 0 12 Fines paid 000 50 200 0 116 0 -116 13 Our world Protecting the environment: 14 Carbon dioxide equivalent Scope 1 2 tCO e 343,717 298,986 291,883 253,655 259,814 6,159 2.4 2 Scope 1 - Combustion of fuels and operation of facilities tCO e 173,441 162,197 182,819 174,289 176,254 1,965 1.1 2 Scope 2 - Grid electricity purchased for own use locationbased tCO e 170,276 136,789 109,064 79,366 83,560 4,194 5.3 15 2 Headcount intensity tCO e FTE Scope 1 2 6.32 5.16 5.98 5.56 5.53 -0.03 -0.5 2 Carbon Disclosure Project Score 97% 99% B B C 16 Prosecutions Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fines paid 000 0 0 0 0 0 0 Enforcement notices Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fair competition: Upheld cases of anti-competitive behaviour Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Responsible relationships: Third-party due diligence screening 17 Third parties validated Number 28,066 7,867 -20,199 -71.9 Third parties pending review Number 1,143 191 952 83.2 Third parties disqualified Number 3 1 2 66.6 18 | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 81 Corporate Responsibility continued Key Performance Indicators continued Notes: The performance analysis is based on data reported as at 20 February 2019, unless otherwise stated.
Additional data may arise after this date.
Where this occurs, numbers will be corrected in the following year report.
All data is for the total Group unless otherwise stated.
All data excludes joint ventures and historical BPO data to enable like-for-like comparison.
Our private sector offshore BPO business was sold in December 2015.
Current workforce KPI levels are in line with benchmark targets for the geographies and markets in which we operate.
However, we continue to try to improve them.
Please refer to our full Corporate Responsibility Report for Group targets.
Other annual targets are managed at local and regional levels.
Applies to all data from our Viewpoint employee engagement survey.
In 2018, our methodology for calculating employee engagement changed, aligned to our new survey provider.
Pre-2018, engagement results represent the proportion of engaged employees expressed as a percentage.
As of 2018, engagement scores represent the average response, with maximum potential scores of 100.
It is not possible to adjust all our historic data to restate to the new methodology.
However, analysis performed by our new survey provider indicates that engagement levels from 2017 to 2018 have remained broadly stable, with opportunity for improvement against new benchmarks.
Regarding Viewpoint Index scores, an index comprises one or more related questions that cover a specific area of analysis.
Where anonymous cases provide insufficient information, we are unable to investigate.
Inclusive workplace and age profile figures are representative only of employees for whom relevant data is available.
From 2018, this data will be the same as that submitted to the annual Hampton-Alexander Review, UK.
For 2018 the data was submitted on 30th June.
Reduction in 2017 reects improvements in data availability resulting from new D&I strategy and focus on developing clear and robust data.
Increase in 2018 reflects introduction of new absence management system and subsequent planned improvement in absence capture.
2017 numbers corrected following additional data due to reclassifications or delayed reporting.
Our lost time incident frequency rate in 2018, whilst an increase against 2017, reflects the five-year average baseline.
One contributing factor is the increase reported in assaults.
When these are removed the lost time incident frequency rate is brought down to 4.2.
The main cause for non-assault incidents remains slips and trips and manual handling.
We have changed the way we report lost days.
Lost days will now be reported so that days lost are allocated in the year they occur rather than the year the incident occurred in.
Figures presented reflect this change.
Adjustments have been made to 2016 and 2017 data to enable comparison of current performance.
94% of assaults in 2018 relate to Justice and Immigration which has seen a 39% increase against 2017.
This remains an area of significant management attention.
We continue to deliver a programme of co-ordinated, mutually-supporting initiatives to manage this risk.
Clarification was sought from the UK Ministry of Justice regarding the inclusion of spitting and potting under serious assaults.
They confirmed that these are not currently included in published statistics for Serious Assault.
These have therefore been removed from the figures and the 2017 figure adjusted to reflect this change.
2015 date relates to an incident in 2011.
Dubai Metro: February 2017 500,000AED public hazard relating to escalator maintenance by a sub-contractor fine paid by sub-contractor and revised work instructions implemented: August 2017 100,000AED unsafe lifting operations relating to glass movement in station revised work instructions implemented.
Please refer to our full Corporate Responsibility Report for a full breakdown of our environmental performance.
Our reporting year for greenhouse gas emissions is one quarter behind our financial year, namely 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018.
We quantify and report to ISO 14064-1 2012, using an operational control approach to defining our organisational boundary.
The classification of reporting boundaries is set out in detail in our Basis of Reporting document, available on our website, www.
We report all material emission sources for which we consider ourselves responsible and have set our materiality threshold at 5%.
Units reported: tCO e Tonnes Carbon Dioxide Equivalent: FTE Full Time Employee.
Additional 9,512 tCO e due to inclusion of Middle East domestic accommodation in scope as per advice received from Carbon Credentials.
Reductions 2 from closure of Bolton and JD Williams offices circa 1,000 tCO e. Reductions due to UK conversion factor UK grid 19% less carbon intensive vs 2017.
2 Conversion factors for Middle East and Australia slightly increased.
Location-based electricity emissions are calculated using the electricity grid average emission factors.
New scoring mechanism introduced in 2015.
We have continued to manage our carbon emissions in line with the legacy Carbon Disclosure Project criteria for a score of B see our Carbon Disclosure Project scores for 2016-17.
However, changes made by the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2018, including the introduction of new or intensified criteria in certain areas, have reset the baseline for all participants.
We accept that, against the new criteria, our Carbon Disclosure Project score is C, and recognise that our existing plans are appropriate for driving improvement.
Further information can be found in our full Corporate Responsibility Report and on the Carbon Disclosure Project website, www.
2018 numbers reflect business as usual addition of third parties following completion of initial due diligence review of all third parties completed in 2016 and 2017.
Additional organisations disqualified because they are no longer used by Serco or there is a gap of 2 years in the relationship: 6,634 in 2017: 173 in 2018.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 20 February 2019 | 82 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report C Co or rp po or ra at te e G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e Financial Statements Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 84 Board of Directors 86 Chairmans governance overview 89 Board and Governance 91 Group Risk Committee Report 94 Audit Committee Report 100 Nomination Committee Report 102 Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 104 Code compliance 106 Remuneration Report - implementation 126 Remuneration Report - policy summary 132 Directors Report 138 Directors Responsibility Statement || A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t a and nd A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 018 18 S Se er rc co G o Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 83 83
