Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Governance Corporate Responsibility Committee report Stakeholder Engagement Corporate Responsibility Committee responsibilities The responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee include: development of the Corporate Responsibility Framework and metrics: regularly receiving and reviewing reports on progress against our Corporate Responsibility Framework: consideration of our Code of Conduct and associated Group policies for recommendation to the Board.
Particular focus includes the provision of a healthy and safe working environment for employees and contractors, human rights including Modern Slavery and employee diversity Acting in a socially and and inclusion: review of our environmental performance standards and environmentally responsible commitments: and manner is embedded in our the promotion of socially responsible values and standards that relate to the social and economic community in which Groupstrategy, and this year, theCompany operates.
weare reporting our performance The Corporate Responsibility Committee Terms of Reference, which were updated in April 2018, can be found at against our CR Framework www.
as partof our annual Group Our Corporate Responsibility Framework performance reporting.
Our Corporate Responsibility Framework is ambitious, broad ranging and underpinned by stretching targets, to ensure we are Dame Angela Strank delivering the commitments expected of a leading socially and Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee environmentally responsible business.
Acting in a responsible manner is integral to supporting our purpose of serving our communities and customers, building a lasting water legacy Attendance table and achieving our vision to be the most trusted water company by 2020.
Member of the Meetings Max Corporate Responsibility Committee attended possible We hold ourselves to account against our CR Framework and Dame Angela Strank Chairman 3 3 agreed metrics through an effective performance management system.
Our CR performance is embedded within the Andrew Duff 2 3 organisation, with ODIs embedded in the large majority of our Dominique Reiniche 3 3 CR metrics, demonstrating we are focusing on issues of upmost Liv Garfield 3 3 importance to our customers.
In addition to the attendance set out above, the Company Performance against the CR Framework is reported on a Secretary normally attends, by invitation, all meetings of the quarterly basis to the Committee, and externally on an annual Committee.
Other members of senior management, including basis through our Annual Report and Accounts, through the Head of Internal Audit, and subject matter experts are also our website and through selected environmental, social and invited to attend as appropriate.
Our employees reward is directly linked to our CR performance, with customer ODIs, health and safety and our key CR metrics contributing to the bonus which our Introduction employees receive.
We believe that by focusing on the issues As Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee, most important to our customers, our CR Framework has the I am pleased to introduce this report which details the role right focus, and we are proud that we have again been accredited of the Committee and the important work it has undertaken by FTSE4Good.
The Committee has continued to play a key role in supporting the Board, monitoring performance against our Corporate Responsibility Framework, reviewing in detail our CR commitments including several ODIs and providing an oversight of the Groups key nonfinancial risks and opportunities.
Dame Angela Strank Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Governance Corporate Responsibility Committee report continued Stakeholder Engagement Key areas of focus for 2017 18 Corporate Responsibility Committee activities The Committee provides Board oversight of our CR strategy and A summary of some of the matters considered at each meeting our performance against our CR Framework.
The Committee isset out below: regularly reviews reputational risks, nonfinancial Internal Audit July 2017 reports, whistleblowing allegations and reviews in detail key Quarterly Corporate Responsibility performance report topics against our CR Framework.
Some key areas of discussion The identification and management of political risk and review during 2017 18 included: Demonstrating environmental leadership a Deep Dive on Our goal zero mindset for serious pollutions, as a key indicator Pollution Performance of our environmental leadership.
Reviewing our performance and plan for continuous improvement.
AntiSlavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2017 Update Our ambition to make our region the most water efficient in the Whistleblowing Report UK.
Reviewing progress against our commitment to empower November 2017 our customers to save 25 million litres a day Mld and future Quarterly Corporate Responsibility performance report challenges we need to consider.
Deep Dive: Water Efficiency Delivering our ambition for our vulnerable customers.
Deep Dive: Help if you struggle Reviewing performance against our commitment to support 50,000 customers who struggle to pay their bill and customer Whistleblowing Report research into developing our next five year plan to ensure we January 2018 lead at supporting customers in vulnerable circumstances, Corporate Responsibility Update 2018 both in terms of accessibility and service.
Deep Dive: Catchment Management and the Catchment Our approach to catchment management and taking a Based Approach catchment based approach.
Reviewing our performance Deep Dive: Supporting our Colleagues Mental Wellbeing against our AMP6 catchment ambitions and demonstrating the benefits of developing a vision for catchments across the Review of Whistleblowing policy and procedures Severn Trent region in collaboration with farmers.
Whistleblowing Report Our zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and our plans April 2018 to take all reasonable efforts to eradicate modern slavery Quarterly Corporate Responsibility performance report within both our business and our supply chain.
Deep Dive: Community Champions employee volunteering Our approach to whistleblowing.
Reviewing the effectiveness of Internal Audit aligned with CR Framework our whistleblowing procedures to ensure we provide adequate support for both the whistleblower and training for the Whistleblowing Report investigating managers.
AntiSlavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2018 Update Ambition One Ambition Two We will make our region the most We will play a leading role to help make water efficient in the UK our regions rivers even healthier Values 1 2 3 We put our customers first We are passionate We act with integrity about what we do 4 5 We protect our environment We are inspired to create anawesome company 92 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Human rights Doing The Right Thing The Severn Trent Way We are committed to protecting the human rights of our Every day our employees have to make choices about what they employees and contractors as we have clearly set out in our Code do and how they do it.
Most of the time it is clear what the right of Conduct, Doing the Right Thing.
We have a responsibility to thing to do is, whether it is about doing what is safe, doing the understand our potential impact on human rights and to mitigate right thing for our customers, doing what is right ethically and or eliminate any potentially negative impacts.
Whilst not having a what is right legally.
But there are always going to be times when specific human rights policy, we have Group policies on Human the situation isnt completely clear, and thats where our Code of Resources, Anti Bribery and AntiFraud, Whistleblowing Speak Conduct Doing the Right Thing comes in.
It details the values Up and Procurement.
These policies are, in turn, supported by we work by and explains who we are, what we stand for and how abroader range of policies to support key human rights.
It also tells our customers, investors and business partners that they can trust and rely on us.
These principles apply Prevention of child labour and forced labour to everyone in the Group, no matter where in the world they are We will not condone the use of child labour and forced labour based or what they do.
It clearly sets out the standards we need under any circumstances.
Our highest risk is through our to follow in our daytoday activities.
This remains an essential supply chain.
Therefore we work with our suppliers to ensure part of our employee induction and last year we introduced an they operate to the same standards we set ourselves, and we elearning module for all employees to ensure they understand have also been working closely with our suppliers to ensure their personal responsibilities.
they understand the risks involved in their own supply chains.
Prevention and detection of bribery All suppliers are required to sign up and operate in line with our andcorruption Code of Conduct, which clearly states our zero tolerance, and is built into our procurement tender process as part of the pre Our Group financial crime policy prohibits bribery, corruption qualification questionnaire template.
We encourage all suppliers, and fraud in all our business dealings, regardless of the country irrespective of turnover, to make a modern slavery and human or culture within which we work.
This year we have also updated trafficking statement that they do not tolerate modern slavery our policy to take into account the new tax evasion offences.
and human trafficking in their businesses.
Employees identified as high risk, through a risk review for all Group employees, are required to undertake an online training Freedom of association and collective module and test to ensure awareness of and compliance with bargaining antibribery and corruption.
The Audit Committee carries out an We recognise the right of all employees to Freedom of annual review of our systems and controls to detect and prevent Association and Collective Bargaining.
We seek to promote bribery and corruption.
cooperation between employees, our management team and recognised trade unions.
We meet with our trade unions on a Responsible business practices are an integral part of our quarterly basis at the Company forum and see mutual benefit business strategy and so this year, rather than having a in sharing information with our colleagues and seeking their separate CR Report within our Annual Report and Accounts, feedback and suggestions.
We believe this fosters a common we have integrated our performance throughout the report understanding of business needs and helps to deliver joint toreflect the importance of its embedded nature.
solutions aimed at making our business successful.
We also believe that the Company forum provides a suitable opportunity for engagement with the whole workforce to ensure workforce views are taken into account.
Whistleblowing All Severn Trent employees are encouraged to raise concerns at work in the first instance through their line manager, or senior management, however, we recognise that employees may find this difficult under certain circumstances.
If this might be the case, employees are encouraged to use our confidential and independent whistleblowing helpline or email service, operated by Safecall, an independent company that specialises in handling concerns at work.
The service is available internationally and Safecall provides a translation service, allowing any employee to access it, wherever they are in the world.
All investigations are carried out independently of direct line management and the findings are reported directly through to the Audit and CR Committees.
This year we reviewed the effectiveness of our whistleblowing procedures to ensure we offer suitable support toboth the whistleblowers and also the investigating managers.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93
