Strategic report Overview Sustainability and stakeholders Our goals are: - The environmentally sustainable re-use and management of existing buildingsInvest in the local communityEffective stakeholder engagement - A fair and ethical framework for employees and our supply chain At the heart of our sustainability strategy is a focus on extending Benchmark Management of sustainability the economic useful lives of our buildings.
Through changes of indices The Sustainability Committee meets quarterly to define objectives, use and reconfiguration, within the constraints of legislation, our agree strategies and review progress.
We have a robust and buildings can continue to meet the needs of modern occupiers.
effective Sustainability Policy which is reviewed annually by In an urban location, which is intensively used by huge numbers the Board and is available on our website.
of visitors, a large working population and residential community, We continue to base our sustainability strategies on our core goals: social issues and challenges are bound to arise.
We therefore focus on community-related activities which help to support Stakeholders: engaging with our tenants, investors and other organisations that tackle these problems.
stakeholders ensures that we are aware of their expectations and can respond accordingly.
In particular, we work with tenants The Wild West End collaboration, which promotes biodiversity, to identify ways in which they can use our buildings more continues to gain momentum.
Working with other neighbouring efficiently and operate in a more sustainable manner.
landowners, we are increasing the number of biodiversity features throughout our portfolio, with the consequent associated Environment: re-use and careful management of existing benefits of improved health and well-being for tenants, residents buildings.
In addition, reducing the running costs of buildings and and visitors.
The concept won an EPRA sustainability award for improving their operational efficiency is important in attracting its outstanding contribution to society.
tenants, as well as meeting regulatory requirements.
Our non-financial information statement is set out on page 146.
Working closely with our supply chain enables us to control our most significant impacts and facilitate better sustainability standards throughout.
Community: engaging with local groups and charities to ensure we support our community.
Employees: investing in our employees to support their development and encourage retention.
During 2018, we reviewed our materiality assessment which identifies the sustainability key issues and challenges which we should be addressing in the year ahead.
Our broad strategic goals remain relevant and will continue to form the framework of our approach.
Community, central London air pollution, living wage, health and safety, greenhouse gas emissions and infrastructure continue to be key issues, both internally and externally, and human rights, waste, material use and biodiversity are all increasing in significance.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 34 y t i n u S m u m p o s p C e l S i t e e u n s r y e p s E e m o s n p e y l n v l y o i i p o r l t o i n p e o l t e i m n p r m m d s e m s y m E n n o E e V o r l o E n i p i n u t c e s i m t o r d i e g b t n y a r o o u L c r o s b V s a i t L s n i a 1 1 Strategic report Overview Sustainability and stakeholders continued Stakeholders Modern slavery and human rights We have policies in place which address human rights, modern As a long-term business in the West End, we have developed slavery and the ethical conduct of our business, all of which are relationships with an extensive range of stakeholders with whom included within our Sustainability Policy which is updated we work across a range of activities.
We respect international principles of human rights and have been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2015.
Our Sustainability Policy is also provided to organisations in our supply chain to encourage them to adopt and enforce similar policies in their own businesses.
We ask our principal advisors and suppliers to commit to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights with respect to all employees and sub-contractors employed by them.
We promote the human rights of our employees through equal opportunity and in our recruitment process, regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, age, race, disability, marital status, religion and nationality.
As a consequence of our outsourcing model, the effective communication of our policies and objectives throughout our supply chain is important to ensure that an ethical and sustainable approach is adopted to the employment of labour and the purchase of goods and services on our behalf.
We ensure our Supplier Code of Conduct is circulated to our principal suppliers for inclusion in contracts.
Our Code requires payment of the London living wage and compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 throughout our supply chain.
We have recently launched a new supplier engagement process which includes our expectation that suppliers commit to our Sustainability Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct.
As part of our 2017 Modern Slavery Statement, we committed to We work closely with our suppliers and hold an annual seek accreditation with the Living Wage Foundation which we sustainability seminar which considers environmental and have successfully achieved.
It covers payment of our own community matters and ensures that our supply chain is aligned employees as well as those within our immediate supply chain.
For the first time this year, we held a similar We have updated our whistleblowing policy and expanded our seminar for the construction companies and project managers commitment to facilitate the reporting of inappropriate business in our supply chain, which was received very positively.
behaviour through a dedicated and confidential whistleblowing We hold an annual community breakfast which is a networking hotline for employees and our supply chain.
opportunity for our local partners - community groups, charities, not-for-profit organisations and local government Health and safety which operate in our areas.
The Board has overall responsibility for health and safety.
Our employees work closely with our local community including In our refurbishment projects, responsibility for health and local organisations, groups and statutory authorities with safety is identified within all pre-tender documentation and is responsibility for particular issues in our local environment such monitored by site and project managers.
Managing agents as safety and policing.
oversee day-to-day health and safety matters throughout the portfolio.
There were no reportable health and safety incidents in the portfolio.
The accident frequency rate for Shaftesbury employees was zero 2017: zero and there were no health and safety prosecutions, enforcement actions or fatalities in 2018.
Shaftesbury Annual Read more on our fifth community breakfast: page 38 Report 2018 35 t n o e a r T u s t L y h t A o i i s o r r c r e q i s y v a u t A i t r l s i a d i i l e r e s C o i r t i r s d y q B e e o l u v o d i a m d l l h i o t o e i y m r B h R a u e h e n r s S i i a d t h e y e S n t s t a s W Strategic report Overview Sustainability and stakeholders continued Environment We improve and extend the useful economic life of our buildings 57 Broadwick Street through refurbishment, change of use and reconfiguration.
An office refurbishment scheme which is on track to All our portfolio is located in Conservation Areas and around 20% achieve BREEAM Excellent post construction.
of our buildings are listed.
Within these constraints, we strive to The use of the existing structure provided the provide environmentally efficient commercial and residential opportunity to reduce the amount of new materials accommodation as well as advice to occupiers, to minimise the used within the construction process while reducing overall impact of our business on the environment.
the environmental impact caused by the development.
Waste The building incorporates a variety of energy and We achieved a recycling and composting of food waste rate of water efficiency measures within both the building 55% for Carnaby and Seven Dials.
We encourage composting by fabric and the services installation including: our restaurant tenants, and active engagement with tenants has increased the proportion to 18%.
The remaining waste is E nhancements to the building fabric envelope diverted from landfill to energy from waste schemes.
thermal performance by introducing thermal insulation to achieve lower capacity heating Our refurbishment projects diverted, on average, over 98% of systems, thereby reducing energy consumption waste from landfill.
P roviding new high performance glazing in order to reduce solar heat and reduce the cooling plant Air quality required We recognise the decline in air quality in central London and P roviding occupancy detection and automatic although we cannot directly influence this, we are promoting daylight dimming within the lighting control measures that will contribute to an improvement.
We promote system to occupiers the benefits of delivery consolidation and the use of a zero-emissions vehicle through our nominated suppliers.
Usi ng low energy, high efficiency light sources Through this initiative, there was a saving of 2.9 tonnes of carbon M aximising the use of daylighting within the over the course of the year equivalent to 6,838 miles driven.
building Biodiversity measures also help with improving air quality.
I ncluding water appliances within the building that reduce water consumption.
Single-use plastic The 5th floor roof area includes a green roof and This year we have engaged with our tenants to address the planters that have been planted with species in environmental issue of single-use plastic that is affecting both accordance with the objectives of Wild West End the local and global environment.
Initiatives have included the installation of a water fountain at Kingly Court as part of the and provide both biodiversity benefits as well as #OneLess and Mayor of London initiative.
To date, the equivalent reducing potential water run-off compared with the of over 20,000 500ml plastic bottles have been avoided.
We hosted a two-week public exhibition to raise awareness of single-use plastic and had a visit from Plasticus The Whale.
The Carnaby arch was themed for WWFs Earth Hour 2018 and our Street Eat food festival in August was entirely single-use plastic free.
Read more on single-use plastic: page 31 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 36 1 1 Strategic report Overview Sustainability and stakeholders continued Building certifications Use of materials Our objective is to achieve BREEAM Very Good for all larger We maximise the re-use of materials on site in all our commercial and domestic refurbishment schemes with three refurbishment projects, with a significant proportion of the schemes completing during the reporting period and a number primary structure and external faade retained.
Similarly, our of others are in progress with the majority on course to achieve approach is to re-use timber.
Timber features such as windows, at least Very Good.
In total over 10% of the portfolio by floor joists, floorboards, staircases and panelling are retained where area is on course to be BREEAM certified.
For the small volume of timber purchased, 89% was Forest Energy consumption Stewardship Council FSC certified and, overall, 96% was Energy consumption has been largely unchanged year-on-year sustainably sourced with full chain of custody.
reflecting fluctuations in tenant numbers and occupancy.
Due to the increased use of renewable energy in the national grid, Biodiversity greenhouse gas emissions decreased by over 16% from 1,316 We recognise the importance of promoting biodiversity.
West End is an intensively-used urban area, which needs thriving and connected green spaces.
This is important both for wildlife EPCs and the health and well-being of occupiers and visitors.
We continue to make good progress against the Governments This year we made further progress with our goal to improve the Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards MEES.
From April 2018, biodiversity of empty and inaccessible roof tops.
Through demised areas at the time of letting are required to have an installing additional features throughout the portfolio, including Energy Performance Certificate EPC of grade E or above.
green roofs, sedum roofs, window boxes, bird boxes and insect Properties that have in the past been assessed at Grades F or G homes, we have increased total area coverage by 33% from are currently occupied.
Once they become vacant, we will carry 9,524 sq.
ft. out such works as are necessary to improve their rating to above We promoted Defras Bees Needs Week again this year, by the minimum level.
installing a bee-themed Carnaby Street arch and hosted a pop A number of properties have not been assessed yet as they are up Hive on Carnaby Street, which helped to promote bee let on long-term leases which have not been subject to an conservation organisations and research.
Our work was expiry since 2008, when EPCs were introduced.
They will be recognised by DEFRA with an award as a Bees Needs Champion scheduled for works, to meet or exceed the requirements of 2018 for raising public awareness of the needs of pollinators.
MEES, when the leases expire.
We have installed two bee hives in Carnaby, making a total of five Of the EPCs assessed after refurbishment, over 80% were a across our portfolio.
Number of leases A-E Grade 1,144 F or G grade 168 Unassessed 155 See page 109 for our Greenhouse gas reporting Shaftesbury Annual See page 41 for information on greening our villages Report 2018 37 Strategic report Overview Sustainability and stakeholders continued Community Key activities Our activities are aligned with the area in which our portfolio is located and community engagement is embedded at all levels of CEO Sleepout for The House of St Barnabas our organisation.
We have a long record of close involvement with Staff, including our Chief Executive, took part in the local charities and not-for-profit organisations which work on CEO Sleepout raising funds for The House of St initiatives in these communities.
Not only are they our neighbours, 0.89m Barnabas, a charity which works to break the cycle of but the work of our local partners ensures that the West End homelessness.
continues to be a vibrant and diverse destination which supports residents, businesses and cultural organisations and welcomes Founding Partner of the Young Westminster growing numbers of domestic and international visitors.
Foundation Our community investment committee oversees the strategic As a founding partner, we support the Foundations direction and effectiveness of our community giving.
Reporting mission to create opportunities for children and young directly to the Board, the committee strengthens our people in Westminster enabling the next generation to community engagement through its focus on developing our fulfil their potential.
In this role, we encourage the relationships with key community partners and expanding local community, visitors, occupiers and partners to participation opportunities.
We have continued our membership of the London Benchmarking Group LBG.
Our contribution is measured in Westminster Lion accreditation accordance with their framework which provides a standard A new initiative from Westminster City Council which and comparable methodology.
recognises businesses that work hard to make a positive impact in their communities.
The total contribution comprises more than just cash - it is time given by employees and the cost of properties used for charitable or educational purposes.
We provide space to charities and other not-for-profit organisations on a short-term basis to assist in promoting their charity or cause in our areas or provide costeffective space for organisations in our central locations.
The chart shows the breakdown of these elements of our contribution.
Our community contribution amounted to 0.89 million which equates to 1.7% of EPRA earnings.
We support a wide range of organisations, a number of which are showcased throughout this annual report.
Others not mentioned elsewhere include: London College of Fashion, ZSL, Phoenix Gardens, St Annes Church, China Exchange, Trekstock and the Chinese Information and Advice Centre.
Our fifth community breakfast We work with many not-for-profit organisations in the local area.
To enable them to meet each other and How we contribute What we support network, we host an annual community breakfast.
More than 80 people attended the breakfast from 30 organisations spanning the arts, education, health, food, organisations for the homeless and elderly, environment, business improvement districts and local councils.
Brian Bickell welcomed guests and introduced Councillor Nickie Aiken, Leader of Westminster City Council, who spoke about local issues and the City Councils priorities.
Cash 52% Social welfare 28% Employee time 21% Other 4% In-kind contributions 19% Arts culture 10% Management costs 8% Education 40% Health 8% Environment 10% See page 63 for more on community engagement See page 18 for more information on charitable engagement See page 49 for more on our support to the arts Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 38 1 1 Strategic report Overview Sustainability and stakeholders continued Our approach is reflected in our recruitment procedures where we Employees ensure that we recruit from the widest talent pool and consider a full spectrum of attributes and backgrounds.
Our team We support the Pathways to Property programme which aims to We have a team of 30 full and part-time permanent employees.
improve diversity in the property sector by introducing students We operate on an outsourcing business model whereby from less-advantaged and non-traditional backgrounds to the day-to-day activities are devolved to long-term external industry.
Decision-making and strategic functions are not outsourced.
Pay and benefits We offer our employees competitive remuneration packages which Employees by department recognise their contribution to our business.
Everyone, regardless of their role or level of seniority, receives the same benefits, including Executive Directors company secretarial 5 participation in our LTIP scheme, a generous pension scheme and a tailored development programme.
Property including marketing 15 Volunteering leave was introduced last year and 14% of employees Finance 4 have taken advantage of the flexible working arrangements we offer which are designed to accommodate different working patterns.
Administration 6 Training and development Investment in the training and development of our employees is essential to our long-term success.
All employees have access to training and development tools and support that they require Fairplace Award 2017 for their day-to-day roles and for their career progression.
We became the first FTSE 250 real estate company to We offer a wide suite of training opportunities which can comprise win the prestigious Fairplace Award, an ethical workplace psychometric analysis, 360-degree assessment, external courses, accreditation from property charity the Ethical Property internal training and professional development.
This year, we have Foundation.
The award recognises good policy and partnered with Henley Business School to enable senior practice in the community in terms of funding local employees to undertake more intensive development training.
projects, carbon footprint and sustainability, and We have engaged a human resource specialist to assist with our landlord and tenant engagement.
strategic approach to employees and to formalise procedures we have in place.
As we are part way through this work, we expect to be able to report more extensively next year.
For the first time, we have undertaken an employee survey, so Our culture that we can be aware of our working environment and the expectations of employees.
The results of this will be reported in Our culture is open and inclusive.
We encourage individuality next years annual report.
and independence and we treat others with respect.
Our roles are interesting and varied, providing a breadth of experience and 2018 2017 interest.
Number of employees 30 29 Another essential ingredient in making Shaftesbury a good place to work is our culture of encouraging innovation and embracing Female 60% 59% new ideas.
Decisions are made efficiently and employees can Females on Executive Committee 57% 57% see their ideas coming to life.
excluding executive directors As a business, we make long-term decisions and are proud of Percentage of female board members 30% 30% our reputation for being a responsible landlord and an integral part of our local community.
We care about our impact, aiming to Average training hours per employee 19 16 create legacies that sustainably improve our locations.
This attracts people to work, and stay working, with us.
This is borne Average length of service years 11 12 out by the fact that our average length of service is 11 years and Employee turnover number 0 1 our employment turnover in 2018 was zero.
Absentee rate EPRA calculation 1.6 0.96 Diversity and inclusion Employees with flexible working arrangements 14% 14% We are committed to diversity within our team, recognising that diversity of thought, skills and personal attributes contribute to a successful business.
As a signatory to the 30% Club, gender diversity at senior levels of our organisation is important but we also recognise that diversity is not just limited to gender.
Hence, we also support Real Estate Balance which seeks to address the gender imbalance in property.
See also the Nomination Committee report on pages 80 to 81 for the Boards approach to gender diversity.
"Shaftesbury Annual See page 8 for more information on supporting the diversity agenda Report 2018 39 40 Shaftesbury and The greening of our villages the environment is an intrinsic part of our Window boxes and planters Across our portfolio, we have over 1,000 window boxes, 105 sustainability strategy planters and 50 hanging baskets, planted with ""bee-friendly"" species."
With over 200 million visits annually to the West End, we recognise the importance Green walls and roofs that thriving green spaces play in the city Twelve green roofs and walls, together with over 1,700 sq.
sedum pods increase biodiversity across our areas.
Across our portfolio, we have a number of features which not only make our locations Bees Needs Week Carnaby became a hive of activity more pleasant places to spend time, by as, together with many of our encouraging biodiversity, improving air tenants, we supported Bees Needs Week to raise awareness of the quality and encouraging access to green importance of pollinators to the spaces.
beauty of our landscapes and our economy.
Further details on our approach to We have five bee hives in Carnaby sustainability are set out on pages 34 to 37. and Covent Garden.
"Left: Together with other West End property owners, we have formed ""Wild West End"" which is working to encourage birds, bees and bats back into the West End."
Situated between four of Londons Royal Parks, the partnership aims to create a connecting network of green stepping stones through a combination of green roofs, green walls, planters, street trees and flower boxes.
This benefits not just wildlife and the environment, but all those who come to the area.
As part of our biodiversity strategy, we have created a roof-top garden at our office planted with pollinator-friendly plants.
