Governance Our people Executive Directors Brian Bickell FCA Simon J Quayle BSC MRICS Tom J C Welton MRICS Chris P A Ward MA OXON, ACA Chief Executive Executive Director Executive Director Finance Director Overall responsibility for implementing Responsible for the asset management Responsible for the asset Responsible for implementation of the strategy and day-to-day operations and operational strategy in Carnaby, management and operational strategy Groups financial strategy and all Soho and Fitzrovia in Covent Garden and Chinatown aspects of accounting, taxation and IT Joined the Group in 1986 Joined the Group in 1987 Joined the Group in 1989 Joined the Group in 2012 Board appointment Appointed Finance Director in 1987 Board appointment Board appointment Board appointment and Chief Executive in 2011 Appointed Property Director in 1997 Appointed Property Director in 1997 Appointed Finance Director in 2012 External appointments External appointments External appointments External appointments Director of Longmartin Properties ZSL development strategy board Director of Longmartin Properties Westway Trust: trustee, chairman of Limited Limited audit committee and member of Revo strategy board property and regeneration committee Board member of Westminster Member of Council for Sustainable Property Association Business Chairman, UK China Visitor Alliance Board member of Freehold Left to right: Chris Ward, Simon Quayle, Brian Bickell, Tom Welton Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 64 3 Governance Governance Our people Non-executive Directors Skills Current external appointments Jonathan C Nicholls ACA, FCT Sally E Walden Over 20 years experience of public Non-executive director and chairman Non-executive Chairman and Non-executive director and company boards and their operation of the audit committee of JTC PLC Chairman of the Nomination Chairman of the Remuneration Governor of Activate Learning Finance, commercial, strategic, Committee Committee communication, investor relations and Skills Board Chairman appointment 2016 Board appointment 2012 management skills Strong financial skills Experience Experience 21 years experience in property and Extensive experience in leadership From 1985 various roles at Abbey From 1984 to 2009 with Fidelity related industries and management National.
In 1996 joined Hanson PLC International in senior fund and became Finance Director in 1998 management roles Jill C Little Richard Akers FRICS Old Mutual plc Group Finance Director Current external appointments Non-executive director and Non-executive director from 2006-2008 Trustee of the Fidelity Foundation SeniorIndependent Director Board appointment 2017 Non-executive director of Man Group Director of the Pantry Partnership Board appointment 2010 plc 2004-2006 Experience Skills Experience Senior executive of Land Securities Non-executive director and chairman Experience of financial markets and John Lewis Partnership 1975 to 2012.
Joined of the audit committee of Great fund management Merchandise director 2002-2011 and main board in May 2005 as Managing Portland Estates plc 2009-2016 Financial analysis skills Business and Development director Director of the Retail Portfolio Non-executive director and chairman 2011-2012 Experience in remuneration structures Director and President of the British of the audit committee of SIG plc Current external appointments Council of Shopping Centres 2009-2017 Dermot C A Mathias BSC, FCA Chairman of the Commercial Group of 2009-2012 Current external appointments Non-executive director and the National Trust, NTE Limited and Current external appointments Non-executive director, senior Chairman of the Audit NTRE Limited Non-executive director, senior independent director and chairman of Committee Non-executive director of Joules independent director and chairman the audit committee of D S Smith Plc Board appointment 2012 Group Plc and Nobia AB ofthe remuneration committee and Chairman of Ibstock plc Experience safety, health and environmental Skills Partner in the corporate finance committee of Barratt Developments PLC Extensive experience in the retail sector department of BDO LLP from 1980 Communication and management skills Member of the advisory board of Battersea Power Station Development Senior partner of BDO and chairman Company Limited of the policy board of BDO International 2004-2010 Non-executive director of The Unite Group plc Skills Left to right: Jill Little, Jonathan Nicholls, Hilary Riva, Richard Akers, Sally Walden, Dermot Mathias Broad range of real estate knowledge and experience at board level, including retail property Hilary S Riva OBE Non-executive director and designated non-executive director for employee engagement Board appointment 2010 Will retire from the Board in February 2019 Experience Previously managing director of various high street brands including Top Shop, Warehouse, Dorothy Perkins and Evans Chief Executive of the British Fashion Council from 2005-2009 and remained in a non-executive capacity until 2010 Current external appointments Non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee of ASOS Plc Director of Shepherd Neame Limited Skills Extensive experience in the fashion retail sector Understanding of consumer behaviour and strategic planning Independent non-executive directors for the purposes of the UK Corporate Shaftesbury Governance Code.
More Annual detailed biographies are Report 2018 available on our website.
65 Governance Our people Senior leadership team The Executive Committee comprises the executive directors and the senior leadership team.
Penny Thomas LLB HONS, FCIS Julia Wilkinson BSC MSC Andrew Price BSC HONS, Rob Kirk BSC HONS, MRICS MRICS MRICS Company Secretary Portfolio Executive Portfolio & Group Restaurant Portfolio Executive Joined 2004 Joined 2005 Strategy Executive Joined 2001 Advises the Board on governance.
Carnaby and Soho asset management Joined 1997 Responsible for compliance, company Group-wide acquisitions strategy and and group-wide property management Group restaurant and leisure leasing secretarial and group-wide sustainability.
strategy and Opera Quarter, Coliseum Member of sustainability, risk, Chairman of community investment Member of sustainability and risk and Fitzrovia asset management.
pension and community investment committee and member of pension committees.
Board member of Soho Neighbourhood Trustee of Soho Square Garden Forum.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 66 3 Governance Our people Senior leadership team continued Sam Bain-Mollinson Charles Owen BSC HONS, Karen Baines FCIM BA HONS MSC, MRICS MRICS Head of Group Marketing & Head of Retail Portfolio Executive Communications Joined 2011 Joined 2012 Joined 2016 Group retail strategy and leasing.
Seven Dials and St Martins Courtyard Consumer, trade and corporate asset management and group-wide communications, marketing and planning strategy.
Member of community investment and risk committees.
Corporate website Other websites shaftesbury.
co. uk Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 67 Governance Our people Directors' Q&A Chairman Jonathan Nicholls and non-executive director Richard Akers, our most recent appointment, provide an insight into their respective roles at the Group.
What skills are required to be an How do you encourage open and effective Chairman and how do these constructive dialogue at board meetings?
differ from other board positions?
For the Board to operate effectively, it is essential that every directors opinion is heard and fed into The fundamental role of the Chairman is to manage the decision-making process.
In order to facilitate and lead the Board which means that strong leadership constructive dialogue, I strive to cultivate a board skills are essential, more so than in other directorship culture that is open and transparent.
On a practical positions since responsibility for the successful level, I ensure that Board papers are sent out early running of the Board rests with the Chairman.
so that the directors have sufficient time to properly We benefit from a Board comprised of individuals prepare for every meeting.
The Chairman should have the interpersonal skills to ensure the Board functions cohesively and effectively, and where each The Chairman must have the directors views and opinions are respected.
Even interpersonal skills to ensure the most experienced boards can face difficult and challenging periods and the Chairman should have that the Board as a whole Jonathan Nicholls the experience and strength of personality to overcome functions cohesively and these situations and provide leadership to the rest Chairman effectively of the Board.
answers questions The Chairman should be able to communicate regarding his role effectively to external stakeholders, for example, What do you enjoy most about your at the annual general meeting.
as Chairman roles as Chairman and Chairman of the How do you feel that your industry Nomination Committee?
experience has prepared you for your I have seen first-hand how the Groups management strategy has created dynamic and attractive West role as Chairman of the Board?
End destinations, and I am proud to be the Chairman I have held numerous management and directorship of such an exciting company.
My role has presented positions in my career, all of which have equipped me with the unique opportunity to learn about how me with the diverse skill set required to hold the we operate.
Relative to its financial size, we are a positions of Chairman of the Board and the small organisation of 30 staff all based in one office in Nomination Committee.
Carnaby, and it has been a real pleasure getting to As a former executive director and a non-executive know our people, our exceptional portfolio and how director of various PLCs for over ten years, I have the business operates.
had meaningful decision-making roles at board level which informs my business judgement.
I know what it is like to be both an executive and non-executive director so that I can put myself in the shoes of our directors which helps me to understand and cultivate different points of view and act as a liaison between management and the Board.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 68 3 Governance Our people Directors' Q&A continued What attracted you to the role of a How do the non-executive directors non-executive director at Shaftesbury?
simultaneously support and constructively challenge the executive I have always been a fan of Shaftesbury because of its clear identity, strategy and consistent performance.
It is unique in its approach to property investment, It is a delicate balance.
On the one hand, the namely the careful curation of its locations to create non-executive directors must maintain independence vibrant and attractive destinations.
Joining the Board and hold the executive directors to account against gives me the opportunity to contribute my own the strategy whilst on the other they must provide industry experience to help drive that strategy support and be committed to our direction.
through creative contribution and helpful challenge I am pleased to say that this Board maintains a very to the Board.
open and collaborative culture which is overseen by What types of skills and competencies our Chairman, and this encourages the type of make a successful non-executive constructive debate one would expect from a well-functioning and supportive Board.
Richard Akers A fundamental skill for any effective non-executive director is the capacity for independent thought and A fundamental skill for any Non-executive Director a resistance to group-think.
Non-executive directors effective non-executive answers questions must provide an external perspective to the Board which means that big picture and long-term thinking director is the capacity for regarding the roles skills are extremely valuable as well.
Effective independent thought and and responsibilities of communication, active listening skills and knowing a resistance to group-think how to ask the right questions to get to the root of the non-executive an issue quickly are important if there is to be directors effective debate at Board level.
It goes without saying Outside of the boardroom, how do the that non-executive directors must be passionate non-executive directors maintain a high about the company and its direction and bring some level of involvement?
specific competency or experience to the table.
A non-executive directorship does not involve just attending board meetings every few months.
In between board meetings, the non-executive directors are given regular progress updates and a good deal of information is shared to ensure we are each fully aware of developments and can prepare effectively for upcoming meetings.
In addition, there are regular meetings with members of the executive team as well as portfolio tours with the property team, all of which promote a high level of involvement and engagement with employees at all levels of the business.
