Sustainability: Principles Sustainability Gender diversity SIGs medium term strategy is to deliver significant improvement SIG are committed to equality and recognise the value that can be in operational and financial performance.
Strong progress has created from diversity.
As it operates in the construction industry, been made this year to achieve this transformation, providing SIG has typically attracted a higher population of male employees.
the foundations for future long term value generation.
Through SIG's average gender pay gap in 2018 of 5.4% was significantly lower transformation, SIG are working to improve the experience of all of than the national average of 17.1%, and the average for the industry its stakeholders, including its suppliers, customers, shareholders and at 16.0%.
This reflects a reduction in its gender pay gap from 2018 employees.
In 2018, SIG defined the key areas of focus which will develop SIG recognises its corporate responsibilities towards its diversity and inclusion across the Group, and which seeks to address shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers and is committed its gender pay gap further, including challenging its recruitment to socially responsible business practice.
In 2018 SIG continued to processes, developing its policies, the ongoing assessment of integrate Corporate Responsibility across the Group.
remuneration and a focus on training and awareness particularly for its management population.
SIG will work towards these actions in The Group implements policies that include social and environmental 2019 to create a more diverse and inclusive organisation that helps it issues in our decision-making processes, and is investing in the to attract talent and maximise their potential.
development and wellbeing of its people and communities.
SIG believes this approach supports the Group in achieving its business The Gender Pay Report is published on the Companys website goals as well as growing shareholder value.
As a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible companies, SIG is pleased to inform stakeholders of the measures it is taking to continually develop its approach to corporate responsibility, including how it monitors and improves performance reporting.
SIG code of conduct SIG has a Code of Conduct which sets out our ethical standards and Board Senior Total expected behaviours from all employees around the Group.
The members managers population Code provides guidance on how to manage certain situations and where to go for advice, and outlines our obligations across a number 25% 19% 20% of business policies, including anti-bribery and corruption and ethical trading and human rights, amongst others.
The Code is supported by our Group and local policies, procedures and guidelines that are designed to protect the business and our employees from legal, financial and reputational risk.
A confidential and independent hotline service is available to all employees so that they can raise any concerns about how the Group Board Senior Total conducts its business.
SIG believes this is an important resource members managers population which supports a culture of openness throughout the Group.
The service is provided by an independent third party with a full 75% 81% 80% investigation being carried out on all matters raised and a report prepared for feedback to the concerned party.
The Code of Conduct can be viewed on the Companys website www.
Ethical trading and human rights policy The ethical trading and human rights policy covers the main issues Diversity and equal opportunities policy that may be encountered in relation to product sourcing and sets SIG aims to provide an inclusive and supportive working environment out the standards of professionalism and integrity which should be for all, with equal opportunities for all existing and prospective maintained by employees in all Group operations worldwide.
SIG's priority is always to ensure that its business and its processes do not discriminate against any individual, and promote a The policy sets out standards concerning: culture of equal opportunity.
Safe and fair working conditions for employees The Groups diversity and equal opportunities policy can be found on Responsible management of social and environmental issues its website www.
within the Group and The international supply chain SIG promotes human rights through its employment policies and practices, through its supply chain and through the responsible use of its products and services.
48 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT MALE FEMALE STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability: Our people Anti-bribery and corruption policy Modern Slavery Act 2015 SIG has a number of fundamental principles and values that it The Group has published its Group anti-slavery statement in believes are the foundation of sound and fair business practice, one respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 on its website of which is a zero tolerance position on bribery and corruption.
com, in line with Home Office guidance.
The Group Groups anti-bribery and corruption policy clearly sets out the ethical continues to work with its supply chain to ensure there is a zero values required to ensure compliance with legal requirements within tolerance policy to slavery.
The Board is in the process of reviewing countries in which SIG and its subsidiary companies operate.
progress in order to provide an updated statement to 31 December 2018.
The statement will be uploaded to the Company website within Anti-bribery and corruption training is provided across the Group six months of the financial year end.
for all senior management through to branch managers and external sales people.
This training is provided via our online training resource, and also includes modules on competition law.
SIG values its reputation for ethical behaviour, financial probity and reliability.
It recognises that over and above the commission of any crime, any involvement in bribery will also reflect adversely on its image and reputation.
Its aim, therefore, is to limit its exposure to bribery and corruption by: Setting out a clear policy on anti-bribery and corruption Training all employees so that they can recognise and avoid the use of bribery by themselves and others Encouraging employees to be vigilant and to report any suspicion of bribery, providing them with suitable channels of communication and ensuring sensitive information is treated appropriately Rigorously investigating instances of alleged bribery and assisting the police and other appropriate authorities in any resulting prosecution Taking firm and vigorous action against any individual s involved in bribery or corruption.
A copy of the anti-bribery and corruption policy is available to view on the Companys website www.
com Stock code: SHI 49 Sustainability: Our people Vision and values Talent development At SIG, our vision is Stronger Together, which is underpinned by six The leadership population is assessed as part of our talent review values that guide the behaviours that we expect from our employees in order for us to identify the talent capability and development and the way in which we work with colleagues, customers, suppliers areas for future potential.
In addition, our programme dedicated to in the communities in which we operate.
developing high potential employees in the business, RISE, aims to identify and progress our future leaders and support the delivery of These values are Trust, Respect, Integrity, Commitment, Teamwork our strategic goals.
In 2018, the first cohort concluded this programme, with six Improved capability cohort members graduating from the scheme.
After completing six extensive development modules over the course of an 18 month We recognise that our competitive advantage lies in fostering a programme, which included a six-month language course and a performance management culture that enables value to be created stretch project linked to delivery of our medium term plans, the for our customers, suppliers and communities in which we operate, programme culminated in a presentation to the Group Executive through employee contribution.
In order to achieve this, we must Committee.
Following the completion of the programme, the ensure that SIG has the right people, optimally deployed and participating employees were then given access to one-to-one properly engaged to deliver the strategy and business results.
executive coaching for a further six months, to take their learning As part of our strategy, building on our potential, the capability into the workplace.
of our workforce is a key enabler.
During the course of 2018, our In addition, as we bring senior leaders into the business, it is organisation went through significant transformation.
In line with important that we equip them with the right knowledge and tools in our strategic approach, we took considerable steps to simplify the order for them to perform in their roles quickly.
As such, in 2018 we organisation and increase opportunities for improved operational launched a review of the senior leadership induction programme, efficiencies.
The reduction in headcount across the business and with the aim of identifying key areas of improvement.
restructures in many of our operating companies have allowed us to remove historical hierarchy and begin to drive improved ways of Our international graduate programme continues to offer its working going forward.
members the chance to develop valuable skills in learning, teamwork, leadership and problem solving that will help support their work in In October 2018, we outsourced our UK Finance shared service the business, and provides the business with a consistent pipeline centre, providing the opportunity for us to re-evaluate our activities of new talent across a range of functions.
The two year programme and ways of working to improve efficiencies and finance controls.
In offers graduates the opportunity to experience working in different addition, a number of our operating companies centralised functions placements across SIG, from Finance, Category Management, from individual branches, such as sales and inventory management.
Marketing, Corporate Development, Project Management, Operations, Supply Chain and HR, where they complete a six month We are confident that these fundamental steps are providing us placement in an area of the business outside of their home country.
with the right structure on which to develop our people capabilities through strengthened functional accountability and dedicated Alongside their placements, graduates also take part in regular expertise.
development activities and modules outside of the workplace.
Strengthened leadership With operations across mainland Europe, we benefit from a broad range of skills and experience and recognise that leveraging these capabilities, and developing our people to reach their potential, is fundamental in driving a performance management culture that adds real value.
Throughout 2018 we saw a significant change in our leadership from Board level down.
We welcomed two new Board members in 2018, bringing extensive knowledge of and experience in the construction industry.
In addition, a significant proportion of the senior leadership team changed throughout the year, adding further skills and capabilities.
We believe that with this strengthened population, we have the right leaders across the business to deliver our ambitious transformation plans.
50 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY Case study International graduate scheme Claudia Cogliati international graduate, France Claudia joined the international graduate scheme in September 2016.
As part of the six monthly rotations, Claudia worked across a number of functions, including marketing, procurement and supply chain.
Claudia now holds the position of Buyer for exterior building materials in France.
Being part of the international graduate scheme at SIG has provided me with an amazing opportunity to develop my skills and experience across an international business.
I gained valuable experience from a number of functions across the Group, and gained the most value in the procurement and supply chain functions where I found my passion for the negotiation and development of procurement strategies.
As a result, following the completion of the scheme, I entered into the role of Buyer for exterior building materials, managing a portfolio of 30m.
Throughout the scheme, feedback and coaching from leaders in the business has influenced my experience and allowed me to explore areas for development that will shape my career path going forward.
I continue to gain valuable experience from my role and see a number of opportunities for roles that I could move into, for example, Category Manager.
Recruiting graduates into the scheme means we are constantly bringing a fresh perspective and new skills into the business, and in turn, we can help them develop their abilities in the workplace.
Im looking forward to welcoming the next graduate cohort to the business.
Members of the RISE programme cohort who completed their 18-month programme.
Fran Galbraith, Group Talent and Development Director said: A massive congratulations to the colleagues on cohort one for completing our first RISE programme.
Were committed to developing our people at every stage in their career and RISE is a dedicated programme which equips our ambitious high performers with the tools they need.
The team then went on to participate in the oneto-one leadership coaching for a further 6 months.
Cohort 1 completed their RISE programme during the year.
Left to right: Meinie Oldersma, Group Chief Executive: Gemma Prince - Senior Procurement Manager - Insulation, SIGD UK: Steve Pearson - Procurement Director, SIGE UK 2018 : Nick Maddock, Group Chief Financial Officer: Bartosz Pilch - SIG Poland, eCommerce Director, SIG Poland: Maarten van Evren - Manager, IT and Business Control, SIG Air Handling www.
com Stock code: SHI 51 Sustainability: Our people Engaging our people Charity and community involvement In 2018 we conducted our annual engagement survey SIG Listens.
Across the SIG Group, our employees continue to participate in a This was our third survey, which was delivered in eight languages wide variety of charitable activities that add value to the communities across the Group and aimed to provide data and insight into the in which we operate.
wider employee experience to help inform key strategic decisions.
In the UK, employees in SIG Exteriors in Cardiff and Swansea The survey received a response rate of 66% and an engagement took part in a charity football match, to raise money for Muscular index of 69%, thus providing a valuable baseline for us to build on Dystrophy UK and Cancer Research UK.
Between the teams, they which to build in 2019. raised over 1,000 for the charities.
Many employees have taken on personal challenges, including midnight walks, 10k races, charity Recognising our employees contributions is also a key element treks, marathons, and an eight-day expedition race through 400km of engaging and retaining our people.
Our Values in Practice of the Scottish Highlands undertaken by an employee in our SIG recognition programme allows peer-to-peer recognition of Exteriors business.
Through the efforts of our colleagues, and with colleagues who have gone above and beyond in demonstrating the support of the companys matched funding scheme, we have our values.
Managers present the awards and the winners are then raised over 7,000 for local and national charities throughout the recognised and celebrated through newsletters and intranet articles year.
In 2018, c. 700 nominations were made and we continue to encourage recognition in all areas of the business.
Employees in Ireland donated to a number of charities, dedicated to providing funding and support for children with severe illnesses, Embarking on and embedding transformation relies on the including CMRF Crumlin, Laura Lynn House, Template Street contribution of each and every employee.
Therefore, it is important Childrens University Hospital Foundation and Helping Hand.
that we recognise performance and behaviours that drive us towards realising our strategy.
SIG Poland contributed towards a number of charities through their local branches and continue to offer their time to local volunteer It is important that we remain competitive in the employment programmes.
At the end of the year, the team participated in the markets in which we operate.
We adopt a fair and consistent Noble Package scheme, which aims to provide families in need with approach to remuneration throughout the organisation, and our packages of food and appliances.
remuneration offerings are benchmarked regularly both internally and externally.
Throughout 2018, in line with the organisational Employees in SIG Germany ran a month-long contest to encourage restructures, we simplified many job titles and families across the usage and involvement with the new social intranet, launched locally Group and introduced clearer pay structures to support our fixed in September 2018.
Whilst a prize was offered to the winners, the and variable pay.
eight members of the winning team donated the equivalent value of the prizes to two charitable organisations: one supporting the The bonus schemes we operate are designed to reward exceptional homeless and one supporting children and their families coping with performance and contribution across the business and focus leukaemia.
The business doubled the amount of each donation to specifically on deliverables and local performance results.
In addition, the Share Incentive Plan SIP is open to all UK employees and gives one matching share for each share purchased by the employee up to a maximum of 20 per month.
As at 31 December 2018, there were 527 employees participating in the SIP.
In 2018, we launched a new SIG plc Management Incentive Plan MIP for our senior leadership population to better support strategy execution.
The MIP provides an integrated approach to incentives and replaced the annual bonus and Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIP.
The MIP consists of three elements cash bonus, deferred share award and restricted share award.
The MIP strengthens the link between performance and reward and allows a range of annual performance conditions to be set based on financial, operational and strategic requirements.
Leveraging our strategic enablers Our strategic enablers focus on better IT, improved data and Left to right: Sonja von der Hagen, Sabine Noack and Iwona Wagner, located at improved capability.
Our focus on improving our people capability our Service Centre in Bremen, Germany across the Group also relies on providing our leaders and employees with key data and information in order to make effective and informed decisions about the business and in the management of our people.
In 2018 we embarked on a transformation project to replace our core HR information systems which aims to streamline our processes and provide enhanced data to our managers and employees, in order for them to optimise performance and inform decision making.
52 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability: Health, safety and the environment We prioritise the health, safety and welfare of our employees, visitors, Our accident review panel, involving senior management, ensures contractors and members of the public who may be impacted by our that learning points from accidents and near misses are acted on.
We also have an obligation to care for the environment Our accident review panel reviews accidents and statistics to identify through the prevention of pollution and the monitoring of good high-risk areas, to enable us to focus on enacting change when it is environmental practices.
Significant issues are communicated to the Board and our insurers.
Health and safety We have embedded a Zero Harm programme across the Group, Our policy is to take a zero tolerance approach to anyone being unfit ensuring that we maintain the highest standards of health and for work due to drugs or alcohol.
We reserve the right to provide safety.
As part of that programme, we have moved away from for testing of individuals subject to the legislative constraints within reactive auditing towards a risk-based process, to ensure that local our operating countries.
A routine programme of random testing is management is held accountable for its actions.
provided in the UK & Ireland for employees and others engaged in safety critical roles.
For cause testing is also provided for instance Since the start of our Zero Harm programme in 2014, we have seen following an accident or where there is reasonable suspicion.
significant improvements in the number and rate of accidents.
In 2018, we continued to see an improvement in the Group's rate SIG Trading Limited was prosecuted by the HSE and fined 600k for RIDDOR equivalent accidents and a 4% increase in the number plus costs of 24k on 1 February 2019 in Carlisle Crown Court.
of accidents in the AIR category with the rate disproportionately The prosecution was in respect of an accident at A Steadman and affected by the reduction in employee numbers.
Son in Warnell, Cumbria, which occurred in October 2015.
Whilst using an electrically-powered folding machine to bend metal a As part of Zero Harm, we commit to twelve Life Saving Rules, machine operator suffered a severe hand injury.
An immediate and developed to target our risk profile.
We communicate frequently with thorough investigation was conducted at the time and the failings in our people, through a combination of means, including for example: communication and implementation of risk controls were effectively tool box talks, workshops and e-learning.
The Company accepts the findings of the court and the number of training programmes for our people, including a RoSPA safety of machining processes continues to be a primary focus for accredited modular training programme the SIG certificate in the Group.
Health, Safety and Environmental Management, and other regional training workshops including Supervising Safely, Working Safely and The Accident Incident Rate AIR is calculated as per 1,000 for over three day and specified major injury.
Since the launch of the Zero Harm programme, SIG has retained the Occupational road risk RoSPA Gold standard for occupational health and safety.
We recognise that driving is among the most hazardous tasks performed by our employees.
Our drivers are assessed for The Group uses a health and safety management system that competence and selected through an authorisation and licence is modelled on the internationally recognised Health and Safety check procedure.
We routinely inspect our vehicle fleet and audit Standard BS-OHSAS 18001:2007.
The UK businesss management business compliance with fleet procedures.
We manage our fleet system has been accredited to the standard for more than 10 years maintenance and inspection programme centrally.
through its partnership with Intertek.
We recognise that our drivers act as representatives for our business Our dedicated Health, Safety and Environmental HSE professionals whilst they are on the road and we promote a culture of safe and assist in delivering the risk assessment and management review courteous driving through our training programme.
Our HSE programme ensures that we aim for continuous improvement in the management of health and safety We adopt road safety schemes, including the voluntary Fleet risk.
Our risk profile is reviewed annually, and informs our HSE Operator Recognition Scheme FORS.
As an active champion of the programme.
This year, we targeted occupational road risk, deliveries Construction Logistics and Cyclist Safety Group, we aim to promote and traffic management, and improved safety with the introduction the status of vulnerable road users.
We consider their Safer Urban of 360 degree vehicle cameras, providing driver awareness training Driving courses to be essential to our driver training, and we continue and improving vehicle management and driver engagement at to work with vehicle manufacturers in their development of solutions our branches.
to improve visibility towards other road users.
com Stock code: SHI 53 Sustainability: Health, safety and the environment Accidents and incidents Rate per 1,000 employees UK and Ireland 2018 2017 2016 2015 Major injury 1.7 1.6 2.3 2.3 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 7.5 6.4 6.8 10.8 All RIDDORs 6.3 5.8 6.5 9.3 Average UK & Ireland headcount 4,121 4,968 5,569 5,174 Lost work day rate number of work days per 100 employees 23.0 19.2 22.2 26.3 Accident incident rate injury resulting in over 3 absence days from work or major injury per 100 employees 9.7 6.9 8.7 12.5 Rate per 1,000 employees Mainland Europe 2018 2017 2016 2015 Major injury 1.3 1.1 1.7 1.8 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 12.8 12.4 12.6 13.2 All RIDDORs equivalent 10.4 12.2 11 13 Average Mainland Europe headcount 4,601 4,688 4,746 4,467 Lost work day rate number of work days per 100 employees 24.9 27.5 28.1 29.9 Accident incident rate injury resulting in over 3 absence days from work or major injury per 100 employees 12.9 13.3 14.2 15.1 Rate per 1,000 employees Group 2018 2017 2016 2015 Major injury 1.5 1.3 2 2.1 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 10.3 9.3 9.5 11.9 Rate per 1,000 employees Group 2018 2017 2016 2015 All RIDDORs equivalent 8.5 8.9 8.5 11 Average Group headcount 8,722 9,674 10,315 9,641 This includes accidents in non-UK businesses that would meet the criteria for reporting in the UK under RIDDOR.
Quality assurance and The Board member responsible for HSE is the Chief Executive management systems Officer, who places paramount importance on the safety of our We periodically review and audit our management systems to ensure people.
A copy of our HSE Policy is displayed in the local language at they are maintained to a high standard.
Where possible, systems are each operating branch.
externally certificated to ISO 9001:2015, FSC0STD 40-004 and PEFCOur HSE programme encompasses environmental matters and is ST 2002:2013 standards.
We also integrate these standards into our reviewed annually to ensure that it aligns to our strategy.
We aim to daily business, ensuring that our products and services meet our improve continuously, and this is achieved through objectives set customers expectations.
In turn, this ensures that we conduct our at Group, operating company and local level with regular reviews procurement processes responsibly.
against key performance indicators, including those set out in this report and on our website.
Environment We commit to maintaining appropriate environmental management We regularly risk assess our business against qualitative and standards across our operations to meet both our statutory quantitative, generic, model and task-specific criteria, via the Groups obligations and best practice.
During 2018, our environmental legal aspects and impacts register.
Significant findings are communicated compliance record remained excellent, with no prosecutions or to management and operatives.
We operate a Group-wide audit actions from the authorities.
programme to ensure that the integrity of control measures is maintained.
Significant risks and progress made to address them are We operate a combined Health, Safety and Environmental HSE reviewed at Board level.
Our management system is accredited to OHSAS 18001 for health and safety and to ISO 14001 for the environment, and those Our aspects and impacts register and our corporate environmental accreditations are externally verified by Intertek.
Our ISO 14001 risk assessment set out the potential impact that our operations management system successfully migrated to 14001 2015 ahead of could have on the local and global environment.
54 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT In compliance with both voluntary and statutory carbon accounting Carbon management schemes, we audit our energy consumption and work in close We set our environmental objectives from our low carbon partnership with our external partners to reduce our environmental sustainability policy, which aims to reduce our consumption of fuel, impact and improve our data collection and accounting processes.
energy, water and waste, thus reducing our environmental impact.
As a result, we have achieved the ISO verification standard.
Our carbon footprint accounting process is annually verified to ISO As we upgrade our locations, we make energy efficient choices, 14064-3 to a limited level of assurance.
2018, represents our fifth including installing movement and daylight sensor LED lighting successive year of achieving the standard.
systems, efficient heating and cooling systems and efficient hand driers.
As a result, emissions from electricity consumption reduced Our carbon accounting and reporting programme meets the by 15.4% in 2018. requirements of the UK Government's statutory Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme ESOS.
Our business objectives take Greenhouse gas GHG emissions into account any energy saving efficiencies identified during the compliance process.
Our carbon footprint includes all emission sources as required under the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Our environmental metrics are published externally through the Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013.
Emission voluntary Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
CDP works with investors, factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for companies and governments to put in place environmental Company Reporting 2014 along with factors from The International disclosure and action that will deliver a sustainable economy, prevent Energy Agency IEA list for 2018 have been used to calculate our dangerous climate change and protect natural resources.
achieved a performance rating of band 'C' for 2018.
We are committed to providing full and accurate data for our carbon As we invest in the refurbishment of our existing buildings and fit out footprint, with minimal reliance on estimates.
For the fifth year in new sites, we seek energy efficient solutions.
Our greenhouse gas succession we have achieved external verification of our carbon emissions have reduced in recent years as a result of pursuing this account to the ISO 14064-3 standard.
strategy, along with progressively upgrading our road vehicle fleet.
Our carbon footprint includes Scope 1 CO2 emissions, for which Transport businesses are directly responsible, and Scope 2 CO2 emissions from the generation of electricity by a third party resulting in indirect Our primary metric is vehicle fuel consumption, as emissions from emissions.
We have also disclosed Scope 3 CO2 emissions over road vehicle fuel consumption makes up 76.0% of the Groups which the business has limited control, being third party air and rail total carbon footprint.
This year, we have reduced our absolute transportation.
consumption of road vehicle fuel by 7.1%.
We have achieved this reduction through projects to consolidate the number of our Our emission accounting period is non-coterminous with the branches and the size of our vehicle fleet, the introduction of energy Groups financial year, with current year data reflecting the year to 30 efficient vehicles where possible and the continual upgrade of our September 2018.
This enables us to dedicate the appropriate time property portfolio.
and resource to enable more accurate carbon reporting and to audit the process.
In 2018, 93.5% of calculations are based on actual data We also provide driver eco training courses, designed to influence 2017: 95.1%.
Estimates are prepared on the basis of agreed and driver behaviour, including the Driver Certificate of Professional verified accounting processes.
Trainers are also provided an auditing and advice programme on a continual basis.
This year we are pleased to report a decrease of 8.0% in Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the last reporting year.
Our overall footprint for Energy Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions showed a decrease of 8.0% in the last reporting year.
Our second highest priority for carbon management is electricity consumption, accounting for 11.8% of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions in 2018 2017: 12.8%.
Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes CO Emissions Scope 1 Direct 2018 2017 2016 2 1 Road vehicle fuel emissions 55,745 59,997 60,782 2 Plant vehicle fuel emissions 4,910 5,202 5,329 3 Natural gas 2,848 3,047 2,810 4 Coal coke for heating 56 46 51 5 Heating fuels Kerosene & LPG 632 689 722 Total 64,191 68,981 69,694 Data source and collection methods 1.
Fuel cards and direct purchase records in litres converted according to BEIS guidelines.
Direct purchase records in litres converted according to BEIS guidelines.
Consumption in kWh converted according to BEIS guidelines.
Purchases in tonnes converted according to BEIS guidelines.
Purchases in litres converted according to BEIS guidelines.
com Stock code: SHI 55 Sustainability: Health, Safety and the Environment Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes CO Emissions Scope 2 Indirect 2018 2017 2016 2 6 Electricity 8,567 10,129 11,522 Data source and collection methods 6.
Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes 2 CO Emissions Scope 3 Other indirect 2018 2017 2016 1 Third-party provided transport air and rail 567 570 586 Data source and collection methods 1.
Distance travelled converted according to BEIS guidelines.
Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes Emission per m of revenue 2018 2017 2016 Scope 1 23.4 24.1 25.4 Scope 2 3.1 3.5 4.2 Scopes 1 and 2 as required by GHG Protocol 26.5 27.6 29.6 Scope 3 0.2 0.2 0.2 Scopes 1, 2 and 3 26.7 27.8 29.8 The data relating to CO2 emissions has been collected, where practicable, from all of the Groups material operations and is based on a combination of actual and estimated results where actual data is not available.
The 2018 data includes the businesses classified as non-core in the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Water consumption We have two manufacturing sites in Southport UK and Alizay France that use a small amount of water as part of the manufacturing process.
Both installations maintain water filtering, recycling and reuse practices to minimise any wastage of potable water.
More than 95% of the Groups water consumption is for welfare purposes.
Water efficiency is a key requirement for new and refurbished properties and facilities, including dual flush and cistern management systems for toilet facilities.
We continue to identify significant opportunities for water consumption efficiencies through the branch audit and bill validation process.
Litres Litres Litres 000 000 000 2018 2017 2016 Third-party provided water supply from national network for processes and welfare 113,306 114,113 116,122 The above data is based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
CASE STUDY Health and safety The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA presented us with a fourth consecutive Gold Award for our commitment to safety.
RoSPA Awards are prestigious and internationally recognised, demonstrating well developed occupational health and safety management systems and culture, outstanding control of risk and very low levels of error, harm and loss.
The Gold Standard is an endorsement of our strong commitment to health and safety standards.
The award reflects the hard work of our colleagues and shows great steps to our goal of Zero Harm.
56 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Waste management We aim to reduce the amount of waste we produce.
As a break bulk supplier of products, our primary source of waste is through packaging opened on our premises.
Where we can, we reuse these materials or return them to our supplier.
Where reuse is not an option, materials are segregated for recycling in partnership with waste management businesses.
Our waste contracts are managed and monitored centrally.
Waste bailers and compactors are provided where practicable, to maximise waste segregation and recycling opportunities and minimise storage and welfare hazards.
We also offer waste take-back schemes to our customers for off-cut materials including plasterboard, plaster products and fibre ceiling tiles and packaging, pallets and bearers.
Where possible, we adopt paperless delivery processes, online activity reports, and we consolidate printing and photocopying facilities.
As it is difficult to measure and quantify the amount of waste disposed of in a year, the performance metric for waste management remains the percentage of waste diverted from landfill.
We are a member of the Valpak compliance scheme and we comply with our commitments under the Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations.
The above data is based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
com Stock code: SHI 57 Governance 58 Board of Directors 60 Introduction to governance 62 Corporate governance report 64 Audit Committee report 76 Nominations Committee report 81 Directors remuneration report 84 Statement of directors responsibilities 106
