Corporate governance report continued Environment supportive of challenge The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration The effective operation of the Board is dependent on the inherent policy for the Board and ensures that no Director is involved in decisions checks and balances within the various Board roles.
As highly qualified affecting their own remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report and successful individuals in their respective fields of endeavour, all can be found on pages 46 to 60.
Non-Executive Directors influence, debate and contribute to decisions The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is responsible relating to the strategy of the Company, its performance and its impact for oversight of the structure, size, composition and succession planning on stakeholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are evaluated and judged of the Board and its Committees and overall compliance with corporate on the quality and content of their contributions to Board debate and governance standards.
The report of the Corporate Governance are expected to offer alternative viewpoints and challenge perceptions & Nominations Committee can be found on page 44. and decisions as appropriate.
The Bigger Picture Committee has responsibility for oversight of the Board agenda social, environmental and ethical impacts of the Companys activities.
In addition to its reserved and standing matters, during the year The report of the Bigger Picture Committee can be found on page 45. the Board also considered and received a number of updates and The Executive Committee is responsible for approving routine business presentations, giving Directors a further opportunity to explore such as the approval of share option exercises and specific business and analyse topics such as: delegated by the Board.
The Groups operations and five-year plans: The minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Board The general market and economic outlook: Directors on a timely basis.
At each Board meeting the Chairman of each Committee provides the Board with a brief update of the work currently The competitive landscape, opportunities and market trends: being carried out by the Committee they chair.
Other sub-committees Growth of existing business activities: and and steering groups provide additional resource and support to the Existing and new products, services and technological developments.
Board Committees or are formed for specific tasks.
The members of the Independent Committee have taken steps to ensure A Committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis that 21st Century Fox affiliated Directors do not receive information relating to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
The Committee to the Company that is deemed relevant to the Offers during the Offer comprises the Group CEO, Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Period.
As described on page 34, the Independent Committee has the Financial Officer Group COO & CFO and other senior executives authority to exercise all powers of the Board in relation to the Offers.
To maintain an appropriate level of control over the day-to-day affairs of the Company, the Board has identified certain matters that only it can approve.
These matters are contained within the Companys Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board which can be found at www.
sky corporate Board delegation The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Governance & Nominations, Bigger Picture and Executive Committees.
Each Committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys corporate website www.
sky corporate The Audit Committee has responsibility for oversight of corporate reporting, risk management and the Companys relationship with its auditor.
The Audit Committee conducts a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks and their mitigation on behalf of the Board and reviews the effectiveness of internal controls.
Significant risks to the business are kept under review and appropriate material controls are sanctioned and employed as appropriate.
The Companys principal risks and examples of how we mitigate those risks are detailed on pages 24 to 27.
The Audit Committee also oversees the review of whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
For further details, the Audit Committee Report can be found on pages 40 to 43.
36 Sky plc Governance Board and Committee attendance Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below.
The table shows the number of meetings each Director was eligible to attend.
Corporate Governance & Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Bigger Picture Number of meetings held in year 5 6 6 1 1 Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch, Group CEO 5 5 Andrew Griffith, Group COO & CFO 5 5 Non-Executive Directors 1 Chase Carey 3 5 1 Tracy Clarke 4 5 6 6 1 1 Martin Gilbert 5 5 6 6 1 1 Adine Grate 5 5 6 6 6 6 James Murdoch 5 5 1 1 1 1 John Nallen 5 5 1 Matthieu Pigasse 4 5 5 6 1 1 Andy Sukawaty 5 5 6 6 1 1 Katrin Wehr-Seiter 5 5 1 Directors are encouraged to attend Board and Committee meetings but in certain circumstances meetings are called at short notice and due to prior business commitments and time differences Directors may be unable to attend.
In these circumstances Directors receive relevant papers and are updated on developments by either the Chairman or Group CEO.
Effectiveness Board composition Board composition and independence Chairman 1 The Board currently comprises 11 Directors, made up of two Executive Executive Directors 2 Directors and nine Non-Executive Directors.
A majority of six of the Board Independent Non-Executive Directors 6 of Directors are determined to be independent by the Board in accordance Other Non-Executive Directors 2 with provision B.
Further details are set out in the biographies of each of the Directors which are set out on pages 32 and 33.
Chase Carey, James Murdoch and John Nallen represent the Companys largest shareholder, 21st Century Fox, and as such are not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
Each of these Directors has extensive media and pay TV experience and makes a significant contribution to Board discussion.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of experience Appointments to the Board, diversity and succession planning and expertise to the Groups affairs and carry significant weight in The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee keeps the Boards the Boards decisions.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors are balance of skills, knowledge, experience and the length of service of encouraged to challenge management and to help develop proposals individuals under constant review.
In respect of succession planning and on strategy.
Time is regularly put aside at Board meetings to discuss supplementing the skill set of the Board, there is an established procedure the strategic direction of the Company.
for the appointment of new Directors.
In brief, the Committee identifies Prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each Board member receives the set of skills and experience required and, with the assistance of and completes a questionnaire to determine factors that may affect external search agencies, selects individuals to take Board positions independence according to best practice statements contained within on review of their individual merits, regardless of gender, race, religion, the Code.
The responses to the questionnaire assist the Board in age or disability.
Further information on the work of the Committee ascertaining whether a Director is independent in character and judgement during the year can be found on page 44. and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
Annual Report 2018 37 Corporate governance report continued Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and letters of Time commitment appointment of the Non-Executive Directors may be inspected at All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments the registered office of the Company during normal business hours required on induction and are expected to devote sufficient time on any weekday except public holidays and at the place of the Annual for the effective discharge of their functions.
The Company provides General Meeting AGM for 15 minutes prior to the meeting until the Non-Executive Directors with appropriate support and facilities for conclusion of the AGM.
consideration of the Companys strategy and performance and a dialogue with the Chairman is strongly encouraged so that any issues The Board currently comprises eight men and three women 27% female regarding conflicting commitments and time pressures can be representation on the Board.
As required by company legislation, a table addressed appropriately.
on page 62 illustrates gender diversity across the Group as well as at Board level.
Induction and training All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their individual Length of time served on the Board requirements.
The induction process involves meeting with all of the Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business performance.
During the year, Directors have received presentations 0-5 years 4 5 years 7 from a number of areas of the business including Customer Group, Content, Business Development, Technology and Strategic Planning Industry Background experience Group.
The Chairman meets with the Directors throughout the year to review their developmental needs.
Industry related 7 An example of a tailored induction programme is detailed below: International 9 Finance investment 8 Technology Innovation 5 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Regulatory 5 Meetings with Customer Product Accompanying Executive 9 Senior Executives, contact demonstrations a Sky engineer Note: T his covers the experience of the Non-Executive Directors who may fall into one or Sky News and centre visit on customer more of the above categories.
Sky Studio visits visits Directors reappointment In addition to this, various presentations from prior Board meetings will In accordance with Code provision B.
7.1. all continuing Executive and be made available to the Director in order to improve their understanding Non-Executive Directors will retire and are expected to offer themselves of the Group and the competitive and regulatory landscape in which it for reappointment at the Companys 2018 AGM.
Consideration is given to Committee appointments and, where relevant, tailored training may be required.
External directorships Any external appointments for the Executive Directors are considered by Board evaluation the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
Executive Directors In line with the Code, an external Board evaluation was carried out by are not allowed to take on the Chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company, Alice Perkins of JCA Group in 2016, and an internal Board evaluation was but are allowed to take up one external Non-Executive FTSE 100 carried out in 2017 facilitated by Andy Sukawaty, the Senior Independent appointment and retain any payments in respect of such appointments.
The findings of the evaluation were considered by the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and reported to the Board.
The Jeremy Darroch was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive overall conclusion was that individual Board members are satisfied that Director of Burberry Group plc on 5 February 2014.
Jeremy serves the Board and its Committees work well and operate effectively, in an as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee, environment where there is constructive challenge from the Non-Executive and a member of the Nomination Committee.
The Directors were satisfied with the current mix of skills and Andrew Griffith was appointed as Senior Independent Non-Executive experience and the size of the Board.
The Directors noted that appropriate Director of Just Eat plc on 12 March 2014 and from April 2017 to April 2018 rigour was applied to related party transactions and the 21st Century Fox served as Interim Chairman.
He also Chairs the Audit Committee and Offer was a solid example of the Companys governance procedures is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The allocation of Board and Committee discussion Details of pay in respect of these appointments can be found in the topics has been reviewed and some topics currently discussed in detail Directors remuneration report on page 51. at committee level will be brought to the whole Board from time to time.
The quality of information presented to the Board was considered to be of a high standard and distributed on a timely basis.
The performance of each Director is evaluated as part of the evaluation process, based on self-analysis and input from the other Directors.
It is the Boards intention to continue to review its performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors on an annual basis.
The next Board evaluation, which will be externally facilitated, will be undertaken during the next financial year should the offer process fall away.
38 Sky plc Governance Information provided to the Directors Shareholder engagement The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue with within the Board and its Committees and between senior management shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group and Non-Executive Directors.
For each Board and Committee meeting, and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of meetings with Directors are provided with a tailored Board pack at least one week prior institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place each to the meeting.
To improve the delivery and security of Board papers, the year and the Group CEO and Group COO & CFO have attended meetings Company has adopted an electronic system allowing the Board to easily with investors, as appropriate.
The Company also makes presentations access information, irrespective of geographic location.
Directors regularly to analysts and investors around the time of the half-year and full-year receive additional information from the Company between Board meetings, results announcements: conference calls are held with analysts and including a daily press summary and a monthly Group performance update.
investors following the release of the first quarter and third quarter trading Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided statements: and presentations are made during the year to many existing with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and were or potential shareholders at investor conferences.
The Company holds able to discuss issues arising directly with the Chairman and Group CEO.
meetings with its major shareholders to discuss corporate governance and remuneration matters from time to time.
Conflicts of interest During the year Tracy Clarke, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before engaged with certain major shareholders to solicit their views on the taking up any position with another company that conflicts, or may Remuneration Policy in advance of any new Remuneration Policy being put possibly conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companys Articles to shareholders.
In light of the ongoing 21st Century Fox Offer and Comcast of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise Offer, the Remuneration Committee has decided not to put a new Policy to situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is not shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Further details are included in the Chairman in breach of his duty under company law.
of the Remuneration Committees letter, which can be found on page 46.
All existing external appointments for each Director have been authorised Since the 21st Century Fox Offer and Comcast Offer, Martin Gilbert and by the Board and each authorisation is set out in a Conflicts Register.
Andy Sukawaty have held a series of meetings with major shareholders to Directors are required to notify the Board of potential conflicts so that they discuss the background to, and reasons for, the Independent Committees can be considered and, if appropriate, authorised by the Board.
In addition, recommendations of each of the Offers.
the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee conducts an annual review of Directors conflicts and reports its findings to the Board.
The AGM The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee reviewed the The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private Boards conflicts during the financial year and concluded that conflicts investors and sets aside time at the meeting for shareholders to ask had been appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation questions.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the is operating effectively.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Companys activities for the previous year.
All resolutions at the 2017 Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential AGM were voted by way of a poll.
This follows best practice and allows conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
the Company to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
As recommended by the Code, all resolutions were Directors and Officers insurance and indemnity voted separately and the final voting results, which included all votes cast The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and collectively for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys to the meeting, were released to the London Stock Exchange as soon as affairs.
The Company maintains a Directors and Officers liability insurance practicable after the meeting.
The announcement was also made available policy.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions are in place for the on the Companys corporate website.
As in previous years, the proxy form Directors in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to and the announcement of the voting results made it clear that a vote the extent permitted by law.
The indemnities applied throughout the withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation financial year ended 30 June 2018 and through to the date of this report.
of the proportion of the votes for or against the resolution.
Relations with shareholders Shareholder communications Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business are available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
The Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed and equality of shareholder communication.
The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The shareholder information section on page 140 contains further details on electronic shareholder communications together with more general information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the Companys corporate website www.
sky corporate Annual Report 2018 39 Corporate governance report continued Attendance at Committee meetings Report of the Audit Committee John Nallen has a standing invitation to attend meetings.
However, Chairmans overview his attendance at these meetings is as an observer and in a non-voting capacity.
The Group COO & CFO, other business and finance executives and representatives from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and the internal audit department attend meetings at the request of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Audit Committee agenda The focus for the Committee this year has included the following items: Review and recommendation to the Board of the interim and full-year financial statements, including whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable During the year the Audit Committee has continued to fulfil its key Review and approval of the first and third quarter trading statements oversight role on behalf of the Board and has remained focused on this Quarterly updates from the Group COO & CFO on business performance role despite the ongoing Offers.
The Committees principal activities have across the Group focused on the financial performance of the Company, internal audit, external audit, risk management, compliance and governance.
Audit plans and findings of external and internal audits The Committee has also monitored the Companys approach to risk The review and recommendation to the Board of the 2017 18 management and the independence and effectiveness of the external interim dividend auditors, and received a number of presentations from management Liquidity, going concern and viability statement review relating to data governance, including preparations for GDPR, security, internal audit, treasury, taxation, Brexit, customer service and health Annual reporting due diligence procedures and corporate governance and safety, as well as regular presentations on business performance.
updates We have considered the processes underpinning the production and Assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process and approval of this years Annual Report to enable the Board to confirm that scope of audit the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable Auditor independence and the policy on the provision of non-audit and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess services by the external auditor the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Quarterly review of non-audit services and fees A description of how we approached this can be found in this report.
Quarterly reports from the treasury function on the funding, liquidity, The Committee assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year period, going concern and operational capabilities of the Group and compliance applying downside sensitivity to our business as usual plans which takes with treasury policies account of the principal risks identified.
Further information on how the Committee approached this is detailed in this report.
Quarterly updates on planned internal audit work and on the status of Senior Accounting Officer SAO certification work to ensure There were six meetings during the year and after each Committee meeting SAO compliance I provided an oral update to the Board on the key issues discussed during our meetings.
I have also met separately with the external audit partner Quarterly reports of all transactions with a related party during and key management on a number of occasions during the year.
the period You can find additional information on how we have carried out our role Quarterly reports on Security matters, including anti-piracy activities, and responsibilities within the remainder of this report.
whistleblowing and anti-bribery and corruption matters Review of transactions with the exception of the 21st Century Fox Offer Adine Grate which fall within the Listing Rule 11.1.
5R definition of a Related Party Committee Chairman Transaction and all transactions with a related party in excess of Committee composition 10 million and, where required, recommendation to the Board Adine Grate Chairman Review and oversight of the Group risk register, risk methodology and risk Martin Gilbert management systems and processes Matthieu Pigasse Updates on the Groups data protection programme, including The Committee members have considerable financial and business preparations for and implementation of the General Data Protection experience and the Board has determined that the membership Regulations GDPR as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant sector and financial Deep dive update on the Customer Service Group function experience to discharge its responsibilities and that at least one member has competence in accounting or auditing in line Review of Sky Mobile handset financing arrangements with the Code.
The Committee comprises three Independent Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit Non-Executive Directors, in compliance with the Code and DTR 7. function and controls Taxation, health and safety and Brexit matters.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate website.
40 Sky plc Governance Goodwill impairment assessment Critical accounting policies and judgements The Committee considered the Groups annual goodwill impairment testing, When considering the annual financial statements, the Committee which involves comparing the recoverable amounts of the cash generating reviewed the significant accounting issues and the Groups critical units to which the goodwill is associated with their carrying value.
accounting policies as set out on pages 88 to 90 with particular focus on the following: Calculation of recoverable amount involves estimation by management of future performance and cash flows of those businesses.
During the year, Retail subscription revenue: the Committee reviewed the Groups budgets and medium-term plans on The majority of the Groups revenues derive from retail subscription which those estimates were based and received monthly financial packages, including hardware and installation services, supplied to performance updates, which included the results of each of the Groups customers.
The Group applies judgement in determining the accounting operating segments.
The Committee also considered the report from allocation of payments received from customers to different elements of the external auditor.
the bundled package, taking into consideration the timing and relative value attributed to each element.
During the year, the Committee received The Committee is satisfied that managements conclusions that the a quarterly performance report from the Group COO & CFO that included a Groups goodwill balances are not impaired is appropriate and that review of revenues recognised in the period and also considered the future the related judgements have been disclosed appropriately.
impact of the new accounting standard for revenue IFRS 15 on the Groups Internal control and risk management reporting and accounting policies.
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups The Committee considered managements policy and considered the views systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their of the external auditor and is satisfied that the policies have been applied effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage and, where possible, consistently and appropriately.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide General entertainment programming inventory: reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or The Committee reviewed the policy for the recognition of content costs and loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing challenged management on the appropriateness of the policy, and took the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the revised into account the views of the external auditor that the policy is appropriate guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council in and has been applied consistently.
The method for recognising general September 2014.
During the period under review, the Committee discussed entertainment programming expense requires estimation and judgement a number of areas where actions had been identified to further improve to ensure that the expense profile is consistent with the expected value of the control environment, however no material failings or weaknesses the content to the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the policies have been applied consistently, The Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the are appropriate and are aligned to industry practice.
operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the year and this review has been carried out for the year ended Capitalisation of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: 30 June 2018 and up to the date on which the financial statements were The Committee considered the Groups policies and sought assurances approved.
This review includes all material controls and relates to the from management that the Groups project accounting controls and Company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint ventures.
controls over the capitalisation of intangible assets are operating as The Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis with the Groups intended and that spend capitalised as property, plant and equipment Director: Audit, Risk Management and Compliance and the external auditor.
and intangible assets meets the relevant accounting requirements.
The Committee also considered the report from the external auditor.
The harmonisation of internal controls across the Group has been an area of focus for the Audit Committee chair who has received regular updates The Committee is satisfied that the Group has followed appropriate through the year via quarterly meetings with the Director: Audit & Risk accounting standards regarding the capitalisation of intangible assets Management and regular meetings with the external audit partner.
There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and the Handset financing annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved The Committee considered the Groups accounting judgements relating by the Board.
Performance is monitored against budget through weekly to a securitisation facility the Group entered into during the year, and monthly reporting cycles.
During the financial year under review which involves the selling of certain handset receivables at a discount.
monthly reports on performance were provided to the Board, and The Committee considered managements analysis that the Group does the Group reports to shareholders each quarter.
not control the securitisation vehicle, based on the vehicle operating within In respect of Group financial reporting, the Group Finance team is a set of principles that demonstrate it is not under the Groups control, responsible for preparing the Group financial statements and there and hence is not consolidated into the Groups financial statements.
are well established controls over the financial reporting process.
These It considered managements analysis that the Group has transferred are also documented in line with the requirements of the SAO legislation substantially all of the risks and rewards of the receivables sold, and as and the controls are reviewed and signed off to confirm their continuous such they have been derecognised from the Groups balance sheet.
operation by the control owners twice a year and are independently The Committee also considered the views of the external auditor.
tested by the internal audit team.
The results of the SAO testing The Committee is satisfied that the Groups accounting judgements are reported to the Committee on a quarterly basis.
are appropriate, and are also disclosed appropriately.
Changes in internal controls No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting has occurred during the year ended 30 June 2018 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
