32 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Sustainability is better business The Board has endorsed these and executive SUSTAINABILITY IS AT THE CORE SUSTAINABILITY VISION management is behind them.
These goals are OFTHE BUSINESS AND MISSION set out on the next page.
In 2016, we launched our Group Sustainability We envision a world in which healthcare Strategy, setting out our aspirational goals professionals have access to the solutions The Board has evaluated the social and and targets.
The strategy is integrated with they need to help patients restore their health, environmental risks as part of their ongoing our Group Business Strategy.
This ensures engage in society, enhance the environment risk management duties and has concluded that the three main aspects of sustainability and improve their wellbeing.
that none of these risks are material in the economic prosperity, social responsibility context of the Group as a whole.
Our sustainability strategy aims to achieve this and environmental stewardship are vision.
It outlines the steps we take with a view We have set medium-term targets to 2020 tackled together.
to leading our industry in the development and which support our longer-term goals.
These This is a summary report of our sustainability use of products and services that: are discussed in more detail in our 2018 activities and progress in 2018.
Satisfy unmet health needs and promote Sustainability Report, published at the greater access to treatment: 2018 was a year in which we accelerated same time as this Annual Report, describes progress toward the achievement of our Offer easier, better, faster and more the Group Sustainability Strategy and its 2020 targets.
We once again delivered effectivetreatment, enabling productive associated goals in more detail.
It also improvements across our traditional areas engagement in society: specifies targets to move our performance of focus: employee health and safety, towards these goals, and provides detailed Prioritise materials that are reused, carbon emissions and water consumption.
information regarding the progress made remanufactured or recycled: In addition, we deepened and broadened our during 2018.
It is available on our website.
Are manufactured using raw materials understanding of our impacts in the areas of sourced from an environmentally and material efficiency, life cycle environmental GROUP SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY sociallysound supply chain: impacts, and labour practices.
We deployed Smith & Nephew has been and remains the social responsibility strategy developed Use natural resources efficiently: committed to working in a sustainable, in the previous year, positively contributing to Are manufactured by processes that ethical and responsible manner everywhere employee engagement and supporting the arenothazardous to people orthe we do business.
We are proud of our communities in which we operate.
environment: and achievements over many years, as witnessed Implement the most sustainable by our recurring inclusion in leading indices product options.
such as FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
At the heart of the Group Sustainability Strategy are 10 long-term aspirational goals.
These encompass all aspects of our business, and inform and drive our business strategy.
33 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY continued OUR PERFORMANCE Our 10 long-term aspirational goals 2020 target Performance to 31 December 2018 ZERO WORK-RELATED INJURIES AND ILLNESSES ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN 10% reduction in Total Injury Rate TIR from 2016 actual.
WATER: Total water impacts of products and solutions balanced with local human and ecosystem needs.
Water footprint available for products accounting for 75% of revenue Water reduction of 21% achieved since 2016.
Products and tools identified andconsiderations embedded in new product development process.
Life cycle assessment for a representative product underway Total potable water consumption no higher than 2016 actual.
WASTE: All materials are either shipped as part of product or returned for beneficial use.
Total material efficiency estimated for products accounting for 79% of our total waste reused, recycled or energy recovered from, 75%ofrevenue and 80% or more of waste generated reused, upfrom 74% in 2016.
Products and tools identified as per target.
CARBON: 80% absolute reduction in total life cycle greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
Estimate total life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of products Products and tools identified as pertarget.
Life cycle assessment accounting for 75% of revenue.
Total Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 10% 16% reduction in emissions since 2016. from2016actual.
ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES: All activities conducted in compliance with applicable International Labour Organization ILO conventions,  degradation, and are free from corruption.
Labour practices throughout the supply chain associated with products Products identified and assessment to applicable ILO conventions accounting for 75% of revenue compliant with applicable ILOconventions.
Engagement with upstream suppliers and downstream distributors and agents initiated.
ZERO PRODUCT-RELATED AND SERVICE-RELATED PATIENT INJURIES Robust system in place to detect, record, investigate and eliminate Systems in place.
root cause of product and service-related patient injuries.
Data being used to craft models to identify at-risk attributes.
ROBUST SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMMES that contribute to the attraction and retention oftop talent.
Social responsibility strategy which aligns philanthropy, employee Social responsibility strategy in place.
Alignment to new strategic volunteering and wellness to the business strategy.
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES are aligned to market economic, social and environmental expectations and anticipate future market conditions.
Sustainability attributes described for products accounting for Products identified and sustainability attributes agreed.
Robust emphasis on sustainability attributes development NPD sustainability focus planning under way.
STRATEGIC RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES are understood and business activities are aligned to risk appetite.
Enterprise risk management arrangements are embedded in the Risk register reinvigorated.
Deep dive programme instituted with focus on routine business decision-making process.
both assurance that relevant risks have been identified and effectiveness of mitigating actions is accurately assessed.
Actions to further embed into the business decision-making process are planned for 2019.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND ECONOMIC impacts of business activities fully understood and .
Formal programmes in place to measure assess the economic, Launched Enterprise Risk Management Policy and Manual social and environmental impacts of 1 potential acquisitions, and provided training in risk identification and mitigation.
2 technologies to be extended to Emerging Markets, 3 innovativebusiness models, 4 cost-of-quality reduction initiatives, and 5 manufacturing siting, functional optimisation .
34 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY continued Our plan focuses on both the foundational Engagement with the communities in which Our Social Responsibility Strategy aims and competitive advantage elements required we operate continues to broaden and deepen toimprove the alignment of our charitable to deliver our value proposition sustainably.
through the active attention of site leadership, donations, volunteering, wellness and We employ a continuous improvement empowerment of local camaraderie councils professional development with both our approach based upon the implementation as well as broader application ofcompanyGroup Business Strategy and the needs offorward-looking solutions such as paid volunteering allowance and company and desires of our employees.
Our goal is to investingin new materials and processes matching of employee donations to charity.
impact positively both employee engagement thatprovide significant benefits with respect We continue to strengthen and deepen and the quality of life in communities in which tohuman rights, safety, energy, waste and or employee wellness programmes with a focus we operate.
communities and bridging technologies to on enabling healthy lifestyle choices.
In 2018, we improved our understanding secure future game-changing performance.
ofproduct and service attributes which are SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY important to customers and our employees EMPLOYEE SAFETY, WELLNESS STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION view of the role of the organisation in society.
AND VOLUNTEERING We further improved our understanding of In 2019, we will further drive labour practice A healthy and safe working environment is performance against relevant labour standards improvements in our supply chain and fundamental to the way we work at Smith & in both our operations and in our supply turn our attention more fully to identifying Nephew.
We must ensure that the safety of chain.
We undertook measures to improve and delivering the socially responsible our employees and those who work with us performance across the entire business, taking attributes which help drive quality of life is given the highest priority when we perform significant steps toward the implementation of inthecommunities in which we operate.
our daily activities in our offices around the the Social Responsibility Strategy which was world, when we visit customers and in our adopted in 2017. manufacturing environment.
2018 2017 2016 CO e REPORTING METHODOLOGY, 2 CO e emissions tonnes from: MATERIALITY AND SCOPE 2 Direct emissions 9,956 9,451 9,822 We report the carbon footprint of our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas GHG emissions in Indirect emissions 67,886 76,107 82,415 tonnes of CO equivalent from our business 2 Total 77,842 85,558 92,237 operations for the calendar year ended Intensity ratio 31 December 2018.
Our focus is on the areas CO e t per $m sales revenue 15.9 17.8 19.6 2 of largest environmental impact including CO e t per full-time employee 4.7 5.2 5.9 2 manufacturing sites, warehouses, R&D sites and offices.
less than 2% of our overall emissions are Full-time employee data: 2018: 16,681: 2017: 16,333: 2016: 15,584. notincluded.
Acquisitions completed before 2018 are included in the data.
We report our emissions in two scopes.
Location-based emissions are calculated in compliance with the WRI WBCSD GHG Scope 1 figures include: Direct sources of Our GHG emissions reporting represents Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting emissions which mainly comprise the fuels our core business operations and facilities Standard and have been calculated using we use on-site, such as gas and heating oil which fall within the scope of our consolidated carbon conversion factors published by BEIS and fugitive emissions arising mainly from financial statements.
Primary data from energy DEFRA for 2018.
We have applied the emission thelosses of refrigerant gases.
suppliers has been used wherever possible.
factors most relevant to the source data, Scope 2 figures include: Indirect sources including DEFRA 2018 for UK locations, IEA ofemissions such as purchased electricity 2016 for overseas locations and for the US we andsteam we use at our sites.
have used the most recently available US EPA Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database eGRID for the regions in which we operate.
All other emission factors for gas, oil, steam and fugitive emissions are taken from DEFRA2018.
35 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Our performance We improved performance, delivered meaningful efficiency savings, and generated good cash flow Chief Financial Officers review 36 Financial review 38 Risk report 40 Our Viability Statement 50
