Corporate Responsibility Report Sophos is committed to defending its customers against criminal activity and acting as a responsible business Approach Identifying Priorities With over 300,000 customers around the world, Sophos In 2018, Sophos worked with a third party to undertake recognises the responsibility it holds in providing the right a desk-based materiality exercise.
The objective of the tools to protect its clients and educate them on the assessment was to rank and prioritise CR issues from the importance of digital security.
The Groups business model perspective of business impact and stakeholder interest, is built on securing its customers from the risks of to better understand the areas where the Group can cybercrime by offering innovative, simple and highly make a positive difference.
Guided by the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Beyond the impact of Sophos own products and services, Standards and Accountabilitys Five-Part Materiality the Group recognises the duty it has in conducting its test, the approach undertaken involved ranking and business activities in a responsible way.
With over 3,300 assessing a broad range of CR issues before selecting employees across more than 40 offices, it is vital that the 20 material topics.
These topics form the basis of the Group maintains the highest standards of conduct.
To Groups approach to corporate responsibility reporting achieve this, Sophos focuses on operating openly and and four pillar CR framework.
Work will continue into transparently, treating its people fairly, creating a diverse 2018 to develop the Groups overall CR strategy and culture and reducing its environmental impacts.
In the year, the Group further enhanced its commitment to Corporate Responsibility CR by undertaking a detailed materiality assessment.
Over the coming year, work will continue on further establishing the Groups CR strategy and improving measurement across key areas of focus.
Sophos CR Framework Securing Engaging Enhancing Protecting the customers people communities environment Underpinned by our values Simplicity Empowerment Passion Innovation Authenticity 38 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Managing Corporate Responsibility The SMT support the Audit and Risk Committee and the Risk and Compliance Committee RCC in ensuring compliance Ultimate responsibility for Sophos CR activities lies with with the Code of Conduct, as well as financial compliance the Senior Management Team SMT who set the Groups and global risk management see page 34.
Moving forward strategic approach, develop key policies and coordinate the Group aims to implement a CR Steering Committee to activities.
The SMT is comprised of the Chief Executive reinforce commitment to corporate responsibility and Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other individuals who promote strategic action across the organisation.
head up key Group functions.
Engaging with Key Stakeholders The Groups functional heads take leading roles in key strategic CR areas such as Gender, HR and Environmental Communicating with key stakeholders is vital in helping to Management.
The SMT are also responsible for ensuring better understand their needs and requirements.
The Group global compliance with key internal and external policies conducted several engagement activities throughout 2017, including: to encourage two-way dialogue with key stakeholder groups.
Local offices also play a significant role in forming Anti-human trafficking and slavery policy lasting relationships with local stakeholders, including community members.
Diversity policy Anti-corruption and bribery policy Whistleblowing policy All of the above policies can be found at: UK modern slavery act www.
com Key Engagement Channels Key Activities in the Year Stakeholders Channel-best commitment to have channelPartner conferences for Americas, EMEA and APJ Channel excellence and industry-best at the Groups core with CEO and SMT speakers Partners Industry-leading partner program Launch of regional partner programs tailored to MEA, and Eastern Europe partners Partner conferences and global events Partner advisory meetings in key markets Dedicated partner portal Partner advisory councils Webinars and live online events including product and threat landscape training Community and support forums Man from Sophos roadshow in Australia End Customers Social media engagement Customer events across all major US, EMEA and APJ markets Dedicated and targeted product communications Tour across Central Europe with Sophos truck VIP Newsletter and Sophos News updates Sophos Home Premium launched Daily industry news service NakedSecurity Free tools for home use Sophos Home, XG Firewall, Sophos Mobile Enduser events in key markets Webinars and live online events Intranet site Sophos Hub for collaboration, Annual kick-off led by CEO Employees communication and information Quarterly business updates Annual employee survey Local kick-off events Access to online training tools and instructor-led Social events run locally training Investor roadshows Capital markets day Investors and Results presentations and webcasts Analyst and investor visits to Abingdon Analysts headquarters Conference calls Participation in investor conferences in US and AGM Europe Investor and analyst 1:1 meetings Employee driven charity and community actions Sponsorship of the UK National Computing Museum Community in local offices, supported by SMT and local Charitable and community activities undertaken management around the world supporting a wide range of causes 39 Corporate Responsibility Report continued Securing Customers Sophos mission is to be the best in the world at delivering innovative, simple and highlyeffective cybersecurity solutions.
With more than 100 million users across 150 countries and 300,000 businesses relying on Sophos to protect them against complex threats and data loss, the Group has a significant duty to protect and secure its customers 24 7.
The issues surrounding digital security and ransomware continued to be a major challenge across the globe in 2017.
In a survey conducted in late 2017, 54 per cent of mid-sized organisations across five continents were hit by a ransomware attack in the last year, with a further 31 per cent expecting to be victims of an attack in the future.
The cost of a ransomware attack extends beyond any ransom paid and includes downtime, work hours, device costs, network costs and lost opportunities, with the survey finding the median total cost of an attack to be nearly $133,000.
To tackle these complex challenges, Sophos continued to deploy product updates and introduce best-practice innovations to existing products in 2017.
The Groups suite of encryption, endpoint security, web, email, mobile and network security solutions are backed by SophosLabs a global network of threat intelligence centres.
In 2017, deep learning technology was successfully integrated and deployed to significantly increase the efficiency of the SophosLabs automated processes.
Helping customers secure their networks As a result, SophosLabs now intelligently processes over 400,000 files, 150,000 suspicious URLs, 30,000 The Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn serves more than malware samples and more than five million spam 1.5 million people living in Brooklyn and Queens in New York, messages across 20 countries every day.
USA, within 187 parishes and 90 schools.
This complex organisation turned to Sophos to unify and simplify its The State of Endpoint Security Today, Study, 2017: endpoint, firewall, and cloud security: improve system and www.
com en-us medialibrary Gated-Assets whitenetwork performance: meet compliance requirements: and papers .
pdf provide a wider array of network services to protect its users.
The IT team had previously managed multiple products, and it often fell on the shoulders of Security and Information Officer, Gus Garcia to handle the more complicated tasks.
Our systems run faster, and we have excellent visibility into endpoint and network activity.
I can Additional updates to products and just log into my Sophos Central account and easily see which services in 2017 included: computers are lacking up-to-date security and modify them quickly and painlessly, says Garcia.
The launch of Sophos Home Premium, an enterprisegrade product for home users that goes beyond In the past 12 to 18 months, we have not experienced any traditional antivirus to deliver advanced, real-time serious incidents or outages.
Our users stay productive, and protection from the latest ransomware, malicious I no longer have to send technicians out to clear up systems software, and hacking attempts.
The introduction of market-leading network traffic visibility in the XG Firewall.
The ability of the XG Firewall to identify all traffic on the network is enabled through synchronized security.
The addition of artificial intelligence capacity into its next-generation endpoint protection product, Intercept X.
The deep learning technology implemented creates a smarter, more scalable security solution for Sophos customers.
40 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Engaging People Guided by the Groups core values of simplicity, empowerment, passion, innovation and authenticity, the Group seeks to promote a culture where its people can thrive.
For Sophos, this means promoting strong business ethics and putting in place policies and programs to build trust with employees.
Creating an Ethical Culture In 2017, the UK government introduced new legislation requiring companies with 250 or more employees to publish As a first priority, Sophos seeks to uphold individual human their gender pay gap.
Sophos median gender pay gap in the rights in its operations, and expects the same from all partners.
12 months to April 2017 was 23.4 per cent, which is higher The Groups policies outline the behaviours expected from than the UK average pay gap of 18.4 per cent.
Despite this, employees and suppliers at all times, and set out the Groups Sophos is ahead of industry peers in the UK high-tech zero tolerance approach towards any form of modern slavery, sector, who have an average pay gap of 25 per cent.
discrimination or unethical behaviour relating to bribery, corruption or business conduct.
The Group believes its current pay gap is due to lower female representation at the higher levels of the organisation, and To support its people, the Group makes development a high percentage of men in specialist positions carrying opportunities available to all employees through access to one a higher market premium.
Moving forward, Sophos will of the largest online libraries of e-learning courses in the world continue to enhance gender diversity and ensure equitable for technical, personal and leadership skills development, as well pay for all genders throughout their careers.
as role-specific training and access to Instructor-Led Training.
This training is aligned to personal development initiatives such In line with this commitment, Sophos continued to promote as quarterly manager check ins and real-time coaching.
gender diversity in FY18 through its actions and activities, which included: Promoting Diversity Becoming one of the founding organisations of the PWC The Sophos diversity policy outlines the Groups commitment to Tech She Can initiative.
building an inclusive culture, where people feel able to be their Supporting the Women of Silicon Roundabout project best at work, irrespective of age, race, sexual orientation, religion, which enables people and organisations to connect, national origin or gender.
Sophos is passionate about creating a learn and take action on gender diversity and inclusion.
workplace that promotes equal opportunities and prides itself on recognising and rewarding team members based on merit above Introducing a new apprenticeship scheme to provide a anything else.
route for women to pursue technical careers at Sophos.
Rolling out unconscious bias training to managers and At the end of the financial year, the gender breakdown of setting a target to expand this to all employees in 2018. employees and Directors was as follows: 31 March 31 March Sophos Women in Technology 2018 2017 The Sophos Women in Technology forum was launched in late Female Male Female Male 2017 to promote gender diversity in the technology industry.
Executive & There are now dedicated groups running in the UK and Non-Executive Canada, with the U. S. and India set to follow suit in 2018.
Directors 2 7 2 8 The purpose of the initiative is to make Sophos a great place to Senior Managers 18 75 17 79 work for women in the technology industry spanning Employees 760 2,500 692 2,495 technical and non-technical roles.
The focus of the group is to help women develop the skills they need, and create a supportive environment where they can progress in the The Group has defined senior managers as members of the SMT and their business and enhance their career development at Sophos.
direct reports excluding executive Directors separately reported as is set out in Sophos diversity policy.
41 Corporate Responsibility Report continued Enhancing Communities Sophos is committed to helping others and using its resources, expertise and insights to make a positive difference to the communities where it operates.
The Group encourages local offices around the world to support community projects and initiatives relevant to them, and participated in many local initiatives to enhance communities in FY18.
UK India The Group became a corporate foundation sponsor at the Sophos India focuses its community engagement efforts National Museum of Computing in Bletchley in 2017, where on improving the infrastructure of a local village near to its the history of computing and security can be seen in action offices.
Ropda was selected by employees after extensive with the worlds largest collection of functioning historical community engagement and recognition of a local need.
Sophos has committed to sponsor the museum With the aim of enhancing the quality of life for people until 2020 and will provide expertise and insight to support living in the village, the team identified four key focus the museums ongoing development of exhibition space and areas to target: visitor experiences.
Education: Despite there only being one school in the Canada village, the attendance rate was just 25 per cent when Sophos employees arrived in Ropda.
To address this, a Every December for the past several years, Sophos campaign was launched to encourage parents to enrol Canada employees have raised funds for YWCAs their children into school to improve literacy rates.
result, the attendance rate increased from 25 per cent to 85 per cent by the end of the year, including 100 per cent This local initiative focuses on assisting families in need so attendance for exams.
A water purification plant was also that they may have a special Christmas.
In 2017, employees built at the school, as well as a meal shed to encourage were matched with two families for whom funds were raised better health and hygiene.
through activities such as bake sales, raffles, auctions and Sanitation: As is common in many Indian rural villages, sporting competitions.
there was no central sanitation facility or drainage system In the end, a total of CAD $3,650 was raised and divided up in the village.
Toilets were built in over 20 houses, and a between the families, with the excess funds donated back drainage system was installed throughout the village to to YWCA.
ensure effective waste management and cleanliness.
Infrastructure: 60 solar street lights were installed to reduce the financial burden of villagers and promote renewable energy.
Beyond this, a new road was constructed to better connect the village to the Over 33,500 surrounding community.
Health and ftness: Half-yearly health check-ups were was raised by Sophos employees in the UK to introduced and villagers were put in contact with local donate to spinal injury charity Aspire.
hospitals where they are now able to seek treatment at a subsidised cost.
Sophos staff pedal their way to fundraising goal Sophos cycling colleagues, the Sophos Interceptors, hit the road to ride 100 miles in a single day at the end of July to raise money for Aspire, a charity helping those with spinal cord injuries, live full and healthy lives.
More than two dozen Sophos employees joined the CEO and CFO in flying the company colours for the cause.
After a successful 100 mile ride to the finish line, the final amount raised for the charity was over 33,500.
The Sophos Interceptors also hosted Wellfest, a day of fun and fitness to help raise additional funding for Aspire.
Sophos staff got involved by pedalling on a smoothie bike to blend their own smoothies and taking the watt challenge by cycling to create electricity.
Employees were also encouraged to team up to challenge themselves with cycle sprints or spin bike and rowing challenges, all in the name of the cause.
42 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Protecting the Environment As an office-based organisation, Sophos is an environmentally low-impact business.
The Group has therefore not adopted a formal environmental policy.
Despite this, the Group recognises the responsibility it has in managing its environmental performance and conducting local initiatives to reduce its overall carbon footprint, waste profile and water impact.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions In line with the Companies Act 2006, Sophos is required to measure and report on its Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions disclosures.
These have been calculated for the year-ending 31 March 2018, in line with the Groups financial year.
The calculation of the disclosures has been performed in accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and using the UK governments conversion factor guidance for the year reported.
The Groups operations that primarily release GHG includes usage of electricity and gas of owned and leased offices, business travel and usage of vehicles.
The Group keeps its data capture process under review, seeking to extend the availability of direct information wherever possible.
Where direct information for certain sites is not available, estimates Creating an environmentally friendly HQ have been developed that enable reporting for them.
These estimates are revised if new or improved data is obtained.
In 2017, the Group conducted a greening study at its global headquarters in Abingdon, Oxfordshire.
The purpose of the The Group will continue to build its GHG reporting capabilities.
study was to benchmark the current environmental, health The Groups chosen intensity ratio is tonnes of CO equivalent 2 and wellbeing performance of the building against current per million US dollars of billings as it aligns with Sophos best-practice and Sophos peers.
The topics assessed strategic growth ambitions.
included everything from indoor air and water quality through to connection with nature, nourishment and comfort.
The outcomes of the study will set the direction for achieving best practice in environmental sustainability as well as health and wellbeing at the Groups headquarters and global offices.
Year-ended Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 tCO e tCO e tCO e 2 2 2 Scope 1 Combustion of natural gas and operation of owned vehicles 320.0 251.8 207.2 Scope 2 Electricity consumption in offices 4,457.3 4,681.9 4,819.7 Scope 3 Business travel air and car 5,117.4 4,510.9 4,025.2 Total 9,894.7 9,444.6 9,052.1 Intensity ratio tCO e per $M of billings 12.9 14.9 16.9 2 Strategic report approval The strategic report on pages 16 to 43 was approved by the Board on 16 May 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Kris Hagerman Chief Executive Officer 16 May 2018 43
