E S N T V H I G R I O R S N N R M A O S E M U N T U T P A H P L L U I C E G U R S L E T C S I R U H R T E E C O E L M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GLOBAL sustainable growth Our business supports the improvement of the productivity Im very pleased to see the focus being of our customers, to enable them to work more efficiently.
given to ethics and integrity.
We will Our monitoring solutions reduce waste in production lines, our data analytics solutions identify efficiency opportunities, and our continue to ensure these foundational use of predictive modelling supports the elimination of trial and error in research and development.
In this way, we deliver elements underpin our day-to-day enhanced value for our customers, consequently driving our own behaviours as they are the bedrock economic success, and support a positive indirect reduction in the environmental impact of manufacturing.
on which to build future success.
In the spirit of our value of restless innovation, we continuously review and invest in ways to improve the Groups operating Andrew Heath Chief Executive efficiency to ensure that we carry out business in an efficient, sustainable way.
Being recognised as a responsible global business is important, to protect and enhance our reputation and to allow Recognising our role in global industry us to build strong, trusting relationships.
This promotes the This report outlines how the Groups sustainability objectives help long-term success of the Group.
us to be a responsible global business, managing our relationships We are proud to have been a constituent of the FTSE4Good and interactions with stakeholders to support our strategy.
Index Series since it was founded in 2001.
FTSE4Good is an equity At Spectris, we recognise the principal stakeholders in our global index series designed to measure the performance of companies networks: shareholders, our people, regulators, customers, demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance suppliers and the communities within which we operate.
These practices and facilitates investment in companies that meet principal stakeholders are presented in the graphic below, together globally-recognised corporate responsibility standards.
with the key issues they expect us to consider when setting strategy Spectris was recently ranked in Corporate Knights 2019 Global and managing its execution.
Our belief is that by positively and 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World index, achieving actively managing these elements we create value and the Board 20% clean revenue with top quartile performance on waste, considers all stakeholders in its decision-making.
innovation capacity and employee retention.
Board accountability The Board has overall responsibility for sustainability matters but the day-to-day management of sustainability is led at an operating company level with the operating company presidents responsible for taking appropriate action within their businesses to manage and promote sustainability considerations.
The Group Executive team is tasked with challenging and supporting initiatives and promoting cross-operating company synergies, where appropriate.
Developments made by operating companies, including risks and opportunities, are reviewed on an ongoing basis by the Board within the context of the overall Group strategy and the Board also considers the Groups sustainability framework at a holistic level on an annual basis in light of these risks and opportunities.
In support of its consideration of stakeholders, the Board acknowledges its role in shaping, monitoring and overseeing culture, as well as ensuring alignment between our values, strategy and business model.
Culture and ethics were a regular focus of See the following pages for more information: discussion for both the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee Culture 7, 39 during 2018, with key topics including modern slavery and human trafficking, health and safety, whistleblowing and investigations Capital returns 9, 16, 30 and the ethics and compliance enhancement programme.
Shareholders 7 A non-financial information statement summarising the nature and location of non-financial disclosures within the Strategic Report is provided on page 80, in compliance with sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
38 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 H P S E M O N A U E L R T P U N H I T T E A R Y N S L D A R S C T E I A U P F D A E S L T C T Y O O H M E E R R A S H S Strategic Report Culture of openness and support Ethics We actively encourage a culture of openness, engagement and communication by integrating messaging on ethics into our Culture, ethics and leadership business meetings at all levels.
This ensures that employees feel The way we do business and the way we treat our colleagues they can discuss any issues that arise in the course of their work and matters to us.
We recognise that continually nurturing and raise any concerns with their managers.
We also train our managers developing the ethical culture of our organisation, and demanding so they feel confident to discuss these concerns, with support from the same high standards from our partners and suppliers, helps our ethics officers.
to build trust with all our stakeholders and supports our business We are proud of our commitment to protect the careers and model see page 6 and the successful execution of our strategy reputations of employees who report wrongdoing, as long as to realise long-term, sustainable growth see page 14. they do so in good faith.
We recognise that speaking up can be Acquisitions and compliance with laws and regulations are two a difficult thing to do.
Consequently, we regularly review the of our principal risks for which promoting a strong culture, effectiveness of our mechanisms for whistleblowing and reporting compliance programme and internal control framework are key to ensure this process is as effective as possible.
Full details of our principal risks are set out on To ensure our employees never feel isolated, our Decisions Guide pages 32-36.
Our pre-acquisition due diligence includes mobile app is available for all employees to help them tackle consideration of ethics and compliance matters, and the effective challenging decision-making situations, wherever they are in the integration of operations and personnel requires careful planning world.
We also have an independent hotline spectrishotline.
com and the swift adoption of our Code of Business Ethics.
Following providing a tool for our colleagues, business partners and other the acquisition of Concept Life Sciences in January 2018, we third parties to report concerns anonymously if they wish.
immediately conducted a risk assessment and engaged the senior management team to emphasise leadership responsibility and Reports received from all sources are fully investigated and the establish workstreams for ethics and compliance integration.
results are communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee at least every six months.
Any allegation is investigated and resolved Evolution of ethics and compliance and additional guidance, training and monitoring made available In 2018, we completed an assessment of ethics and anti-bribery or disciplinary action taken, as appropriate.
The total number and corruption risks for the Group.
The results were considered of reports received in 2018 compared to prior years is by the Board and in support of the continuous refreshment of the presented below.
Following a slight increase in reporting in programme, an Ethics and Compliance Enhancement Programme 2017, owing to a one-off voluntary disclosure programme, has been established which will include deployment of several it is encouraging that the level of reporting remains consistent actions in 2019, including: and that our people still feel confident to report concerns.
Launch of revised Code of Business Ethics and training Number of whistleblowing reports received in 2018 programme.
Revised incident management and reporting.
Our ethical leaders Since 2011, ethics officers have been selected from a variety of business functions to champion the ethics programme within their respective businesses and to act as a point of contact for employees facing ethical dilemmas.
In October 2018, we brought together our ethics officers for a global conference, where we discussed key successes and 15 16 17 18 challenges, the status of global regulatory compliance, our Continuous training and education developing strategy and the evolution of our ethics and compliance We have a comprehensive training programme in place across the programme.
Each ethics officer, in collaboration with peers, created Group comprising group workshops and online learning modules.
a personal action plan of priorities for 2019 to closely support our These training elements improve awareness of the Code of Business businesses to stay ahead in a changing operating environment.
Ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, export controls, fair competition Evolution of oversight and monitoring activity and prevention of the facilitation of tax evasion.
Employees Delivering on our commitment for 2018, we have reviewed and complete key training elements relevant to their role and function enhanced our oversight and monitoring activity across the Group, on arrival as new joiners.
Periodically thereafter, further training including improving incident management reporting and migrating and other interventions are made available to enhance employee responsibility for investigations management from internal audit to awareness of laws and regulations and promote thought and the Groups new Ethics and Compliance team.
With renewed rigour in this particular area, we are confident that we are well positioned to guard against, and swiftly resolve, any ethical problems facing our business in the future.
Spectris plc 39 18 19 24 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT continued religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age or People background or disability, and we have a zero tolerance policy towards discrimination or harassment in any form.
If an employee Our people are key to the success of our business.
Spectris is becomes disabled every effort is made to retain them and, a specialised and technical business and we rely on the skills and if necessary, re-train them for appropriate roles or alter their expertise of our highly-qualified engineers and scientists to stay working environment.
We aim to improve our current gender ahead in a fast-moving world.
We continue to drive operational balance see table on page 41 by promoting diverse recruitment excellence and intelligent innovation and recognise that our and development within the Groups talent pipeline.
Our full workforce thrives in an open, positive and respectful working employment policy is published at www.
environment where they can challenge the status quo, explore new The Board continues to work to improve diversity and inclusion with ideas and take well-reasoned and measured risks.
Further details of focus on Group-wide talent management and succession planning.
the Groups approach to the management of the People principal Details of the Board diversity policy and its implementation can be risk are set out on page 33. found on page 49.
Russell King was appointed as Workforce Diversity, equality and inclusion Engagement Director in December 2018 to provide the Board with We recruit, develop and promote our people based on their talent, a mechanism for receiving and responding to the views of commitment and achievement.
We make every effort to ensure employees.
Further details are contained on pages 50 and 51. that everyone is treated equally and fairly regardless of race, colour, Distinct from the concept of equal pay, the gender pay gap is Gender pay gap reporting an average figure showing the difference between the average Spectris is a diversified group with a decentralised operating hourly pay rates for UK female employees compared to male company structure, with four of its operating companies employees, expressed as a percentage of male employees headquartered in the UK.
Of these, Malvern Instruments average salary, irrespective of role or level in the organisation.
now part of Malvern Panalytical, Millbrook and Concept Life Sciences have 250 or more UK employees and are required The combined results for Spectris plc and its UK companies were by UK legislation to publish their gender pay gap figures on based on 1,196 UK employees of whom less than 20% were their websites.
female and showed: At 5 April 2017 snapshot date Spectris plc employs fewer than 250 people in the UK and Median Mean is therefore exempt from statutory reporting requirements.
However, for the purposes of transparency and good Hourly gender pay gap 9.49% 13.52% governance we have chosen to voluntarily disclose combined Gender bonus gap 15.41% 30.39% gender pay gap figures covering UK employees of Spectris plc, Female Male its other material UK subsidiaries with fewer than 250 Bonus proportion 60.25% 48.02% employees, and Malvern Panalytical and Millbrook, but excluding Concept Life Sciences as it was not a member of the We are confident that men and women are paid equally for Spectris Group at the reporting date.
This data was reported doing equivalent jobs but the evaluation of the UK gender pay in 2018 but relates to the snapshot date of 5 April 2017, in line gap confirms that, rather than being driven by a pay issue, our with UK statutory reporting.
The Group intends to report on gender pay gap is driven by the structure of our workforce and a voluntary basis going forward.
an imbalance in the number of male and female employees in UK employee gender split senior roles.
Although the results are below the 2017 UK national gender pay gap median and mean figures of 18.4% and 17.2%, respectively, and in line with the sector in which we Female 19.8% operate, we are committed to improving our gender pay and bonus gaps and have already implemented a number of actions to address gender pay and wider diversity, summarised below.
Actions implemented in 2018 Family-friendly policies offering enhanced maternity paternity pay, parental leave and flexible working policy are in place at Male 80.2% Malvern Panalytical, Millbrook and Concept Life Sciences.
Further embedding of rigorous recruitment processes to Median pay gap calculated by establishing the exact middle point between ensure bias-free recruitment with the rollout of toolkits and the lowest and highest paid female employee and the lowest and highest paid training for recruiting managers.
male employee and comparing the two figures.
Mean pay gap calculated by dividing the total hourly pay of all female Regular industry salary benchmarking and monitoring of pay employees by the number of females, doing the same for the male employees to identify pay differences and remedial actions.
and comparing the two figures.
Median bonus gap calculated by establishing the exact middle point Strengthened links with local colleges and schools to between the lowest and highest bonus value paid to female employees who encourage female students into science, technology, received a bonus during the 12 months to 5 April 2017, establishing the same engineering and mathematics STEM careers.
in respect of male employees who received a bonus during the same period and comparing the two figures.
Future actions Mean bonus gap calculated by dividing the total bonuses paid to female employees during the 12 months to 5 April 2017 by the number of females In 2019, the remit of the Remuneration Committee will who received a bonus, doing the same for the male employees and comparing extend to overseeing remuneration and diversity policies and the two figures.
practices in respect of the wider workforce.
Bonus proportions calculated by i dividing the number of female employees who were paid a bonus during the 12 months to 5 April 2017 with the total The Group has initiated a senior womens network to number of female employees, expressed as a percentage and ii dividing the promote the interaction and development of women at number of male employees who were paid a bonus during the same period with the total number of male employees, expressed as a percentage.
a senior management level across the Group.
40 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Feedback from managers involved has been incredibly positive, Management development at Servomex and they not only appreciate the support and development in Following feedback from employee opinion surveys and their role, but also recognise the benefits of building networks observations from the senior leadership team, Servomex across the business.
crafted a bespoke Management Development Programme for its 63 managers globally.
The intention is to provide additional professional development and build on existing knowledge and skills identified as being critical for the delivery of strategy, and empower managers to deal effectively with day-to-day issues and lead continuous improvement projects, ultimately becoming great people managers and future leaders.
The first two modules were completed in 2018, with a further two modules scheduled for 2019.
Each module begins with a full day workshop in one of the four key Servomex locations: Shanghai, Boston, Houston and Crowborough.
After the session, each manager develops a set of action steps to implement within their teams and finally receives an individual coaching session where they can embed learning in their team.
This ensures all learning is relevant to the activities of teams and builds critical competencies throughout the organisation.
Employees by gender and role as at 31 December 2018 As part of our commitment to ensure fair, equitable reward structures and to enable transparency of career opportunities, Male Female Total we have implemented a Group-wide initiative to create consistency Directors 7 2 9 in how we grade jobs across our operating companies.
Partnering with Korn Ferry Hay Group, we have made significant progress in Senior management 117 30 147 implementing a uniform approach to job-sizing and how this applies Other employees 6,543 2,996 9,539 to pay, organisational effectiveness and career management.
Total 6,667 3,028 9,695 % of total 69 31 100 Employee turnover The table below shows the percentage of employees leaving the Talent management Group voluntarily.
A higher turnover of employees was experienced We have made significant progress in one of our key HR priorities: in 2018 at a time of strategic and organisational evolution, but we ensuring a robust succession for our most senior roles across the continue to ensure the right talent is maintained throughout the Group.
We have built on our existing talent management processes Group.
As we head into 2019, there will continue to be change to understand where we have the right talent, identify key talent within the organisation as we implement our profit improvement for pipeline roles and make informed career-planning decisions that programme and complete the strategic review.
We are committed prepare our high-potential employees for executive positions at to supporting our people through this change.
Group and operating company level.
This approach has supported 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 several high-profile internal appointments during 2018.
14.2% 7.6% 7.2% 7.1% 5.9% Wellbeing, development and incentives We work hard to build a creative working environment for our people, with scope for individual responsibility and personal Human rights achievement.
Our training programmes help our employees to develop both personally and professionally to reach their Our human rights policy is consistent with the Core Conventions full potential.
of the International Labour Organization, and we comply with We encourage our employees to maintain a healthy balance  human rights standards at all our sites.
between their working and personal lives and offer flexible The policy includes our position on non-discrimination, harassment, part-time and job-share opportunities to employees with family pay and forced labour and all our employees are required to commitments, wherever possible.
Appreciating the value of complete online training on modern slavery and human trafficking.
having a happy and healthy workforce, Servomex has made Human rights considerations are also included in the due diligence employee health and wellbeing a priority, implementing process we undertake before any potential acquisition.
This ensures volunteering and employee wellbeing policies, as well as a number that before we acquire a business, we are fully informed of its of initiatives to promote a healthier workforce: running wellbeing approach in areas such as non-discrimination, equal opportunities weeks: completing pedometer challenges: training mental health and freedom of association.
Our full human rights policy is available first aiders: and promoting healthy eating and exercise to support on our website at www.
A case study on management development at Servomex is presented above.
To maintain our skilled workforce, we are driving high-value, cost-effective talent acquisition by investing in specialist resources and tools, enabling us to attract, identify and hire the right talent into the business, whilst delivering significant efficiencies through in-house recruiting methods.
Spectris plc 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT continued EMS Brel & Kjr joint venture and divestment of Microscan.
Health and safety For the Group as a whole, this results in a net 4% decrease in greenhouse gas GHG emissions and therefore carbon emissions As a responsible employer, we take the health and safety of our per m of revenue were brought down significantly by 11%.
We are proud to have an excellent record From 2018, the Group began to monitor GHG emissions related to of safety in our workplaces, but we continue to track our accident the transport of products to market.
Using a recognised emissions incidence rate as a key performance indicator see page 17 for conversion methodology, freight forwarding emissions data further details, with local health and safety managers conducting captured will be used to inform future analysis of the Groups regular audits and employee training and recommending scope 3 emissions.
improvements in working practices to maintain a safe workplace.
A number of our UK offices have achieved certification to ISO 14001 is an international standard ISO setting out criteria OHSAS 18001. for the formulation and maintenance of an environmental management system.
Certification to ISO 14001 requires an Potential product-related health and safety issues are considered organisation to effectively manage its environmental impacts as part of the product design process and continuous improvement through commitments to pollution prevention, legal compliance programmes focused on health and safety aim to reduce accidents and continual improvement.
Approximately 60% of Spectris key and injuries at our sites to as low a level as reasonably practical.
manufacturing operations by turnover are certified to ISO 14001.
In 2018, we standardised the recording of health and safety data No environmental risks have currently been assessed as being across the Group to conform with the guidance of the UK Institute material to the business, however, we keep this under review of Occupational Safety and Health.
The number of reportable and take seriously our responsibility to minimise our impact accidents remains low, as shown below.
and recognise the opportunities and risks to the business of climate-related issues.
Accident incidence rate Performance summary Number of reportable accidents per 1,000 employees Indicator 2018 2017 Change Energy consumption absolute MWh 106,659 100,041 7% Energy efficiency MWh per m revenue 66.5 67.2 1% Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO e 78,380 81,604 4% 2 Total carbon emissions tonnes CO e per 2 m revenue 48.86 54.79 11% 14 15 16 17 18 Energy consumption Unit of measurement MWh 2018 2017 Change Environment Electricity 76,823 71,406 8% Gas 10,312 10,591 3% Our products and services help our customers to reduce their Oil 2,714 3,165 14% impact on the environment.
We are also mindful to reduce our Steam 16,613 14,168 17% direct impact on the environment by monitoring the use of key Other fuels 197 711 72% sources of energy electricity, gas, oil and steam in our continual effort to reduce consumption and save costs.
The table to the right Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO e 2 summarises our performance in 2018 and we explore each of the Unit of measurement tonnes CO equivalent 2018 2017 2 key sources further below.
Scope 1 9,256 14,112 Energy efficiency energy use per m revenue is one of our key Scope 2 37,425 35,947 performance indicators related to accelerating our operational Scope 3 31,699 31,545 excellence, as detailed on page 17.
This remains at a similar level Total gross emissions 78,380 81,604 compared to 2017, in spite of absolute energy consumption Total carbon emissions per increasing by 7% over the same period due to improved data m revenue 48.86 54.79 collection and an expanding portfolio of business activities.
The energy consumption table on the right shows that an increase From 2018, we started to capture detailed waste data relating in electricity consumption is primarily responsible for the increase to our sites, including landfill, incineration and recycling.
This will in energy use, and it remains the single largest energy source for provide us with a clearer picture of the physical waste that our our business.
sites produce and the proportion of recycling achieved by our Our carbon footprint reduced overall due to slight increases in operations.
We will review this data periodically throughout 2019 scope 2 and 3 emissions being offset by a large reduction in scope to identify opportunities for reducing waste.
Scope 1 emissions reduced by 34% compared to In 2018, we launched a new online reporting tool to centralise 2017, owing to a decrease in oil and refrigerant usage and a and streamline the capture of all our corporate responsibility data.
significant drop in vehicle emissions, partly aided by our new The tool will enable us to conduct more comprehensive analysis reporting system which allows the more accurate recording of and monitor progress against sustainability objectives at more carbon footprint data across the Group.
Scope 2 emissions rose regular intervals throughout the year.
slightly as a result of the increase in electricity use described above, although this was mitigated partly by grid decarbonisation.
Scope 3 emissions increased as a result of increased air travel related to the 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 4.2 4.5 4.5 5.3 2.9 Strategic Report Ricardo Energy & Environment Ricardo has independently verified Suppliers the data associated with energy consumption, GHG emissions, company vehicle and air miles and the accident incidence rate.
Effective supply chain management is important to gain a We are confident that we have appropriate systems in place for competitive advantage through achieving operating efficiencies, measuring, monitoring and reporting energy use.
meeting stakeholder expectations, innovation, and compliance with Following engagement with shareholders in 2018, we have decided legal and regulatory obligations.
Supply chain dependencies and to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project from 2019 onwards.
disruption is one of our principal risks which we seek to actively We recognise that our participation matters to shareholders and mitigate read our Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 35. wish to re-affirm our commitment to transparency and Our supplier base is diverse to reflect the operations of our various accountability in our environmental reporting, including GHG businesses, which are spread around the globe.
Responsibility for emissions, energy, and emissions reduction targets.
vetting and managing suppliers is therefore devolved to local management but must meet the Groups ethical standards.
Customers Following the recruitment of a Group Vice President, Supply Chain, we have initiated a detailed review of key supplier contracts and We serve a broad spectrum of customers across a variety of opportunities for standardisation across the Group.
Our businesses work closely with their customers to opportunities for gaining efficiencies and cost savings will be develop a deep understanding of their business, giving us a unique considered in 2019. ability to anticipate and respond to their changing needs and foster We know that our customers demand the highest standards from strong long-term relationships.
us, including how we manage our own suppliers.
Our supply chain The case study below describes a Group-wide initiative in 2018 management policy can be found at www.
We carry to use technology to better understand our customers and share out regular inspections at our supplier sites and use the SA 8000 knowledge more effectively across the Group.
In addition to this, Social Accountability Standard to audit our key suppliers against we are developing a key account management structure within specific criteria.
In 2018, we incorporated anti-slavery and conflict our operating segments to further develop our solutions-selling minerals sections into the SA 8000 Asia Pacific supplier audit proposition.
Together, these initiatives help Spectris engage more process.
We comply fully with the modern slavery laws of the UK, meaningfully with its customers to develop our relationships and France and United States, and all relevant employees have the improve our value proposition, becoming and remaining the opportunity to complete a modern slavery online training module partner of choice.
to ensure full understanding of our obligations and liabilities.
The SA 8000 standard addresses various aspects of quality management and provides guidance and tools for companies to Understanding our customers ensure that their products and services consistently meet customer Our customers operate in a variety of complex, fast-paced requirements, and that quality is continuously improved.
Recently markets and our products and services are highly updated, the new version of the standard requires that key quality specialised.
Really understanding our customers is critical to management principles are embedded in the organisation.
All key the success of our business as we work closely to develop Spectris global manufacturing operations are certified to ISO 9001. strong customer value propositions.
We are very proud that we can reassure our customers of the high quality of all our products.
To drive this, we are investing in sales-enablement tools to improve our customers experience.
In 2018, we continued to roll out and upgrade our Client Relationship Community Management tools to support our sales teams around the world.
These tools enable data-driven sales and marketing We recognise that we are a major employer in many of the capabilities for the Group so we can identify and respond locations where we are based and respect our social responsibilities to customer requirements and develop our key accounts in all communities where we operate.
Community involvement and within and across operating segments.
In 2019, we will decisions on charitable donations and sponsorship are undertaken continue to develop our customer engagement strategy by local management teams and vary from one company to to build trusting, long-term relationships.
another, taking into account the specific needs of the local community.
We seek to play a positive role by participating in a range Key external certifications and recognition of activities and educational initiatives in schools and universities to promote science, technology and engineering.
We also run a number of awards and programmes which help to support young scientists starting their careers.
In line with our gifts and hospitality policy, we do not give either cash or support in kind to political parties or campaigns.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 19 February 2019.
By order of the Board Mark Serfz Company Secretary 19 February 2019 Spectris plc 43
