STRATEGIC REPORT FUTUREPOSITIVE: OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH DELIVERING A POSITIVE IMPACT We manage our material sustainability Our material sustainability issues OUR FOCUS AREAS impacts and opportunities through Our material sustainability issues were Our FuturePositive programme covers our FuturePositive programme.
reviewed in 2018 using the AA 1000 four main areas: Product, People, Property Our comprehensive programme not only standard.
The review reaffirmed the and Procurement.
Full details of our ensures we comply with legislation and importance of anti-corruption and business programmes are set out in our 2018 stakeholder expectations, but also has ethics for the business and identified the Sustainability Report available on our positive social and environmental impacts importance of our product functionality in website at https: corporate.
for customers and for our own business.
unlocking sustainability performance for our customers.
PRODUCT The Board has designated the CEO as Electronic waste and use of being the Board member responsible for POLICIES hazardous materials corporate social responsibility matters Spirent maintains a suite of responsible Spirents business units comply with within the Group.
business policies which commit the the EUs Waste Electrical and Electronic Group to compliance with high standards Equipment Regulations 2013, EUs The key areas of management and of ethics and business integrity, Restriction of Hazardous Substances performance are set out below, but we environmental management, and Directive RoHS, Batteries Directive alsopublish a comprehensive report employee and community welfare.
and the California Electronic Waste onour corporate responsibility activities Recycling Programme.
which is available on our website at All policies are available on our website at https: corporate.
Conflict minerals The Group is not directly required to SUSTAINABILITY AT SPIRENT comply with or report under Section 1502 We are committed to embedding the of the Dodd-Frank Act, the US Conflict highest standards of environmental Minerals Law.
However, it has robust management, social practices and procedures in place to ensure that it would governance into our operations, be in compliance if it were brought within Progress in 2018 products and across our supply chain.
the scope of this legislation.
The Group Key achievements We look to create long-term value for will be subject to the EU Directive on We have rolled out our STEM our shareholders by: Conflict Minerals and we are monitoring programme globally, with the development of the legislation and are programmes now in place across protecting our reputation and ability confident our existing practices will meet EMEA, North America and APAC.
to grow: the specifications required.
focussing on winning business All hardware businesses have from customers who value strong now introduced sustainability environmental, social and governance metrics in their product ESG performance: development processes.
enhancing our efficiency: enabling our people to work We exceeded our supply chain productively in a safe and sustainability targets 22 audits inclusive environment: target 18 and 89.6 per cent from helping us to attract and retain talent, verified sources target 80 per cent.
and encouraging employees to take pride in working for us: and We reduced our carbon emissions reducing the risk of incidents and their by 18 per cent.
50 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION PEOPLE Ethics and HR policies which ensure that The health and safety risk profile for the Business ethics and human rights no employee is discriminated against, Group remained low during 2018, with 12 Spirents values and principles are directly or indirectly, on the grounds of reported accidents, of which none were set out in the Groups Ethics Policy.
colour, race, ethnic and national origins, reportable under the RIDDOR regulations These principles apply to all dealings sexual orientation or gender, marital status, and none of which required hospitalisation.
with our customers, suppliers and other disability, religion or belief, being a part stakeholders, and are included in pretime employee or on the grounds of age.
Training and skills Spirent provides all its employees with contract due diligence and monitored through ongoing supplier audits.
Using the data provided in the Hamptona wide range of technical and business Alexander Review Improving gender training opportunities.
We manage training The Group has a zero-tolerance approach balance in FTSE leadership published in through personal development plans to all forms of bribery and corruption.
November 2018, Spirent compares well which are assessed by all managers and As a UK registered company, Spirent with its peers for women on boards, with updated periodically.
Communications plc is bound by the 28.6 per cent of the Board being female, laws of the UK, including the Bribery Act Information security compared to the FTSE 250 total of 2010, in respect of our conduct both at 24.9 per cent.
However, we still have Spirent takes data security and privacy home and abroad.
In addition, we will seriously and we continually review a long way to go to reach the 33 per uphold all laws relevant to countering cent target set in the review for female the security of our data systems and bribery and corruption, including the US procedures in order that we comply with representation on the Executive Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as Committee and Direct Reports and the all legislation and can react to areas of human rights, in all jurisdictions in which heightened risk promptly and effectively.
Board will be working to improve these we operate.
The Group undertook a General Data Anti-bribery training is required to be Gender Pay Gap Protection Regulations readiness exercise across 2017 and 2018 and updated taken by certain employees periodically Spirent is not required to comply with the and will be rolled out to employees again Gender Pay Gap Reporting Regulations our policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the new EU regulation.
in 2019. but intends to voluntarily publish data later in 2019.
We also achieved certification to ISO Equality and diversity 27001 for our SecurityLabs business based The Group employs a diverse workforce Health and safety in Plano and San Jose.
and prides itself in providing equal The Board has designated the CFO as Our procedures restrict the type and opportunities for all.
High value is being the Board member responsible for placed on rewarding our people for their health and safety within the Group and quantity of confidential information collected and stored and there are commitment, their integrity and their procedures are in place for incidents to be service.
Our commitment to a fair and reported through the Audit Committee to robust procedures in place to protect customer data from unauthorised access inclusive workplace is governed by our the Board as necessary.
At 31 December 2018, our gender diversity was: Other or no gender Level of organisation Female Male reported Total Board 2 28.6% 5 71.4% 7 1 Executive management 1 9.1% 10 90.9% 11 2 Senior management 54 19.7% 220 80.3% 274 Total employees 300 21.0% 1124 78.7% 5 0.3% 1,429 Notes 1.
The data for Executive management includes members of the first layer of management below Board level, including the Company Secretary.
The data for Senior management includes operational managers.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 51 STRATEGIC REPORT FUTUREPOSITIVE: OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONTINUED Periodic information security risk PROPERTY Methodology assessments are performed, and training is Energy use Reporting on emission sources is required provided to all staff to prevent information Spirents energy use increased in 2018 under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic security breaches.
Our internal controls by 4 per cent to 14,527MWh.
This is Report and Directors Report Regulations are audited, and we have a whistleblower predominantly due to the return to typical 2013 and these sources fall within our procedure in place for staff to report gas usage following abnormally low usage consolidated financial statements.
information security or any other concerns.
in 2017 and increased operational activity.
We have reported on all the emission sources that fall within our consolidated Spirent has implemented a response Greenhouse gas emissions financial statements.
We do not have procedure to manage breaches of Spirent is committed to acting to combat responsibility for any emission sources confidential information if they were climate change and reporting our that are not included in our consolidated to occur.
Our total emissions dropped financial statements.
by 18 per cent from 2017, and emissions Confidential waste is shredded if in hard per $ million of revenue were down by 22 We have used the GHG Protocol copy and certificates of destruction are per cent.
Corporate Accounting and Reporting provided for any electronic storage Standard Revised Edition, along with devices disposed of at end-of-life.
The Group responded to the Carbon data gathered to fulfil our requirements Disclosure Project in 2018, completing under these Regulations.
We used STEM initiatives and community the Climate Change and Supply Chain emission factors from the UK Governments impact projects questionnaire.
In 2018 we achieved a GHG Conversion Factors for Company Spirent actively encourages its employees Climate Change rating of C 2017 B, and a Reporting 2018 for UK sites, US EPA 2018 to become STEM ambassadors around rating of B in Supplier Engagement.
eGrid emissions factors for the applicable the globe.
Our ambassadors work with individual states and emissions factors 2018 2017 students in local schools and institutions from the International Energy Agency for Tonnes Tonnes to help them develop STEM skills and all other sites.
of CO e of CO e 2 2 help them in their professional journey.
Emissions from: We also provide our employees in the Combustion of fuel and operation of US and EMEA with volunteering time facilities scope 1 137.2 100.5 off to make a positive contribution to the communities in which they work.
Electricity, heat, The programme will be expanded to steam and cooling purchased for own employees in APAC in 2019. use scope 2 4,950.4 6,099.7 Through financial donations and Total emissions 5,087.6 6,200.2 volunteering, Spirent has continued to Emissions intensity support community projects worldwide.
metrics: Projects include ongoing initiatives to Normalised per rebuild homes after hurricanes Sandy and square metre of Harvey in the US and supporting education grossinternal area projects in India and China.
ofour facilities 0.112 0.137 Normalised per $ million of revenues 10.67 13.63 52 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING COMPLIANCE STATEMENT We aim to comply with the new Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in Sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The table below, and the information it refers to, is intended to help stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial matters.
This builds on existing reporting that we already do under the following frameworks: CDP, Global Reporting Initiative, Guidance on the Strategic Report UK Financial Reporting Council.
Non-financial reporting matter Policy Code Environmental matters Environmental Policy Policies page 50, Property, page 52 Sustainability Policy Sustainability at Spirent page 50 Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainability at Spirent page 50 Employees Business Ethics Policy People page 50, Committee oversight page 72 Whistleblowing Policy Raising concerns at work page 71 Occupational Safety Policy Health and safety page 51 Volunteering Time-Off Policy STEM initiatives and community impact projects page 52 GDPR Privacy Notice Information security page 51 Human rights Business Ethics Policy People page 51, Committee oversight page 72 Modern Slavery Statement People page 51 Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainability at Spirent page 50, Business ethics and human rights page 51 Social matters Supporting charities STEM initiatives and community impact projects page 52 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Anti-bribery Policy People page 51, Committee oversight page 72 Whistleblowing Policy Raising concerns at work page 71 Policy embedding, due diligence and outcomes Policies page 50, Business ethics and human rights page 51 Description of principal risks Risk Management pages 24-25, Principal risks and and impact of business activity uncertainties pages 26-29 Description of the business model Our business model and strategy pages 18-19 Non-financial key performance indicators Key Performance Indicators page 53 Pages IFC to 53 form part of the Strategic Report which has been reviewed and approved by the Board.
Angus Iveson Company Secretary 7 March 2019 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 53
