Sustainability Report Operating sustainably means embedding long-term thinking and action across our whole business and stakeholder base.
Our Group sustainability strategy provides the common framework Sustainability Committee Report by which all our Group companies Membership, engagement and reporting manage their social and Our Sustainability Committee comprises: environmental impacts.
Ian Farnworth Steam Supply Chain and Group EHS Director : Sheldon Banks Divisional Director, Spirax Sarco Americas : Sean Ian Farnworth Clay Divisional Director, Spirax Sarco EMEA : Group EHS Director James Wright WMFTG Supply Chain Director : and Environment, Health and Safety Mark Wyatt Group EHS Executive.
The Sustainability Committee engages a wide range of senior managers, project leaders and employees as part of its responsibility to oversee strategy implementation and review progress against strategic objectives.
The Committee meets quarterly and receives presentations from project leaders at each session.
Progress against the Groups sustainability objectives is reported to the Group Chief Executive, Executive Committee and Board of Directors.
Managing sustainability We have a well-defined management structure to help us achieve our sustainability objectives.
Key points in this section: Supported by Leading indicators provide evidence of a wellGroup Chief embedded safety culture Executive Board of Diversity initiatives designed to promote positive Responsible for the Group Directors change and greater inclusion sustainability strategy Supplier sustainability, including human rights andthe avoidance of modern slavery Sustainability Committee Improved water, waste, energy and carbon Senior Managers Steam Supply Chain and Group EHS management in our core businesses Director: Divisional Director Spirax Sarco Americas: Divisional Director Spirax Sarco EMEA: WMFTG 5% reduction in carbon emissions intensity Supply Chain Director: Group EHS Executive oversee strategy implementation and review progress against Qdos pumps help customer reduce energy strategic objectives useby 3% Group Community Engagement Award Sustainability Divisional Directors, winners announced Regional and General strategy Managers sponsors Senior managers Ensure the Groups sustainability allocated to each policies are upheld and sustainability implemented by our objective operating units Sustainability strategy project leaders and teams Establish strategic priorities, with sponsors, and oversee strategic implementation Employees and organised employee groups Oversee, record and report on strategic implementation andperformance within their local workplaces Group Sustainability Committee Sean Clay not pictured is also a member of the Committee.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 55 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Both businesses reported progress against Group and companyProgress in 2018 specific sustainability objectives and targets on a quarterly basis to As stated in last years Annual Report, our key priorities as a the Sustainability Committee.
Group in 2018 were: Focus for 2019 to increase the number of employees completing sustainability training: During the year, the Sustainability Committee agreed to focus on to raise awareness in Gestra and Chromalox of our sustainability the following key priorities for the Group in 2019: strategy: and increase employees knowledge and understanding of to involve Gestra and Chromalox more actively in our sustainability across the Group, through the roll out of the sustainability strategy implementation.
Group essentials training programme: We are pleased to report that we made progress in the continued adoption and integration of Gestra and Chromalox above priorities during 2018.
Towards the end of the year, we into the Groups sustainability programmes: and commenced the roll out of a new Group essentials training progress against the Groups sustainability targets.
programme, which will be available across the Group in 16 languages.
The programme entails e-learning modules on topics such as Sustainability, our Values, Health and Safety at Work, Driving Safety, and Anti-Bribery and Corruption.
The programme utilises a combination of in-built and on-the-job assessments to review understanding and compliance.
Completion of the programme will be a compulsory requirement for all employees.
Further reading During the year, Chromalox appointed Amy Broadie as Operating sustainably is one of the Groups strategic themes.
Our overall sustainability vision Environmental, Health, Safety & Sustainability Director.
Jens Hft, Spirax-Sarco Engineering and mission is set out in the Group strategy update.
Gestras Human Resources Director, was allocated responsibility plc is a constituent of the See page 25 for the implementation of the sustainability strategy in Gestra.
FTSE4Good UK Index Non-financial information statement This Annual Report contains the information required to comply with the Companies, Partnerships and Groups and Non-Financial Reporting Regulations 2016, as contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The table below provides key references to information that, taken together, comprises the Non-Financial Information Statement for 2018.
Information and risk management, Reporting requirement Group Policies that guide our approach with page references Environmental matters Group Environmental, Health, Safety, Energy and Sustainability Report, pages 57, 62-64 Sustainability Policy Realising our purpose, page 17 Group Management Code Our business model, page 15 Supplier Sustainability Code Principal risks, page 33 Employees Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy Sustainability Report, pages 57, 58-60 Group Management Code Our business model, page 15 Group Human Rights Policy Principal risks, page 32-33 Group Environmental, Health, Safety, Energy and Sustainability Policy Social matters Group Human Rights Policy Sustainability Report, pages 57, 61, 65 Group Charitable Donations Policy Our business model, page 15 Supplier Sustainability Code Our strategy, page 24 Respect for Group Human Rights Policy Sustainability Report, pages 57, 59, 61 human rights Group Sanctions, Embargoes and Restrictions Policy Supplier Sustainability Code Anti-corruption and Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Sustainability Report, pages 57, 60, 61 anti-bribery matters Group Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality Policy Principal risks, page 32 Group Competition Law Compliance Policy Risk Management Committee Report, page 87 Group Sanctions, Embargoes and Restrictions Policy Group Whistle-Blowing Policy Supplier Sustainability Code Description of the business model Our business model, pages 12-15 Description of the principal risks in relation to the above matters, including business relationships, Risk management and principal risks, products and services likely to affect those areas of risk, and how the company manages the risks pages 28-33 Risk Management Committee Report, pages 86-89 Non-financial key performance indicators Sustainability Report, pages 57-65 Key Performance Indicators, page 27 56 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Sustainability overview 2018 Material Further Sustainability area sustainability topic Objective Target reading Health & Safety To achieve Health and Safety H&S Zero accidents Page 58 excellence through engagement, empowerment and fostering good behaviours while targeting 1.
Our zero accidents workplaces Employment To promote diversity and equality 33% of women on our Board, Page 59 practices through employment practices that as opportunities arise are free from discrimination and in accordance with international human rights principles Ethical business To act in accordance with our Values, Zero incidents of bribery and corruption Page 60 practices upholding a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption People development To invest in developing the knowledge Increase the impact of our technical Page 60 and skills of our people and leadership training offering End-to-end To focus on continuous improvement 90% of direct material suppliers, by Page 61 supply chain in our supply chain with particular spend, of recently acquired businesses emphasis on sustainability Hiter, Aflex, Gestra and Chromalox to have signed our Supplier Sustainability Code by December 2018 2.
Our supply chain Product To incorporate sustainability factors Continuing compliance with all applicable Page 62 responsibility into our product design process, EHS standards, while meeting customer including energy efficiency, emissions, expectations of performance and cost serviceability, recyclability and the availability of compliant and ethically sourced materials Water and waste To limit the environmental impacts of To identify opportunities for waste Page 62 our operations through reducing water reduction, increase recycling rates use and minimising and managing and reduce water use effluent and waste 3.
Our Energy and carbon To minimise the environmental To achieve a year-on-year reduction Page 63 impacts of our operations by in our energy consumption and CO e 2 environment managing energy consumption with emissions intensity the aim of reducing carbon emissions Customers To provide products and services n a Page 64 that improve the sustainability of our customers operations through helping them reduce their environmental impacts, improve 4.
Our plant efficiency and productivity and customers maintain product quality Community To engage positively with the All Group manufacturing companies to Page 65 engagement communities in which we operate participate in at least one community and to offer financial support to engagement activity approved charities 5.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 57 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued 1.
Our workplaces H&S accidents with over 7 days of lost time per 1,000 employees Health & Safety KPI Overview 2018 3.5 H&S excellence 2017 3.0 Reducing accidents and maintaining a safe working environment 2016 3.4 for our employees, contractors, visitors and customers are our primary aims.
We actively promote a strong H&S culture, reflected 2015 3.3 in our updated Values, and require our employees to adopt 2014 5.4 safe working practices at all times.
The Group Chief Executive and Board of Directors oversee our H&S programmes and performance, with H&S a standing agenda item at every Board H&S total number of accidents with over 7 days of lost time meeting.
All Group companies are expected to adhere to the KPI Group Environmental, Health, Safety, Energy and Sustainability Policy, operate within Group programmes and have detailed H&S 2018 19 7 26 management systems in place locally.
2017 15 4 19 2018 Performance and actions 2016 17 H&S performance 2015 16 Despite maintaining a rigorous focus on H&S, our over 7 day 2014 26 accident rate per 1,000 employees increased to 3.5 in 2018 2017: 3.0.
Benchmarked against RIDDORs Over 7 Day Rate Accidents in businesses acquired in 2017 of Reported Non-Fatal Injuries Per 100,000 Employees in the UK Manufacturing Sector, 2013 14-2017 18, which is 361 per H&S total number of accidents with over 3 days of lost time 100,000 employees or 3.61 per 1,000 employees, we performed slightly better than the industry average.
All lost time accidents KPI were thoroughly investigated, the findings were communicated 2018 27 9 36 to raise awareness of risk and actions were taken to reduce risk going forward.
2017 20 4 24 2016 24 H&S training, safety awareness and culture During 2018, we created a Safety Leadership training programme, 2015 24 with training delivered to over 180 senior managers across the 2014 31 Group.
We again increased the number of H&S training units delivered across our wider workforce, with 87,671 training units Accidents in businesses acquired in 2017 delivered in 2018 2017: 24,747.
We held a safety week across all Includes over 7 day lost-time accidents.
steam business manufacturing sites and some of our larger sales companies, and held our annual three-day EHS conference at Gestras manufacturing site in Germany, which was attended by Engineering controls and policies 17 H&S managers from across the Group.
A Lock Out Tag Out Policy was rolled out across the steam manufacturing sites.
We also continued to invest extensively in A standard Take 5 risk assessment was developed and rolled machine guarding and engineering controls, to prevent risk to our out to our sales and service engineers, requiring them to take operatives, particularly in our recently acquired businesses.
five minutes to review tasks they are about to perform, identify any risks and determine if the task is safe, stopping the job if it is Safety management, certification and audits unsafe.
During 2018, we also focused on ensuring that recently We employ 39 full-time qualified EHS professionals and additional acquired businesses adopted and implemented Group EHS part-time EHS employees.
During 2018, we developed an policies, programmes and management systems, with the aim of internal EHS audit framework, with audits completed across all reducing lost time accidents.
Across the Group, 2,446 EHS audits and 1,599 inspections were completed during the year.
15 of Safety concern and near miss reporting our 26 manufacturing sites hold OHSAS 18001 certification, Reporting of safety concerns and near misses is an essential with a number of our companies working towards achieving it.
The higher the number of safety Spirax-Sarco Ltd, Cheltenham, received a Gold award in the concerns or near misses reported, the greater the evidence of a  RoSPA Health and Safety Awards.
well-embedded safety culture within an organisation.
During 2018, the number of safety concerns reported across the Group more Focus for 2019 than doubled to 14,465 2018: 5,485 as did the reported number Steam supply sites to increase internal audit scores by 20% of near misses, at 1,446 2018: 562.
All safety concerns and near Establish an internal audit framework for steam sales companies misses were assessed, reviewed and corrective action taken and, Establish a Group-standard behavioural based safety system where appropriate, learning shared across the Group.
Establish a Group safety competition to increase engagement 58 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 1.
Our workplaces continued Gender diversity 2018 Employment practices Board of Directors Senior management Overview 2 113 Policies and practices We have policies and commitments around the way that we treat people and we base our employment practices on our Values, in particular the value of respect.
Our HR policies including our 7 433 Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy, Group Whistle-Blowing Policy and Group Human Rights Policy and systems provide a strong framework to protect the rights of employees and ensure their fair Workforce and equitable treatment.
Importance of diversity A diverse workforce brings vitality and creativity to our workplaces 1,675 and increases our ability to sustainably create value for our Male stakeholders.
We seek to increase diversity at all levels of Female the organisation, with a particular focus on gender diversity.
Our remuneration practices are designed to reward and recognise 5,845 skills, experience and achievement, and to be free of gender bias.
Employees are remunerated fairly for the work that they do and we do not promote or require excessive working hours.
We are a member of the Business Disability Forum UK and the Employers Our values Network for Equality & Inclusion UK.
In 2018, we refreshed our Values, drawing on extensive consultation with leaders from across our business.
We clarified Employee communication the important aspects of our current culture to preserve We communicate with employees through a variety of channels, and maintain.
In addition, we identified what was needed to ensure that they have an understanding of the operations and to ensure our culture continues to deliver future business performance of the Group.
We undertake confidential employee success.
Our Values are: Safety, Customer focus, Excellence, surveys to assess our performance as an employer and have wellCollaboration, Respect and Integrity.
Nicholas Anderson established grievance and whistle-blowing procedures to enable communicated the Values by a video to all employees, in nine employees to raise concerns.
See ethical business practices, languages, supported by a booklet in all 25 of our business page 60. languages.
Managers have been required to lead team discussions to raise awareness and ensure their teams live 2018 Performance and actions our Values.
Workforce diversity Board diversity was unchanged in 2018, although we remain talented women to support their career and personal development committed to meeting our target of 33% of women in our Board, and to accelerate our internal talent pipeline.
Across the Group as a whole, 79% of our senior managers are male and 21% are female, which is Employee engagement survey comparable with our wider workforce.
Our total workforce gender Following the employee engagement survey in 2017, all teams built diversity remained broadly unchanged, with 22% females and an action plan to ensure that we continuously increase employee 78% males, despite programmes to raise awareness of the engagement.
These plans were delivered with focus throughout importance of gender diversity 2017: 22% females, 78% male.
2018, with support from, and progress reviewed by, the Group During 2018, we participated in the FTSE Women Leaders Executive Committee.
With 22.2% female representation on the Board and 18% of the Executive Committee and their Focus for 2019 direct reports being female, we ranked second in the industrial Conduct a second global employee engagement survey in engineering sector, but 151st overall.
Recognising that action March 2019 to measure progress, incorporating Chromalox and needs to be taken to address this gender imbalance, we Gestra for the first time implemented a number of programmes and initiatives in 2018, Diversity and Inclusion: more diverse shortlists for external some of which are briefly outlined below.
recruitment and supporting our diverse talent internally Embed our Values across the business Executive diversity initiatives We delivered a Diversity & Inclusion session for members of the Group and Spirax Sarco Executive Committees.
The discussion Further reading focused around understanding diversity and building an inclusive To find out more about working at Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc, culture.
During 2018, we established an Executive mentoring visit our global careers website: programme and all Executives across the Group are mentoring https: www.
com Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 59 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued 1.
Our workplaces continued Ethical business practices People development Overview Overview Zero tolerance approach Skills for sustainable growth As our Group expands in number of people, geographic reach Developing the knowledge and skills of our people is central to and revenue, so does our commitment to ensuring that we have a our strategy for growth and for the long-term sustainability of strong culture of ethical behaviour across all our global operations.
All employees are actively encouraged to pursue professional development opportunities.
As they strengthen their 2018 Performance and actions knowledge and skills we are better able to deliver value to our customers and generate shareholder value.
Renewed Group Values Our Values serve as guiding principles across the Group to 2018 Performance and actions underpin decision-making, guide our conduct and define our culture.
In 2018, we refreshed and communicated these Values Graduate development across the Group to ensure that all employees globally understand Having established our two-year Group Global Graduate their responsibilities for maintaining these Values, laying the Development Programme in 2017, we increased the number foundation on which we will continue to build a successful, of graduates in 2018, adding a further 21 people 2017: 16. sustainable business.
We now have graduates from Argentina, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Spain, the UK and USA.
Recently acquired Expanded and updated ABC training businesses, Gestra and Chromalox, engaged with the programme During 2018, we updated our anti-bribery and corruption ABC for the first time in 2018, ensuring that this is a Group-wide offering.
training, clearly communicating our expectations of the highest Our graduates experience a wide diversity of development ethical standards and a zero tolerance approach to breaches opportunities and help to replenish our global talent pipeline.
The online training is part of our Group Essentials programme and is hosted on our internal Academy Leadership development platform.
It is available to all employees with an email address, During 2018, we enhanced our leadership development offering increasing accessibility across the Group.
ABC training has been as we partnered with a specialist consultancy to design an made an annual requirement, increasing the frequency with which innovative programme for talented leaders from across the Group.
employees engage with the ABC message.
In 2018, the updated The year-long programme, LEAP, which includes two residential ABC training was translated into five key languages, with an courses, on-going professional mentoring and regular webinars, additional 11 languages to follow in 2019. is designed to accelerate the development of our current and future leaders, challenging them to drive change within their Over 1,300 employees completed ABC training using the new areas of responsibility.
38 managers, across two cohorts, joined platform and nearly 500 employees completed either the original the programme in 2018.
In 2017, Watson-Marlow launched a or refresher training.
The new platform has enabled the Group global leadership programme called ASPIRE, which is focused to double the number of employees who have access to ABC on strengthening the deployment of strategy through effective training, compared with 2017.
Compliance with the training, by leadership.
27 people attended the programme in 2018.
Group company, is monitored via our internal audit function.
Senior management development Whistle-blowing 16 senior managers attended external executive education The Group continues to make an independent, third-party programmes in 2018.
Eight attended a two-week Advanced whistle-blowing hotline, Safecall, available to all employees.
Management Programme, run by the Ashridge Business School, Safecall provides local hotlines in all countries in which our while others attended courses run by the London Business Group companies are located, and each Group company posts School, the Darden School of Business, the Centre for Creative information about Safecall in public areas on the premises.
Leadership and the Stanford Graduate School of Business, In 2018, Chromalox moved from its historic whistle-blowing hotline covering topics such as executing strategy and leading for provider to Safecall and is now fully integrated into the Group organisational impact.
In 2018, Safecall was contacted five times, with each report thoroughly investigated by a relevant Technical development management team member and, as appropriate, follow-up See page 21 for information on technical training and an update on actions implemented.
The Audit Committee reviewed post-action the Spirax Sarco Academy in 2018. reports to ensure the management response was satisfactory.
Focus for 2019 Focus for 2019 Expand our Graduate development efforts, focusing on career Complete translations of the ABC course into 11 development post-programme additional languages Continue to expand our Leadership Development initiatives Provide updated whistle-blowing materials to all Assess and develop our sales management capability Group companies 60 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Supply chain management 2.
Our supply chain During 2018, we strengthened supply chain management, End-to-end supply chain appointing a supplier development engineer in Spirax Sarco India and another in Spirax Sarco Mexico, with plans approved Overview to expand our supplier auditing capabilities in Gestra.
End-to-end sustainability We are utilising our Product Lifecycle Management PLM Improving the sustainability of our end-to-end supply chain, which system to more effectively monitor supplier quality, enabling encompasses all the activities that transport and transform raw us to proactively work with suppliers to conduct root cause materials and components into finished products and delivers analysis of any quality issues and rectify problems quickly.
them to customers, is a key strategic objective for the Group.
Supplier quality has a key impact on the sustainability of our supply chain, with sub-standard castings either being rejected Regional manufacturing strategy and returned to the supplier or requiring additional working on We have 26 manufacturing sites globally.
By manufacturing our sites, both of which contribute to additional energy use, close to the point of sale we shorten lead times and deliver good as well as reducing manufacturing efficiency.
Therefore, by customer service, ensure that products meet local specifications, improving supplier quality management, we are increasing reduce transportation requirements for finished goods and provide supply chain sustainability.
local employment in the regions in which we operate.
Supplier Sustainability Code of Conduct Supplier development case study Our Supplier Sustainability Code Code outlines the expectations Following an audit, supplier development engineers from that we have for suppliers and enables us to embed sustainability Spirax Sarco UK have been working with supplier Amtech criteria into our purchasing processes.
Amongst other Investment Castings Amtech, based in India, on a continuous requirements, suppliers must not use forced, bonded or nonimprovement basis.
During 2018, Spirax Sarco and Amtech voluntary labour: should establish recognised employment decided to work together in a joint Community Engagement relationships, including non-discriminatory employment practices, project to support the Mother Teresa Ashram, located in maximum working hours, the freedom of association and clarity Rajkot, Gujarat.
The Ashram is home to 240 permanent in relation to wages.
Their facilities must be constructed and residents: 60 children, many with severe physical or mental maintained to an acceptable standard and their activities safe for disabilities, and 180 elderly women.
The Ashram also provides the health of their employees, contractors, the local community food and schooling to 40 children who live in a nearby slum.
and users of their products.
Suppliers must have a H&S policy and Employees from both companies visited the Ashram and management system, and seek to prevent work-related injuries identified the following urgent needs: bunk beds for the and illnesses through effective risk mitigation.
childrens dormitory, roof repairs in the womens dormitory, Suppliers must operate in accordance with law, conduct repairs and painting of outside walls, repairs to the door business free from bribery or corruption, and adhere to the UN and rain cover in the canteen.
Spirax Sarco India agreed to Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Core purchase and supply the bunk beds, while Amtech provided Conventions of the International Labour Organisation.
They must paints, materials and labour for the repairs.
not use child labour, should take steps to mitigate environmental impacts, deliver a high quality of product and source responsibly.
Focus for 2019 2018 Performance and actions Supplier Sustainability Code adoption by suppliers of recently Code roll out performance acquired businesses Aflex, Hiter, Gestra and Chromalox In 2016, we commenced the Phase 1 roll out of the Code to Improve supplier quality performance direct material suppliers of our Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow manufacturing companies, and in 2017 our Phase 2 roll out Modern Slavery Statement extended this to direct suppliers of our sales companies.
By the Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc prides itself on setting high standards end of 2018, 97% of Phase 1 and Phase 2 suppliers combined for sustainable and ethical business practices in its operations had signed the Code.
During 2018, we exited eight suppliers that worldwide.
Included in those high standards is a commitment to would not sign the Code or failed to meet our standards, and were respecting and protecting the human rights of all individuals and not prepared to work with us to improve.
combating all forms of modern slavery or human trafficking in all parts of our business organisation, including our supply chain.
In 2018, we commenced the Phase 3 roll out of the Code to the We are continuously developing and improving our business manufacturing and sales company suppliers of recently acquired practices and policies in line with that commitment.
We support businesses Hiter, Aflex, Gestra and Chromalox.
By the end of the a strong, collective stand to identify, prevent and raise awareness of modern slavery and human trafficking practices in all parts of year, a little over 50% of these suppliers had signed the Code.
All Group businesses have adopted the requirement for the Code and are aligned with the Group supply chain sustainability agenda.
Further reading Our 2019 target is for 84% of Phase 3 suppliers to have signed Read the Modern Slavery Statement in full or view our Supplier Sustainability the Code.
Code on our website: There were no identified breaches of Human Rights or incidents of www.
aspx modern slavery in our supply chain in 2018.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 61 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued 2.
Our environment Product responsibility Water and waste Overview Overview Product safety and integrity Managing resources and waste Application and continuous improvement of our robust product Fresh water is a scarce resource in many parts of the world.
development process enables us to maintain best practice in Therefore, we aim to monitor and use water efficiently, control the areas of design for manufacture and reliability, eco-design, leakage, reduce effluent and help our customers to do the same.
This ensures that our We also proactively manage and seek to reduce waste, utilising products are safe to use, contain ethically sourced materials, avoid specialist contractors to responsibly handle and recycle waste, in hazardous substances and are environmentally sound throughout line with safe Duty of Care best practice.
Our target is to reduce waste intensity by 10% and water intensity Our analysis, test and validation capability is second to none in by 5% over the next three years.
providing the evidence to support all regulatory standards and 2018 Performance and actions compliance requirements, and provide our customers with safe, reliable and environmentally friendly products driven by our central Water use policy and governance.
We have increased water monitoring across our manufacturing sites, invested in additional water metering and deployed internet 2018 Performance and actions based water monitoring in the UK.
Our Indian manufacturing Supplier Sustainability Code linkage site introduced flow controllers to limit supply and reduce waste Pro-active linking of Supplier Sustainability Code compliance water.
Spirax Sarco USA undertook water reduction programmes, to our Eco-Design Policy enables us to work closely with our including the installation of drip irrigation, watering only on an as suppliers during the design phase to prevent the use of hazardous needed basis and improved landscaping.
As a result, irrigation substances, utilise ethically sourced materials and ensure that water was reduced by 80% in 2018, while maintaining an our new products are environmentally sound during all phases of aesthetically pleasing landscape.
design, manufacture, service and end of life recovery.
The increase is due to the inclusion of 2017 Eco-design standardisation acquisitions, Gestra and Chromalox, and new operations Cross collaboration within our Steam Specialties business on established in 2017, which were included for the first time in 2018.
Research & Development functional best practice has enabled On a like-for-like basis, water use in our Spirax Sarco Steam us to share and benefit from eco-design principles globally, as we Specialties and Watson-Marlow businesses fell by 13% in 2018 work towards establishing a common approach to the application as we focused on better monitoring and management of this of eco-design methods during new product development.
On an intensity basis m of water used per Monitoring product quality m of inflation adjusted sales at constant currency, water use fell Enhanced global quality data, via improved data management by 4% in 2018. systems, has increased the immediacy of feedback to the design Waste process for field and production quality monitoring and provides During 2018, we increased office recycling facilities across direct insight into the stability, performance and lifecycle impact of the UK steam business and improved management of wood our new designs in an environmental and sustainability context.
waste, reducing waste transport collections.
Our Latin American Improved sustainable design maximises production efficiency and companies focused on sourcing better waste contractors to service life with minimum intervention, to lower energy costs and improve measuring, reporting and recycling of waste.
All sites material waste throughout the product lifecycle.
have focused on improving the weighing and monitoring of waste, and improving waste management and recycling processes.
As a REACH and RoHS management systems result, we are able to report on our global waste generation for the During 2018, Chromalox implemented an advanced management first time.
Globally, we generated 7.8 tonnes of waste per m of system for REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and sales in 2018.
Restriction of Chemical and RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances compliance, increasing efficiency and improving Improving data quality the ease by which Chromalox can demonstrate compliance with We increased the number of third-party assurance reviews of these important product safety directives.
our environmental data, conducting on-site data quality audits of waste and water across three additional sales and manufacturing Focus for 2019 sites in India and the UK, covering the Spirax Sarco Steam Consolidate our best-practice approach to product eco-design Specialties and Watson-Marlow businesses.
methods and compliance across Group companies Continue to monitor future legislation and standards via our Focus for 2019 structured compliance processes to ensure we remain at the External data assurance audits at Gestra and Chromalox sites leading edge of product sustainability philosophy Progress towards our 2021 water and waste reduction targets 62 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Auditing 3.
Our environment continued In 2018, we invested in global carbon accounting software Energy and carbon across our sales and operating companies and trained over 80 employees on carbon reporting.
We conducted internal EHS Overview manufacturing site audits and focused energy audits across six Climate change challenge manufacturing sites, identifying long-term energy and carbon Climate change is a global challenge that requires individuals, saving opportunities.
businesses and governments to address.
In accordance with national and international directives, we proactively manage our energy use, with the aim of reducing the carbon intensity of our Total Group CO e emissions scope 1 and 2 tonnes 2 business and our carbon footprint, and help our customers to do the same.
Over the next three years, our target is to reduce 2018 19,563 20,446 40,009 our energy intensity by 10%, with an accompanying reduction in 2017 32,058 carbon emissions.
2016 30,704 2018 Performance and actions 2015 30,050 CO e emissions performance 2 2014 34,431 Our CO e 2018 emissions data have been audited by TV UK Ltd, 2 which has provided limited assurance as follows: Scope 1 Scope 2 TV UK Ltd is acting as the independent verifier of the carbon footprint of Spirax Sarco.
Based on our checks and reviews, CO e intensity tonnes per m of ination adjusted sales, 2 at constant currency taking into consideration a materiality level of 5% and a limited level of assurance we have found no evidence suggesting 2018 34.7 that the calculated greenhouse gas emissions are materially 2017 36.7 misstated and, hence, they are not an unreasonable assertion of the greenhouse gas-related data and information.
Further, no 2016 38.1 facts became evident, which led us to the assumption that the 2015 39.0 calculation was not carried out in accordance with the applied international norm for the quantification, monitoring and reporting 2014 44.8 of GHG emissions GHG-Protocol.
The emissions for the reporting period 1st January 2018 to 31st December 2018 inclusive are: Group energy consumption MWh 19,563 tCO e for Scope 1 and 20,446 tCO e for Scope 2.
2 2 2018 155,947 TV UK Ltd, London, February 2019 2017 111,065 The increase in total emissions reflects the significant expansion of our business in 2017, in particular the acquisitions of Gestra and Chromalox whose emissions are included for the first time in 2018.
Energy intensity MWh per m of ination adjusted sales, at constant currency Excluding new businesses, we reduced our total emissions by 4% during 2018.
Our carbon emissions intensity reduced by 5% in 2018 135.2 2018, giving a 24% reduction since 2013, our benchmark year.
2017 127.2 Energy performance We employ an operational control definition to outline our carbon footprint Group energy use increased significantly in 2018 as energy boundary.
Included within that boundary are manufacturing facilities, administrative and sales offices where we have authority to implement our operating policies.
savings were offset by the first time inclusion of data for recent For each of these entities we have measured and reported on our relevant Scope 1 acquisitions, Gestra and Chromalox, as well as core business and Scope 2 emissions.
Scope 1 refers to direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Company: Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions resulting from growth.
On an intensity basis MWh per m of inflation adjusted the purchase of energy generated off site, including electricity.
Excluded from our sales at constant currency, energy use increased by 6%, footprint boundary are emission sources from operating companies established during 2018.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting primarily due to our new businesses having less mature energy Standard and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors management programmes than our pre-existing operations.
for Company Reporting 2017 and 2018, data from The International Energy Agency 2017 and 2018, ISO 140064-1, and regionally specific Environmental Reporting Guidelines to calculate our total CO2e emissions figures.
Energy management During the year, we established a common approach to designing, managing and tracking our energy programmes across the Focus for 2019 steam manufacturing sites.
Projects to upgrade to LED lighting Use carbon accounting software to increase awareness of were undertaken in most manufacturing and some sales sites.
environmental impacts and inform our carbon strategy Other projects included compressor upgrades Spirax Sarco Complete data assurance visits and energy reduction audits France, behaviour campaigns Spirax Sarco South Korea, pipe across our manufacturing sites insulation Spirax Sarco USA, improved windows and building Develop our understanding of, and response to, climate related infrastructure Gestra Germany and steam valve monitoring risks, adaptation and mitigation Spirax Sarco UK.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 63 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued 4.
Customers Tonnes of CO e emissions our end users saved as a result 2 of purchasing our energy management products 2018 5.7m Overview 2017 4.8m 1.0m 5.8m Our customer approach Our ability to provide engineered solutions that improve our 2016 4.4m customers operating efficiency, reduce their environmental 2015 4.4m impacts and increase their sustainability, is at the heart of our customer value proposition.
Our direct sales business model, 2014 4.8m wide product range and depth of knowledge uniquely position us CO savings from existing product range to be able to identify, develop and deliver bespoke solutions with 2 CO savings from expanded product range 2 significant sustainability benefits.
Spirax Sarco steam products only, excludes Gestra.
2018 Performance and actions Customer CO emissions reduction 2 Customer trial case study Reducing energy use and lowering CO emissions are key 2 During 2018, Watson-Marlow conducted a customer trial to sustainability drivers for many of our customers who are seeking analyse the energy saving benefits of using Qdos pumps in to reduce costs and environmental impacts.
We estimate a moulded fibre paper application.
The test, and results, are that a select range of Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties energy explained below.
management products that were sold during 2018 will reduce end users CO emissions by 5.7 million tonnes annually.
2 The methodology used to determine this external impact was independently assessed with the assistance of Ricardo Energy & Environment in 2017.
For 2018, the methodology remained unchanged but was reviewed by Spirax Sarco to take revised emission factors into account.
The calculation is based on a select range of energy saving products for which we can quantify energy savings with reasonable accuracy.
Many other products will generate energy and CO savings, when used as part of an 2 engineered solution that increases operational efficiency, but as Energy saving benefits of Qdos pumps the benefits are not easily quantifiable, they are excluded from During paper production, fibre is suspended in water to form the methodology.
a pulp, which is then moulded to the required shape.
In a process known as fide-watering, a vacuum is used to remove Sustainability offering roadmap excess water before the paper enters a drying oven.
The level During 2018, the Steam Specialties business developed a threeof bacteria in the process water affects the fide-watering year product, solutions and service roadmap to support our process: higher levels of bacteria increase the production of customer sustainability offering.
The roadmap identified ways to slime, which blocks the sieve and hinders water removal.
standardise our current sustainability offering across the steam Typically, paper enters drying ovens with a ratio of 40% fibre to business, and recognised technological trends, developments 60% water.
The higher the water content, the more energy is and new products that have the potential to increase the required to dry the paper.
sustainability of our customers operations and further strengthen our sustainability offering.
Watson-Marlow saw an opportunity to increase energy efficiency and in 2018, Huhtamaki, a paper manufacturer in Energy audits the Netherlands, participated in an on-site trial to establish the Energy audits are a core component of the Steam Specialties energy saving benefits of using Qdos pumps to accurately business sustainability offering to customers.
Throughout 2018, dose lime into the water, preventing bacteria growth.
the Strategic Account Management department focused on aligning a global approach to energy auditing for strategic The trial demonstrated that with accurate lime dosing, the customers, developing audit tools and strengthening core fide-watering process reduced the water content of the team capabilities, supported by improved training and pulp.
This enabled Huhtamaki to reduce the drying oven marketing materials.
temperature by 15C, generating a 3% energy saving, reducing carbon emissions by approximately 18,000kg per Focus for 2019 year and delivering a return on investment of just four weeks.
Adoption of the sustainability offering roadmap within the Steam Specialties business Analysis of data from a Watson-Marlow customer trial, Further reading Examples of how our products and services have achieved our objectives to carried out in 2018, to assess the energy saving benefits of reduce customer waste, energy consumption and improve their efficiency can be using Watson-Marlow technology in a solid butter pumping found in our customer case studies.
dairy application See pages 16-19 64 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Community Engagement Awards 5.
Our communities During the year, we ran our annual Community Engagement Community engagement Award, with outstanding entries received from across the Group.
Following a rigorous selection process, the Group Overview Sustainability Committee chose the winners: Spirax Sarco A force for good Mexico large company and Spirax Sarco Thailand small We Engineer better futures through making financial donations to company, with honorary awards given to Spirax Sarco registered charities, supporting educational provision, giving in-kind Czech Republic, Chromalox USA and Watson-Marlow USA.
donations of products, services or the use of company facilities, The winners will each receive 5,000 and the honorary award and company-supported employee volunteering.
Our primary focus winners 2,500 to supplement their community engagement is education, particularly in the sciences and engineering, with an activities in 2019. aim of raising awareness of technical careers and breaking down Further reading gender stereotypes.
We also seek to respond to local needs, offer Spirax-Sarco Thailands Community Engagement activities.
support to the underprivileged young, disadvantaged, disabled and See page 24 elderly, and contribute to natural disaster relief.
Our Group Charitable Donations Policy guides our community engagement activities.
Spirax Sarco Mexico winner Spirax Sarco Mexico has partnered with a local school for 2018 Performance and actions academically gifted students.
In 2018, the company invited Group Charitable Trust donations 30 pupils to spend the day on site to raise awareness of During 2018, the Spirax Sarco Group Charitable Trust made 61 career opportunities in engineering.
The company initiated donations with a total value of 263,000, including a 25,000 a poster contest at the school with the theme Women in donation to Engineers Without Boarders, UK, a charity that Engineering and the three winning contestants, and their seeks to inspire young engineers and embed global responsibility families, spent a day at Spirax Sarco.
The Trust also partnered with the Institution delivered a lecture about renewable energy, planted 60 trees of Engineering and Technology IET to sponsor five Faraday and attended the schools graduation ceremony.
The company Challenge events in schools local to our UK operations.
The Faraday established a scholarship scheme for three university-level Challenge is an annual engineering competition in which teams of engineering students: one from each of the following disciplines: students, aged 12-13 years, compete to see who can design, create mechatronics, industrial engineering and software engineering.
and promote the best solution to a given challenge.
The Trust has Spirax Sarco pays 40% of the scholarship recipients university also committed to sponsor five IET Engineering Horizons Bursaries fees and provides mentoring and work experience.
The bursaries of 1,000 per annum will be paid for four years to selected engineering students or apprentices Honorary award winners pursuing a career in engineering.
Spirax Sarco Czech Republic has partnered with the Ratolest Day Care Centre in Prague, which supports children, youth Local community engagement activities and adults with severe learning or physical disabilities.
181,000 was donated to charitable causes by our operating Volunteers from Spirax Sarco helped to refurbish a classroom, companies during the year: in-kind donations with an estimated completed gardening and outside maintenance work, assisted value of 45,000 were donated: and our employees contributed at the Centres open days and donated needed equipment.
over 4,850 hours of working time to community engagement activities.
Using an average hourly salary to estimate the cost to the Over the course of a year, Chromalox Inc USA organised 13 company of employee volunteering, and including management blood donation days across three of its sites in North America, costs, we estimate that the total value of our operating companies with the aim of collecting 100 pints of blood.
The target was community engagement activities in 2018 was in excess of exceeded with 286 pints donated, which could help save as 340,000.
In addition, our employees donated 55,000 of their many as 858 lives.
own money and over 1,650 hours of their own time in workplace In July, 12 Watson-Marlow Inc USA employees participated organised fundraising and community engagement activities.
in the Boston Childrens Hospital Corporate Cup, raising over $5,000 for the hospital.
Amongst other activities, the company held an International Womens Day event, collected interview Group Charitable Trust donations 000 appropriate outfits to donate to low income men and women 2018 263.0 in the Boston area who are seeking to enter the workforce, and 2017 231.1 made donations to the Dana Farber Cancer Institute and the Jimmy Fund to support life-changing breakthroughs in cancer 2016 180.1 research and patient care.
2015 150.8 Focus for 2019 2014 155.1 Increase awareness of, and encourage wider participation in, the Group Community Engagement Awards Promote employee volunteering across the Group Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 65 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report
