CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Corporate Responsibility is central to our vision to be a leading international sports and lifestyle retailer.
Our established Corporate Responsibility framework focuses on five key areas: Human Resources, Health and Safety, Customers, the Community and the Environment.
Sports Direct has developed Key Performance Indicators KPIs to ensure we deliver on our commitments.
These KPIs are discussed further in this Corporate Social Responsibility Report and in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review and the Financial Review, and are based solely on our UK operations, unless expressly stated.
HUMAN RESOURCES HR The Group employs and engages approx.
26,500 people, and our people are what make the Sports Direct Group such a success.
The Board is committed to ensuring that all of our people have the opportunity to be inspired, stimulated, motivated, and empowered.
We believe that it takes every single team member to make a difference and drive performance, and we are committed to the development and rewarding of our people to enable the Group to achieve its future growth plans.
The Groups approach is focused on continual development to nurture our people towards their full potential and to enable our teams to promote from within wherever possible, rewarding staff and retaining people and investment in talent.
The Group has several policies and systems in place to ensure staff welfare is monitored and maintained.
In support of these policies and systems, communication with our people occurs via Group news emails, letters, staff portal staff app and the intranet, as well as through briefings by direct managers and through the Groups training programmes.
Our HR department is also represented at the meetings of the Listening Group and Health & Safety Committee for the Shirebrook campus, and is consulted and kept abreast of any issues, comments or suggestions through the Your Company, Your Voice portal for both Shirebrook and Retail.
ATTRACTION AND RETENTION As a Group, we like to train and retain our staff to ensure that valuable knowledge remains within the Group.
The Group uses a number of incentives to retain our people, including regularly holding employee appraisals, to identify the areas where we, as an employer, can improve.
We find that regular appraisals also highlight the knowledge gaps which our employees have, and allows us to offer staff training which will develop their understanding.
During FY18, 23.0% of our UK salaried staff left the Group, an increase from 17.4% in FY17.
As expected, this figure increased after the remaining 2011 Share Scheme vesting period.
Store Manager stability with Sports Direct is currently sitting at 84.3%, this is a decrease of 0.7% on the FY17 figure.
Assistant Manager and Footwear Manager stability currently sit at 82.9% and 89.1% respectively, which is an increase of 2.5% and a decrease of 0.3% across the positions.
SALARIED STAFF TURNOVER SINCE FY14 FY14 - 19% FY15 - 19% FY16 - 22% FY17 - 17% FY18 - 23% SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 77 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Continued PERFORMANCE AND REWARD Since their introduction in 2009, share schemes have been a major tool used to attract and retain employees.
Vests in 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2017 have seen participants benefit from bonuses in excess of 230m.
We believe that this high performance, high reward culture has been a major contributory factor towards our successes to date.
Due to current economic and currency uncertainty, the Company has decided not to introduce a new share scheme at the present time but will look to do so at the right time in the future.
The 2009 and 2011 share schemes have now successfully achieved all of their targets, and as a result no more shares will be granted under the schemes.
During FY18, participants in the 2011 Share Scheme were offered the opportunity to vest their final tranches of shares.
At this time the Company guaranteed a minimum price of 3 per share for all shares vested, increasing to 4 per share if kept in the scheme for a further 12 months.
The guaranteed minimums were designed to offer some protection to share scheme participants from the recent volatility of the share price.
During FY18, 11.6m of shares worth 45.5m relating to the 2011 Bonus Share Scheme have vested, with 1,123,173 shares remaining.
The targets under the 2011 Share Scheme were: 2012: Underlying EBITDA of 215m - Achieved 2013: Underlying EBITDA of 250m - Achieved 2014: Underlying EBITDA of 260m - Achieved 2015: Underlying EBITDA of 300m - Achieved The 2015 Share Scheme failed to achieve the first EBITDA Target and as a result, during FY16 the Scheme lapsed.
During FY18 the Board have continued to look towards creating a long-term incentive scheme that will be both beneficial and rewarding for all parties concerned.
This is an area which remains ongoing and is high on the Board agenda.
The Board are committed to rewarding our people for their dedication to the Company and we are hopeful that a suitable incentive scheme can be achieved once we are comfortable that the targets set will be both stretching and achievable.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Diversity within the Group is essential, and we believe this plays an important role in a successful business.
At all times we try to ensure that our people meet the diversity, cultures and values of our varied customer base.
We endeavour to provide equality of opportunity and will not tolerate discrimination on grounds of gender identity, sexual orientation, race, nationality, religion, age, disability or any other grounds.
People who have a first language other than English have an important role to play at Sports Direct and it is our aim to be inclusive.
We offer the opportunity to improve the skills to participate and be successful at work, at home and as citizens by providing free English language lessons to support people who have a first language other than English.
Since introducing the lessons in January 2017 over 1,200 staff have attended.
Five levels are available for each member of the team to work through including Business English which all nationalities attend including British.
A selection of those who attended the classes have used their new found skills to secure new roles within various Head Office positions such as Customer Service, Buying and the Translation Team.
Our senior leadership team is currently comprised of approx.
Three of our senior executive positions: Head of Global Operations, Head of HR and UK Group Financial Controller are held by females.
As positions become available the necessary level of consideration will be given to ensuring diversity within the team.
Approximately 50% of our overall workforce is female.
We aim to ensure that both male and female candidates are provided with equal opportunities to apply for and work in all positions across the Group.
78 BREAKDOWN OF GENDER DIVERSITY Male Female Directors 6 - Other senior managers 639 246 All UK workforce 7,277 6,856 GENDER PAY GAP Our Gender pay gap report was published in April 2018.
The average gender pay gap across the group was 6.3%, which we note is below the current national average of 18.4%.
We recognise there is a difference in total earnings between female and male employees when bonuses are taken into account and we are continuing to explore and implement methods that will establish enhanced processes and training tools for our employees and engaged workers to achieve maximum earning potential through our various bonus and commission schemes.
For information on diversity on the Board please see the Nomination committee report on page 113.
APPRAISALS During FY18 the Group implemented a new approach to its Appraisal Programme across both Retail and Head Office.
All heads of department collaborated to revamp the existing measures with something innovative, modern and role specific.
The aim of this exercise was to make it easier to identify training needs, manage performance and set achievable and role specific objectives, giving staff clear career direction and an opportunity to showcase their skills whilst highlighting areas of improvement.
It has been well received and we will continue to evolve the project to suit the needs of the Group and to the benefit of its people.
PAY REVIEW During FY18 a pay review of all UK staff was conducted and pay increases implemented where appropriate.
The aim of the pay review was to bring wages in line with our competitors making us an employer of choice to appeal to external talent as well as improve the retention of our skilled and valued people.
TALENT AND CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT KEY HIGHLIGHTS: Total workforce: approx.
26,500 Hours invested in training: approx.
60,000 Apprenticeships The Apprenticeship Levy was introduced in April 2017.
We currently have a number of apprentices across the group studying towards accredited qualifications on subjects ranging from Data Analysis, Team Leader, Advanced & Professional Diploma in Accounting, Network Engineer and Project Management.
Placement Years We offer an opportunity for undergraduates to spend a year gaining valuable work experience during their time at University.
Year placements offer the chance to: Advance skills like team working, project management and organisational skills.
Learn about implementing roles with real responsibility and challenges which increase the likelihood of successful employment after University by gaining the skills graduate employers are looking for.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 79 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Continued STAFF TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT The aim of our Staff Training and Development department is to nurture our people to enable them to deliver the requirements of the Group and its customers.
Our goal is to give every staff member from all fascias of the business, the opportunity to be inspired, developed, motivated and empowered to increase their impact within the business.
In the past year, we invested approx.
60,000 hours in training and development.
We believe this commitment to ensuring our teams have the knowledge they need to perform at the highest level is paramount to the continued success of the business.
We have launched an organisational development programme to give our people visibility over career opportunities within the Group.
We also strive to offer staff the tools to achieve their personal development goals through training and other means.
The majority of Store Managers are promoted from within and over a third of them started as casual sales staff.
We have an existing purpose-built training centre at our campus in Shirebrook, which is dedicated to ensuring our people have appropriate opportunities to develop their skills and progress their careers within the Group.
During the year we have enhanced our welcome programme for new retail staff and continued to strengthen the product training that we provide in conjunction with third party brands.
Across all fascias, we remain focused on the need to proactively develop our teams competence base and leadership capabilities in order to meet the rapidly changing requirements of the Group.
We offer a varied portfolio of training courses for our people, the majority of which are hosted in our own facilities.
The Training and Development portfolio continues to grow across the following areas: Brand and Product Knowledge Customer Service Training E-Learning Home Grown Talent Management Management Training Apprenticeships Placement Years Free English Lessons Adult ESOL We continue to believe in the integration between coaching, organisational development and performance management to support any new initiative or change to improve efficiency within Sports Direct.
MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 MSA The Company aims to respect all people and is committed to equal treatment.
We have long recognised the reality that modern slavery is an ongoing challenge which virtually all organisations, especially those dealing in consumer goods, will continue to face.
We remain committed to addressing this risk.
Ultimately we strive to ensure that no slavery or human trafficking takes place within our business or supply chain.
We have policies in place aimed at proactively identifying and mitigating the risks.
These policies aim to send a clear message that we will not tolerate this kind of behaviour.
We also have a range of tools in place including videos and literature to educate staff about their rights and a number of alternative channels including an internal telephone hotline, physical comments boxes on site and the third party Retail Trust hotline for reporting any concerns confidentially.
We continue to review and develop our staff training, monitoring processes and evaluation of outcomes and work with relevant employment agencies.
80 If we find, or suspect, that any organisations or individuals are participating in modern slavery we will take immediate action so that our standards and values are maintained.
Accordingly we have a policy of reporting any suspicious activity to the police which has historically assisted in successful convictions.
Our section 54 MSA statement can be found on our website www.
HEALTH AND SAFETY As the Group continues to grow there has been increased focus on creating a consistent method of implementing Health and Safety measures and evaluating the Groups safety performance.
Policies are implemented, in conjunction with legal standards, to protect our staff and customers.
During FY18, the Head of Health & Safety and the team have undertaken a full review of its Health and Safety policies and procedures.
The introduction of the bespoke online Accident Incident reporting system has resulted in improved accident reporting investigation and accident trend analysis.
The Groups Reporting of Injuries, Disease and Dangerous Occurrences Report RIDDOR rate has reduced significantly in FY18 when compared to FY17.
This has been achieved by accuracy of the reporting process.
Improved communication and handling of incidents along with a more robust investigation process has also assisted.
All RIDDOR incidents are recorded and are reportable to the Local Authority.
The Health & Safety team meet the Derbyshire authority with responsibility for Shirebrook on a quarterly basis and work closely with other authorities when required.
All accidents and incidents are investigated in a timely manner.
In relation to the UK workforce, the number of accidents recorded involving the warehouse workforce as at April 2018 was down when compared to April 2017.
In the previous year the most frequent type of incidents involved the use of stillages and cages.
The newly formatted induction handbook and training review has had a positive impact on this.
Going forward, improved supervisor training and selection will support the momentum of the Groups standards and performance.
The number of accidents recorded involving the store, office and distribution workforce in the UK increased in FY18 compared with FY17.
An increase was to be anticipated with the introduction of the bespoke online Accident Incident reporting system in November 2016.
Reporting is now more accurate and timely, allowing us to take any necessary actions and secure evidence more efficiently.
In FY19 we will have a direct comparison of reported accidents through the online system.
The Company is a corporate member of the British Safety Council and we attend a quarterly Retail Health & Safety forum facilitated by Oris, this promotes the sharing of ideas and solutions.
The Head of Health and Safety has now been nominated as the new Deputy Chairman of the forum.
The Company has recently employed a Wellbeing Officer based in the warehouse and Head Office to promote physical and mental health programmes within the workplace and link with local community projects.
Over the course of the year there were no environmental prosecutions or work-related fatalities.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 81 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Continued HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING We take reasonable steps to train each relevant company within the Group to the appropriate standards applicable in each requisite country.
Shirebrook Head Office is now a registered training centre for First Aid and Health & Safety, with Qualsafe and the British Safety Council respectively.
Our Health & Safety Training Officer recently left the business but we have successfully recruited a replacement who will join us in July 2018.
In association with EuroSafe Safety Schemes in Procurement SSIP, all contractors are now required to register as a safe contractor prior to undertaking any works within the business.
This is extended to store maintenance and projects along with the Shirebrook Campus and Head Office.
Training courses are regularly offered and staff are encouraged to learn essential Health and Safety techniques.
A revised staff Induction, Refresher training and Handbook are ongoing within our stores, along with revised task based Risk Assessments and Safe Systems of Work.
The Warehouse teams have also undertaken similar reviews and implemented improved documentation and standards.
Supervisors and section leaders within the warehouse have received training in Supervising Health & Safety level 2 validated by Qualsafe.
All contractors are now required to complete a site induction before they will be given access to complete any works within the Shirebrook Campus or Head Office.
The Regional Health & Safety Officers have received additional training and education regarding delivery of Fire Risk Assessments in association with the British Association of Fire Engineers BAFE and Evac Chair training.
They have also been enrolled into an a National Compliance & Risk Qualifications NCRQ course to enhance their existing knowledge and Health & Safety qualifications.
Since the last report this team has an additional part time member who supports stores within Central London.
All new or refurbished stores receive a visit from the relevant Health & Safety officer prior to opening and existing stores are visited using a priority based schedule.
The team at Head Office is always on hand to visit and assist stores with Health and Safety issues, assess incidents and report relevant matters to RIDDOR.
All potentially serious incidents are escalated to the senior team and any other relevant parties by the Head of Health & Safety, with a weekly follow up meeting.
All audits, inspections and fire risk assessments have been centralised and are electronically completed so they can be retained automatically.
Additional resource has been allocated to the team dedicated to dealing with accident related claims and complaints.
The introduction of the Accident Incident reporting has assisted the team to become more proactive investigating incidents and building claims defensibility where necessary.
This allows direct follow up and initiation of the investigation process and evidence gathering i. e. CCTV, witness statements, service records etc.
Accidents involving staff or customers are reported to the Board regularly, as are any legal claims that arise from these.
CUSTOMERS Customer service is at the forefront of our business.
We aim to provide customers with an enjoyable experience both in-store and online and ensure all our products are safe and fit for purpose.
Regular external customer experience visits are undertaken in our stores and gyms to identify areas for improvement and also to recognise staff providing exceptional customer service.
Monitoring customer satisfaction and responding to queries is a continuous process.
All written complaints are recorded, including an analysis of the nature of the complaint so that trends can be assessed and appropriate action taken.
We are continuously working to improve customer service at all levels within the Group from the retail stores, to Head Office and our website.
82 SUPPLY CHAIN We are committed to responsible business practices in our business and supply chain.
We recognise the potential risks associated with an international supply chain such as ours and we continue to take steps to assess and try to control these risks.
"One way in which we do so is through our continuing policy of using two key ""gateway"" suppliers based in Singapore and South Korea for Group branded products."
The Group recognises the value in building long term relationships with its suppliers and has worked closely with its two key suppliers for a number of years, over which time the suppliers have demonstrated that they share the Group's values in upholding responsible business practices.
Our longstanding relationship with these key suppliers enables the Group to have an increased level of visibility and control over its supply chain.
We have a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and human trafficking and aim to ensure as far as possible that our suppliers comply with these values.
This includes notifying our key suppliers of our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy, which sets out the high standards expected of our suppliers.
Our key suppliers are also required to provide warranties that their businesses including any persons associated with them have not been convicted of, or been the subject of any investigation by a governmental, administrative or regulatory body regarding any offence involving slavery or human trafficking.
Our key suppliers are also required amongst other things to comply with auditing obligations and to provide annual reports setting out the steps they have taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in their businesses or supply chains.
We also work with a number of household name third party brand suppliers who have their own published approach to supply chain management, which we monitor.
We comply with an internationally recognised list of chemicals that are banned for use in fabrics.
Both supply chain companies conduct random tests on fabric which are then taken to a recognised laboratory for quality testing and to ensure that banned chemicals are not being used We continue with our policy of supporting ethically sourced fur products in our retail stores.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT The Group engages at various levels with the local communities in which we operate, and in relation to our Shirebrook campus we continue to actively work with Shirebrook Forward NG20 working group, which aims to help Shirebrook retain its breadth of services, local support functions and community spirit.
Our 500 seat auditorium is utilised throughout the year for local community events.
Local community organisations such as county and local council groups make use of the facility free of charge.
The Group supported a number of local charities and organisations through the year primarily through the donation of sporting equipment and clothing and sponsorship by our brands.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 83 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Continued PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT We are consistently pro-active in ensuring we make a positive contribution to the environment.
Our goal is to foster partnerships that will enhance our local economy using environmental improvements that create cleaner, safer neighbourhoods.
This happens in a number of different ways.
Our trucks are back loaded with recyclable waste when they are making deliveries to our stores.
This is supported by an onsite recycling centre which ensures we facilitate the recycling of circa 95% of our cardboard.
We are currently a triple A producer of waste KLNs Cardboard which means that we produce clean, high density bales, of a constant quality and quantity loaded correctly into either of two permanently located stand 40ft containers for export and one permanently located stand trailer going to a local paper mill.
Plastic The recycling of plastic has transformed into a totally separate baling operation using four new HSM v press balers handling plastic only.
This change has stopped end of bale contamination.
Previously, we would have used the downtime available on the cardboard balers.
Currently the plastic we produce on site is of a high grade.
Metal We recycle our metal through a partnership with two local companies.
They supply 40 yard bins located at the south end of the warehouse which we load with scrap metal that is generated from either Shirebrook or our retail stores.
We are now actively sub-sorting different grades where possible to facilitate a faster more efficient process and a greater rebate.
Transport The Group has reduced the number of its trucks on the road by approximately 20% to 80.
The Groups fleet is continuing to be replaced with more environmentally friendly trucks meeting Euro 6 standard.
Due to more efficient usage of trucks, including training drivers to drive as efficiently as possible to maximise fuel usage, the Group used 375,000 litres less fuel in FY18 than the prior year.
Energy Efficiency All our newer retail stores are equipped with smart meters to monitor energy usage.
This is managed centrally thus ensuring a consistent measurement across our retail footprint.
We have embarked on a significant energy reduction programme culminating in the delivery of our very efficient Warehouse C. This has been supplemented with a number of pilot projects to create further energy saving opportunities.
We recognise that we have a responsibility to manage the impact our business has on the environment and we are committed to reducing this both now and in the future.
We continue to comply with the Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment and have identified key areas where we can make a difference, in particular energy usage in our stores, transport and waste management.
We are continuously aiming to reduce our carbon footprint.
The single most significant element is electricity, which makes up 81% of the footprint.
The carbon footprint spread across all UK sites is detailed in the chart below: 84 CARBON FOOTPRINT ANALYSIS 1 APRIL 2017 - 31 MARCH 2018 Electricity 81% Diesel 10% Other 9% The growth of our Company has increased the number of our stores and therefore the absolute GHG emissions.
Our chosen intensity ratio of electricity-related emissions per m revenue has decreased by 10% due to the reduced CRC factors and efficiencies.
GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS REPORTING 1 Reporting period 1 April 2017 - 31 March 2018 2 Baseline year FY15 Consolidation approach Operational control All entities and facilities either owned or under operational control were included.
Emissions from Boundary summary air conditioning and refrigeration units are excluded due to the cost of data collection.
These are expected to be a negligible % of scope 1 emissions.
Consistency with Financial Other than the emissions declared for the period 1 April 2017 31 March 2018 to be in line with Statements the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, there are no inconsistencies with Financial Statements.
Emission factor data source DEFRA May 2013 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006.
We have used the 2016 UK Governments Assessment methodology GHG conversion factors.
Materiality was set at Group level at 5%, with all facilities estimated to contribute 0.5% of total Materiality threshold emissions included.
Intensity ratio Emissions per m revenue 1 The emissions declared are for the period 1 April 2017 31 March 2018 to be in line with the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
2 As we have full comparative information for all energy sources for the Group, we have set the baseline year as 2015.
Scope 1 GHG emissions are calculated based on the purchased quantities of commercial fuels using published emission factors.
Scope 2 GHG emissions are primarily calculated from metered electricity consumption and published emission factors.
CO2 equivalent factors are used which ensures we have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Regulations.
Year 2018 2017 Scope 1 CO2e emissions 13,754 12,624 Scope 2 CO2e emissions 102,827 112,692 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions Tonnes 116,581 125,316 CO2e Emissions Tonnes m 34.7 38.7 CO2e Emissions vs Turnover Index 2015: 100 75.3 84.0 SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 85 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Continued WASTE REDUCTION We are actively reducing the amount of waste we send to landfill and segregate waste to ensure that we recycle as much as possible.
THIS YEAR WE RECYCLED: 6,278 units of electrical equipment 2017: 5,548 units 120 tonnes of waste paper 2017: 607 tonnes 12,931 tonnes of cardboard 2017: 12,203 tonnes 360 tonnes of metal 2017: 384 tonnes 826 tonnes of plastic 2017: 1,023 tonnes All stores now use biodegradable carrier bags and provide the option of a bag for life.
This is actively promoted instore through high levels of staff engagement.
We remain committed to minimising waste and improving energy efficiency across our stores and will continue to explore new ways in which to do this.
ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTI-BRIBERY The Group has an Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy in place, which was originally created following the introduction of the UK Bribery Act.
As a result of the Act, all policies and procedures were reviewed to ensure that they complied with the Act and measures are in place to prevent staff being offered and or accepting bribes.
We have a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption at Sports Direct, and encourage our people to speak up if they have concerns that bribery or fraud is taking place.
WHISTLE-BLOWING There is an approved whistle-blowing policy within the Group, which was reviewed and updated by the Board in September 2017.
The policy was established to be utilised by our people who wish to raise any issues or concerns relating to the Groups activities, and all matters are discussed on a confidential basis.
The Board intends to continue reviewing its policies and procedures, particularly those relating to anti-corruption and anti-bribery as well as environmental, human rights and social matters, to help ensure that the outcomes of such policies are aligned with and further enhance the Groups values.
Mike Ashley Chief Executive 18 July 2018 86
