Strategic Report Our role in society PEOPLE CONTINUED SSEs human capital strategy is based on the premise that an engaging, supportive and fair place to work generates substantial long-term benefits for SSE and its stakeholders.
This employment ethos, combined with the geographical diversity of SSEs business, allows SSE to generate inclusive economic growth and sustain skilled jobs across the UK and Ireland.
Performance summary Unit 2017 18 2016 17 1 Total employees Headcount 20,785 21,157 % male % female 68.9 31.1 68.6 31.4 2 3 Executive Committee and direct reports Headcount 47 55 % male % female 80.9 19.1 81.8 18.2 4 Board of Directors Headcount 10 9 % male % female 70 30 66.7 33.3 Retention rate % 86.3 85.7 Total recruitment Number 2,583 3,227 Average age Years 40.5 40 Average length of service Years 9.5 9.3 5 Learning and development expenditure m 9.8 9.5 Average training per FTE Hours 22 21 6 Investment in pipeline programmes m 15.4 9.4 1 As at 31 March in each financial year.
Figures include all SSE UK and ROI employees, excludes contingent agency staff.
2 The figures for the Executive Committee include the relevant members of the Committee in each financial year, as well as the Company Secretary and MD, Corporate Affairs, who attend all Committee meetings.
Administration employees have not been included when calculating the direct reports to these individuals.
3 As at 31 March in each financial year.
Figures are for the current SSE business.
SSEs new gender balance targets see page 81 are for the SSE business following completion of the planned SSE Energy Services transaction.
4 As at 31 March in each financial year.
For more information see pages 106 to 107.
5 Total internal and external learning and development expenditure excluding pipeline programme investment.
2016 17 has been restated to remove pipeline programmes.
6 Total cost of apprentice, graduate, Technical Skills Trainee and other pipeline programmes, including salary costs.
Throughout this process, and in preparation SSEs Chief Executive, Alistair Phillips-Davies, Strategic challenges for the creation of a new, independent energy has specific responsibility for leading and The most material challenges and risks facing supply and services business, it has been a supporting SSEs Human Resources function.
SSEs workforce remain consistent with last strategic objective to ensure that the interests The Group Governance, Culture and Controls year: a skills gap in the energy sector in the of existing SSE employees are supported, Committee has oversight of the People and 2020s and a stark lack of diversity within the particularly those who would transfer across Culture Group Principal Risk.
As such, talent development and to the new company.
the creation of a truly inclusive workplace at Fairness at work SSE continues to be the focus and backdrop Governance SSE has a range of employment policies of many Board, Nomination Committee SSEs Corporate Governance Framework which clearly detail the standards, processes, and senior management discussions.
SSE has been carefully designed to support the expectations and responsibilities of its people must be able to attract, develop and retain an companys values, standards and processes.
These policies are appropriately skilled, diverse and sustainable It helps ensure SSE is a respectful and designed to ensure that everyone, including workforce and leadership team.
It will continue inclusive place to work where employees those with existing or new disabilities and with its strategy to address these challenges are treated fairly.
people of all backgrounds, are dealt with in using skills gaps as an opportunity to an inclusive and fair way from the recruiting become a more inclusive employer and grow The Nomination Committee ensures the process on through their career at SSE, sustainable careers across the UK and Ireland, Board, its Committees and SSEs senior whether that means access to appropriate maximising social value by recruiting from management have the right balance of training, development opportunities or local areas.
By broadening the potential talent skills, knowledge and experience, to ensure job progression.
pool and skills base, SSE believes this more the long-term success of SSE.
In particular, diverse perspective will result in a higher quality the Committee reviews SSEs succession of decision-making and improved company planning and talent development, and aims performance and productivity.
to promote a culture at SSE which is inclusive and diverse by taking account of a wide range The principles of being a responsible of perspectives.
More detail can be found in employer are guiding SSE through its the Nomination Committee Report on pages planned SSE Energy Services transaction 105 to 108. and the challenges of change.
80 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Setting ambitions for SSEs responsible employer ethos women in senior leadership In line with its IN, ON and UP SSE has a well-established approach to being a responsible employer, based on strategy to improve inclusion and a number of basic principles which help ensure value is created and retained for diversity, SSE has set the following employees and the organisation.
This ethos has been extended in 2017 18 to initial gender balance targets for the include creating an inclusive culture for all employees.
NEW SSE business, with the aim of achieving them within three 1.
Focus on the UK financial years: from within and Ireland 2.
Create an work in-house inclusive culture 20% 30% Underpinning SSEs responsible employer ethos is the fundamental principle that all SSE employees and those in its supply chain must be treated and treat each other with Executive Committee and fairness and respect.
Key to this is SSEs commitment to paying the real Living Wage.
Direct Reports to the Executive Committee : from 20% women More information about the principles of SSEs responsible employer ethos at present to 30% women by can be found within the Sustainability Report 2018.
SSEs Board, Nomination Committee and Workforce disclosure 16% 25% Executive Committee are committed to SSE is committed to demonstrating leadership making real progress in improving inclusion in its reporting of workforce metrics and Membership of the Executive and diversity at SSE.
Progress is actively developing year-on-year improvement to Committee and its sub reviewed by the Executive Committee both the quality and quantity of disclosure.
It Committees: from 16% women quarterly at a minimum and by the works with a number of external stakeholders at present to 25% women Nomination Committee at least twice a year.
to ensure the ongoing development of data by March 2021.
Members of the Board, Executive Committee reporting and understanding around employee and other senior business leaders are also issues.
SSE does this because it believes that committed to working individually to achieve significant future value is created through the progress.
Further information around the development and investment in its workforce.
diversity of SSEs Board and the work that has It actively seeks to disclose that approach to 14% 20% been carried out in respect of inclusion can encourage scrutiny and engagement from be found within the Nomination Committee both its shareholders and its stakeholders.
Roles at 70,000 indexed Workforce composition from 31 December 2017 Stability Future workforce or above, commonly found in Developing talent Following completion of the planned SSE Organisational Level OL 19: SSE faces a skills gap in the 2020s and must Energy Services transaction, SSE would from 14% women at present to ensure it has a sustainable pipeline of talent retain its Networks, Enterprise and Wholesale 20% women by March 2021. coming into and succeeding through the businesses, in addition to corporate functions.
This means making sure SSE is Although this will reduce the size of SSEs The setting of these ambitions was accessing a wide pool of diverse talent workforce, SSE is committed to its responsible given careful consideration.
They externally, as well as creating an inclusive approach to employment remaining the same are designed to be realistic and environment where employees can move and it will continue to generate inclusive credible for SSE given its starting up in the organisation.
growth for the economies in the geographical point and the sectorial challenges locations where it operates.
It will also it faces, whilst also being sufficiently At entry-level, in 2017 18 there were 1,110 continue its approach to positively engage ambitious to drive meaningful and trainees on one of SSEs pipeline programmes with its trade union partners to ensure they are visible change in the organisation.
just over 5% of SSEs total workforce.
SSE kept appraised of any key business changes.
More information about what invested a total of 15.4m across these action SSE is taking to achieve these programmes, a substantial increase from Inclusion and diversity targets and take further action to 9.4m in 2016 17.
The increase in pipeline Information on action taken and progress be an inclusive employer can be spending in 2017 18 was primarily driven made against SSEs Inclusion Strategy found in the Sustainability Report by a 5.8m investment in SMART metering 2017-2020 is reported in the Sustainability 2018 and within SSEs full response apprentices.
SSEs total investment in pipeline Report.
This strategy was developed in to the Hampton-Alexander programmes over the last four years is 48.5m.
2017 18 with inclusion experts Equal Review which can be found on Approach, who continue to provide guidance sse.
SSE recruited 2,583 people in 2017 18 to assist SSE maximise value by becoming a The figures for the Executive Committee and 1,316 vacancies were filled by internal truly inclusive company.
SSEs UK gender pay include the relevant members of the candidates.
SSEs ability to identify and gap reporting for 2016, 2017 and 2018 can Committee in each financial year, as well as accelerate talent at all levels is an important the Company Secretary and MD, Corporate also be found in the Sustainability Report, Affairs, who attend all Committee meetings.
For more detail on the with detail on action taken against SSEs IN, Administration employees have not been Board and Nomination Committees focus included when calculating the direct reports ON, UP strategy to encourage more women to these individuals.
around succession planning and activities in to SSE, support women to stay on in the to promote a sustainable pipeline of skills company, and help women to progress up in throughout SSE, see pages 106 to 107. the organisation to the highest levels.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 81 Strategic Report Our role in society PEOPLE CONTINUED The structure of SSEs business means Performance management Moving to SSE Pension that employees have opportunities to learn SSE has a well-established approach to In 2017 18, SSE moved its employee pension and gain new skills as they move between performance management with a structured scheme from its GPPP to a new Pension SSEs different business areas and operations.
framework which assesses employee offering which provides improved value for This allows for a flexible workforce which performance against individual agreed employees and reduced management charges.
can adapt over time to fit the needs of the objectives as well as alignment to the 94% of employees chose to plan and save company and the future energy market.
SSE company core values of Safety, Service, for their financial future with SSE in 2017 18. also undertook a review of its online training Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence and resources in 2017 18 through the Ethics and Teamwork.
Employees at all levels in the Sharing success Compliance Awareness Review Group to organisation are measured against the same SSE actively encourages its employees to be ensure learning and communications are framework, and performance review sessions shareholders in the company.
In 2017 18, 42% aligned and all content is consistent with are designed to allow employees to provide of employees participated in SSEs Sharesave SSEs high ethical business standards.
feedback and think about their opportunities scheme and 58% of employees participated for personal and professional development.
in the Share Incentive Plan.
Quantifying human capital In 2015, SSE first quantified the total value Health and safety Enhanced benefits of the human capital the skills, talents and The safety and well-being of SSEs employees Following on from the sector-leading capabilities embodied within its employees.
and contractors is its number one priority.
Its parental pay and support benefits introduced SSE has now recalculated that value and will aim is to make sure all employees get home on 1 April 2017, SSE introduced a series of publish its results later in 2018. safe and behave in line with SSEs Safety value: further measures to benefit all employees if its not safe, we dont do it.
Information on and consolidated its existing benefits.
New Employee engagement SSEs actions and performance on promoting benefits include Nudge for SSE, an external Industrial relations a safe and healthy workplace can be found financial education tool to help employees SSE believes in a positive and progressive in its Safety and the Environment Group better understand and manage their personal approach to employee relations.
The right of Principal Risk and in the Safety, Health and finances, SSE Advantage which offers savings employees to join a trade union is recognised Environment Advisory Committee Report and cashback deals, and Back to Health, as a fundamental human right within SSEs on pages 118 to 119. a pilot programme with Nuffield Health to Human Rights Policy.
Furthermore, the provide additional support and specialist freedom of association and right to collective Skills and capabilities care for employees with anxiety, depression, bargaining is enshrined within the UN Global Training and skills stress or musculoskeletal problems.
Compact, which SSE will become a signatory In line with SSEs commitment to developing in 2018 19.
SSE recognises four trade unions its talent from within, 210,295 training Further workforce disclosure can be and a Joint Negotiating and Consultative interventions were delivered across the found in SSEs Sustainability Report Committee JNCC, which covers 65% of business in 2017 18, with an average of 22 2018 and within its specific Responsible all SSE employees, provides the structure hours of training per full-time equivalent Employer report which will be published by which industrial relations are conducted.
SSE invested 9.8m in internal later in 2018.
In 2017 18, SSE successfully negotiated its and external learning and development in Joint Agreement pay deal with its trade 2017 18, bringing SSEs total investment in union partners, with the final agreement fully pipeline programmes and employee learning recommended by all unions and their senior and development that year to 25.2m.
SSE also looks to engage with its trade union partners on a wider range of issues and has had engagement sessions with senior managers and the Remuneration Committee Chair.
Great Place to Work Additional information Engagement is a good indicator of how available on connected employees are to an organisation sse.
com beingresponsible and how committed they are to helping it to Sustainability Report achieve its goals.
SSE measures employee engagement through its full Great Place to Half-year Sustainability Statement Work survey every two years with a shorter Valuing Difference Report pulse survey on every alternate second year.
The last full Great Place to Work survey was Gender pay gap reporting conducted with ORC International in July Response to the Hampton Alexander 2017, with SSE achieving an employee Review engagement score of 73%.
To promote transparency internally and externally Great Place to Work employee around the results of the survey, in 2017 18 survey results SSE published a short report on sse.
com Responsible Procurement Charter beingresponsible with the results of the July 2017 survey and the companys action plan Inclusion and Diversity Policy in response to itsfindings.
This years shorter Investment in pipeline Health and Safety Policy pulse survey will be carried out in July 2018 programmes and employee to check progress on engagement scores.
learning and development 82 SSE plc Annual Report 2018
