Directors Report Corporate Governance Responsible Stewardship STAKEHOLDER AND SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Key stakeholder engagement interventions in 2017 18: SSEs success depends on its ability to engage effectively and work constructively Material issues Board engagement SHAREHOLDERS with the six key stakeholder groups described in the Strategic Report.
In support of responsible and effective governance and decisionmaking, the Board recognises the importance of engaging with all stakeholders at different levels and in different ways throughout the Group, at the same time it understands the Boards duty to promote the success of the Company as a whole, as set out in Section 172 of the Companies Act.
The table opposite provides some insight into the key stakeholder engagement undertaken by the Board in 2017 18, as well as material issues of interest identified for each stakeholder group through this engagement.
As outlined in the table, the Board was also kept up to date with material issues of interest both through direct engagement and through third parties and subject matter experts EMPLOYEES within SSE.
More information about how SSE works with and for its stakeholders is found on pages 20 to 21 of the Annual Report and within SSEs Sustainability Report 2018.
GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS ENERGY CUSTOMERS NGOS AND CIVIL SOCIETY: AND SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS 116 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Key stakeholder engagement interventions in 2017 18: Material issues Board engagement SHAREHOLDERS Long-term financial performance: Board approval of the half year and full Investor feedback independently gathered capital allocation: decarbonisation year results statements and Chairman and presented to the Board.
targets: succession planning: Board attended results presentations.
Ad hoc shareholder advisory meetings composition: strategy: policy and Board approval of the Annual Report.
Full Board member attendance at the 2017 SSEs Brokers, Morgan Stanley and Credit AGM.
Suisse provided updates to the Board Investor meetings Executive and throughout the year.
non-Executive Directors undertook The Board approved the issuance of a around 250 investor engagements in the Green Bond and the Finance Director year, including group meetings.
engaged directly with investors Shareholders provided some context for preissuance.
Great Place to Work Survey: Board members attended a corporate Board members met trainees at the SSE EMPLOYEES Government and opposition party culture session with employees Perth Training School.
policies: training and graduate incorporating feedback from the The Chairman hosted a lunch meeting for programmes: implications from Great Place to Work survey.
the planned SSE Energy Services Site visits including the new Reading office The Remuneration Committee Chair met transaction: share price movements: where Board members discussed their trade union officials.
new work environment with employees.
Group Executive Committee meeting Board member attendance at internal briefing issued to senior leaders each month.
conferences e. g. SSEs Safety Conference.
Chief Executive webchats regularly held.
Internal blogs from both Executive and Skype with the FD session held for all non-Executive Directors.
Energy market developments: Brexit: Third party expert provided policy SSE Corporate Affairs and Regulation GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS regulatory framework: customer reflections as context for the Board teams provided regular updates to service: customer engagement: energy strategy session.
affordability: and decarbonisation Board members had ad hoc meetings Board members received one-one targets.
with government officials and regulators briefings from the SSE Corporate both in the UK and Ireland and provided Affairsteam.
The Board received updates on consultations and SSEs responses tothem.
Energy affordability: inclusive and The annual dinner for customer forum The Chief Executive attended the ENERGY CUSTOMERS quality customer service: smart chairs was attended by the SSE Chairman Customer Forum in July 2017. meters: SSEs approach to being and Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive attended a a responsible business: and impact Board approval of updated Treating stakeholder dinner covering implications of the planned SSE Energy Services Customers Fairly priorities reflecting of the SSE Energy Services demerger transaction.
AGM:  had the opportunity to ask questions of Boardmembers.
Customer service performance was regularly reported to the Board.
Tax policies: economic contribution: Board member site visits including The Board approves the 24 SSE NGOS AND CIVIL SOCIETY: AND skills investments: environmental meeting contractors.
Group Policies and the SSE Modern protection and decarbonisation: and The Board is updated on SSEs position on Slavery Statement.
SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS inclusive job growth.
the Citizens Advice Bureau leaguetable.
The Chief Executive is the vice president of Finance Director attended regular Eurelectric.
In 2017 Eurelectric announced Accounting for Sustainability A4S a new long-term vision for the electricity meetings in the year.
industry in Europe to accelerate the clean Finance Director attended the Fair energy transition.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 117 Directors Report Corporate Governance Responsible Stewardship SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder, During the year, members of the SHEAC Role have visited various operational sites, allowing The SHEAC advises the Board on matters On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to them to meet a number of employees and relating to safety, health and the environment.
present the report from the Safety, Health and gain an understanding of the safety, health The remit of the SHEAC is set out in its Terms Environment Advisory Committee SHEAC.
and environment practices and culture across of Reference which were reviewed by the SSE.
The insights gained from these visits SHEAC in November 2017 and were approved SSE seeks to be an efficient operator of assets, have informed the work and considerations by the Board in January 2018.
The SHEAC putting safety first and being a company that of the SHEAC.
is responsbile for: energy customers and users can rely on.
We operate in a hazardous industry with unique Helen Mahy will take over as Chair of the overseeing relevant Group Policies, challenges and risks facing each of SSEs SHEAC when I stand down from the Board namely: the Safety Health and Environment business areas relating to safety, health and of SSE following the AGM on 19 July 2018.
Policy: the Environment and Climate the environment SHE.
To be successful over Over the years, I have been impressed Change Policy and the Corporate the long term, SSE must operate responsibly by the commitment and importance that Responsibility and Sustainability Policy: and is dependent on the shared talent, skills everyone in SSE attaches to ensuring that monitoring the level of resource, and values of the people within the its business operations are carried out with competence and commitment applied organisation.
For this reason, SSE operates safety, health and the environment at front to the management of safety, health and under a set of core values known as the SSE of mind, and Im confident that Helen will the environment issues, to ensure that SET and promotes a strong safety culture continue to drive this forward.
a culture of continuous improvement through the Safety value: if its not safe, we is embedded across the Group: dont do it.
It aims to make sure all employees I hope that you find the report which follows, reviewing feedback from a range of behave in line with the Safety value and get an interesting explanation of both our work stakeholder engagement activities on home safe.
During the year, we made good and of SHE performance during the year.
matters relating to safety, health and progress in refreshing the communication the environment: strategy around the Safety value helping to receiving reports on the safety, health make it relevant and understood for SSE and and environment audits planned for the its contractors.
Further details are included forthcoming year, and periodic updates in the Case Study in this report.
on any significant matters arising from the audits carried out across the Group: Jeremy Beeton CB reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Chairman of the SHEAC strategy, initiatives, training and targets in 24 May 2018 relation to the environment, the safety of employees and contractors, and also the occupational health and well-being of employees and contractors: reviewing reports on environmental, occupational health and safety performance, which cover: performance against targets: incident trends: high potential incidents: significant risks: mitigations and plans: and other key emerging issues arising from operations and projects across the Group: and supporting SSEs general commitment to being a responsible company that makes a positive contribution to the communities and societies of which it is part.
Members and meetings Independent Member Attended Members non-Executive Director since scheduled Jeremy Beeton 1 Committee Chairman Yes 2011 2 3 Sue Bruce Yes 2013 3 3 Helen Mahy Yes 2016 3 3 2 Colin Nicol N A 2016 3 3 2 Jim Smith N A 2016 3 3 2 Mark Patterson N A 2013 3 3 The Deputy Company Secretary is Secretary to the SHEAC.
1 Jeremy Beeton was unable to attend the Committee meeting in March 2018 due to illness, for which meeting Helen Mahy held the seat of Chair.
2 Senior Executive from within the business.
118 118 SSE pl SSE plc c Annual R Annual Report 2018 eport 2018 systems are in place to prevent environmental Composition Performance in 2017 18 wrong-doing.
Recognising that SSE has a The membership of the SHEAC currently SSEs safety value provides the foundation role in ensuring environmental improvements comprises three non-Executive Directors, from which SSEs operational performance occur, a review of the Environment and two Senior Managers with significant is judged.
In recent years, SSEs safety Climate Change Policy resulted in a operational responsibilities in Wholesale performance in terms of its injury rate was low strengthening of the policy in favour of more and Networks, and the Group Safety, Health and stable, however, incidents and accidents practical environment improvement plans.
Members of the still occur.
It is the SHEACs firm belief that SHEAC are appointed by the Board following all accidents are preventable, and a new More information on SSEs safety, health and recommendation by the Nomination 50by20 strategy for safety improvement was environment performance in 2017 18 can be Committee.
There were no changes to the implemented across the Group in 2017 18. found in the Sustainability Report 2018. composition of the Committee during the The first step in that programme was the year.
The Chief Executive routinely attends roll-out of extensive influencing behaviours meetings and the Deputy Company Secretary training to thousands of SSE employees.
SSEs Total Recordable Injury Rate for employees and is Secretary to the SHEAC.
This new training was supported by a framing contractors combined in 2017 18 was 0.20 per 100,000 hours worked down from 0.22 in 2016 17. of the way in which SSE communicates The SHEAC provides a leadership forum with its employees, specifically to simplify for the non-Executive Directors to share the messaging and ensure it is wholly 0.23 0.22 their knowledge and expertise with senior employee focused.
Jeremy Beeton brings a depth of experience from his background In relation to health and well-being, the in engineering and major construction SHEAC focused on ensuring that support projects.
Sue Bruce provides valuable insights for mental-health has parity of esteem 2016 2017 2018 from various senior roles in the public sector.
Alongside a corporate Helen Mahy brings a wealth of knowledge commitment to the national Time for from her career in the energy industry.
Change initiative, a training programme was delivered to more than 2,700 managers Meetings and activities in 2017 18 in mental health awareness and support During the year, the SHEAC had three in 2017 18 across the SSE Group.
The SHEAC has an annual work plan designed around the Enduring Goals, The primary focus for the SHEAC with standing items covering safety, health on environmental issues, is to ensure and environmental: performance: incidents SSEs business units mitigate the risk of and trends: risks: and priorities.
environmental damage occurring because of their operations.
The implementation of Other matters which the SHEAC has focused ISO14001 through a number of key business on during the year include: the launch of the units, ensures appropriate management 50by20 strategy, whereby the goal of achieving a 50% reduction in the volume of total reportable injury rate by the year 2020 was formally established: contractor safety: Case study: decommissioning and demolition: awareness of mental health: and SHE-related training.
reframing the safety family The Board and Committee evaluation process which was carried out during the year confirmed that the SHEAC continued Recognising the static nature of SSEs safety performance in recent years, a to operate effectively.
comprehensive review was undertaken of all safety communications across the SSE Group in 2017 18.
Detailed focus groups were held with front line employees The Group Safety, Health and Environment with a clear communications strategy emerging.
The re-focused tone centres on Committee GSHEC supported the strategy straightforward messages, positive story-telling, and avoiding language around rules of the SHEAC, in the continual improvement or procedures.
The core of this safety message is SSEs safety licence: If its not safe, of SHE management and performance, by we dont do it.
establishing eight Enduring Goal Subgroups which sit under the GSHEC, these are Underpinning this licence are four guiding principles of SSEs Safety Family culture: as follows: 1.
We take care of ourselves and each other.
We take pride in our work and our workplace.
are in place to deliver a transformation 4.
We see it, sort it, report it.
in SSEs approach to: Contractor Safety: Safety Family: Occupational Health and With the starting point of the Safety Family being the SSE licence: If its not safe, Wellbeing: and Operational Safety.
we dont do it, the end point is: We all get home safe.
Enduring Goal Subgroups these four groups are in place to deliver a continuous improvement and to share best practice across SSE in: Process Safety: Driving: Environment: and Crisis Management.
