26 STRATEGIC REPORT P E O PL E our culture and a fundamental element of our success.
Members of our community We are attracting, retaining tend to share core values that are highly compatible with the values that are central and developing talent.
to the business and established at the outset expertise, integrity and discretion.
They are passionate about our business and believe in hard work and dedication.
Age, Our employees Our Partnership race, colour, creed, sexuality, disability and Our ability to attract and retain talent is Delivering an excellent service to our gender are irrelevant: merit and experience critical to ensuring we can meet both our clients depends on all stakeholders within are of greatest importance.
They treat each existing and future business needs and our community working together with the other with mutual respect, openness and continue delivering exceptional service to the common purpose of delivering the best fairness, and are driven by a desire to do Partnership and their clients.
We now have outcomes for our clients.
We therefore the right thing by all our stakeholders.
We approximately 2,500 employees throughout extend our support, culture and values to also have a shared commitment to the the Group, working in collaboration with individuals beyond our employee base and St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation.
our outsourced providers, the Partnership into our Partner practices.
An example and their 5,540 support staff.
We believe of this in action is our launch in 2018 of a As our business grows it is essential that our employees are a key competitive new development programme for Partner we protect our culture while ensuring advantage.
Therefore, it is important that support staff, which was given Chartered that it maintains its relevance.
The we create an environment where staff feel Insurance Institute accreditation.
The Board is committed to being consistent valued, have clarity of purpose, believe they programme involves providing face-toand clear-sighted in its leadership and can have a fulfilling career full of challenge face coaching, e-learning, webinars, audio support of the culture, and in particular and opportunity, and where we champion presentations and reading packages.
This the principle that St. JamessPlace will diversity and inclusivity.
This environment helps to upskill Partner practice back-office seek to do the right thing for its clients and has contributed to creating a highly engaged teams, while at the same time instilling all its stakeholders.
Ina world where the workforce where staff turnover is low, our unique St. JamessPlace culture more reputation of the financial services industry underpinning the quality and sustainability of deeply into the Partnership.
is constantly under pressure, we aspire to our proposition to advisers and clients alike.
create an authentic alternative that clients Our culture and values and suppliers can trust, and which the communities we are part of can appreciate St. JamessPlace is a relationship-focused and respect.
business and the recognition that people are our most important asset is key to 2018 development Our focus for 2019 How we engage Recognising that we are in a privileged Build on our work focusing on We utilise a variety of physical and position to be able to support our employee wellbeing and mental health digital channels to communicate employees overall wellbeing, in 2018 at work.
with employees, from our Annual we enhanced the support we offer on Company Meeting to Directors Further develop our employee value mental health, including the provision lunches, or social media site Yammer proposition and achieve greater of counselling through our Employee and our intranet portal.
Our biennial diversity in our applicants and hires.
Assistance Programme and mental employee survey measures the Invest further in management and health first aid training for a group of success of these engagement leadership training and establish employees who have now become activities and highlights what renewed focus on employee career Mental Health Allies.
We have also ourstaff value most about being development.
made progress in our commitment to a St. JamessPlace employee.
We Improve our reward offering by improve diversity and inclusion.
We are proud of our 2018 results, which ensuring alignment with our established a Diversity and Inclusion saw a 90% response rate and overall meritocratic culture and expand our Steering Group that has driven much engagement score forthe Group of flexible benefits proposition.
signatories to the Women in Finance Develop a rolling three-year diversity Charter and the 30% Club.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 27 KEY METRICS Early Careers and Objective: Attract, retain Engagement and develop talent We have placed significant emphasis during 2018 on investing in our talent of tomorrow with the establishment of our Early Careers programmes, covering our Graduate, Apprentice and Internship schemes which have run alongside Early Engagement activities within schools, 88% 85% colleges and universities.
This year we provided 50 paid OF OUR EMPLOYEES FEEL OF OUR EMPLOYEES internship opportunities to students who are still in full-time PROUD TO WORK FOR SAY THAT WORKING education, employed 21 new apprentices and eight new ST. JAMESSPLACE AT ST. JAMESSPLACE rotational graduates.
After four years we are proud to have MAKES THEM WANT TO versus the 81% financial retained 100% of our graduates and after seven years we DO THE BEST THEY CAN services FS average.
have retained 91% of our apprentices.
Through our programme of Career Insight days at our head office and our Early Engagement outreach programme within schools, colleges and other organisations which focus on youth employability and social mobility, we have reached in 83% excess of 3,000 pupils and shared with them the exciting opportunities that a career at St. JamessPlace can offer.
OF OUR EMPLOYEES WOULD RECOMMEND ST. JAMESSPLACE AS A GREAT PLACE TO WORK versus the 78% FS average.
