56 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 7.0 853,194 5.1 HOURS TOTAL VALUE HOURS Average number of hours our Total value of the time our employees gave during working hours.
Average number of hours employees gave during working our employees gave of 2017: 672,000 hours in support of our CR their own time in support activities and the Charitable of our CR activities and Foundation.
Find out more in our Corporate Responsibility report at www.
co. uk cr2018 2017: 5.5 hours 2017: 7.0 hours 17, 330 14 7.1m HOURS HOURS INVESTED IN Total number of hours our employees gave of during Number of hours our employees COMMUNITIES working hours in support of our CR activities and the receive per year for community Total cash value we invested this year in Charitable Foundation.
supporting our communities and good causes through our corporate responsibility 2017: 12,148 hours 2017: 14 hours 1 programmes and the Charitable Foundation.
2017: 13.1 million PROUD TO BE MEMBERS OF 97.5% INVOLVEMENT Percentage of Group employees 75% 67% involved in supporting our communities and good causes Percentage of profit 2017: 97.0% before tax invested Staff who give monthly Staff who give through through payroll one-off donations in supporting ourcommunities 1 andgood causes 2017: 7.1% 3.3% 11% 38% 35% 8% INVESTED Staff who organise Staff who participate Staff who participate Staff who participate 1 In 2017, the amount invested benefitted from the Group double Charitable in Charitable in corporate in corporate matching all funds raised by the St. JamessPlace community for Foundation Foundation responsibility activities responsibility activities theCharitable Foundation, to mark the Groups 25th anniversary year.
activities fundraising events in working hours in their own time ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 57 Are we changing Having a lasting impact.
Are we All new employees complete a twoOur approach having a lasting day induction programme including Corporate Responsibility CR is at the core learning about the history and culture of our culture.
As a business that seeks to impact?
For us it of our Company, our CR strategy, the do the right thing for all its stakeholders, St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation St. JamessPlace is committed to acting and how employees can contribute.
is not about how in a way that considers the long-term Our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good economic, social and environmental many people we Index recognises our positive culture and impacts of what we do.
Acting responsibly ongoing commitment to CR, and we remain is also important to all our stakeholders reach or how members of Business in the Community, shareholders, clients, the Partnership, which recognises our support in promoting employees, suppliers and the communities many people know CR excellence.
As a result, our people demonstrate extremely high levels of CR about it, but rather Non-financial information engagement, both in their work and their own wider community engagement.
statement considering the Our commitment to CR was established We set out in this Annual Report detail of in the founding principles of the Company the approach we take to employees, social depth of change and is expressed in both the Our approach matters, respect for human rights, antidocument, shared with all members of corruption and bribery and the environment, we can create for our community, and the What it means demonstrating our commitment in these to be a member brochure, setting out areas.
To the extent that it is necessary for those we support.
readers to form an understanding of the Weactively encourage our people to development, performance or position of live bythis philosophy through regular the Companys business activities, we have ANDREW CROFT Companymeetings, newsletters, internal included further details in this Corporate Chief Executive publications and a wide range of prominent Responsibility Report on policies pursued fundraising and volunteering events.
and risks that arise from the Companys operations.
Governance Responsibility for maintaining our culture, including our CR strategy, is a key focus of the Executive Board, with oversight by the full Board.
TheExecutive Board is supported in this objective as in all of its work by a number of sub-committees: Responsibility Managing Committee Executive Board member Remit EXECUTIVE Andrew Croft To ensure the strength and maintenance of the unique Culture and culture throughout our community, and to lead and BOARD Employee Wellbeing manage ouremployees.
Andrew Croft To co-ordinate the Groups approach to CR strategy, CORPORATE Corporate Responsibility with particular focus on promoting support for our RESPONSIBILITY Management and Oversight communities andenvironmental matters.
COMMITTEE INVESTMENT David Lamb To manage our Investment Management Approach and Responsible Investment Robert Gardner oversee our fund managers, including our approach to COMMITTEE from 1March 2019 responsible investing.
To manage the St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation, CHARITABLE St. JamessPlace 1 including overseeing grant-making andcompliance with FOUNDATION Charitable Foundation the charitys objectives.
TRUSTEES 1 St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation is an independent charity, managed by its Trustees.
co. uk E n v i M i r o r m o e p n o n a m p c a e t g e n 6 t 5 a 0 l 6 e g e g a e n p i y n e o o l b p l e l r m e o E w M R e l o a u t i M r o o s r n e u s o p 58 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C ON T I N U E D Our strategy Our desire to do the right thing Our CR strategy and approach is integral to St. JamessPlaces culture and way of working.
We look to employ good practice by all our stakeholders.
in all areas, understanding that this is an ever-changing target that drives us to always Our CR strategy encompasses the following areas: push our ambitions.
St. JamessPlace is a relationship-focused business and the recognition that our people are our most important asset is both a core cultural belief and a fundamental driver of the success for our Group.
Much of our CR strategy is designed to support them as a responsible employer and utilise their skills and passion for community support.
Each of our strategic areas is explored in more detail in this report.
However, there aresome core strategic principles we apply to all our CR activities: To identify specific groups of people in need through our work with local Corporate communities, and to change or transform their lives for the better.
We strive to have Responsibility ahigh impact.
Supporting our communities, To place our employees and advisers at living our values the heart of what we do, leveraging their skills and experience to change lives for the better.
We look to involve all our employees and all within the Partnership.
To act in a way that makes our employees proud to work at St. JamessPlace and inspires them to do more, maintaining our culture of community support.
To do the right thing using best CR industry practice to support our effectiveness.
We do not seek brand awareness, awards or commercial gain from our CR activities.
To take a long-term sustainable view and measure and evidence the value of what we do, always looking to continuously Our focus for 2019 improve.
To develop a new long-term plan for the future of CR excellence at St. JamessPlace.
To establish a volunteering programme for the Partnership based on financial awareness and education direct to schools, and to people in need through national charities.
To also support the charities the St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation gives funds to, through volunteering the skills and experience of our people.
To achieve the Business in the Community BITC Community Mark as a standard for excellence in community investment.
To continue to progress our ESG and responsible investment activities.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC n h p p i a l i p g n e e s o 1 r 6 s i 4 w 7 t 7 a i e 6 e t r d e c s h g a u e g n a l o i a t u p P i g p s n o n n n i u F o s t o e r m e e o e r m l p m r o a b o p M J o a u M. c t t S i S r a R h i n M e C v o s r e p e s o o t n n m p s a e g i e b n t 6 l 3 e STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 59 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals UNSDGs The UNSDGs provide a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all.
We seek to align ourselves with the UNSDGs through our CR strategy.
We take a strategic approach to CR, using focused work to maximise our impact in the areas most relevant to our business.
Through this approach, we look to contribute towards the UNSDGs highlighted below locally, nationally and around the world.
Sustainable The global Development Goal challenge Our role St. JamessPlace in action Obtaining a To support schools delivering financial In the past three years we have quality education education programmes to year 9 and reached 9,500 young people in 90 is the foundation sixth-form students, with tailored school sessions, with over 450 to creating programmes to meet students needs.
employee volunteers giving 2,800 sustainable These programmes are delivered by hours in work time to support the development.
our employees, advisers and teachers, schools and colleges local to our following training.
Over 120 advisers also gaveover 450 hours of their own time in support.
Promote sustained, We invest in the personal and Our employability programme inclusive and professional development of our supports individuals in the wider sustainable employees and are committed community, before they embark economic growth, to supporting early careers by on their careers.
We also provide full and productive providing work experience, internship, mentor support to local schools employment and apprentice and graduate programmes.
andcolleges, including National decent work for all.
To reduce We raise and donate funds to The Charitable Foundation is inequalities, the St. JamessPlace Charitable keen to support small to mediumpolicies should Foundation, which enables it to sized charities that can benefit be universal in support those in need, making a substantially from relatively small principle, paying positive and lasting difference to grants.
Since 1992 the Charitable attention to peoples lives.
The main focus of Foundation has raised and the needs of grant giving is for children and young distributed over 81 million to disadvantaged people who have additional needs thousands of these charities.
Refer and marginalised through illness or disability or are topages 71 to 75 for details.
disadvantaged in other ways, people affected by cancer or mental health issues, and the hospice movement.
Climate change Although we are a relatively lowOur emissions are calculated in line is a global impact business, we recognise that with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
challenge that even our business can influence We continue to purchase renewable affects everyone, climate change and we manage our electricity in the UK.
business activities to reduce this ratedasGrade B, Management impact where possible.
co. uk 60 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C ON T I N U E D All employees receive a copy of our Code of Ethics and our equal opportunities Our employees are at policy, which makes it clear that we oppose all forms of unfair discrimination or the heart of what we do.
Our bullying and harassment policy sets out our approach in relation to allegations of harassment and or bullying.
In addition, we Harassment, in general terms, is defined Leadership and people provide support for employees studying as unwanted conduct affecting the dignity development for professional qualifications, and a range of people in the workplace.
It may be of bespoke technical programmes exist Building on our long-standing culture related to age, sex, race, disability, religion, across all areas of our business.
Employees of providing a great place for people to nationality or any personal characteristics are supported in developing their careers develop their careers, in 2018 we have of the individual and may be persistent or an by their line managers, through regular invested in more structured development isolated incident.
meetings as well as an annual Personal programmes to accelerate the progression Development Review process.
of our most talented employees at all Anti-bribery and levels.
We now have a sequence of four We believe our commitment to employee corruption levels of programme, from Emerging development and providing opportunities Talent through to our Senior Leadership St. JamessPlace has a zero-tolerance for career progression contribute to our low Programme for those aspiring to Executive approach to bribery and corruption.
All programmes Board has responsibility for oversight of the follow similar design principles, providing a Groups anti-bribery and corruption policy Human rights diverse talent pipeline with the opportunity and procedures and annually carries out a We are committed to managing our for participants to develop their individual review of their adequacy.
Employees and business in an ethical manner and recognise leadership capability as well as enhance Partners are provided with training with that responsible management is important their internal networks.
These talent regards to money laundering, financial to all our stakeholders shareholders, programmes complement the Early Career crime, fraud, bribery and corruption via clients, Partners, employees, suppliers and programmes offered for school leavers and online training programmes, the completion the communities in which we operate.
The anti-bribery and will not tolerate or condone abuse of human corruption Policy is available on our website, We also offer a broad range of development rights including modern slavery in any www.
opportunities for all employees covering part of our business, and we are committed personal and team development through to minimising the risk of slavery or human a range of delivery methods including trafficking in any part of our supply chain.
Why this is important Our focus for 2019 Our people are our most valuable asset and a core reason for Extend our focus beyond gender diversity by rolling out our continued success, and this is reflected in the identification an internal diversity workshop across our business, to of People and Culture as one of our principal risks see page complement the Inclusive Leadership training we run for 54.
We look to support them in their professional development ourDirectors and the diversity and inclusion awareness and their wellbeing in the workplace.
We look to retain our whichis built into our high-potential leadership programmes.
talent for the long term and have a supportive and inclusive Continue to promote our new approach to flexible working culture.
We believe that a diverse and inclusive culture is and rolling out training to enable managers to operate in a important to the success of our business.
Having a diverse more agile environment, helping us attract and retain greater community of people from a wide variety of backgrounds, and diversity.
with a range of experiences, skills and approaches, will help us Further enhance our employee development proposition for better understand and meet the needs of clients and advisers, all employees through greater and more flexible access to making our business stronger and driving continued growth development.
Continue to provide a comprehensive range of development programmes to our Partnership businesses, including developing a version of our Senior Leadership Programme for leaders in some of our Partner practices, and providing aprofessional qualifications framework.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 61 A Great Place to Work In October 2018 our Investment Division organised A Great Place to Work week, which focused on staff wellbeing and personal development and kick started the divisions 2019 commitment to completing 1,000 hours of community giving.
This journey will be mapped against the 1,000 hours walking distance to travel to Gunjur, in The Gambia, the destination of our international community programme.
During the week, 30 people from the division donated at least an hour of their time at the local food bank and contributed some 250kg of food donations, equivalent to 225 food parcels for people in need.
In addition, employees were encouraged to go outside or to the local leisure centre during their lunch break, and to arrange walking one-to-one meetings with managers and teams to support both their physical and mental wellbeing.
co. uk 62 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C ON T I N U E D Employees are encouraged to raise issues Our employees are at the heart of what we do continued with their managers or through HR, and we are developing direct means of involvement Diversity and inclusion through company-wide social media.
The We have made progress in our approach and culture with our Diversity and Inclusion Steering right to collective bargaining has not been Group.
With an initial focus on gender, we have signed up to the Women in Finance Charter exercised by any of the Groups employees, and joined the 30% Club.
We have made a commitment to an improved representation of however were they to do so the Group women on shortlists when recruiting for senior roles.
As a result, our proportion of female would look to comply with due process.
external appointments into senior roles has increased from to 13% in 2017 to 53% in 2018.
For further detail refer to the Relations with Wehave also extended the range of development programmes we offer specifically to Stakeholders section of the Corporate support the development of women both in SJP and, externally, as part of the 30% Club Governance Report on page 84. mentoring scheme.
Reward and benefits More generally, we are committed to equal opportunities for all.
We strive to give full and Reward is a critical element of our fair consideration to applications from and promotions of disabled people, having regard to employment proposition for driving delivery their aptitudes and abilities.
Where appropriate, we will consider modifications to the working of business objectives.
We provide market environment so they can take up opportunities or enhance their role, and we aim to assist competitive rewards and benefits, that are employees who become ill or disabled, for example, by arranging appropriate training or regularly benchmarked and reviewed.
We making adjustments to their role and or working environment.
provide competitive levels of pay and are As at 31 December 2018 we employed 2,484 people across the world 2,263 in the UK and committed to meeting the living wage for the breakdown of our workforce by gender was: all our employees in the UK and equivalent initiatives overseas, where relevant.
Our Female Male bonus arrangements, which all of our 2018 2017 2018 2017 employees participate in, recognise and Board Directors 1 2 7 7 reward contribution to the growth of the Managers and decision-makers 166 119 535 478 business and help drive performance Total employees 1,255 1,021 1,229 1,134 through stretching targets, with clear checks and balances in place to ensure that business goals are only achieved in Employee wellbeing Employee engagement line with our values, and do not encourage We provide a comprehensive formal and The Group has a calendar of regular inappropriate behaviour or risk taking.
informal support structure for employees, communication with employees which including private medical, permanent health includes weekly electronic newsletters, We provide meaningful protection and insurance, critical illness and life cover for weekly conference call meetings for wellbeing benefits, including generous all employees.
We also provide an employee Managers, and monthly Directors Lunches.
pension arrangements, which we regularly assistance programme, access to a second Significant business performance review and improve.
In 2018, the Company opinion referral service and counselling.
communications are managed through introduced a new flexible benefits scheme, In 2018, we trained our first cohort of a mixture of face-to-face and written providing our staff with the ability to tailor employees on how to identify signs of channels.
In addition, different parts their benefits package to suit their needs, mental health issues amongst our staff and of the business adopt their own local delivered through a new technology platform to sign post where to find support through engagement events throughout the year which provides access to a wide range of the national recognised mental health first to supplement the corporate messages discounts from a number of retailers and aid training programme.
In addition, through and reflect the nature of the community: also Total Reward illustrations so our staff our development we also provide workshops these give all employees the opportunity to can see the overall value of their reward on building resilience and dealing with give their views on relevant matters.
Over 2,000 employees registered stress, and we are looking to develop these is over and above our biennial employment on our flexible benefits platform and over further.
engagement survey, which captures the 180,000 was spent by employees on views of our employees across a range of benefits since launching in September.
Underpinning all of this is our belief in a themes and seeks their views on how they healthy, supportive working culture, where We also believe it is important that our feel about working for St. JamessPlace.
everyone is comfortable to raise issues and staff build a sense of ownership as well as The engagement results are shared openly problems.
sharing in the success of the business and across the business and business leaders we do this by encouraging employee equity work with their teams to discuss the results participation through our SAYE and SIP and together create and implement action schemes.
In fact, it is so popular that over plans to address their teams feedback.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 63 Investing responsibly.
with our range of external fund managers Our approach and investment consultants.
This is The growth in responsible investing evidenced through a programme of strategies those which include the engagement and monitoring, such as integration of environmental, social and our annual Responsible Investing and governance ESG factors into investment ESG due diligence questionnaires and processes and decision-making has been ESG specific meetings.
We have also one of the most important recent trends in introduced minimum standards across all the investment industry and now accounts of our managers.
These standards include for $20 trillion around a quarter of all the requirement for a robust responsible  assets.
investing policy statement or document, a named senior individual with responsibility We will be continuing to promote responsible Impax for policy implementation and continuous investment principles as a core pillar of improvement of ESG practice over time.
A tangible example of how our Investment Management Approach.
responsible investing considerations There is good evidence that supporting Another key step this year has been our are reflected in our fund range is ESG and responsible investment practices active engagement with industry bodies.
the appointment of Impax Asset has positive implications, both through the InFebruary 2018, St. JamessPlace Management to run our recently provision of enhanced risk management becamea signatory to both the United renamed Sustainable & Responsible and, for those investors that have skill, the Nations Principles for Responsible Equity fund.
The funds strategy will generation of attractive long-term returns.
Investment and the Financial Reporting explicitly incorporate ESG factors Inaddition, awareness of and alignment with Councils UK Stewardship Code.
We were into its investment process as it ESG and responsible investment principles awarded the highest assessment ratings by looks to invest in a portfolio of can be a source of additional, non-financial both organisations based on the quality of our around 50 companies which are benefits: helping us to build a better future.
In addition to this, well-positioned for the transition to we have become members of the Investment aglobalised sustainable economy.
Governance Associations Sustainability andResponsible Our Responsible Investment Committee is Investing Committee, which involves working Kirsteen Morrison, co-manager committed to promoting the principles of with our peers to further promote sustainable of the fund, describes how their responsible investing through discussions investing withinthe industry.
approach can provide an insight into the character of a company and a flavour of how their business Further success will be achieved with model can manage ESG risks and Why this is important the principles of responsible investing plan for the future.
Athorough The way in which corporations respond atthe core of our investment approach.
analysis of a companys ability to risks such as climate change, create In 2019 we will: to combat emergent threats sustainable business models, or ensure and establish well-formulated further integrate the work of the that all shareholders are fairly treated, competitive advantages can help Responsible Investment Committee are instructive means of assessing the make reasoned assessments about alongside our Investment likelihood of continued performance.
the opportunities itpresents for Management Approach, with Incorporating these factors can also sustainable growth.
a particular focus on manager lead to a better experience for clients, assessment and monitoring, portfolio enabling them to understand how the construction and reporting activities: companys investment strategies may impact the environment, the economy, continue to engage with key and their communities.
investment stakeholders, notably our external fund managers, but also wider Our focus for 2019 industry players: and $20 trillion Whilst we have made progress over the highlight the importance of our work past 12 months, our activities in this inthis area through better engagement TOTAL ASSETS SUBJECT TO area will continue to expand as we add with the Partnership, our clients, and RESPONSIBLE INVESTING STRATEGIES resources and experience to the team.
ACROSS THE INDUSTRY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 64 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C ON T I N U E D Building relationships with our suppliers.
At St. JamessPlace, we believe in treating We are particularly pleased that many of our all our stakeholders fairly.
We also believe in suppliers share our desire to make a positive the benefits to be gained from building longand lasting difference to the lives of those term relationships based on mutual trust.
less fortunate than ourselves, and we are As a result, many of our suppliers have been very grateful to all those who have provided associated with the Group for a number of support to the St. JamessPlace Charitable years and we have been able to cultivate very Foundation, both through donations strong and mutually beneficial relationships.
and through active participation in many fundraising events.
We are committed to managing our business in an ethical manner and St. JamessPlace has always placed Commercial Ltd recognise that responsible management great reliance on the support of thirdSt.
JamessPlace have sourced is important to all our stakeholders.
We are pleased to remain office supplies through Commercial have implemented procurement policies signatories of the Prompt Payment Code, for over 15 years.
Where possible, which not only support us in meeting our which is encouraged by the Department for supplies are sourced through the regulatory obligations, but also create and Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Commercial Foundation, a social promote an internal awareness of how BEIS, and demonstrates a commitment to enterprise founded by Commercial our suppliers should be managed and the good payment practices between ourselves in 2015 to support disadvantaged legislation which should be complied with.
and our suppliers, as well as providing a young people, helping them to defined route for any escalations should the Our procurement policy requires due improve their lives and get intowork.
diligence to be conducted on new supplier Our two businesses are very aligned relationships, using a risk-based approach, During 2019 we will be looking to review in terms of values, especially in and ongoing due diligence on an annual opportunities to use social enterprise relation to sustainability and social basis for critical key suppliers.
We look to suppliers, in keeping with our CR approach value, says Simone Hindmarch, work with our suppliers to support good of doing the right thing.
co-founder and managing director practice.
For example, we have been a of Commercial.
We share joint member of the Real Living Wage Foundation cultural values, and the belief that since 2014 and encourage our suppliers good business is a vital part of to adopt the same approach or, where doing business.
We have inspired applicable, an overseas equivalent, each other on our journey, and www.
St. JamessPlace were part of the conversation before we set uptheCommercial Foundation.
We both believe in giving something back through social enterprise, whether via our Foundations No Limits programme, or the Young Gloucestershire charity, through which we both support local disadvantaged young people.
SIMONE HINDMARCH Co-founder and Managing Director, Commercial Ltd. ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 65 Print less Managing our August environmental impact.
In August, we launched a month-long challenge across our UK locations to encourage our employees to reduce The emissions were calculated by our Our approach the amount they print.
This involved external sustainability partner, EcoAct.
challenging employees to be as St. JamessPlace and our employees are As our business continues to grow, we have paperless as possible, encouraging committed to managing our environmental worked to integrate our acquired entities and them to utilise technology to share impact through effective monitoring of our offices in Asia into the Company-wide or retain information rather than energy systems, travel, water usage, waste environmental reporting.
We are committed through hard copies.
Through reduction and waste recycling.
We remain to recycling, with furniture recycled from our this initiative we were able reduce rated as Grade B, Management by the CDP Solent and Witham offices saving 12,457kg printing by 30% on average across formerly Carbon Disclosure Project.
CO e from going to landfill during the year.
all our UK locations over the month.
2 Oversight of our environmental strategy During 2018 we have initiated several The location which achieved the is through a Corporate Responsibility employee engagement activities, including highest level of reduction was our Committee, with ultimate responsibility removing most plastic from our head office City office, which reduced its printing resting with St. JamessPlace Chief canteens, with any remaining plastic being by 87% over the month.
To recognise Executive, Andrew Croft.
The Committee either compostable or both recycled and this achievement, the City office regularly reviews environmental recyclable, replacing paper towels with will complete a tree planting team performance and is supported by an energy-efficient hand dryers, and appointing challenge in 2019. operational Environmental Committee.
environmental champions in each of our locations.
Our impact We continue to purchase our electricity in We collect and report our environmental the UK from renewable sources, reflecting data from October to September.
The best practice and driving demand in the tables on the following page summarise our renewable energy market.
targets and progress, expressed in terms of both absolute and normalised carbon dioxide equivalent CO e emissions for our 2 core business activities in recent years.
Core business activities are defined as those 12,457kg within operational control.
Our emissions AMOUNT OF CARBON DIOXIDE are calculated in line with the Greenhouse EQUIVALENT SAVED FROM GOING Gas Protocol using the 2018 emission TO LANDFILL THROUGH FURNITURE factors provided by the Department for RECYCLING Education, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
Why this is important Our focus for 2019 Although a relatively low-impact business, we recognise that Continue to explore carbon reduction opportunities in our we still have an effect on climate change and recognise it to be Scope 3 operations.
one of the major challenges facing the world.
As a company Grow our employee engagement and awareness, and that looks to support its clients for the long-term and across initiatives on reducing, reusing and recycling.
generations, we manage our business activities to reduce our Maintain our CDP Grade B, Management score.
carbon impact using good practice where possible.
Identify and review recommendations from the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS Phase 2.
co. uk 66 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C ON T I N U E D Managing our environmental impact continued 1.
Targets ABSOLUTE EMISSIONS TARGETS % of emissions % decrease Base Base year Target ID Scope Description in scope from base year year emissions year Abs1 1 & 2 Market based Gas, owned vehicles 100% 50% 2016 2,809 2020 andelectricity 2.
Progress ABSOLUTE EMISSIONS PROGRESS Actual emissions in year % variance ID Scope tonnes CO e from target Comment 2 Abs1 1 & 2 Market based 1,002 -29% In 2016, we set an ambitious target to reduce our Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 50% by 2020 based on our 2016 emissions.
In 2018, we purchased 100% renewable electricity for our UK operations, exceeding our target.
We will continue to purchase renewable electricity in the UK, reflecting best practice and driving demand inthe renewable energy market.
The table below illustrates the changes in our absolute emissions over the past three years.
During this time, we have taken steps to improve our data quality and calculation methodology.
This has enabled us to gain a more accurate understanding of our environmental impact and take appropriate mitigating actions.
Gross emissions Gross emissions tonnes CO e 2 Scope Activity 2016 2017 2018 1 Gas and owned vehicles 683 876 835 2 Market Based Electricity 2,126 130 167 3 Business travel, waste, hotel stays, electricity transmission 4,847 8,875 8,830 anddistribution 3 Property trust and WTT 12,130 15,101 13,019 Total 19,786 24,982 22,851 NORMALISED EMISSIONS Normalised Normalised emissions emissions in prior year in year tonnes CO e tonnes CO e 2 2 Scope per 000 sq ft per 000 sq ft Comment 1 2.14 2.04 Our Scope 1 intensity has decreased, largely driven by a reduction in the amount of fuel used in Company vehicles.
Despite being 100% renewable in the UK, Scope 2 2 Market based 0.32 0.41 intensity has increased due to increased activity in our Asia offices.
Trends in Scope 3 21.64 21.59 3 emissions are difficult to predict due to high variability in emissions from business travel and conferences.
This year, our intensity has marginally decreased due to a slight reduction inconference emissions.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 67 Employability and Supporting our financial education As one of the leading providers of financial communities.
advice to individuals and business owners in the UK, we recognise the importance and value of financial education and this remains In addition to these two days, we offer team Our approach to engagement a core focus of our CR programme.
During challenges located in the local community.
We are proud to be a leading company when 2018 we again significantly increased the As these are typically low-skill activities, we it comes to employee engagement with resourcing and delivery of our year 9 and do not set targets, but rather look to only our communities: 97.5% of our employees sixth-form financial education courses with set up challenges that meet a genuine need engaged in our community programmes schools.
Offering a mix of full day, half day so are often one-off projects.
Our activities are separated into and flexible modular programmes we have with charities supported by our Charitable the distribution of funds and grants through built a new range of one-hour courses to Foundation to give employees and Partners our Charitable Foundation and support tailor delivery to meet different schools across the Group the chance to see for active engagement and skills-based needs.
We now also offer support for the their money in action.
We also recognise volunteering by our people through our Partnership to deliver to schools local to employees personal volunteering with 300 Community Engagement and Volunteering them, and in this pilot year reached 1,313 grants for the charities they support in their department.
We look to offer a wide range students through 39 of our advisers.
We own time: 129 grants were given in 2018. of opportunities with something to suit additionally now offer a primary school half Separately, we have entered the third year of everyone, and to support them, whether to day programme in partnership with the our holistic charity partnership programme, volunteer for the first time or to become a charity RedSTART.
working with a range of charities around regular giver of their time and skills.
We know that our employees cannot our head office in Cirencester to support volunteer in every school, so through grants All our employees are entitled to two people in need.
We have set up five-year we support charities including Young volunteering days a year in work time.
relationships with these charities, giving both Enterprise, The Money Charity, Career Ready, Thesedays can be used to support the unrestricted funds and business expertise Urban Stars and The Duke of Edinburghs Charitable Foundation, to get involved aimed to support the charities to become Award to reach disadvantaged young people in our own CR activities or to give their more sustainable and impactful.
This year to bridge the gap between education and skills directly to a charity or community we added a range of cultural grants to our work.
We also look to bring young people organisation of their choice.
During 2018 offer, aiming to reduce cultural isolation.
into our offices to raise their aspirations and 30.2% of employees used one of their days, give them experience and skills in finance.
with 13.7% using both or more of their twodays.
97.5% OF OUR EMPLOYEES ENGAGED IN OURCOMMUNITY PROGRAMMES DURING 2018 Why this is important Our focus for 2019 We are proud of our deeply rooted culture of giving and Support 35% of our employees to give one day of volunteering volunteering, and feel a responsibility to ensure that this effort in work time.
is used for the biggest impacts.
As set out in Our approach Extend our network of CR champions to all our office locations.
on page 57, we look to change the peoples lives and use the Maintain our exceptionally high levels of employee skills of our highly trained people.
The quality of our community engagement.
investment is a source of pride for people, a regular part of their Expand our head office holistic charity partnership working time and a reason to work at St. JamessPlace.
programme to our office locations.
co. uk 68 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C ON T I N U E D Supporting our communities continued The St. Jamess Place KEY PROGRAMME STATISTICS Charitable Foundation We have had another impressive year with significant growth in our volunteering Giving is a strong part of our culture with programmes across the Group.
In measuring our CR community investment and over 75% of our employees donating each support activities we use the LBG measurement methodology.
month through their wages to our Charitable Foundation.
We are proud to match, pound for pound, donations to the Charitable Team challenges 201618 plus 2019 target Team challenges Foundation and, as a result, in 2018 During 2018, 24.6% of employees took St. JamessPlace gave 4.5 million.
700 The Charitable Foundation has been 600 We look to work with local charities supporting those in need since 1992, 500 which need help with a specific 400 making a positive and lasting difference to activity that a team of our employees 300 the lives of children and young people who 200 can support.
As this is not skillsare disadvantaged economically, socially or 100 based volunteering, we use these through disability, people affected by cancer challenges to give people a taste for 2016 2017 2018 2019 or poor mental health, and the hospice volunteering and inspire them to do movement.
The Charitable Foundation Employee Volunteers Employee Days more in the community, both with us specialises in funding and developing small and in their own time.
Further information isprovided on pages 71 to 75.
Employee led financial education 201618 Employee financial education plus 2019 target In 2018, research was commissioned on During 2018, 2,952 students were the Charitable Foundations 2016 grants.
3,500 300 The research evidenced the effectiveness Employees from our head office ofour ambition to reach out to those most in 2,500 200 work in local schools with year 9 and need and change their lives: in 2016 we gave sixth-form students to develop young grants to 686 different organisations, 60% of 1,500 peoples financial confidence and 100 which have fewer than ten employees, in all awareness.
By working alongside reaching nearly 350,000 direct beneficiaries 500 teachers in the classroom, our and 1.2 million indirect beneficiaries.
employees bring a range of financial 2016 2017 2018 2019 Importantly, 28% of beneficiaries reported experiences to the day and can also some substantive improvement in their lives Number of students Employee Days talk about their own journey from with another 56% reporting they had made school into the world of work.
For every 100 people supported, 28 developed a positive change Percentage of employees volunteering during Volunteering in behaviour or attitude and another 28 working hours 201618 During 2018, 30.2% of employees gave developed new skills: overall, 97 reported at least one day.
Percent anpositive impact on the quality of life.
45 We aim to be supporting at least 35 35% of our employees to volunteer for at least one day a year by 2020.
25 We give all our employees two days a year for volunteering, in addition 15 to team challenge days, and actively 05 encourage employees to use them both, if not more.
2016 2017 2018 Over two days Two days One day Half a day Less than half a day 4.5m IN DONATIONS TO THE CHARITABLE FOUNDATION MATCHED POUND FOR POUND BY ST. JAMESSPLACE ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC Number of students Number of employee volunteers Number of employee days Number of employee days STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 69 The Gambia Three charity teams of ten employees went to live and work for a week in the fishing town of Gunjur in The Gambia.
Inpartnership with The Marlborough Brandt Group MBG, which has operated in this one community for 37 years, the teams worked on a sustainable womens livelihoods allotment which aims to provide an independent income and improved diet for 200 women and their families.
Theyworked alongside local builders and volunteers on the project and stayed with local families during the trip.
Tomake the trips fully accessible, they were run in work time and fully funded by the Group, with participants challenged to raise money for our Charitable Foundation.
In addition, we are working with MBG, Disability Africa, United Purpose, and a local non-governmental organisation NGO called TARUD to deliver a holistic range of long-term programmes in Gunjur, including micro-finance, education and a disability centre, to mirror our work inUKcommunities.
