STRATEGY IN ACTION RESIDENTIAL AND HOUSEBUILDING Our residential investments make up 43% of our portfolio and we have made considerable progress in accelerating the monetisation of value in our land bank.
With our current land bank comprising c. 18,400 plots, of which c. 85% have planning, excluding land we hold under option which could deliver a further c. 11,800 homes in the long term, we have clear visibility and control of a pipeline to continue to grow St. Modwen Homes volumes by up to 25% per annum over 2019 to 2021.
Since the year-end, customer demand has remained resilient, with our order book up 36% in terms of private units compared to the same time last year.
In addition to the homes we delivered ourselves, we also sold more than 860 plots to third-party housebuilders for 53m during 2018.
We will continue to invest in preparing oven-ready land and expect to sell at least a similar amount of land in 2019.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 24 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Kingsgrove Delivering 1,500 new homes to Wantage over the next 10 years, our Kingsgrove development demonstrates our ability to create new communities and bring forward quality housing and residential land.
A new primary school, community centre, public house restaurant, play park and mixed-use neighbourhood centre are all being delivered as part of the masterplan for the development, which is set around a central park.
The 227-acre site will be delivered in phases with St. Modwen providing infrastructure, services and access to the site to bring forward high-quality residential land.
The development partnership with the private landowners was entered into only two years ago and St. Modwen Homes is already delivering the first phase of the development: 150 new homes where the first homeowners started moving in at the end of 2018.
Our business model also provides for land sales to third-party housebuilders.
Following extensive infrastructure work undertaken over the preceding 18 months, the first land sale at Kingsgrove was concluded at the end of 2018, with CALA Homes acquiring almost 10 acres of fully-serviced land for the provision of 174 homes.
The next phase of 81 units is currently being marketed and these two sites, together with the houses built by St. Modwen Homes, will accelerate the delivery of much needed new homes in the area.
Around 80 acres of land has been allocated to new green spaces which will include woodland, grassland planting and extensive landscaping to create spaces that will benefit not only those living in Kingsgrove, but also the wider existing community.
Tim Seddon, Property Director South East, said: K ingsgrove demonstrates our ability to fulfil our core purpose Changing places.
Our experience, track record and capability to deliver such a large-scale project as this made us the developer of choice for the consortium of land owners.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 25
