Stakeholders and STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities Stakeholders and responsibilities Our stakeholders If we are to drive commerce and prosperity, Stakeholder feedback is communicated We believe that regular and we need to understand the long-term issues internally to senior management through the constructive dialogue with that impact our markets.
During 2018, we relevant forums and governing committees.
stakeholders is central to increased engagement with stakeholders It helps inform our response to these issues delivering sustainable and and continued to listen and respond to and maintain good relationships in the the environmental, social and corporate markets where we operate.
governance ESG concerns of a wide Progress is communicated regularly through range of external groups.
We track both shortand long-term issues, assessing them based on business impact and level of stakeholder concern.
CLIENTS REGULATORS & GOVERNMENTS How we serve and engage How we serve and engage We enable individuals to grow and protect their We engage with relevant authorities to play our wealth.
We help businesses to trade, transact, part in supporting the effective functioning of the invest and expand.
We also help a variety of financial system and the broader economy.
financial institutions, including banks, public In 2018, we engaged with policymakers at all levels to exchange sector and development organisations, with information on topics such as prudential rules, Brexit, supporting trade and economic growth, climate change, ntech, articial their banking needs.
intelligence, cyber security and ghting financial crime.
Clients are at the heart of everything we do as a bank.
By building We are committed to complying with legislation, rules and other and fostering long-term relationships with our clients, we can serve regulatory requirements applicable to our businesses and operations them better, deepen our relationships, uphold our reputation and in the jurisdictions within which we operate.
Our compliance with attract new customers to grow our business.
In recent years, legal and regulatory frameworks across our markets ensures that we have seen increasing demand from our clients for sustainable the Group meets its obligations.
In turn, this supports the resilience finance products.
and effective functioning of the Group and the broader financial system and economy.
In 2018, we brought our Public Affairs and Delivering fair outcomes for clients is a priority, starting with Group Regulatory Reform teams together to form a new Public products and services that are well-designed, fairly and reasonably and Regulatory Affairs team responsible for anticipating changes priced, and supported by clear and concise information.
Client to relevant legislation and regulation.
This helps ensure we comply interests are factored into our business strategies, including with requirements and manage relationships with regulators and how we set and monitor revenue targets, govern new product governments effectively.
development, review and assess existing products and discontinue products.
We aim to deal with issues in a fast, fair We actively engage with governments, regulators and policymakers and efficient way and each business segment has tailored at a global, regional and national level to share insights and technical procedures and processes in place to handle client complaints.
expertise on key policy issues.
This engagement supports the development of best practice and the adoption of consistent Good business conduct remains central in all our client approaches across our markets.
We comply with all relevant interactions.
Across our businesses, we aim to ensure that frontline transparency requirements and engage with governments and colleagues are trained and certied, provide the right information regulators in many ways, including through ongoing dialogue, about fees, risks and product features and deliver on service level submission of responses to formal consultations and by participating promises.
In Corporate & Institutional Banking, colleagues must in industry working groups.
We typically publish our consultation identify and manage possible conicts of interests with clients in responses on regulations that impact the Group on sc.
an open, honest and clear way, and carry out all client orders in In 2019, we expect to focus engagement activities on regulation and a way that treats all clients fairly.
legislation associated with emerging technologies and innovations For more information about our clients, read the in banking.
We will also continue to engage on Brexit, global trade Client segment reviews on pages 21 to 24 developments, the Belt and Road initiative and climate change.
Standard Chartered 42 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information COLLEAGUES See pages 44 to 46 SOCIETY See pages 47 to 51 INVESTORS SUPPLIERS How we serve and engage How we serve and engage We aim to deliver robust returns and long-term We work with local and global suppliers to ensure sustainable value for our investors.
they can provide the right goods and services for our business, efficiently and sustainably.
Our operating footprint, along with a commitment to sustainable and responsible banking, uniquely connects investors in Engagement with suppliers is guided by our Supplier Charter, established capital markets with opportunities in emerging which sets out what we expect of vendors on issues such as markets.
In this context, we believe that an integrated approach ethics, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, human rights and to ESG issues and a strong risk and compliance culture provide environmental performance.
Suppliers must recommit to the a competitive advantage.
charter annually, and regular engagement to monitor performance is built into our procurement practices and standards.
In 2018, Using the capital that we receive from equity and debt investors, we hosted vendor forums across a number of our markets we execute our business model with a focus on delivering where we discussed the Banks valued behaviours and sustainable value for all shareholders.
Whether they have conduct expectations.
a shortor long-term investment horizon, we provide all investors with information about all aspects of our financial We engage globally and locally to create value through the supply and sustainability performance.
chain for both our business and our vendors.
Our strategic supplier relationship management programme helps build relationships During 2018, we engaged with investors in a number of ways with our 36 key suppliers.
In 2018, we held engagement sessions including at conferences and on roadshows.
In May, we hosted in Hong Kong and the UK to strengthen collaboration and a seminar on our second largest business, Retail Banking, in innovation with strategic suppliers.
Increasingly, investors are engaging us on ESG matters business owners are given the opportunity to participate in our including the United Nations UN Sustainable Development Goals, sourcing activities and local supply teams engage them within our climate change, coal and human rights.
Following our commitment markets to help them meet the standards set out in our Supplier at the AGM, we hosted several bilateral engagements covering our Charter.
We also work with small and medium-sized ntechs with Sustainability Philosophy, updated Position Statements and our SC Ventures to drive greater innovation in our supply chain.
These and other topics were covered at the Chairmans stewardship and strategy forum in September.
We are committed to embedding sustainability in our procurement practices and in 2019, we will define targets to encourage greater We engage with sustainability analysts and participate in diversity in our supply chain.
This includes supporting sourcing sustainability indices that provide independent benchmarking of from businesses owned by women, and micro and small our performance.
We are included in FTSE4Good and submit to businesses.
Our new supply chain management system, the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
SCBuy will provide improved data on sustainability issues such In 2019, we will continue to engage with investors on how we will as modern slavery and diversity and inclusion.
The first phase of sustainably improve our returns to create value over the long term.
For more information about Board engagement with shareholders in 2018, Download our Supplier Charter see page 70 in the corporate governance section of the Directors report at sc.
com suppliercharter 43 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Stakeholders and STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities Stakeholders and responsibilities continued COLLEAGUES happiness and optimism ranked highly, while How we serve and engage Our commitment to wellbeing colleagues expressed some frustration with We are committed to bringing out the best in We believe that great client work processes.
Engagement levels are at colleagues by establishing and maintaining 67 per cent in-line with 2017 results, and up experience is driven by great a work environment that promotes positive from 2016 with 96 per cent of respondents colleague experience.
We want wellbeing and healthy lifestyle choices.
committed to doing what is required to Our vision is to create a culture where our people to pursue their help us succeed.
Follow-up actions include employees have access to a range of simplifying company processes, promoting ambitions, to deliver with purpose, wellbeing resources to help them remain innovative practices and encouraging and have a rewarding career happy and healthy, and can seek help colleagues to identify small changes in when they need it.
We recognise that every enabled by great people leaders.
our work processes that can make a employee has different needs and our four big difference.
wellbeing pillars mental, physical, social Purpose-led cultural change The Board hosts engagement sessions with and financial allow us to provide support Our culture is the foundation for delivering colleagues when travelling to our markets to employees at every stage of their lives.
on our purpose to drive commerce and and we are also introducing new ways prosperity through our unique diversity.
for colleagues and the Board to interact, Developing our colleagues We continue to embed our culture through for example, through online discussions.
Developing our people and nding the our valued behaviours Never Settle, Do the This aligns with the new UK Corporate right opportunities for them to succeed is Right Thing and Better Together, which Governance Code requirements on a priority for us.
In 2018, we identied and describe a culture that balances innovation, workforce engagement.
brought together two global talent pools client focus, ethics and inclusion.
We have We proactively manage risks associated with for emerging and high potential talent.
These integrated these refreshed valued behaviours our workforce such as engagement, attrition, are groups of talented leaders at different into the way we hire, recognise, reward and development and conduct through our risk stages in their career who have the potential develop our people.
Additionally, we to operate in more senior and complex continue to review our people agenda in light Engaging our colleagues leadership roles in the future.
The pools are of the changing needs of the future workforce designed to prepare and accelerate their More than 73,000 90 per cent of our people so that we can remain an employer of choice readiness for succession to Management took part in our annual engagement survey.
for the talent upon which we depend.
Team roles over the short, medium and When asked How does working for the Bank long-term.
make you feel?, emotions such as pride, Female representation Senior management Board Bands 1-4 Female Female 30.8% 27.7% 2017: 30.8% 2017: 25.7% Management Team All employees Female Female 35.7% 45.9% 2017: 42.9% 2017: 45.8% Standard Chartered 44 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information One of the ways we nurtured talent in 2018 The programmes are focused on our clients, is through mentoring relationships between our purpose and our valued behaviours, Group KPI: our independent non-executive directors challenging the way our leaders lead as Employee engagement and leaders from our global talent pool.
This enabled future leaders to learn from Employee Net Promoter Following research on what makes a great external perspectives to shape their own people leader at Standard Chartered, we Score eNPS personal and professional growth.
have dened five people leader personas Aim Increase engagement across the Group For identifying talent in the external market, from aspiring to experienced and nine by creating a better working environment for we have invested in our Global Talent practices to make colleagues feel safe, our colleagues, that should translate into an Research team to directly source talent.
We are improved client experience.
Over 50 per cent of the external talent that redeveloping our leadership development Analysis eNPS has increased steadily over was sourced and hired by this team in 2018 programmes to reect these principles and the past 12 months 5.9 in H2 2017 vs 9.6 in was female talent.
piloted the first of these with new leaders in H1 2018 vs 11.3 in H2 2018 suggesting that November 2018.
We will roll this out to all the Group is becoming a better place to work and employee advocacy reects this.
We have provided Learning as a lever for culture, more than 10,000 days of leadership and capability and performance 5.0% management training and an average of Leadership is pivotal to our culture, capability 11.3 three days of formal training to all colleagues and performance, and our people leaders in 2018. are central to developing our employees 2016 2.4 and supporting their career aspirations.
Embracing diversity to achieve 2017 5.9 In 2018, we rolled out new executive our purpose 2018 11.3 development programmes Its On Us Unique diversity underpins our purpose.
and Make it Real in partnership with eNPS measures the number of promoters who would We can only drive commerce and Duke Corporate Education.
We reached recommend the Group as a great place to work prosperity by embracing the power of our 90 per cent of our top 250 leaders and compared to detractors on a scale from -100 to 100. diversity and unleashing its full potential.
This is reected in the percentage change calculation.
34 per cent of our executive leaders this year.
An inclusive culture is central to enabling our diversity, prompting innovation and driving performance.
In 2018, we dened our long-term approach Group KPI: to diversity and inclusion D&I for our Diversity and inclusion colleagues, clients and communities, setting out key objectives and focus areas to build Gender diversity in senior roles a culture of inclusion, respect and equality.
Aim Improve gender diversity in the Groups Our Group-wide D&I Standard sets out our top levels of management by supporting, intent to ensure a respectful workplace, with developing, promoting and retaining senior fair and equal treatment and the provision of female colleagues.
opportunities for colleagues to participate fully Analysis Since signing the Women in Finance and reach their full potential in an appropriate Charter in 2016, we have seen a positive trend in Our commitment working environment.
female representation in our senior leadership to wellbeing roles, increasing to 27.7 per cent at the end of Our global D&I Council, comprising of 2018.
This takes us closer towards our pledge senior leaders across the organisation, of having women occupy 30 per cent of the A wellbeing programme consisting of is now responsible for overseeing the top four levels of senior roles by 2020. four pillars mental, physical, social development and implementation of the and financial has been launched D&I strategy.
It reports progress to the 2.0% globally.
More than 80 per cent of our Management Team and Brand Values 27.7% colleagues have access to offerings and Conduct Committee.
Our global D&I under all four pillars.
A detailed review agenda is supported by business and 2016 25.5% in 15 of our largest markets has country councils, which execute initiatives 2017 25.7% provided a better understanding of locally.
We have 50 employee resource the local wellbeing challenges being groups in 20 countries that represent the 2018 27.7% faced and how best to strengthen passion of our colleagues for D&I.
our wellbeing programme in 2019 The total number of women in the most senior An Integration Group has also been formed and beyond.
band 14 roles expressed as a percentage of to implement D&I best practice through total band 14 roles employee and business processes, including 45 Stakeholders and STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities Stakeholders and responsibilities continued COLLEAGUES CONTINUED capturing diversity candidate data where increasing from 25.7 per cent in 2017 to The mean hourly pay gap in the UK has legally permissible, ensuring diverse 27.7 per cent at the end of 2018.
We are increased from 30 per cent in 2017 to candidate shortlists, creating diversity proud of the progress that we have made, 32 per cent in 2018.
While an increase measurements for senior management but recognise there is more work to do.
in the gap appears incongruous with succession plans and building a sustainable making progress on gender equality, we We understand that gender equality can supply chain management strategy and acknowledge that the actions we are taking only be reached by a focus on all genders.
to close the gap will take time and that in the Our Group Flexible Working Policy, Shared short-term, small changes in the population To help us effectively measure inclusion Parental Leave Policy, Fair Pay Charter, will continue to have an impact.
within the organisation, we have introduced mentoring and leadership programmes a Diversity and Inclusion Index.
This is a tool continue to support all our colleagues.
The mean bonus pay gap has decreased to help managers better understand inclusion from 57 per cent in 2017 to 49 per cent in We also recognise both International within their team, comprising eight existing 2018.
While pleasing to report, we recognise Womens and Mens Day to enable a questions from the employee engagement that short-term, year-on-year comparison is constructive dialogue, improve gender survey which all relate to inclusion.
of limited use, as there will be changes to the relations, break traditional gender norms, population and in the distribution of bonus highlight role models and minimise bias payments relating to Group, business area Gender equality and stereotypes.
Our goal is to engage and support all In 2018, we were recognised by Equileap in We are committed to increasing the number genders, and progress towards gender the gender equality global report as a top of women in senior roles and have initiatives equality.
In April this year, our Group CEO performing UK company for gender equality.
in place to support this: we acknowledge signed a statement of support for the United The Bank has been ranked 26th on the it will take time to see the level of change Nations Women Empowerment Principles.
global ranking up from 42nd in 2017 and needed to reduce the gender pay gap.
These seven principles underpin our 3rd in the UK ranking where we did not rank commitment to support women in the at all in 2017.
We were also proud to have When adjusting the hourly pay gap for men workplace, marketplace and community.
five colleagues recognised by the Financial and women carrying out roles at the same Times & HERoes Champions of Women in level in the same business area for the We have seen a positive trend in female Business 2018 who havent just achieved UK and four of our markets, there is no representation in our senior leadership roles, success themselves, but also committed to discernible pay gap.
lifting others as they climb, and ultimately Equal pay is a more detailed measure of fuelling the female talent pipeline.
For the third pay equality and a key commitment in our consecutive year, we were also recognised Fair Pay Charter.
We analyse equal pay by the Bloomberg Equality Index.
during our annual performance and pay review process globally to assure ourselves Gender pay gap that we deliver equal pay for equal work.
We have analysed our gender pay gap for Download our gender pay gap report at sc.
com genderpaygap the UK and for four of our major markets.
The gender pay gap compares the average pay of men and women, without accounting for some of the key factors which inuence pay, including different roles, skills, seniority Inclusive leadership and market pay rates.
Our gender pay gap is caused by the lower number of women We have launched the Inclusive in senior roles and in business areas where Leadership Programme, with 1,791 market rates of pay are highest.
11.5 per cent of our people leaders trained so far, and over 85 per cent of attendees citing they found the content valuable to their leadership Gender pay gap by region development.
The workshop builds understanding of how to create an UK Hong Kong Singapore UAE US inclusive culture, how biases can affect our decision-making processes and Mean hourly pay gap % 32 23 36 27 23 how to unlock the power of our teams.
Mean hourly pay gap: roles at same level We plan on reaching over 75 per cent and business area % 2 -1 1 -1 3 of our people leaders by the end Mean bonus pay gap % 49 43 50 56 49 of 2019.
Jobs at same level and business area % 2 -1 1 -1 3 Standard Chartered 46 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information SOCIETY The Sustainable Finance team brings How we serve and engage Sustainable and responsible together our business expertise with our business We strive to operate as a capabilities in environmental and social Our goal is to promote economic and social risk management.
Its role is to identify sustainable and responsible development in a sustainable way, in line with opportunities to develop new financial business, collaborating with our purpose and valued behaviours.
We do products and services that have a positive this by integrating sustainability throughout local partners to promote social social and economic impact while also our business, operations and community ensuring that environmental, social and and economic development.
governance considerations are incorporated into banking decisions.
In 2018, we laid the foundations for an ambitious transformation of our In 2019, the team will focus on creating a sustainability performance.
We claried our Bank-wide sustainable finance strategy, sustainability philosophy and positions on further incorporating sustainability into the key sustainability issues, introduced new Banks nancing decisions and identifying governance frameworks to further integrate new sustainable finance opportunities sustainability across the Bank and for clients.
reorganised business teams to increase Good progress continues to be made our focus on sustainable finance.
against our 11 Sustainability Aspirations, For the first time, we set out how we which were created in 2016 in alignment with balance economic, environmental and social the United Nations Sustainable Development Contributing to needs in our decision-making through our Goals.
They set out measurable targets to sustainable Sustainability Philosophy and publicly shared deliver sustainable outcomes in areas such economic growth the list of Prohibited Activities that the Bank as infrastructure and clean technology.
The list includes restrictions Detailed progress against the Aspirations involving child and forced labour, trade in can be found in our separate Sustainability Here endangered wildlife, and Arctic and tar sands Summary.
for good exploration and production.
The full list can be found at sc.
Being a Investing in responsible A new Bank-wide Sustainability Forum, communities company nominated by the Management Team and led by the Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Brand & Marketing, Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance, was set up to develop and deliver the Banks sustainability strategy.
The Group KPI: By delivering against our three sustainability forum is supported by a new Sustainable Sustainability pillars and 11 Sustainability Aspirations, Finance Working Group and strengthened we can achieve our purpose and be Here working groups on human rights and climate Delivering Sustainability for good.
The forum will report regularly to the Aspirations Management Team and the Brand, Values Discover more at www.
com sustainability and Conduct Committee of the Board.
Aim Embed sustainable and responsible practices across our business, operations Our ambition is to increase our support and communities by measuring progress and funding for sustainable nancing and against the targets set in our 11 Sustainability in 2018, following extensive engagement Aspirations.
with investors and clients, we set up a Analysis In 2017, the first year we reported dedicated team to maximise opportunities progress on the Aspirations, 88.6 per cent were for sustainable finance in our markets.
In 2018, this gure rose to 90.9 per cent demonstrating our progress in embedding sustainability across the Bank.
Sustainability 90.9% Aspirations achieved or on track 2017 88.6% 2018 90.9% 47 Stakeholders and STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities Stakeholders and responsibilities continued SOCIETY CONTINUED We regularly measure the social and In 2018, we reviewed 827 transactions that Being a responsible company economic impact of the Banks activities in presented potential specic risks against our We strive to manage our business sustainably our markets and in 2018, we focused on Position Statements.
Where possible, we and responsibly, drawing on our purpose, our impact in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.
work collaboratively with clients to mitigate brand promise, valued behaviours and Code Using 2016 data, our report into Standard all identied risks.
Where this is not possible, of Conduct to enable us to make the right Chartereds socio-economic impact in East transactions have been, and will continue to decisions.
Africa determined that the Bank provided be, turned down.
$3.4 billion of nancing, direct and indirect Promoting good conduct During 2019, we will build on this momentum value-added impacts of $2.8 billion, and Recognising its importance, we identied embedding the Position Statements through direct and indirect employment to more conduct as a Principal Risk Type in 2018 e-learning and classroom-based training for than one million people.
and claried how we define Conduct Risk, frontline and risk colleagues and extending re-emphasising our focus on ensuring fair transaction reviews to the Private Bank.
Read our Sustainability Philosophy at client outcomes.
We updated the framework sc.
com  As a member of the Equator Principles EP and policy that embed the practices that help Steering Committee, we will also play an Download our Sustainability Summary at us identify, aggregate and measure conductactive part in the review of EP4 during 2019. sc.
Download the East Africa Impact Report at Assessing climate change Our Code of Conduct remains the central sc.
com sustainability During 2018, we advanced our approach to tool through which we set out our conduct climate change and concluded work with expectations.
Our goal is to create the right Contributing to sustainable the University of Oxford to assess the impact environment to support ethical behaviour so economic growth of climate change on energy utilities clients.
all employees know, understand and play We finance key sectors and create products We collaborated with 15 banks and the UN their part.
Leaders are encouraged to recruit and services that drive sustainable economic Environment Programme to pilot scenario and recognise colleagues based on good growth while managing environmental and analysis for physical and transition risks in key conduct, while performance objectives and social risks associated with our nancing.
This provided preliminary information reward mechanisms are directly linked to the on climate impacts and will help us as we our valued behaviours.
Managing environmental and social risks develop further climate analytics.
Conduct training is obligatory and colleagues Our most significant environmental and social We published our first report aligning to are asked annually to recommit to the impacts come from the business we finance.
the recommendations of the Taskforce on Code of Conduct.
In 2018, 99.6 per cent Following a comprehensive review, in 2018 Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD reconrmed their commitment to the code.
we released our revised cross-sector and announced our intention to develop a Failure to adhere to the code can result in environmental and social risk framework and methodology to measure, manage and disciplinary action and potentially dismissal.
updated Position Statements, which have ultimately reduce the emissions related Our focus in 2019 is to embed the been consolidated across five sectors and to our activities and those related to the requirements of the new framework two themes.
These draw on International nancing of our clients.
We will progress across businesses and functions.
Finance Corporation IFC Performance this in 2019 alongside work with the Standards, the Equator Principles and global Banking Environment Initiative Bank 2030 best practice, setting out the conditions project to identify climate opportunities.
under which we will support the activities Read our Position Statements at of clients operating in sectors with a high sc.
com positionstatements potential environmental or social impact.
The review resulted in a revised position on power generation and a decision to end Speaking Up nancing for new coal-red power plants, 3 save where we have an existing commitment.
Closed Total cases 1 2 4 Year raised In scope Substantiated Unsubstantiated We identify and assess environmental and social risks related to our Corporate & 2018 1,469 606 318 290 Institutional, Commercial and Business 2017 1,183 460 194 273 Banking clients, and embed our 1 Total concerns raised within the reporting year environmental and social risk framework directly into our credit approval process.
2 A reportable concern under the FCA whistleblowing rules that is raised within the reporting year and considered within the scope of the Speaking Up programme All relationship managers and credit ofcers are offered training in assessing 3 This represents all cases closed within the reporting year.
This includes cases that were raised in the reporting year and in previous years environmental and social risk against our criteria, as well as access to online resources.
4 Closed and with sufficient evidence supporting original allegation s Standard Chartered 48 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Colleagues who recommitted to Fighting financial crime Respecting human rights the Group Code of Conduct in 2018 Our aim is partnering to lead in the ght We are committed to respecting human against financial crime, protecting our rights and seek to ensure they are not business, clients and wider communities adversely impacted in our role as an 99.6% from its damaging effects.
By cutting off employer, financial services provider their sources of funds, we can help make and procurer of goods and services.
the financial system a hostile environment We recognise that our footprint and Speaking Up for criminals, while supporting economic supply chain give us the opportunity to Speaking Up is our condential and development across all our markets.
raise awareness of human rights and anonymous whistleblowing programme.
modern slavery in a wide range of markets We maintain sound defences against money It includes independent and secure channels and industries.
laundering, terrorist nancing, sanctions for anyone colleagues, contractors, compliance breaches, bribery and other Our Position Statement on human rights suppliers and members of the public forms of corruption.
A dedicated Financial outlines our approach, reecting the to raise concerns.
Crime Compliance FCC team leads our International Bill of Human Rights, the During 2018, 1,469 concerns were raised risk management activities, which include UN Guiding Principles and the UK Modern through Speaking Up, of which 606 were adhering to anti-money laundering and Slavery Act.
This is then embedded within scope and investigated.
Themes sanctions policies, and applying core controls across a range of internal policies and included concerns involving employee such as client due-diligence screening and risk management frameworks, including behaviour, breaches of internal controls, monitoring.
Anti-bribery and corruption our Group Code of Conduct and conicts of interest and allegations of fraud.
ABC policies aim to prevent colleagues, Supplier Charter.
or third parties working on our behalf, In 2018, 608 cases were closed following from participating in active or passive investigation these included cases raised in bribery or corruption, or from making 2018 as well as cases raised in prior years.
The concerns raised were substantiated in 318 of those cases while 290 were found In 2018, we strengthened several of the key to be unsubstantiated.
A range of actions tools and platforms that support our FCC have been taken in response to these cases activities and contributed to reducing financial including improvements to processes or crime across the sector through publiccontrols, additional training and, in the private information sharing partnerships in most serious cases, disciplinary action the UK, the US, Singapore and Hong Kong.
We are a member of the United for Wildlife Financial Taskforce, which has been formed We are committed to providing a safe to create and deliver actionable intelligence to environment for colleagues to report combat the illegal wildlife trade.
Trust and confidence in the Speaking Up programme has grown.
This is In 2018, 99.9 per cent of colleagues carbon reduction evidenced by an increase in the number of completed ABC training, 99.9 per cent concerns being raised.
It is supported by completed anti-money laundering We have measured our energy use the results from our My Voice employee training and 99.9 per cent completed and greenhouse gas emissions since survey, in which 91 per cent of colleagues sanctions training.
In 2018, we set ambitious new responded favourably to the statement: Science Based Targets to signicantly For more, visit sc.
com ghtingnancialcrime I feel comfortable to Speak Up if I see a reduce our carbon footprint over three violation of the Banks policies, valued time horizons from a 2017 baseline behaviours and Code of Conduct.
of 187,936 tonnes: 36 per cent to 121,000 tonnes by 2025: 55 per cent In 2019, we will continue to educate to 84,000 tonnes by 2030: and colleagues on how to use Speaking Up Employees who completed 90 per cent to 18,000 tonnes by 2050. channels.
anti-money laundering training in 2018 Recognising the need for industryDownload our Group Code of Conduct wide solutions to climate change, at sc.
com codeofconduct and visit sc.
com speakingup to nd more about we also joined the Science Based how our Speaking Up programme works 99.9% Targets Expert Advisory Group.
Meeting these challenging targets will require efficiency improvements Employees who completed across our properties, including a anti-bribery training in 2018 review of fuel usage and a further increase in renewable energy sources.
99.9% 49 Stakeholders and STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities Stakeholders and responsibilities continued SOCIETY CONTINUED In 2018, we continued to review and enhance We are committed to managing water Annual energy use of our property 2 kWh m year our controls relating to modern slavery.
responsibly and reduced water use by Our 2018 Modern Slavery Statement 57 per cent between 2008 and 2018.
Tropical climate details the actions we are taking as a result.
We achieved this through a range of initiatives These include reviewing how we approach including ultra-low ow water devices.
Since 2008 allegations of modern slavery in our business Although we have made good progress, 33% relationships.
We evolved our Modern Slavery we are currently not on track to achieve our Working Group into a wider Human Rights target of 72 per cent reduction by 2019.
2008 355 Working Group to support progress across Recognising that achieving the last part 2018 239 the Group.
of the target will be the most challenging, 2019 230 we are working across our properties to Read our 2018 Modern Slavery Statement at target sc.
com modernslavery nd innovative ways to achieve the target.
We did not have any issues sourcing water Managing our environmental footprint that is t for purpose in 2018.
Temperate climate We aim to reduce the direct environmental We aim to minimise waste and continued Since 2008 impact of our operations, namely our to reduce plastic use by introducing 35% branches and ofces, which use paper, water bio-degradable containers and cutlery into and energy, and generate greenhouse gas our on-site restaurants.
We also extended 2008 398 emissions and produce non-hazardous our re-useable cup initiative to other waste.
We do not produce material quantities 2018 257 geographies including the US and the UAE.
of hazardous waste, and therefore do not 2019 275 It has saved more than 500,000 single-use measure or report on the production or target cups since 2017.
Rather than send nonhandling of hazardous waste.
1 Tropical energy usage relates to cooling: temperate energy recyclable waste to landll, we aim to usage relates to both heating and cooling In 2008, we set long-term targets to reduce compost it or use it in energy generation.
This year, we In total, these measures resulted in achieved our energy target for properties in 46 per cent of waste being recycled or temperate climates one year early.
Overall, we reused in 2018 up from 24 per cent in 2017. reduced energy consumption by 45 per cent between 2008 and 2018 through measures including LED lighting, effective space management and more efficient use of fans, chillers and boilers.
Essentials for girls empowerment In 2018, we co-authored a report with Dalberg Advisors that identied the eight essential elements for girls economic empowerment.
Released on International Womens Day, the report illustrates how elements such as freedom of movement, freedom from violence, and access to education, healthcare and contraception, must be met for girls to full their economic potential.
To succeed, girls need: more support to become employable: more men, boys and older women to champion them: more goods and services made for them: and more role models and support networks, such as those provided by Goal, our girls empowerment programme.
Standard Chartered 50 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information We continue to identify ways to improve our As we approached our SiB target, we Our community expenditure 2018 environmental performance.
In 2019, we will engaged colleagues and external 1 1.
Leverage 5.9% review the methodology used to measure our stakeholders to understand the current 2.
Management costs 9.1% energy, greenhouse gas GHG emissions, social and economic challenges facing our water and waste.
In addition to external communities and how we can address these 3.
Gifts in kind 0.2% assurance for our GHG emissions, we will needs through our community programmes.
Cash contributions 46.6% conduct external assurance of waste and We launched a new global initiative 5.
Employee time non-cash item 38.2% water performance data and increase Futuremakers by Standard Chartered that monitoring of plastic usage to set more aims to tackle inequality and promote greater 1 Leverage data relates to the proceeds from staff and robust reduction targets.
Our ambition is to raise other fundraising activity $50 million between 2019 and 2023, through Read the methodology for measuring our 1 fundraising and Bank-matching to empower environmental performance at sc.
com 2 the next generation to learn, earn and grow.
environmentcriteria 3 We will deliver this through new and existing Read the independent assurance for our energy and 4 programmes in education, employability greenhouse gases emissions, at sc.
com and entrepreneurship for disadvantaged  young people.
Investing in communities $49.2m We will integrate our current financial education programmes into Futuremakers We aim to create more inclusive economies and build on Goal, our existing education by sharing our skills and expertise, and programme to empower girls and young developing community programmes that 5 women through sport and life-skills training.
In 2018, we invested Goal reached more than 100,000 girls and $49.2 million in our communities.
In addition, young women in 2018 and more than colleagues contributed more than 65,000 480,000 girls between 2006 and 2018. volunteering days.
We trained more than 111,000 young people Our donations are guided by our Group on financial education in 2018 and over Sponsorship and Donations Policy.
5,400 entrepreneurs, of whom 90 per cent Country teams receive annual training were women.
on the policy, which is applied globally.
In 2019, we will focus on implementing In 2018, we raised $5.2 million through Futuremakers by Standard Chartered fundraising and Bank-matching for Seeing is across our markets.
Believing SiB, our global initiative to tackle avoidable blindness and visual impairment and exceeded our $100 million fundraising target two years early, raising $103.6 million for SiB between 2003 and 2018.
We will deliver SiB projects until the end of 2020 and will continue to support visually impaired people through our community programmes.
