159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 24 Strategic report amortisation would provide them with a more useful measure of Earnings may be volatile from year-to-year.
We would look for performance, reflecting the growth in these costs as we have invested in dividend rates to be more stable and not to fluctuate as significantly our digital programmes.
We confirmed in our trading statement of 28 as earnings simply to achieve target cover ratios.
September 2017 that based on those discussions and consistent with As at 28 April 2018, the Companys distributable reserves totalled emerging market practice, we will now report adjusted earnings per 211.5m 2017: 247.7m, which compares to dividends paid in cash in share inclusive of software amortisation.
The adjusted earnings per the year ended 28 April 2018 of 68.3m 2017: 67.1m.
In addition, we share of 22.3p that we have reported for the year ended 28 April 2018 consider that the Companys distributable reserves could be further has been determined on that basis.
increased through dividends from subsidiary companies and or changes The effect on previously reported amounts of including these costs within in the Group structure.
The Group considers there to be a low risk that adjusted earnings per share is set out below: the level of distributable reserves will be a constraining factor on dividend payments for the foreseeable future.
Build-up Revised The Group has significant undrawn, committed bank facilities as of build-up of explained in section 1.6.
The Group considers there to be adjusted Software adjusted a low risk that the level of available liquidity cash resources will be a Year ended EPS amortisation EPS constraining factor on dividend payments for the foreseeable future.
29 April 2017 m m m As explained in section 1.6.
8.3, the Directors are focused on maintaining UK Bus regional operations 121.1 4.1 117.0 an investment grade credit rating and as noted in section 1.6.
7, the three megabus Europe 4.3 4.3 main credit rating agencies continue to assign investment grade credit UK Bus London 18.4 18.4 ratings to the Group.
Where the Group was no longer investment grade North America 19.3 1.1 18.2 rated or there was a significant risk of that, the Board would review the UK Rail 31.0 2.5 28.5 dividend policy.
Group overheads and restructuring costs 18.9 18.9 1.6.
10 Treasury policies and objectives Joint ventures 26.2 26.2 Treasury risk management is carried out by a treasury committee and a Finance costs net 34.1 34.1 central treasury department together, Group Treasury under policies Taxation 20.7 1.4 19.3 approved by the Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges Non-controlling interest 1.7 0.1 1.8 financial risks in co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The Board Profit for adjusted provides written principles for overall treasury risk management, as well earnings per share 139.7 6.2 133.5 as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and Pence Pence Pence investing excess liquidity.
Adjusted earnings per share 24.4 1.1 23.3 The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, lease and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated 1.7 Current trading and outlook by the business.
We have made a good start to the year ending 27 April 2019 and have See note 24 to the consolidated financial statements, for details of not significantly changed our expectation of adjusted earnings per share the Groups exposure to financial risks: for the year.
the Groups treasury risk management: We see positive long-term prospects for public transport.
There is a the Groups management of interest rate risk: large market opportunity for modal shift from cars to public transport the Groups fuel hedging: against a backdrop of technological advancements, rising road the Groups management of foreign currency risk: and congestion and increasing environmental awareness.
We have a growth the Groups management of credit risk.
strategy built on continued investment, value-for-money travel and high customer satisfaction.
11 Use of non-GAAP measures The Group is in good financial shape.
Our core debt is committed and in place for over a further three years and we remain investment grade Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with rated.
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In measuring our performance, the financial measures that we 1.8 Non-financial information statement use include those which have been derived from our reported results in The non-financial information statement provided in this section 1.8 is a order to eliminate factors which distort period-on-period comparisons.
consolidated report relating to the Group as a whole.
These are considered non-GAAP financial measures, and include Section 1.4.
1 of this Annual Report contains a description of the Groups measures such as like-for-like revenue, pre-exceptional EBITDA and net business model.
We believe this information, along with comparable GAAP measurements, is useful to shareholders and analysts in providing a basis for measuring our financial performance.
1 Corporate social responsibility financial statements provides further information on these non-GAAP We have a clear sense of our purpose: we provide trusted travel to financial measures.
connect people with opportunities and partner with others to support the sustainability of our local communities.
12 Updating definition of adjusted earnings per share commercially successful companies, our business and our people make a As well as reporting earnings per share in accordance with Generally significant contribution to society.
Accepted Accounting Principles, we also report an adjusted earnings per Many journeys a day are made on our transport services and in enabling share measure to help explain the financial performance of the Group.
those journeys, we: For some years, our measure of adjusted earnings per share has been Connect people, families and communities: calculated with reference to profit excluding intangible asset expenses Help individuals access employment, education, healthcare and leisure: and exceptional items.
Support jobs, the skills base and economic growth both nationally and In our preliminary results announcement of 28 June 2017, we noted our regionally: intention to discuss with analysts and investors whether adjusting our Play our part in improving local air quality and tackling climate change.
definition of adjusted earnings per share to include software page 24 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 25 Like most businesses, we want to generate value for our employees and our During the year, we launched a major initiative to strengthen further our shareholders, but we want to do that responsibly and in partnership with all safety culture across our bus and rail businesses in the UK and North our stakeholders.
Our responsible approach to business includes taking an America.
For example, we held a series of safety conferences for our appropriate approach to our people and our customers: safety and security: leaders across the UK Bus Divisions attended by more than 200 of our the accessibility and affordability of our transport services: environmental managers and directors, covering operations, engineering, marketing and stewardship and performance: good governance: and building community commercial teams.
These conferences were a chance for us to look relationships.
Our strong customer focus, commitment to sustainability, and closely at our current approach, get vital feedback from our employees sector-leading reputation has been independently recognised by a range of and work together to become better leaders in safety.
Right across our global operations, we will continue to work appointed a new Director of Safety and Sustainability for our UK bus and with our stakeholders to become a better employer, a stronger business rail operations.
A key objective of our safety culture programme is to and a more effective community partner.
ensure that we provide our people with the fundamental tools and techniques to develop and sustain a safe working environment.
We have published separate documents setting out our approach to corporate social responsibility.
These documents can be found on our In addition, we work with local communities to encourage a safe website at the following link: environment around our transport networks and use of our services, https: www.
We invest in technologies which can make our services safer for customers, our employees and other people.
This section includes just a small number of examples of our work to Further information and examples of our initiatives are available at: demonstrate the steps we are taking to meet our responsibilities.
2 Our corporate values Stagecoach Group has a set of core values and policies, which are 1.8.
4 Employees detailed in our Group Code of Conduct.
We have five shared values that 1.8.
4.1 Our employees drive our people and the brands they represent across our business: The Groups employees are fundamental to its successful development safety, service, integrity, enterprise and partnership.
We encourage diversity across our business.
We promotes a culture of openness across all its businesses and our believe in empowering and engaging with our people, promoting a objective is to ensure the highest standards of probity and accountability.
positive culture where employees are treated with respect and given The Code, which was further updated during the year ended 28 April equal opportunity to develop.
This means that we are able to provide a 2018, sets out key principles and provides practical examples and better service to our customers.
guidance to help shape employees behaviour across all levels of the business.
The Board of Directors remains committed to ensuring The Groups relationship with its employees is therefore fundamental to appropriate processes, controls, governance and culture exists to support achieving its objectives.
We aim to recruit and retain the best employees the maintenance of these values and behaviours.
The Code of Conduct is in our sector, offering an excellent package of benefits, which allows us subject to periodic review and can be found at the following link: to deliver good customer service to our passengers.
4.2 Employment policies We issued a new whistleblowing policy and guide during 2017 18 to help employees understand their rights and responsibilities.
Previously It is our policy that all people should be treated fairly and with respect.
referred to as Speaking Up, it sets out how the Group will investigate any Each of our businesses has detailed employment policies in place that are concerns raised and the action it may take.
We value an open, appropriate to the relevant business and its employees.
Across the transparent and safe working environment where our people feel able to Group, we aim to have a motivated team of people that will meet the speak up and can raise serious concerns constructively without fear of expectations of our customers, improve our business and be rewarded victimisation, subsequent discrimination or disadvantage.
animated video was also produced to help employees understand what We value, and have a policy of, equality of opportunity, regardless of the policy covers and how it should be used.
A copy of the document is disability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, belief, age, nationality, available at: race or ethnic origin.
It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to https: www.
applications for employment from people with disabilities.
Where existing employees become affected by a disability and where 1.8.
3 Health and safety practicable, our Group policy is to provide continuing employment under Safety is at the heart of our business and our overall approach is given normal terms and conditions.
We also provide training, career direction through the Groups Strategic Safety Framework.
We have a development and equal consideration for promotion.
strong focus on employee training, accident reduction, regulatory The Group is committed to employee participation and we use a variety compliance and security preparedness.
Health and safety processes and of methods to inform, consult and involve employees.
Employees performance are monitored and reported on across the Group with participate directly in the success of the business through the Groups action taken should there be a need to address issues within our bonus and other remuneration schemes and are encouraged to invest procedures.
Our Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired through participation in share schemes.
by a non-executive director, considers this area of the business and monitors a range of performance indicators, reporting to the Board on 1.8.
4.3 Effectiveness of employment policies these matters.
We expect our suppliers and contractors to have the same We monitor the effectiveness of our employment policies in a number of commitment as our employees to complying with appropriate health and ways.
We conduct surveys of various employee groups from time to safety regulations and policies.
In 2016 17, we undertook our biggest employee engagement Each of our divisions and operating companies has policies which are programme to date.
As a responsible forward-looking business, we want appropriate to the transport modes they deliver.
We are focused on to foster an inclusive environment and build a diverse workforce where meeting and in many cases exceeding regulatory requirements and everyone has access to opportunities and resources to help them performance standards.
Detailed policies, risk assessments and safe contribute to the success of our business.
Action plans are being working procedures are in place covering various aspects of our activities progressed within our individual businesses to capitalise on what we including noise, vibration, display screen equipment and the Working have learned.
This includes progressing improvements in the workplace Time Directive.
Performance is measured and reviewed at operating environment, communications, training and development, and rewards company and Group level.
This is supported by analysis of audit results and benefits.
and review of civil liabilities claims to address any issues around policies and working procedures.
A core part of our approach is encouraging We monitor staff turnover and investigate the reasons for any unusual employees to report any concerns.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 25 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 26 Strategic report We are proud that in 2018, East Midlands Trains and Virgin Trains East 1.8.
4.4 Employee training and development Coast were recognised as among the top employers in the UK.
They are We have initiatives in place designed to nurture the next generation of the only two train companies among the 84 UK firms certified by the Top talent to support the business and help our people achieve their Employers Institute, and it is the second year running that both those rail potential.
We have strong vocational training programmes in our bus and businesses have been included in the list.
The research recognises rail businesses.
leading employers who provide excellent employee conditions to nurture We invest significantly in the training and development of our people and develop talent throughout all levels of the organisation, and who and we operate a successful graduate training scheme which provides strive to continuously improve.
one source of training for the managers of the future.
We are supporting the Scottish Governments Developing Our Young During National Apprenticeship Week in 2018, Stagecoach launched a Workforce initiative, helping to ensure young people have the right skills new Bus Driver Apprenticeship scheme.
The initiative is being piloted in for work and that businesses like ourselves have talented employees that the North East of England and Yorkshire, with 23 new recruits initially can help us grow.
The Group has strong established partnership benefitting from the new programme.
It is hoped that more than 150 programmes through initiatives such as Career Ready and we also work apprentices will be recruited over the next year in these areas.
The with Barnardos Works to help young people who have personal programme is being delivered in partnership with training provider, challenges or come from more socially excluded backgrounds.
Many of Interserve Learning and Employment.
Stagecoachs existing bus driver our businesses offer work experience opportunities and have close links with schools and other education providers as part of our commitments training module has been enhanced and extended, within the framework of the Apprentice Levy arrangements, using a combination of practical as a responsible employer and our focus on having a good talent pipeline.
training and off-the-job learning over a period of 12 months.
Stagecoach Further information is available here: already offers a number of training and development opportunities for gecoach.
sta new recruits and existing employees.
The bus divisions industry-leading engineering apprenticeship programme has benefitted hundreds of 1.8.
5 Diversity apprentices over more than a decade.
Stagecoach also offers a The Group recognises and values the individuality and diversity that each comprehensive Graduate Development Programme, which continues to employee brings to the business.
We value diversity in its wider sense produce managers and directors of the future, and its Staff Development and it is our policy to facilitate diversity of age, gender and background Programme allows existing employees to train as managers.
We are particularly focused on promoting gender Our joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, has launched the UKs first and only diversity.
Working with train drivers union The table below shows the gender split at different levels within the ASLEF, the year-long training course covers all aspects of the train driver organisation, as at 28 April 2018.
The Groups workforce is around 83% role as well as additional learning based on functional skills and English, male and that high proportion is common in the ground transportation Mathsand Computing.
Apprentices shadow drivers, train managers and industry.
stationstaffso they can gain a full appreciation of how the drivers role fits within wider operations.
They also benefit from experiencing other %% areas of the business.
Population Male Female Total Male Female A significant amount of work has been undertaken during the year to Board 83 11 72.7% 27.3% create a new People Strategy in our bus divisions following a detailed Senior management 93 21 114 81.6% 18.4% review of our teams' skills and competencies.
Many of our management Whole workforce 28,779 6,037 34,816 82.7% 17.3% and supervisors programmes have previously been focused on operational excellence.
Moving forward, we are developing a programme Senior management is defined as those employees who receive awards that strengthens recruitment, training and development around under the Groups Executive Participation Plan and individuals who are commercial skills.
statutory directors of the corporate entities whose financial information is included in the Groups 2018 consolidated financial statements in the 1.8.
This satisfies the definition set out in the Companies Act We have established strong working relationships with trade unions and 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including training The equivalent figures as at 29 April 2017 were: and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face, %% through a number of internal publications and via our intranet, The Loop.
Population Male Female Total Male Female In 2017 18, we have also further extended the scope of and employee Board 83 11 72.7% 27.3% participation in The Loop.
We have worked closely with our operating Senior management 98 24 122 80.3% 19.7% companies to identify opportunities to improve the platform and we will Whole workforce 33,136 6,863 39,999 82.8% 17.2% shortly undertake a redevelopment of The Loop to make it more engaging and enhance its functionality for employees.
Stagecoach Group believes in providing job opportunities and equal pay We have programmes in place to promote the health and well-being of for everyone regardless of gender.
We welcome the UK Governments our people.
During the year, we launched an employee well-being initiative on Gender Pay Gap reporting as part of our focus on driving campaign for female staff at our UK bus companies.
The Driving Fitness change and improvement on these important issues.
Stagecoach already Together campaign is also being used to shine a light on career ensures that men and women in the same employment performing equal work receive equal pay.
Stagecoach Group is made up of a opportunities for women at Stagecoach.
The campaign had strong reach in traditional and social media.
Following the success of phase one of the portfolio of devolved public transport operating companies with their own management teams.
Consistent with that structure, we report campaign, we plan to make the initiative accessible to all staff, both male Gender Pay Gap data for our operating companies individually.
Full and female, and plan to identify a wellness champion for each bus depot.
details for our businesses can be accessed here: Our annual Stagecoach Champions Awards, which are open to all employees, recognise excellence in the areas of safety, community, https: www.
com about managing-thehealth, customer service, environment and innovation.
aspx page 26 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 27 The picture across our businesses is in line with our expectations and 1.8.
7 Environmental matters generally consistent with the wider transport industry where the 1.8.
7.1 Impact of the Groups business on the number of male employees has for many years been significantly higher environment than the number of female employees.
Data is also influenced by the The Group actively promotes the use of public transport and aims to roles and associated salaries which male and female employees have provide safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused transport services traditionally undertaken.
Most of our employees fulfil frontline that deliver a positive customer experience at a reasonable price.
These operational roles, such as bus drivers, and in customer service.
factors help reduce carbon dioxide emissions from transport by enabling Nevertheless, we are taking a range of steps to encourage positive people to switch some of their car journeys to public transport.
Greener change in this area.
Across our bus and rail businesses, we are taking Journeys, a UK campaign dedicated to encouraging people to make more action to attract more women to careers in public transport.
This sustainable travel choices, suggests that everyone switching from car to includes targeted recruitment campaigns, women-only career open days bus for just one journey a month would mean one billion fewer car and gender coded adverts to increase appeal to women.
We offer journeys and would save two million tonnes of CO2 every year in the UK.
flexible and part-time working arrangements to encourage employees to Public transport has an important role to play in addressing road stay within the business.
We are also focused on providing an attractive congestion and air quality and positive political action in tackling these working environment and training and development programmes to threats should also be positive for the future development, performance retain their talent and encourage women to progress into senior and position of the Group.
Training is undertaken for managers on unconscious bias in Advancements in vehicle technology are likely to enable us to reduce the recruitment, and we also run inclusivity training at a senior level.
In direct impact of the business on the environment, by for example, addition, we are helping to influence society by taking a leading role in making further use of electric-powered vehicles rather than dieselsector initiatives such as Women in Rail, the national volunteer powered vehicles.
Of course, such advancements will likely also reduce organisation that aims to increase the number of women working in the the environmental impact of cars and other modes of transport, and so rail sector.
A full transformation for Stagecoach, and across the UKs present both opportunities and risks in respect of the Groups future labour market, will require meaningful changes in society, as well as development and performance.
improvements across the sector and in our own organisations.
The data below shows our greenhouse gas emissions for the year ended During the year, we have continued with our campaigns to encourage 28 April 2018 with comparative data for the year ended 29 April 2017. more women to join the bus industry as engineers and we are continuing with our campaign to attract more female bus drivers.
6 Accessible and affordable travel We believe that providing accessible and affordable travel is central to encouraging modal shift from the private car to greener, smarter public transport.
Stagecoach has regularly been independently assessed as having the lowest bus fares of any major bus operator in the UK.
Research published by Transport Focus in March 2018 found that customers rated Stagecoach as the best value of the major UK bus operators for the fifth year in a row.
Stagecoach is the only UK bus operator to operate a long-term nationwide discounted travel scheme for jobseekers and we have a range of discounted ticketing options for young people.
In 2017 18, we worked with the Mayor of Greater Manchester and other transport operators to introduce a half-price travel initiative for 16 to 18 year olds, benefitting around 100,000 young people in the region.
We are committed to improving the accessibility of our buses, trains and stations.
All of our local bus fleets in the UK are fully accessible as a result of our policy of continuing to invest through the business cycle.
Automatic vehicle location technology is fully deployed across our UK regional bus fleet, providing real time service information to customers via our smartphone app and online.
It also provides a technology platform to deliver audio visual next stop information via smartphones, including those which support blind and partially-sighted people.
In the UK, Stagecoach is a founder partner in the national Accessible Travel Alliance, an industry-leading group of travel operators working with the Whizz-Kidz charity to improve transport accessibility for young wheelchair users through a mix of training, try the bus events and workshops.
Over the past two years, this partnership has helped us to develop our transport policies and educate and encourage people with a Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by the Companies Act range of disabilities about the benefits of using our services.
On our rail 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. networks, we are working with government to introduce easier disabled access at stations.
The Group has used the UK Government Environmental Reporting Guidance methodology in reporting its greenhouse gas emissions, The Group is also investing in new digital technologies and working with together with emissions factors from the DEFRA DECC Greenhouse Gas other transport partners to introduce simpler travel through smart, Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2017. integrated ticketing.
We define our organisational boundary using the financial control For further information, please go to: approach and use a materiality threshold for the Group of 5% of https: www.
aspx estimated Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
We have reported on all the Stagecoach Group plc | page 27 2017 18 Greenhouse Gas Emission Source tonnes CO e Kg CO e 2 2 of revenue Scope 1 Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel, petrol and heating oil 940,353 0.32 Operation of facilities refrigerants 16,348 0.01 Total Scope 1 956,701 0.33 Scope 2 Purchased electricity 118,506 0.04 Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,075,207 0.37 2016 17 Greenhouse Gas Emission Source tonnes CO e Kg CO e 2 2 of revenue Scope 1 Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel, petrol and heating oil 998,765 0.25 Operation of facilities refrigerants 20,467 0.01 Total Scope 1 1,019,232 0.26 Scope 2 Purchased electricity 345,544 0.09 Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,364,776 0.35 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 28 Strategic report emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic performance data is provided on the Groups website.
Stagecoach also Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
All of these sources fall makes an annual submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, within businesses that are included in our consolidated financial an organisation focused on carbon disclosure which collates statements.
environmental information and works with thousands of companies and investors to tackle climate change.
The South West Trains franchise expired on 20 August 2017 and the Work has started on planning for Stagecoach Groups next sustainability business and employees transferred to another operator.
Since this strategy and associated environmental targets for carbon, water and franchise was operated for less than four months out of the twelve waste.
The Groups current five-year strategy runs to April 2019 and the months of the 2017 18 reporting year, it was excluded from our business is considering options around different approaches it may take.
footprint for this year to ensure that the relative metric of emissions per As part of the Groups approach to reducing its carbon footprint, it is of revenue was as meaningful as possible.
considering whether to adopt science-based target methodologies.
The Science Based Targets initiative SBTi is a partnership between CDP, Group Metrics 2017 18 2016 17 UN Global Compact, the World Resources Institute WRI and the Revenue m 2,915.3 3,941.2 World Wildlife Fund WWF.
A carbon emissions target is defined as science-based if it is in line with the scale of reductions required to keep Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions global temperature increases below 2C compared to pre-industrial tonnes tCO e 1,075,207 1,364,776 2 temperatures.
This approach involves allocating a proportion of the Intensity ratio required global emissions reduction targets to individual sectors and companies in a fair and transparent way.
In advance of deciding on its Scope 1 & 2 emissions per of future strategy, the Group is working with the Carbon Trust on modelling revenue Kg CO e 0.37 0.35 2 work and a series of internal stakeholder workshops.
8 Social and community matters We are committed to making continuing progress in improving the The Group is a major employer, now supporting direct employment for environmental management of our operations and to helping build a around 31,500 people.
Our investment in improving our transport sustainable environment.
services also supports thousands of other jobs through the supply chain.
It is the Groups policy to help reduce the impact of transport on the Further information is available at: environment and also to pursue initiatives that reduce the direct impact https: www.
aspx of the Groups own business on the environment.
Switching journeys from cars to public transport helps reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
8.1 Social and community policies Increasing public transport use could result in increased public transport It is our policy to seek to make a positive contribution in the miles and higher emissions but the Group would still regard that as communities in which we work, and to share our success with local positive to the extent those higher emissions are more than offset by people and communities by investing part of our profits in good causes.
8.2 Effectiveness of social and community policies 1.8.
7.3 Effectiveness of environmental policies We share our success with local people and communities by investing Stagecoach Group has a sustainability strategy covering the five years to part of our profits in good causes.
During the year ended 28 April 2018, April 2019.
It follows a 30% reduction in Stagecoach Groups carbon 0.9m 2017: 0.9m was donated by Stagecoach Group to help a intensity since 2007 08 and the achievement of previous targets 12 number of charities and to support fundraising events and vital services.
Significant additional in-kind support, such as complimentary bus and rail Following the end of the Groups management of the South Western rail travel, is provided by the Group to good causes.
franchise on 20 August 2017, Stagecoach worked with the Carbon Trust Stagecoach is continuing to work with the Diana Award on the successful to update the Groups environmental baseline and targets.
This is to #BeNiceBus project.
The Diana Award runs the leading anti-bullying ensure continued like-for-like consolidated reporting of performance to campaign in the UK and Ireland, giving young people the skills, the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee and to provide clarity confidence and training to become ambassadors to tackle the problem.
and transparency for external stakeholders.
Our updated targets are: As part of the project, a bus donated by Stagecoach undertakes an Reduce Group fleet carbon emissions kg CO2e vkm by 1.3% educational tour of schools across England, Scotland and Wales.
More Reduce Group buildings carbon emissions absolute reduction by 7.4% than 3,000 pupils at over 30 locations have been reached directly in Reduce Group water consumption year-on-year schools as part of the first year of the initiative, with an estimated total of 16,500 young people benefitting from the wider educational resources Increase percentage of waste diverted from landfill from 96.4% to shared with schools following the bus visit.
96.8% In 2018, we launched a two-year partnership with Royal Manchester We have made good progress during the year on our action plans to Childrens Hospital Charity.
Nurses from the hospital were involved in achieve those targets, particularly in the areas of carbon and water, and treating children injured in the Manchester Arena terrorist attack in 2017. we are working hard to make further improvements in waste where a high level of material continues to be diverted from landfill.
The Group We have a number of initiatives in place to help young people, including was recertified during the year for the Carbon Trust Standard for mentoring and internship programmes to help students gain a better demonstrating best practice in carbon measurement, management and understanding of the skills and routes to enter work, further and higher reduction following a detailed assessment of the environmental education and training.
We also have partnerships with veterans groups performance of our businesses.
In 2013, the Group became the first in the UK and North America.
Stagecoach Group has demonstrated its public transport operator to have its operations certified by the Carbon commitment to the UK Armed Forces by signing a corporate covenant to Trust outside of Europe.
The Groups certification is valid until the end support the countrys military community.
More information on our of April 2019. community support and programmes is available at: https: www.
aspx Part of the Groups approach to sustainability is the ongoing review of its plans, performance and targets.
Policy information and annual page 28 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 29 1.8.
10.2 Effectiveness of anti-corruption and anti-bribery 1.8.
9 Human rights polices The Group does not see human rights matters as presenting material issues or risks for the Group and therefore the Group does not have Any known instance of fraud, bribery or attempted bribery that was specific, detailed policies in respect of human rights.
However, in the designed to give an advantage to the Group is reported to the Groups Groups code of conduct see section 1.8.
2, the Group recognises the Audit Committee for consideration and appropriate follow up.
There fundamental civil, political, economic and social human rights and were no such matters arising during the year ended 28 April 2018 that freedoms of every individual and strives to reflect this in its business.
The whistleblowing policy provides a channel for the respect for human rights is reflected in our wider policies and in how we reporting of fraud, bribery or attempted bribery where reporting through do business with customers, suppliers, employees and other other channels is not appropriate.
10.3 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery procedures It is our policy to respect the rights of individuals to hold personal A Group Compliance Committee is in place to monitor compliance with political views, to undertake political activity and to personally support or laws and regulations and to monitor the effectiveness of the antibe members of particular organisations.
corruption framework, policies and procedures.
The Group Compliance We support the objectives of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 the Act of Committee assesses the nature and extent of the risks relating to bribery eliminating slavery and human trafficking.
We have provided a and corruption to which the Group is exposed.
The Committee considers statement on these matters at: not only bribery and corruption risks within the Group itself but also https: www.
com  within the Groups supply chain.
Our procurement group considers anticorruption and anti-bribery risks in the supply chain and what steps 1.8.
10 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery should be taken to reduce those risks.
We generally consider such risks to be low given the countries in which we operate and the countries in 1.8.
10.1 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy which the majority of our suppliers are based.
Supplier due diligence is The Group has an anti-bribery and anti-corruption framework in place.
Suppliers considered to be of The Groups attitude to bribery and corruption is set by the Board of higher risk are requested to complete a questionnaire as part of the Directors and is reflected in the Group Code of Conduct see section Groups supplier due diligence.
Further follow up may be undertaken 1.8.
It is our policy: based on the responses to questionnaires, such as requesting further not to tolerate any form of bribery or inducements for any purpose evidence on specific matters.
On suppliers that are considered to be of whether directly or through a third party: particularly high inherent risk for example, suppliers of clothing to prohibit the giving of facilitation payments or grease payments manufactured overseas, we make reference to third party audits of the even in jurisdictions where these might be legally permitted or suppliers and countries involved.
expected by local custom: The Groups independent internal auditors review the Groups antithat officers, employees and representatives of the Group shall not corruption framework every three years and report their findings to the accept, offer or provide gifts from to any other party that has, could Groups Audit Committee.
have or might be perceived to have a business relationship or A list of Relevant Employees is maintained, which comprises employees potential business relationship with the Group unless the value of the in those groups of staff that are considered to be most likely to have the gift s is clearly insignificant: opportunity to participate in or have knowledge of material corruption.
that officers, employees and representatives of the Group shall not Specific anti-bribery and anti-corruption training is provided to these accept, offer or provide hospitality from to any other party that has, Relevant Employees, including case studies.
These employees are could have or might be perceived to have a business relationship or required to certify annually their continuing compliance with the Groups potential business relationship with the Group unless the hospitality is anti-corruption policy.
reasonable in terms of its frequency, nature and cost: The Group also has a number of other internal controls in place designed that share price-sensitive information must be properly safeguarded to minimise the risk of anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
and no individual should profit from undisclosed price-sensitive 1.8.
11 Non-financial key performance indicators information: that we do not to make political contributions and, therefore, no Section 1.4.
6 describes key performance indicators relevant to the company within the Group is permitted to make political Groups business, including non-financial key performance indicators.
contributions: This Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed that all officers, employees and representatives of Stagecoach must on its behalf by: use the Groups property and information technology appropriately and responsibly: that each officer, employee and representative of the Group should avoid engaging in communications that are illegal, would be a breach Mike Vaux of the Code of Conduct or might by associating personal comments with the Group or portraying them as the views of the Group bring Company Secretary the Group into disrepute.
28 June 2018 Stagecoach Group plc | page 29
