Our people and culture Building the foundations for success We want to develop a culture that will enable us to be the best that we can where we are inspired by our differences and united behind a common purpose.
Defining our desired culture Measuring employee engagement There has been a significant amount of work across the organisation In 2018 we ran a full engagement survey for all employees, to help us to identify the best attributes of our existing culture and to understand understand how it currently feels to work for us, how our people would what we need our culture to be in order to realise our vision and to like this to feel in the future, and what action our company needs to deliver our strategy.
69% of our employees responded to the survey.
The results reflect that recent company change has been difficult for colleagues An important aspect of nurturing our culture is articulating our values.
but provide an important baseline from which to build and improve, Around 1,800 of our people took the opportunity to co-create and and help us to identify the main areas we need to focus on.
shape our values using several feedback channels.
Their input was an essential part in defining values that underpin our strategy and The responses gave us an overall engagement score of 56%.
This help us deliver great outcomes for clients and customers.
represents the average score that employees gave for questions measuring advocacy, pride, motivation and job satisfaction.
The main themes that emerged from the survey included the need to improve how we communicate our strategic direction to employees, and how we minimise the factors that can prevent people from doing their jobs as effectively as possible.
Positive views centred on how our managers lead through change, colleagues feeling able to be themselves at work and our continued focus on inclusion.
Over the year ahead we will plan actions based on the themes that emerged, and continue to measure engagement, mood and culture across the company.
Demonstrating our values in society Our culture encourages playing a role in wider society and supports our people to contribute to the communities around us.
We offer three days paid leave to each As part of the programme, mentors support employee to encourage our people to volunteer young people in their last couple of years of in their local communities making a difference school.
To date our people have mentored and learning new skills.
As part of our During 2018, 12 of our people from the global volunteering day in 2018, over 400 Americas, Asia and Europe spent five days in employees around the world took part in Northern Thailand helping to build a water activities to support initiatives in the sanitisation system with the Karen Hilltribes communities we operate in.
In December 2018, 16 colleagues In Scotland, we are supporting and funding The travelled to Senegal with buildOn to start Big Issue Invest Power Up Scotland building a school.
programme to help early stage social In December 2018, our colleagues voted for enterprises tackling issues, like homelessness, our new UK charity partner.
We selected a food poverty, unemployment and care for the shortlist of charities that may have impacted Amanda Young, Global Head of ESG elderly.
A number of our people have been employees or their friends and families at Research and Craig Macdonald, Global involved in coaching social enterprises for a various stages of their lives.
The winner was Head of Fixed Income join John period of three months, providing expertise to Dementia UK.
The aim of the partnership is to Montague, Managing Director at Big Issue help develop their business models.
fund the first Admiral Nurses in Scotland, and Invest and Ben Macpherson MSP for the In the UK, we also partner with the charity additional nurses in communities across the launch of Power Up Scotland.
Career Ready, which connects young people UK.
28 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT We were one of the founding signatories of the Race at Work Charter A strategic approach to improving inclusion which commits organisations to tackling barriers that ethnic minority Building a diverse talent pipeline and understanding our people's people face in recruitment and progression.
As part of delivering on needs help us respond to changing client demands, deliver valuable our commitments we launched our ethnic diversity action plan, and insights, and fulfil our strategic objectives.
continued our work with external organisations that help to provide We were one of the first asset managers to publish a co-created employment opportunities to ethnic minority young people.
These inclusion strategy which aims to create an inclusive culture by include the Taylor Bennett Foundation, The Princes Trust, and engaging people at all levels of our organisation.
The principles that Sponsors for Educational Opportunity SEO London.
continue to inform our inclusion strategy are: Our focus on social mobility has gained important external Being transparent recognition, such as being included as one of the Social Mobility Promoting our commitment to inclusion Foundations top 50 employers in its Social Mobility Employer Index.
Bringing value to our business We partner with a number of charities to open up employment and internship opportunities for young people from all backgrounds.
These We have strengthened oversight and governance of our progress include The Princes Trust, Investment 2020 and Career Ready.
We against these areas of focus at a senior level.
We are also working to have also signed up to the Social Mobility Pledge, a cross-party improve the quality of the demographic-based information we gather campaign to improve social mobility across the UK.
Over 1,100 people contribute to and are supported by our employeeYou can read our Inclusion strategy on our website led networks.
Championing aspects of diversity and inclusion across www.
com annualreport our global business, these groups work collaboratively to effect change and are sponsored by our senior leaders.
In 2018 we Putting inclusion into action launched a new network supporting mental health awareness and refreshed our LGBT network and gender balance network.
Through During 2018, we made good progress in a number of important areas our support for the Armed Forces, to which our Armed Forces that contribute to creating a more inclusive workplace.
network makes a big contribution, we achieved a Gold award from the We delivered our first gender action plan and published our refreshed Ministry of Defence's employer recognition scheme.
plan outlining areas of focus for the next 12-18 months.
We have For all of our employees, weve developed guidelines for agile increased female representation at a senior level by 7% under our working, supporting them to work where, when and how is most Women in Finance Charter commitments, and are now working on effective for both them and our company.
We share case studies sustaining progress.
We were also included in the Bloomberg Gender among employees to provide insight and examples of how their Equality and Equileap Top 200 global indices for the first time.
colleagues work in an agile way.
The gender pay gap Our gender targets This is the first year we have reported a Standard Life Aberdeen As part of our commitments to HM Treasurys Women in Finance gender pay gap.
As at April 2018, our mean gender pay gap was Charter, we have published the following targets for women in 40% and our mean gender bonus gap was 69%.
Last year we different levels in our organisation: shared separate data sets for Standard Life and Aberdeen Asset Target by Actual Actual Management, as these were calculated before the merger.
June 2020 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 3 However, even without being able to compare directly to last year, Level % % Number there is little material change in our gender pay gap for this year.
Board 33 25 3 of 12 1 Our pay gap is primarily the result of our workforce structure, with a Executive 33 34 80 of 235 higher number of men in senior roles the roles that attract higher Entire global salary and bonus potential and a higher number of women in 2 workforce 50 45 2,801 of 6,192 junior, lower paid roles.
2 Entire UK workforce 50 45 2,119 of 4,727 We have made progress in improving gender representation two 1 People employed in roles across the two leadership levels below CEO, excluding leadership levels below CEO level, but we have more work to do at admin employees.
Our CFO and CIO, who sit on our Board, are included in both both the Board and Executive Team levels.
our Board and Executive populations.
Our gender pay gap remains high but we know that improving our 3 Data is prepared in accordance with our reporting methodology and the KPIs are gender balance and reducing our gap will take time and enduring within KPMGs limited assurance scope.
Both KPMGs limited assurance report focus.
Through increased transparency and communication since and our reporting methodology can be found at our publication of Year 1 gender pay and bonus information, we are www.
com annualreport building momentum for change across the organisation.
To demonstrate progress in developing our talent pipeline we will continue to track the gender balance in our succession pool, for You can read our full gender pay gap disclosure, analysis and those ready for our most senior roles within the next three to five what we are doing to tackle our gender pay gap in our report on years.
At January 2019, women made up 56% of named individuals our website www.
com annualreport on the succession list for these roles.
