SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our Customers Building a strong customer proposition Our target customers are We continue to target a frictionless and broad cross-channel relationship with our consumers to make their experience more compelling and easier to facilitate.
Our channels characterised by attitude are increasingly inter-linked, with Ecommerce connected to stores via Click and Collect and iKiosk and further connected to Wholesale through our partner programme with, for example, Zalando.
Our Ecommerce objective remains to make it inspiring and easy for people Our ongoing research provides us with a deep and contemporary understanding across the planet to buy Superdry products, and deliver an amazing end-toof, and insight into, our customer demographics, perceptions of Superdry and end experience.
Our customers should be able to order anywhere, from any buying behaviour.
This investment is key to understanding our consumers device, with any payment method and have it delivered anywhere.
During perception of the brand and awareness, enabling us to better meet their needs the year, through both systems enhancements and establishing distribution whether in terms of product or a multi-channel shopping experience.
capability in Europe, we introduced our market-leading UK delivery proposition From this research we know our customers cover a wide demographic, to the majority of European markets.
During the current year we will extend this attracted to Superdry because it is seen as accessible and democratic.
They are aspirational, appreciative of style, quality and attention to detail and are During the year we introduced our Next Generation store concept to 26 stores, focused on value for money.
This format has a number of benefits, including the ability to showcase both the breadth of the range and our core category strength, such as Customer insight jackets or graphic t-shirts and improve the customer shopping experience through flexible fixtures that offer more choice while increasing circulation space.
The uplift in revenue from The qualitative insights show what customers think of Superdry.
This evidences that Superdry is a the introduction of this new concept has been encouraging, delivering a return on capital in line with strong brand with considerable democratic appeal.
We are known for high-quality products and expectations.
During the year we have further refined the Next Generation format to create a more iconic styles often associated with big logos, but have significantly broadened our range in recent capital-light version, focused on the key value drivers and further digitising the in-store experience.
years to produce clothing with more subtle branding, with the most discreet branding reserved for This development will enable us to increase the number of stores to be refitted in the current our premium products.
These insights have highlighted that the brand is still perceived as being financial year.
rather masculine and that Womenswear has a narrower appeal to younger customers.
We have also extended our social media activity to increase awareness and consumer engagement The progress we have made in developing our Womenswear offer, through a more feminine with the Superdry brand, including our two main campaigns The Night Is Young over the summer, approach to both design and customer engagement, accesses this significant opportunity and and This Is The Jacket, a collaboration with key social media influencers to support our autumn will be a key focus over the coming year.
Both campaigns drove a consistent message to all consumers across all digital touchpoints through each campaigns central video, leveraging multiple forms of media.
Customer led innovation to deliver amazing product We continue to embed research into our design process and range planning, as well as into our customer communications.
That research suggests that our customers perceive the recent addition of Sport and Premium categories as being complementary to their existing Superdry wardrobes.
The initial launch of our Sport offering into Womenswear was a reflection of the strength of customer research about the opportunity: the response has been positive with strong sales performances since launch.
Further development and enhancement of the Womenswear, Sport and Premium categories remains our priority and we are confident that further range extensions and innovations will flow from the insight provided from ongoing customer research.
com Strategic Report 11 Superdry Front Section.
