SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability Super Responsible 40 Goals During 2017, we finalised our Super Responsible 40 goals our group-wide sustainability framework after comprehensive consultation with the Board, industry experts, colleagues and suppliers to ensure we continue to address our impacts as a growing and innovative global fashion brand.
As part of this process, we have comprehensively mapped our impacts within our business and supply chains including footprint of raw materials bought across our product range.
We also considered our role in the Sustainable Development Goals SDGs a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity by SUPER 1 2030 to ensure Super Responsible 40 and our wider sustainability activities contribute to RESPONSIBLE their achievement.
Our Super Responsible 40 goals represent where we as a business can have the greatest impact in producing the best product sustainably, in protecting our planet and in 40 supporting our people.
Milestones set and progress we have made so far against each Super Responsible goal.
Update on wider Sustainability activities to make the best product sustainably, to protect our planet and support our people.
org content undp en home .
html 1 PEOPLE PLANET PRODUCT Enable 100,000 young 100% organic cotton 100% renewable people around the world used in Superdry electricity in ours and to make a positive garments by 2040 our main direct suppliers contribution to their businesses by 2040 local economy 30 Superdry Front Section.
com Strategic Report Product: 100% organic cotton in Moving towards 5% organic Disruptive investment The critical success factor of achieving our milestones is to invest all apparel by 2040 cotton usage by 2020 in and disrupt the existing cotton value chain of which organic Accounting for 50% of everything we make, our aim is to achieve Progress achieved to date: accounts for just 0.46% of global cotton production 2016 to 100% organic cotton in all our products by 2040.
We recognise support its growth and long-term sustainability.
Placed our first test buy for selected Orange Label Tee styles this is a stretching and ambitious goal but strongly believe that initially sourcing 74 metric tonnes of raw organic cotton We plan to work initially with existing cotton farmers to support organic cotton achieves the best outcome in the long-term for bales from certified farms and feeding into our own supply growth and long-term sustainability through maximised yields, the livelihoods of cotton farmers, their environment and the chain to test integrity.
enhanced livelihoods including access to premium and overall impact on global issues including water usage and 2.
Identified a pipeline of suppliers to help us reach our first environmental stewardship.
milestone in 2020 focusing on four suppliers of Polos To achieve this goal, we have established volume-based Working in partnership with Cotton Connect, we have recruited and Tees in India initially.
These milestones work 968 organic farmers based in Madhya Pradesh, India and alongside our plans for disruptive investment in supporting from May start of the 2018 growing season will begin our first Groundwork for 2025 and 2030 stabilisation and growth of the organic cotton value chain.
three-year training and development programme to enhance We have identified our country and category entry strategy to livelihoods, gender awareness and empowerment, environmental help us achieve our 2025 and 2030 milestones to: stewardship and output to build the business case for remaining in organic cotton production.
We plan to use the Sustainable 1.
Utilise existing supplier and source country capacity for Development Goals to measure the impacts, focusing specifically producing organic cotton.
on gender equality, decent work and economic growth, no 2.
Maximise the volume procured compared to cost of poverty, zero hunger and life on land.
These farms will supply our future dedicated organic cotton 3.
Focus our resources on securing transparency by specific supply chain equivalent estimated output is up to 3% of our product supply chains.
With the objective of working collaboratively and learning from others, we joined the Organic Cotton Accelerator OCA in January 2018, and through this organisation have invested in organic seed research in India.
indd 31 26 07 2018 16:58:07 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability People: Enable 100,000 young Planet: 100% renewable people around the world to make electricity in our business and a positive contribution to their direct supply chains In addition to using 100% renewable electricity in our own local economy estate we plan to use our relationships with the franchisees and Our goal is to enable 100,000 young people around the world to suppliers to increase use of renewables in their businesses, make a positive contribution to their local economy by helping therefore maximising our impact and making a positive them into jobs, education and training.
contribution to SDG 7 Affordable and clean energy.
We have built a strong and significant partnership with The We have set the following milestones: Princes Trust.
As both a large employer of young people and with a youth customer base, the work of the Trust and Superdry 1.
100% renewable electricity for our own business by 2020 has real alignment.
100% renewable electricity in franchise stores by 2030 Two teams of colleagues participated in the Trusts Million Maker 3.
100% renewable electricity in main suppliers businesses Programme and, alongside developing their own business and by 2040 Paul Thomas personal leadership skills, they raised in excess of 85,000.
Progress towards the goals has been swift this year and we are Energy and Environment Manager delighted to say we have already achieved the target for our own Our colleagues have been inspired to both volunteer and raise business 100% renewable electricity two years early.
funds on behalf of the Trust.
This represents a significant increase on the 70% renewable During this financial year we have continued to offer a get into penetration last year.
Where possible we make sure we focus work course for young people via the Trust.
This course gives on the most environmentally benign carbon-free generation young people aged 16 to 25, who are work-ready but do not technology, specifically wind and solar power.
have vocational skills, a mixture of practical training and work experience, many examples of which have led to securing a Some of our supplier factories are making great strides in this permanent role.
area with a number of sites already having installed rooftop solar panels to reduce their environmental impact and reduce costs.
We will continue to work proactively with suppliers to encourage them to adopt similar approaches.
Our focus for next year will be working with these leaders and building a platform to engage our entire franchise and supplier group in the clean electricity agenda.
Carly Thomas Ethical Trading Manager 32 Superdry Front Section.
com Strategic Report Working with our suppliers To make the best product, sustainably As a growing brand we continuously assess factory ethical and quality management systems to ensure our factory partners are set up to make the best quality product in fair and safe conditions, in line with our Ethical Trading Code of Practice see Our Suppliers People section for further information.
Assessment starts during product development stages and no orders are placed unless factories meet our minimum criteria.
We continuously monitor conditions for the duration of our relationship and where factories continuously fail to meet minimum requirements we initiate our phased exit process.
This year we plan to integrate Super Responsible 40 assessment criteria for factories to ensure they are set up to support us in delivering our goals in line with our phased roll-out plan for organic cotton and renewable electricity.
We work with 424 factories globally: 182 Tier 1 factories, these are third party suppliers which produce and ship our clothing and accessories we have fully mapped and monitor conditions in all Tier 1 factories globally 100% of volume.
231 Tier 2 factories, these factories are contracted by our Tier 1 factories to complete one specialist process.
We have fully mapped and monitor conditions in all factories in this tier in Turkey and India.
We have mapped and monitor conditions for highest volume suppliers in China and ROW equivalent to 67% and 59% of volume.
Our Hong Kong ethical trading team will be established in FY19 and we will be extending this process to all suppliers through FY19.
11 Tier 3 factories, these factories are third party suppliers which provide branded trims and labels for our clothing and accessories.
We are in the process of fully mapping this Tier where we have sourcing offices established, with 100% volume sourced from Turkey covered to date.
Animal welfare At Superdry, we believe that it is never acceptable to harm animals in the manufacture of our clothing and accessories.
We reviewed our Animal Welfare Policy at the beginning of 2018 to ensure we remain aligned with prevailing industry practice.
We successfully delivered our first season with 100% Responsible Down Standard RDS accredited down in Autumn Winter 2017, and have successfully maintained our RDS certification for 2018.
indd 33 26 07 2018 16:58:09 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability People and community Our people, our suppliers people and our communities are critical to the continued success of our brand.
Supporting our people and extending our values to our suppliers people and our communities people means: providing a great place to work for our colleagues: ensuring our suppliers people have access to fair and safe conditions that respect human rights, in line with our Code of Practice.
Learning from and extending best practice where possible: and supporting our local communities, youth well-being and employment.
Our people The unique entrepreneurial and innovative culture which defines our heritage continues to be at the heart of our ways of working.
Our colleagues bring our brand to life and the success of the Group is a direct result of their knowledge, skills, drive, passion and enthusiasm, wherever they are in the world.
We have consistently created and maintained an environment where colleagues can flourish and fulfil their potential.
For the first time in our history we have defined a set of values in collaboration with 60 colleagues from every corner of our business.
Our six values have really struck a chord with everyone who comes into contact with our business giving us real assurance of our strong culture, beliefs and ways of working.
True to our innovative culture, we share the story of our values through a genuine set of product care labels because these are the things we care about the most.
com Strategic Report 4,800 people including part-time colleagues across the The sharing of our Gender Pay Gap Report detailed report on Diversity UK, Europe, US and Asia now make up the Superdry family.
our website is the next step in our diversity conversation and At Superdry we pride ourselves on our diverse and inclusive Colleague numbers will continue to grow in the coming year as in ensuring equality.
The gender pay gap is calculated using culture.
Centred around our six core values, which define the way we continue our growth strategy.
the approach required by the regulations and compares the we do things round here, our employees wholeheartedly agree difference in the average pay of men and women.
Like many Our SuperSay group-wide engagement survey is in its fourth year that Superdry is a great place to work, where you can be yourself organisations we currently have a gender pay gap, which we and colleagues once again reinforced our view that Superdry is a and feel fairly treated.
Equality and diversity are fundamental would of course aspire not to have.
While this is largely driven by very attractive place to work.
In our 2018 survey, colleagues gave values to us and our SuperSay engagement survey scores are the wider society norm that men are more likely to be in senior us a Trust Index of 73, an improvement of 1 percentage point on world class in this category.
We have an equal opportunities roles, we are keen to understand and address the reasons for 2017.
This year we launched Workplace an internally secure policy and take our responsibilities under that policy seriously.
The gender pay reporting measures are social media tool similar to Facebook.
Workplace has further In addition, we give full and fair consideration to applications for very different from equal pay comparisons of the amounts paid enhanced the relationship we have with our colleagues across employment by disabled people.
In the event of an employee to men and women for the same, similar or equivalent work.
the world: connecting them together digitally as one Superdry becoming disabled, every effort would be made to ensure that We are confident that our approach to pay means that we do family and giving the tools to share knowledge, experience and their employment with us continues and that appropriate training not allow unequal pay to exist within our organisation.
We do great stories at the touch of a button.
however recognise that the gender pay gap figures shown here demonstrate that our most senior roles, and therefore those with Sharing in our success is something that we value highly and We believe in respecting individuals and their rights in the the highest rates of pay, are largely filled by men and we therefore in 2017 we launched The Founder Share Plan.
With this in mind, specific policies are in place need to improve diversity in our most senior job levels.
generosity of our two founders Julian Dunkerton and James covering harassment and bullying, whistleblowing and equal Holder, every colleague has the opportunity to share in our opportunities.
Our colleagues represent a wide and diverse We are committed to increasing the participation of women success when the plan matures in 2020.
Our UK colleagues also workforce from all backgrounds, sexual orientations, nationalities and ethnic diversity on the Board and at the senior managers have the opportunity to join the SAYE and BAYE share schemes.
and ethnic and religious groups.
As illustrated in the table below, more than half of our total expansion, the workforce is becoming even more diverse.
colleagues are female: Our demand for future talent continues to grow, driving a need We respect cultural differences and actively seek to learn to both attract new people to the business and develop those Male Female Total about them in each territory in which we operate.
Through our award-winning Superdry Academy, Role Number % Number % Number our suite of tools and learning opportunities equip colleagues We recognise the benefits of encouraging diversity across all Group Board with the agility and skills to drive the Group forward and offer areas of the Group and believe that this contributes to our Directors 8 89 1 11 9 them rewarding careers.
The ongoing review of talent across continued success.
All appointments are made based on merit Executive the business has enabled us to identify colleagues rich in our and are measured against specific objective criteria including the Committee 7 78 2 22 9 brand DNA, and experience with the skills to support business skills and experience needed for the position.
Direct Reports development in new territories.
This review is conducted twice of the Executive a year giving us real line-of-sight of our future talent demands, Committee 29 60 19 40 48 existing pipeline of supply, as well as planning future succession.
Senior Employees 57 59 40 41 97 Looking ahead our people focus will continue to be on how we Other Employees 1,994 43 2,657 57 4,651 recruit and retain the right talent, together with a strategy to Total Employees 2,095 44 2,719 56 4,814 develop our colleagues ahead of our growth curve.
Further information on our Board composition and policy on diversity can be found on pages 71 to 72.
As at 28 April 2018, 21 out of 57 members of Superdrys leadership team as defined for the purposes of the HamptonAlexander Review were women.
indd 35 26 07 2018 16:58:10 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability Our suppliers people Respect: Maintaining an We work closely with suppliers, factories, local experts, accurate benchmark of auditors and multi-stakeholder organisations to ensure factory conditions our suppliers people work in fair and safe conditions that respect human rights.
Our factories Tiers 1, 2 and We have Superdry dedicated labour standard experts 3 provide jobs to over 124,006 people globally 56% operating in each key source country Turkey, India and are women, 44% are men.
Our teams are able to work closely with factories to secure transparent disclosure so we are able to obtain Our Ethical Trading Code of Practice represents our an accurate baseline view of working conditions.
baseline requirement which works alongside local law to ensure a minimum standard of protection is afforded Working alongside our preferred audit partner, in to all people in our supply base in all countries.
Our partnership with our suppliers and through our own local Code of Practice aligns with the Ethical Trading Initiative teams, we formally benchmark working conditions on an Base Code ETI Basecode which in turn is based annual basis in all factories.
All audits are completed on on international standards including the Universal a semi-announced or unannounced basis.
Declaration of Human Rights and the International We ensure the ongoing quality of audits by aligning Labour Organisations Core Conventions on Labour protocol with internationally recognised SMETA Best Standards.
Our local teams continuously monitor audit Following recommendations set out by the UN Guiding output by shadowing third party auditors, and through Principles for Business and Human Rights, our ethical system control audits which are completed by dedicated trading programme aims to ensure: integrity auditors.
Respect: We maintain accurate benchmark We work with local community organisations, and wider information on factory conditions in line with our labour standards experts to complete offsite interviews Ethical Trading Code of Practice.
with workers where we need a broader view of worker concerns, where we have transparency concerns and or 2.
Remedy: Where we find issues we support factories where we seek feedback on improvements made to make improvements with the aim providing in factory.
decent work and economic growth to all people operating in our supply chain.
In addition to ethical audits, we have developed policies and procedures to protect vulnerable groups of workers Our ethical trading team remains an integral component including migrants, contract workers, refugees and of the sourcing team.
This enables us to link ethical homeworkers.
All policies and procedures are included trading strategy with our sourcing priorities and provide in our Supplier Manual and form a condition of doing effective feedback on factory conditions.
Independence is maintained through regular reporting mechanisms to the Transformation Director, Executive Committee and the Board of Directors.
com Strategic Report Launch of Migrant Worker Assessment Utilising best practice including the Dhaka Principles for Migration 1 with Dignity, this year we trialled our first dedicated Migrant Worker Assessment developed to assess factories employing significant proportions of migrant workers.
The Dhaka Principles aim to enhance respect for the rights of migrant workers from the moment of recruitment, during employment and through to further employment or safe return.
Trialled in two factories in March 2018, the assessment focuses on core risk areas and includes assessment of recruitment agents procedure and practice.
The assessment enables us to benchmark and establish detailed, practical and consultative action plans with factories where we find issues and further supports our ongoing commitment to eliminate risks of modern slavery in our business and supply chains.
We plan to extend this assessment over the next 12 months to any factory employing migrant workers from other countries.
Remedy: Access to local innovative solutions to issues While factories often share common issues, we have found that sustainable solutions are often best adopted when developed locally, in consultation with local groups.
Our local teams work closely with factories to establish practical action plans, training, and capacity building with management, supervisors and worker committees.
We prioritise biweekly or monthly training and capacity building where factories demonstrate non-compliance which pose the greatest risk to worker well-being and closely monitor improvement in line with agreed milestones.
Where factories fail to engage in this process and fail to meet the minimum required standard within a defined time period, we implement a phased exit plan.
We often partner with local experts, including Community and NonGovernmental Organisations NGOs to develop innovative, worker driven solutions.
In the last year, we have established effective worker committees which can manage any local grievances and represent workers interests in five factories covering 6,181 workers.
Through Change Alliance, factories have actively set up effective whistle-blowing mechanisms to combat gender inequality this is a collaborative programme funded by Superdry, four other UK and US brands and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office FCO.
org dhaka-principles 37 Superdry Front Section.
indd 37 26 07 2018 16:58:11 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability In July 2017, we co-funded an innovative programme led Between August 2017 and May 2018, 104 supervisors and Launch of Change Alliance by Change Alliance, Treble Partners and Christian Aid, 6,181 workers 100% received training on rights of the Workforce Empowerment: alongside the British High Commission and three other aggrieved under Indias Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act brands which aimed to facilitate gender equality and a 2013.
The schedule of training ran alongside strengthening At Superdry we continuously safe working environment for women factory workers in 11 of grievance mechanisms, election, empowerment and garment factories in India.
education of committee members to ensure any allegations risk assess Modern Slavery are properly investigated through effective committee Out of the 11 factories taking part, Superdry nominated five, structures.
All factories have now established hotlines which risk, and a core part of our three of which are based in Delhi which make mens t-shirts, anonymously report grievances to the Internal Complaints womens tops and outerwear and two of which are based Committee to initiate investigation, and to identify suitable human rights strategy is in Bangalore making shirts, shorts and chinos, employing a remedy within the factory.
total of 6,181 workers between them.
to ensure workers in our Feedback from factory management and workers has been supply chains have access generally positive.
Rita, a tailor from Assam, aged 34, came to Delhi in 2012 to find work: This training has empowered to remedy through effective me with all the knowledge I require to fight any injustice I might face whether at home or workplace.
I am grateful to grievance mechanisms the trainers.
com Strategic Report Our communities Charitable activity Youth well-being and employment are important social issues Our charity and community support programme continues to in the UK and in many other countries in which we operate.
grow and is a platform for charitable projects supporting the The investment in our careers website, work experience and local, national and international communities in which we operate.
apprenticeship programmes has received overwhelmingly positive This financial year we raised or donated approximately 451,000, feedback from schools and careers advisers.
an increase of 84,000 on the previous year.
In order to maximise the breadth of our charitable impact we also Local education match funds raised by our colleagues to benefit various valuable Through Superdry School Days we work with local schools causes across the globe.
During financial year 2018, we matched to provide opportunities for students to experience working for 7,235 of our colleagues activities in support of their chosen Superdry through engagement in focus groups, job shadowing charitable causes.
and discussing career journeys with Superdry colleagues.
This initiative has led to a number of students gaining valuable work Newlife Charity Partnership experience and has led to full-time apprenticeships being offered Newlife in some instances.
We provide a best-in-class work experience programme with placements for at least two students every We continue to donate unsellable product to our partners Newlife month across the business.
- the Charity for Disabled Children.
The garments are fide-branded and sold: so far garments with a resale value of approximately University partnership 126,000 have been donated for the great work that Newlife undertakes.
We are in the fourth year of our partnership with the University of Gloucestershire where we work closely with undergraduates This approach eliminates any need for landfill and extends the studying for degrees in Fashion, Graphic Design and life of these garments making maximum use of the embedded Photography setting projects, providing work placements, energy and water consumed during the manufacturing process.
judging final coursework and providing materials and support to their respective programmes.
We have placed a number of Modern Slavery Act 2015 undergraduates within the business as part of the requirements Our Modern Slavery programme incorporates the principles of to complete their degree courses.
the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act 2010 and the Modern Slavery Act 2015 by working to prevent human Graduate Fashion Week trafficking and slave labour within our business and across our For the first time, this year Superdry partnered with Graduate supply chain.
Sponsoring the Superdry Outerwear We are now in our third reporting year for our disclosure which Award gives us unprecedented access to the newest and most will be published alongside this report and will be available on creative fashion graduates.
The winning design was showcased our Group website.
in the gala catwalk, showcasing our strength in outerwear to a larger industry audience.
indd 39 26 07 2018 16:58:12 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability renewable electricity.
This market based method shows Planet Global greenhouse gas GHG the emissions created using the precise mix of generating We understand that using resources sustainably minimises our technologies used to supply our estate rather than simply taking emissions tonnes of CO 2 impact on the natural environment and very much constitutes the a grid average of all generating technologies as is the case equivalent right way to do business.
We remain committed to reducing under the location-based method.
We can now report zero greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and waste and 1 May-17 1 May-16 GHG emissions from the market-based method as 100% of our to 30 April to 30 April to achieve this our environmental function is integrated into our electricity is from renewable sources.
We have clear environmental, energy Emissions: We continue to expand on reporting of Scope 3 emissions.
and waste policies to meet these goals.
This year we have added data for business travel and continue Scope 1: Combustion of fuel to report on emissions from our distribution centres and logistics Using energy in our estate and operation of facilities 187 369 operations.
Our target is to improve the electricity efficiency of our global Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam retail estate by 35% by 2020 compared to a 2014 baseline and cooling purchased for own measured on a kilowatt hour per square metre per year basis.
GHG emission methodology use location-based method 9,197 9,598 Momentum towards the target continued this year with an We have reported on all of the emission sources required under Emissions per m of revenue 10.76 13.28 efficiency improvement of 29% against the baseline, resulting the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors in a saving of 3,692 tonnes of emissions.
This also represents a 6 1 May-17 1 May-16 Reports Regulations 2013.
We report our emissions data using percentage point improvement over last year.
to 30 April to 30 April a financial control approach meaning we include emissions 2018 2017 from all parts of the business where we have the ability to direct As in previous years we continue to monitor the evolution of Scope 3: Indirect emissions financial and operating policies this includes our owned and lighting, heating, ventilation and air conditioning and building Business travel 2,822 n a operated Retail stores and office space.
Data has been prepared controls to ensure promising technologies are identified Energy used in operation of in accordance with the WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate and brought to trial in-store.
We also continue with a rolling Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, WRI distribution centres 1,441 2,242 programme to upgrade legacy stores to the latest efficiency WBCSD GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance 2015 and emission Third party logistics: standards.
This year saw the appointment of energy efficiency factors from the DECC DEFRA GHG Conversion Factors for specialists Optimised Buildings who undertook work to maximise Factory to distribution centre 43,819 52,998 Company Reporting 2016. the value of our existing store controls infrastructure.
The project Distribution centre to store proved highly successful with an average reduction in electricity Although we strive to ensure that our emissions figures are customer 24,708 18,055 consumption of 13% during the trial.
A wider roll-out of this accurate, access to the relevant data is not always possible and, Total Scope 3 72,790 73,295 programme is scheduled for the coming financial year.
therefore, some estimation is necessary.
12% of our emissions 1 May 201730 April 2018 this year are based on estimated data FY17: 14%.
We have measured our operational carbon footprint, which LocationMarkethas provided insight into where the largest climate impacts are based based and enabled us to better prioritise resources.
Emissions are method method stated in tonnes of CO equivalent and data has been verified 2 Emission comparison by environmental consultancy Trucost to AA1000 Assurance Scope 2: Electricity, heat, Standard.
Emissions per million of revenue declined by 19% steam and cooling purchased over the past 12 months, reflecting the increase in electricity for own use 9,040 0 efficiency in our stores and the revenue growth from Ecommerce and Wholesale channels.
Both of these channels are less GHG emission intensive than the retail estate.
In addition, the guidance on the reporting of Scope 2 emissions allows us to demonstrate the reduced environmental impact of purchasing 40 Superdry Front Section.
com Strategic Report 41 Superdry Front Section.
