Sustainability Moving forward on Sustainability We focus on sustainability through our Foreword Group Sustainability Committee using Synthomer is a specialist chemical six pillars our strategy, governance and company and one of the worlds leading compliance, people, sustainable value suppliers of aqueous polymers.
We chain, health and safety and environment.
produce innovative formulations to support In 2018 we focused our sustainability customers in a range of industries from activities on broadening our sustainability construction and coatings to healthcare.
reach more widely across the Group using Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards.
Synthomer is built on its reputation and This has involved assessing stakeholder the trust and confidence of each of its expectations, building key performance stakeholders not only our shareholders indicators against which we can be judged, and employees, but also our suppliers, engaging our employees through our We customers and the wider community Care initiative and then communicating and environment in which we operate.
our progress through our annual At Synthomer we hold the highest Sustainability Report.
standards and work together to protect our values and build an ethical and We strongly believe our sustainability sustainable business.
Tim Hughes activities build shareholder value and will President Corporate Development drive a positive contribution to our business Synthomer recognises the significance performance and values.
and importance of being a responsible company.
As a leading speciality chemical Tim Hughes Sustainability highlights company, we focus on continuous President Corporate Development improvement to enhance the sustainability Group Sustainability of everything we do from developing less Committee established energy intensive water-based products to Launch of new global Code of Conduct helping customers meet more stringent regulations, to attracting and retaining Second best year for recordable injury the best talent in the market through our rate on record 60% improvement on employee brand.
three year rolling basis Best ever Process Safety Event rate Strengthening of our employer brand Launch of We Care initiative linking our employees to our communities Move to align reporting to GRI Standards and completion of stakeholder assessment 44 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Non-financial information statement The Company has complied with the Non-Financial Reporting Directive contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
Pillar Highlights and achievements Sustainability Committee established to coordinate global sustainability activities, reporting directly to the executive team Completed programme of work to identify initial set of GRI Standards matched to the sixkey pillars identified by the materiality assessment Strategy Stakeholder engagement project completed to validate initial materiality assessment New interactive global Code of Conduct launched across the Group, available in thirteen languages Governance New independent whistleblowing helpline established and compliance New global SmartHR system roll-out completed across the Group Successful launch of Synthomer Talent Development Programme People Asia HR training and development programme recognised with three Malaysianawards Strengthened sustainability assessment within procurement processes, implemented revised supplier audit methodology Sustainable Litex QuickShield technology awarded Best Innovation in Textile valuechain Chemistry at Future Textile Awards 2018 new formula eliminates need for formaldehyde and ammonia Wellness programmes established across several countries SHE Engagement global site management and SHE management conferences Health and Safety Occupational and Completion of main phase of Process Hazard Revalidation exercise Process safety Process safety event rate reduced Development of new internal process safety training programme No environmental reportable incidents best year on record 1.8% reduction in GHG greenhouse gases emissions per tonne Environment of production Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 45 Sustainability continued Progress against 2018 targetsand objectives Target Year Progress Strategy Complete materiality assessment review 2018 Formalise data gathering and monitoring of relevant GRI disclosures 2018 Align sustainability reporting against GRI Core Standards 2019 onward Achieve and sustain Gold rating from EcoVadis by 2020 Governance and compliance Launch updated Code of Conduct 2018 Introduce externally hosted ethical whistleblowing helpline phone web 2018 People employment conditions diversity and development Implement global HR information system 2018 Deploy global, market aligned, role and compensation framework 2018 Design and launch new executive leadership global people report 2018 Develop the Synthomer diversity and inclusion plans 2018 Launch an enhanced Synthomer leadership development programme 2018 Sustainable Value Chain Revise supplier audit process to include sustainability requirements 2018 Define sustainability criteria for product and technology development projects 2018 Undertake initial assessment of active R&D projects against sustainability criteria 2019 Complete five key supplier audits for each procurement function at least one per region 2021 Complete desktop sustainability assessment of top ten key suppliers in each region 2022 Health and safety 0.25 Recordable Case Rate incidents per 100,000 working hours 2018 0.20 Process Safety Event Rate incidents per 100,000 working hours 2018 Environment The first four metrics below are based on revised 2017 baseline 30% site emissions calculated using market-based emissions factors 2018 6% reduction in specific energy consumption GJ t production end 2021 9% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions t CO e t production end 2021 2 6% reduction in water consumption m t production end 2021 3 7.5% reduction in waste to land metric ton metric ton production end 2021 46 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Sustainability activities Stakeholder Customers Strategy Employees Supplies Shareholders Company Synthomer recognises the significance Legislators and importance of being a responsible Authorities company, taking into consideration the Communities complete life cycle of our products and the impact our operations have on people and the environment.
Pillar Topic Aspect Organic growth Synthomer considers issues that are Strategy Risk management material to its business and seeks to Ethics and integrity Responsible and involved management respond to them in a manner appropriate to Governance and Compliance Stakeholder involvement the interests of all its stakeholders.
We are Compliance committed to approaching our business Employment conditions in an ethical and environmentally sound Employee diversity and inclusion People Employee development, training and education manner.
Communities support Quality Our work in this area has been highlighted Sustainable value chain Manufacturing excellence Products and processes Procurement through the Groups inclusion in the Customers satisfaction FTSE4Good Index since 2004.
The Occupational H&S FTSE4Good Index is operated by FTSE Health and safety Process Safety Russell and highlights the performance Product Safety Energy consumption of stock market listed companies against Water consumption a range of environmental, social and Environment Emissions to the air governance criteria.
To be eligible for Waste generation R&D inclusion in the index, companies must demonstrate a high level of commitment Survey in areas such as climate change, environmental management and human rights.
Materiality assessment The Groups risk management processes described earlier in the Strategic report include consideration of the potential In order to collect the relevant stakeholder Materiality assessment impact of corporate responsibility issues groups feedback in a more systematic review and Global on Synthomers performance.
The way, a survey tool was designed.
Using Reporting Initiative Groups investment decisions take into the survey, the seven main stakeholder GRI alignment account appropriate evaluations of the groups previously identified were A key commitment made in early 2018 potential consequences for its employees, questioned to determine the importance was to begin alignment of our corporate customers, suppliers and the environment.
of the 22 sustainability topics sitting reporting to the international GRI Standards.
in the six sustainability pillars selected The Group also recognises the impact by the Company.
Approximately 400 During 2018, a detailed review of the GRI that M&A activities can have on its overall stakeholders were surveyed worldwide reporting requirements was made, gaps sustainability profile and performance.
In representing all business areas.
were identified and a plan to address 2018, Synthomer introduced changes to them was prepared and accomplished.
its assessment approach to strengthen our The survey resulted in eighteen topics Alongside this a project was undertaken to processes for evaluating these potential rated as very important and four topics develop further the materiality assessment impacts, risk and opportunities.
All the topics within the work described in the 2017 CSR Report environment, safety, and governance that identified a first pass list of key 2018 saw the acquisition of an SBR and compliance areas were rated as sustainability aspects for Synthomer and latex production facility in Pischelsdorf, very important.
Austria from BASF, and its impact on our environmental performance, alongside, The initial materiality assessment was full year impact of the Speciality Additives More details will be provided in the reviewed to better identify the key Belgium plant purchased from Perstorp Sustainability Report at www.
com sustainability aspects for Synthomer and in March 2017, is discussed later in relevant stakeholder groups and to align this section.
with the principles defined by GRI.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 47 Sustainability continued Plan for 2019 and beyond Governance During 2019, the Group will use the stakeholder engagement findings and compliance to identify where further engagement or action is required.
Internally this will include more engagement with employees in the form of a pilot culture survey.
Ensuring and demonstrating a high In addition, we will continue to look at opportunities for improving standard of effective and compliant the systems used for reporting and data gathering analysis to give corporate governance is a key priority greater confidence and provide more transparency and clarity around of the Group and expectation of our the identified key material risk areas.
Our governance structures are covered in more detail on pages 62 to 66.
Code of Conduct 2018 saw significant activity in this area as Synthomer published its new Code To ensure the safe management and use A key commitment made last year was to of Conduct, drawing together all its of its products, Synthomer is committed seek to align our sustainability reporting key policies in one easy-to-read and to sharing relevant health and safety to the internationally recognised Global interactive document.
information throughout the value chain.
Our To achieve this, we work closely with 2018 Sustainability Report previously our suppliers and customers to fully CSR Report will be published early in Q2 understand the environmental impact of 2019 and will be aligned to meet the GRI our raw materials, processes and products Core reporting level.
An overview of the on the overall product life cycle.
We identify work undertaken across the six identified potential improvement areas and focus pillars is presented here, with more efforts on delivering those improvements.
comprehensive data provided in the 2018 Growing sustainably is a challenge, but it is Sustainability Report.
one that we are committed to taking on.
The Group also remains committed to both The Groups international operations fulfil the global chemical industries Responsible their responsibility to record, monitor and Care RC initiative and to the principles make publicly available the potential impact of sustainable development SD as set out of its activities.
In pursuing its corporate in the UK Chemical Industries Association strategy, Synthomers aim is to adopt CIA SD guiding principles, to which we Our code business practices that are economically, have been a signatory since 2005. socially and environmentally sustainable, Our code reflects both how we work and to promote these to its stakeholders This commitment was re-asserted in 2017 together and with third parties and in order to strengthen relationships, share when the Chief Executive Officer endorsed exemplifies our beliefs and values.
All knowledge and encourage best practice.
the updated UK CIA Responsible Care employees have been issued with the Guiding Principles.
code, and it is publicly available on our In 2017, a review of sustainability website at: www.
com codemanagement and reporting mechanisms of-conduct was undertaken, with a view to identifying how to move the Company forward in meeting both its own and its stakeholders expectations in this area.
This led in The policies are in place to ensure early 2018 to the establishment of a new our daily business is conducted in a Sustainability Committee which meets at sustainable and responsible manner.
This is led by the These policies play a key role in President Corporate Development who maintaining our reputation with our sits on, and reports back to, the executive internal and external stakeholders.
They committee, with membership made up of also set out the standards to which we functional department heads representing hold ourselves, our employees and our areas such as HR, R&D, procurement and business partners.
corporate governance, as well as senior members of the corporate SHE network.
Our values are visible in all corporate There is also active engagement with the communications and are prominently wider business across the Group.
displayed at all Synthomer sites.
Around the globe we have multiple ways in which we communicate our values in an engaging way and bring our values to life including induction processes, training interventions, communications and awards and recognition campaigns.
48 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 All the Groups employees are Given our global focus on delivering and People encouraged to measure their activities sustaining world class levels of Safety, against our long-term goals and to work Health and Environment SHE all employees towards achieving them.
Managers in have some elements of their bonus based particular are expected to use these goals on safety performance measures which pay Diversity and human rights when setting targets for themselves, for out, if targets are met, irrespective of Group Diversity is one of Synthomers core their teams and for the staff who report financial performance.
values, and we remain focused on to them.
increasing diversity within the Group.
We To support a more global approach to continue to attract and retain employees Corruption and HR, 2018 saw the launch of our SmartHR from a wide variety of national and cultural anti-competitive behaviour system, empowering employees and backgrounds, and in the UK, where we Synthomer is committed to complying managers to work together more effectively.
have around 500 employees, we have with the laws and regulations of all the people from over 20 different countries countries in which it operates including represented within our workforce.
The those covering corruption and antirate at which we are attracting female competitive behaviour.
This applies talent continues to increase.
New recruits whether Synthomer is acting directly in a to our European Graduate Scheme and country through employees, or indirectly Leadership Development participants in our Synthomer Talent through agents, distributors or other In 2018 we relaunched and expanded Development Programme comprised intermediaries.
Alongside the Code of our European graduate scheme with approximately an equal proportion female Conduct roll-out, new guidance was thirteen new recruits joining our 2018 and male employees.
published on Bribery, Corruption and Tax cohort orientation event in October.
All relevant Scheme participants have joined us in As part of national Girls and Boys Day employees are required to complete several functions including manufacturing, during 2018, children of employees in online training modules.
engineering, finance, R&D, procurement Germany came to our Marl office and and commercial.
Chemical Park to experience a workplace Whistleblowing helpline in the chemical industry.
We are proud At Synthomer we always encourage This year also saw the launch of our new to support this initiative aimed at school people to speak up about any concerns Synthomer talent development programme: children aged between 10 and 15. they may have about unlawful or a twelve month structured development The event included time spent in our unethical behaviour.
programme aimed at providing existing laboratories and manufacturing facilities.
employees at an early stage of their 2018 saw the launch of a third party management career with an accelerated Attraction, retention and hosted helpline available both online development experience that includes employee development and via telephone for employees and workshops, virtual learning events, 360 We were pleased to appoint Holly A. other stakeholders to report unlawful or degree feedback and an opportunity to Van Deursen to our Board of Directors in unethical behaviour or concerns and to work with a mentor drawn from our senior 2018, as a non executive director.
Holly raise queries regarding the application of leadership team.
brings a wealth of chemical industry the Code of Conduct.
experience having worked for BP and Jennifer Peake, as one of our talent boardroom experience from various Human rights development programme members, won executive and non-executive roles.
The Group is committed to operating the Prestigious National Chemical Industry a culture that values meritocracy, Associations CIA Young Ambassador Synthomers Asian HR function was openness, fairness and transparency of the Year Award in June and will lead formally recognised by a number of and encourages a safe and trusting the CIAs Future Forum for 12 months external agencies for the key initiatives work environment.
from September 2018, playing a vital role supporting continuous commitment to in representing the ideas, concerns and the development of its human talent.
The new Code of Conduct reasserts our aspirations of young people in the chemical Throughout the year, there were a range commitment to diversity, human rights, industry.
of HR key initiatives delivered and it was equal opportunities and respect in the good opportunity to externally benchmark Male Female Total workplace, and includes links to our most these against other industries in the recent Modern Slavery Act statement, Board 7 2 9 country.
This year, the HR Team has available here: https: www.
participated in three external HR awards Senior com company  which were organised by the Ministry management 43 4 47 group-policies of Human Resource, IChemE and Employees 2,301 606 2,907 MIHRM respectively.
In 2018, we continued to offer a bonus scheme that extends to all levels in our organisation, not just to senior leaders.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 49 Sustainability continued We Care Our CEO, Calum MacLean, is a member People continued Synthomer engages with its employees of the SCIs Chemistry Council, a group and communities in various ways on sites comprising some of the most senior around the world.
In order to heighten leaders in the UK Chemical sector with a awareness, visibility and promotion of these focus on understanding and advancing the activities, the Group launched its We Care strategic needs of the industry in the UK.
CSR sustainability ambassadors rolled out the campaign on several sites, In 2018 we continued to support academic aimed at creating engagement, inspiring study in the form of sponsorship of PhD and opportunities and empowering Synthomer Masters students in the UK and Malaysia.
employees who are passionate about making a difference to those around them to Our business in Malaysia hosted 38 reach out and champion work in this area.
undergraduate industrial placements in 2018 and our R&D staff worked with In 2019, We Care will be expanded several Malaysian universities to contribute as a key part of our sustainability to the development of their syllabus and identity externally as well as internally, in delivering lectures.
We supported highlighting promotion not just of our universities, colleges and secondary We Care about community engagement but our focus schools across Malaysia by supplying latex our communities on more sustainable and environmentally gloves for use by staff and students.
Amongst the activities supporting our As the polymer industry technical communities in 2018 were: Our commitment to science and representative, we were appointed by education Malaysia Institute of Chemistry to join Our Head Office charity auction We continue to be active supporters of the the JTC-IKM Working Committee under raised 20,000 for the Make a SCI Society of Chemical Industry with instruction of the Malaysia Qualification Wish Foundation Robin Harrison, Global Innovation Director, Agency, MQA to draft Malaysia chemistry on the Board of Trustees and several of our degrees program standards, which Collections for several charities and senior leaders active committee members.
will serve as a primary reference for all day care centres, including universities in Malaysia when they form their hundreds of items collected in a In 2019, we will again be a lead sponsor of syllabus for chemistry degree programmes.
reverse Advent Calendar appeal in the Bright SCIdea Challenge, having been The standard will be used as a mandatory Harlow and a Wish Tree campaign a sponsor of the launch of this initiative in reference for the accreditation of chemistry across our German sites supporting 2018.
This competition is aimed at university degree programmes by the MQA.
local hospitals students developing entrepreneurial Kuala Lumpur Office members skills.
The competition asks participants Synthomer once again participated in the engaged in several fund-raising to develop innovative scientific ideas Chemistry at Work showcase in the UK.
activities to support the Lend a and present them as part of a business This has now become an annual event in Hand programme in Malaysia, presentation to a panel of industry experts.
the Essex local section of the Royal Society supporting shelters for abandoned of Chemistry Outreach programme, with or neglected children We are active in supporting the SCI mid members of R&D presenting on Synthomer careers workstream, a group of industry products and processes, and actively leaders looking at ways to develop the promoting science, technology, engineering careers of scientists mid-way through and mathematics STEM careers.
50 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Sustainable valuechain Following our materiality assessment, Following a review of our practices and Product safety product safety has now been included identification of areas for improvement in The majority of Group products are waterwithin the value chain pillar, reflecting its relation to our CSR rating from EcoVadis, in based emulsions that are not deemed to be fit within the R&D and regulatory affairs 2018 we undertook an exercise to improve hazardous chemicals.
how we assessed the performance of suppliers with regard to sustainability.
This However, for those that are hazardous, Supply chain engagement included changes to audit processes and Synthomer is committed to providing its Synthomer requires any individual or questionnaires, and the initial roll-out of a customers with comprehensive and legally entity acting on its behalf, whether as supplier audit schedule as per the targets compliant safety data sheets in all the a consultant, representative, agent or and objectives described in our 2017 CSR markets we serve.
distributor to know, understand and abide Report.
The 2018 Sustainability Report by the laws and regulations applicable in will provide more details on the status of Our central regulatory affairs department the country or countries in which they act thiswork.
also manages our ongoing REACh for Synthomer.
The requirements are set compliance activities through our supply out in detail within the Business Policies in R&D and new product development chain and has been active in preparing for our Code of Conduct described earlier.
Synthomer prides itself on its innovative the potential impact of Brexit on chemicals product development, and in 2018 registered within and transported to the UK.
Before a vendor is on-boarded and successfully launched new formaldehyde approved for purchase and use, Synthomer free SBR binders for textile Litex AlkaShield employs multiple assessment processes.
1543 and Litex QuickShield 1545, with A periodic review of key suppliers is carried the new products being awarded Best out to assess performance of the supplier Innovation in Textile Chemistry at the against criteria covering technical support, Future Textile Awards 2018. commercial performance, reputation including REACh, and local regulatory In addition in 2018, a comprehensive compliance.
We also carry out periodic life cycle analysis was undertaken on supply chain risk reviews and continually our SyNovus glove product, which build and improve the raw materials and demonstrated that we deliver significantly vendor on-boarding processes lower environmental impact than previous and procedures.
products, driven by lower energy use on the glove dipping line.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 51 Sustainability continued is a primary duty and expectation of Environmental work programmes are management at all levels in the Group, focused on ensuring both legal compliance aligned to our three long term goals: and driving continual improvement as part of our commitment to our matrix ISO Health and safety, 1.
To have no accidents or incidents: 14001 certification all operating sites now certified and ISO 50001 certification in the 2.
To have no adverse impact on the andenvironment UK, Germany and Czech Republic.
health of those who work in, or live near our operations, nor on the health of Embedding of SHE routines those who use our products: and Following the 2017 implementation of our Management of Safety, Health and the Permit to Work PTW and Management of 3.
T o minimise any environmental burden Environment is the most mature aspect Change MOC improvement programme created by our activities.
of the Groups sustainability activities and in 2017, 2018 saw increased focus on remains a critical material aspect for both tracking and learning from Fundamental Key practices and programmes internal and external stakeholders.
Issues identified during monitoring, and The table below highlights some of the the establishment of standardised monthly SHE management practices and activities In line with our SHE Policy, the Board, Chief and quarterly routines to formally monitor undertaken in 2018 and planned for 2019.
Executive Officer and executive committee progress at site level.
are fully committed to improving SHE Key measures, SHE performance indicators performance and engaging and involving and SHE audit results are reported to the employees at all levels in all locations Board, the executive committee and to in our SHE programmes.
Effective SHE the regional management meetings on a leadership to deliver SHE performance monthly basis.
Key SHE programmes 2018 SHE key actions 2019 SHE key focus Groups Safety, Health and Completion of revised Lock-Out Tag-Out Supporting sites in meeting our Environment Management guidance: development of self-assessment standards through generation of System SHEMS standards questionnaires to assist internal Statements of Essential Requirements and policies audit process.
setting out in more detail what good compliance looks like.
Group SHE audits New cycle of auditing with continued Continuing Self Assessment process safety focus: move to risk based Questionnaires audit activity and frequency of auditing.
increased networking cross-site auditing to share best practice.
The Group Accident Effective use of lessons learnt and site Continuous improvement including and Incident Management review of high potential incidents to help reviews and audit input.
System AIMS prioritise where to focus resource to improve performance.
SHE training, Development of modular in-house process Full roll-out of internal process safety communication safety training tailored to our technologies training, linked to bowtie and barrier and support and processes.
analysis of sites own identified significant hazards.
Increased level of support vs. audit to achieve targeted improvements in performance based on findings from last audit cycle.
Working with sites to develop a programme of standardised SHE routines to back-up all other major SHE initiatives.
Process Hazard Continuation of PHA revalidation process Completion of high priority PHA actions.
Assessment PHA across lower risk profile sites.
KPI tracking of significant actions from 2017 PHAs as high priority SHE improvement plan items 50% all high priority actions completed.
52 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Alongside further evolution of our web As part of our SHE Principles Look based KPI dashboard, more structured After Yourself and Look After Each and regular reviews are allowing sites and Other this year we promoted the Be the Group to quickly identify performance Supported campaign, which aims to trends and potential areas of weakness, as support employees and their families well as showing positive improvements as facing difficulties by providing a confidential the effects of some of our actions such as helpline, and useful information via a Fundamental Issues lessons learned, and website.
In partnership with AXA PPP improved training on specific risk hazards Healthcare we aim to give every UK are realised.
employee access to information, support and counselling to help with any aspects of Health and wellness daily work and home life that have become As part of our health management challenging.
The service includes guidance programme in Germany, we offered twelvewhen experiencing a medical issue as week running coaching for beginners and well as practical impartial information advanced runners.
A total of 33 employees and support on everyday matters such signed up to take advantage of the as dealing with debt, buying a house and opportunity to start running or improve their consumer rights.
running training under the guidance of an expert running coach.
We also continued to run health and Be supported wellness sessions in Germany for our Information shift based manufacturing staff on topics Support selected by the employees beforehand, Counselling including nutrition and meal design during shift work, sleeping and relaxation.
Confidential support from AXA PPP Healthcare Sessions included input from external experts and practical learning.
Black Book Synthomer has always been committed to These events will continue to be revisited ensuring that we learn lessons from both on an annual or bi-annual basis to ensure external and internal incidents.
we embed the learning and strengthen corporate memory.
In 2018 we introduced our Black Book, a collection of lessons learned from across the Group highlighting 20 incidents and significant near misses from the past two decades, using the bowtie format to highlight which barriers, that should have been in place, were either missing or failed.
All operating site managers were issued with copies and on the anniversary of these incidents have been tasked with revisiting the events and, where applicable, the response that they made to any original lessons learnt to validate that the actions taken have beenembedded.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 53 Sustainability continued Sustainability performance The following performance data predominantly covers the health, safety andenvironmental areas progress against some of the new KPIs for the other pillars, aligned with the GRI Standards, will be covered in the Sustainability Report.
There was a 23% improvement in the The increase in absolute consumption is Health and safety PSE rate, with ten incidents reported related to increased production volumes Occupational safety compared to thirteen in 2017.
Ongoing on larger sites, high production of low Recordable injury case rate RCR focus on improving engineering standards monomer conversion grades in Malaysia, of 0.23 per 100,000 hours worked and addressing human factors issues will as well as the BASF Pischelsdorf 3 day lost time injury rate of 0.14 help us continue to drive this rate lower.
per 100,000 hours worked More information will be provided in our Sustainability Report.
Several projects that have both energy The Groups main lagging indicator of SHE and emissions improvement benefits injury performance is the recordable injury Environment are in the pipeline that will improve rate for accidents involving more than first 2018 was a challenging year with regard to performance, targeted on the six sites aid treatment.
2018 regrettably saw an meeting our environmental performance with the largest energy and carbon increase in the number of recordable injuries targets.
The figures reported below footprint, but achievement in 2018 was up to sixteen, from the record low of nine in reflect the new acquisition in Austria from slightly behind target.
The associated frequency rate of 0.23 February 2018 and the full year impact current and planned activities will be in the per 100,000 hours worked was the second compared to ten months in 2017 of the Sustainability Report.
best rate in the Companys history.
Water withdrawal Our objective is to have no accidents or Achieving the 2021 targets set last year Water withdrawal increased 7.4% injuries on our sites, and analysis of the 3 remains our objective, with continued focus to 6,159,664 m injuries reported found a significant number on the Tier 1 sites contributing most to the Specific water withdrawal rose 2.9% related to line of fire incidents involving overall figures.
In 2019, we will be looking to improve our contractor management, As noted earlier, the Group has better In previous years Synthomer has reported induction and permit systems, focussing awareness and recognition of the impact water usage as metered water totals on permit acceptor training, including our that M&A activities can have on its overall excluding river water used for once through line of fire and high hazard work guidance, sustainability profile and performance.
cooling on several sites, and water now expanded to include videos on hot In 2018, it introduced changes to its consumption as all metered water.
work and confined space entry work.
assessment approach to strengthen our processes for evaluating these potential To align properly with GRI Standards There were no reported cases of disease impacts, risk and opportunities.
definitions moving forward, metrics on attributed to occupational factors during water withdrawal will cover all metered the year.
Several adjustments to the 2017 baseline usage as per the previous water data have been made following internal consumption figure, and we will also look Process safety review and verification in particular, all to report water usage consumption in our Best ICCA Process Safety Event rate intensity figures have been revised following sustainability report.
since tracking started of 0.14 per a review of how the Czech plants production 100,000 hours sales volumes had been accounted for in the The absolute increase in 2018 is related to calculations.
This has led to an increase in the No incidents resulting in serious injury both production increases on some larger intensity factor numbers for 2016 and 2017. or damage sites in Asia, commissioning activities and Other changes are noted in the following in particular increased requirement for sections where relevant.
Ensuring the safety of our operations is cooling water once through on one of of paramount importance to the Group.
our German sites owing to high river water Energy Since 2015 we have recorded, rated and temperatures.
There were also significant Overall primary energy consumption tracked process safety events PSE using reductions in water withdrawal on other increased 3.9% to 5,560,467 GJ a 4-tier scoring system where tier 1 and 2 sites as a result of process optimisation incidents tier 1 being more severe meet Specific energy consumption and reduced demands for cleaning.
the definition for a Reportable PSE from decreased 0.5% to 3.524 GJ the International Council of Chemical per tonne sales production Variance is expected year to year since the Associations ICCA.
majority of our products are water based dispersions with some changes down to product mix and volumes.
As with energy, opportunities to improve water efficiency will be built in to sites manufacturing strategies and environmental targets on a prioritised basis in order to bring us back on track with the longer term targets.
54 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Waste All known emissions from manufacturing Electricity has been converted to CO e 2 Total waste generated increased 21% processes have been included.
Specifically on a country by country basis.
Emissions to 34,190 tonnes and waste to landfill this covers direct energy usage and the factors from DEFRA were used for UK grid increased 49% to 8,018 tonnes indirect energy costs of heating, cooling electricity and for overseas grid electricity and other site services where these are from the relevant IEA World CO Emissions 2 Specific waste generation rose 16% to provided by a third party.
They include from Fuel Combustion databases.
In 0.022 tonnes per tonne sales production estimates for the effects of the release accordance with UK government guidance, and specific waste to landfill 42% to of volatile organic compounds VOCs factors used for 2018 reporting are based 0.005 tonnes per tonne and refrigerant gases.
The only known on 2016 validated data.
emissions which have not been included An expectation of increased one off waste are direct emissions of CO from on-site Several sites within the Group purchase 2 levels was highlighted in last years CSR waste treatment facilities that have not certified green electricity.
Electricity for Report, with significant one-off waste currently been quantified, but which are not these locations has been given a CO e 2 quantities associated with major capital believed to have significant material impact emissions factor of zero in calculating projects in Malaysia and Germany, removal on the overall figures reported.
These of old waste materials and asbestos.
include the sites in the Netherlands, Marl The Group has no known uses or Germany and all sites in the UK.
For this Part of the increase is associated with releases of perfluorocarbons or sulphur years reporting, we have also sought to production, where some sites have hexafluoride.
All releases of NO are obtain market-based emissions factors x had quality issues that resulted in nonassociated with energy production and for electricity from suppliers of standard hazardous coagulum waste levels are not separately quantified.
The Group grid fuel mix tariffs.
This data is still under increasing.
Process improvement projects continues to report Scope 1 & 2 emissions.
review so was not available in time for and quality control work is focused on No estimate has been made of Scope publication of this report however, we reducing these figures, and we continue to 3emissions owing to the complexity of remain confident that we can obtain this seek opportunities to divert waste streams the company supply chain.
The Group data for all our European operations as away from landfill.
continues to use emissions per production a minimum.
tonne as its intensity ratio.
Greenhouse gas emissions Synthomers site in Stallingborough UK The Group reports environmental KPIs Calculation methods takes most of its electricity from an exclusive in the format recommended by the Data sources for emissions factors CO e contract with an adjacent waste incinerator 2 Department of Environment, Food and are DEFRA dataset with published in operated by Newlincs.
This electricity is Rural Affairs DEFRA, with Annual Reports June 2018 and the IEA International certified as green by the UK government.
containing data for each year since 2005 Energy Authority.
As a mixture of waste is deemed both on a three year rolling basis.
renewable and non-renewable, it does not All direct energy production from fossil fuels have a zero emission factor.
For 2018, the Reporting parameters has been aggregated on a Group-wide applied emission factor for electricity from The 2018 financial year reporting includes basis and converted to CO e by using the Newlincs is based around that determined 2 all manufacturing operations, all office appropriate DEFRA emissions factors.
No for the sites Climate Change Agreement locations co-located with manufacturing allowance has been made for possible CCA reporting of around 0.50 kg CO e per 2 and those listed as contact locations in country to country variation in calorific value kWh.
The site is also provided with indirect the Annual Report or on the Companys or CO emission factors for primary fuels.
heating in the form of hot water 2 website.
It does not include some very from Newlincs.
small locations such as home offices.
These locations will have no material effect on the Groups overall GHG emissions, being estimated at considerably less than 0.1% of the Group total.
This figure has been used by UK projects implemented during 2017 and CIA member companies since 2005 and some smaller projects completed in 2018, is at the upper end of the range for VOCs.
as well as the purchase of green grid Information on the release of refrigerant electricity for all UK and Dutch sites, also gases has been collected for the past six helped us make progress towards our 2021 years.
Releases of each individual gas have target.
Whilst year on year we are currently been aggregated each year to give a Group slightly behind target, we are confident we release total and then converted to CO e can achieve the 2021 goals.
2 using the equivalence factors given by DEFRA for each gas.
The emissions factors Changes in the emissions factors in applicable to refrigerant release in 2018 different countries have a significant are as per those in 2016 and 2017 as no impact over which the Company has no changes were reported by DEFRAGlobal control.
For 2018, reporting the emissions Warming Potential GWP factors from the factors for several countries showed an IPCC 4th assessment report.
improvement, reflecting work done at national level to improve the renewables Performance in 2018 proportion of the grid supplies.
Total CO equivalent emissions increased 2 2.4% to 311,893 tonnes Emissions per tonne sales production decreased 1.8% to 0.198 tonnes per tonne against the revised 2017 baseline VOC emissions dropped 14% to 141 tonnes Increase of 33% in reported refrigerant losses to 2,355 tonnes equivalent CO 2 losses rose to 7,627 tonnes The absolute increase in emissions was largely due to higher production and therefore demand on our larger sites, but this higher output also meant that the intensity of our emissions in terms of releases per tonne were reduced.
15% of the absolute increase related to emissions from the plant in the Czech Republic that uses brown coal and the Group is reviewing options relating to the fuel balance on this site.
56 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Energy and GHG KPIs This table presents environmental KPIs for 201618, with a coverage and format in line with DEFRAs 2013 guidance, to comply with the reporting required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Report of the Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Data relates to site usage of all fuels, excluding transport of goods to and from site and the movement of these vehicles on site.
Internal transport on site isincluded.
Emissions to air have been calculated from the usage of all fuels, excluding transport fuel.
They, therefore, include both direct emissions and indirect emissions related to bought-in electricity, steam, compressed air, cooling water etc.
with the exception of transmission and distribution losses for electricity these losses arein Scope 3, this report is for Scope 1 & 2.
CO equivalent emissions include contributions from CH and N O associated with combustion.
NOx emissions are predominantly those from combustion processes.
The CO equivalent Global Warming Potential contribution from these releases is already 2 included in the CO from energy figure above.
The total CO e figure is the total of the CO equivalent from energy the VOC contribution assuming an average factor of 11 kg CO e per kg VOC the 2 2 2 refrigerant contribution.
Percentage changes are calculated from the base data and may differ slightly from changes calculated from the data in the tables because of rounding.
Minor changes to reported energy consumption gas made following corrections to reported conversion factors for two sites.
Emissions reported for 2017 have increased after identification of an additional release source at the speciality plant in Belgium where light and heavy end fractions are incinerated.
This has also led to a correction in the baseline for Synthomers targets to 2021.
R Atkinson Company Secretary 4 March 2019 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 57
