Pe ople Someofthe highlights include: 1.
Future Organisation We constantly review our organisation size, shape and capabilities.
We use a methodology called Future-back to help us predict which skills and capabilities we need to develop or acquire.
Colleague performance and development In 2018, we increased our digital learning portfolio by introducing additional online resources for our colleagues via third parties, extending our reach in technical skills in particular whilst providing acost-effective solution for the business.
Mark Dickinson Chief People Officer For our customer facing colleagues we have redesigned our onboarding programme focusing on improving speed to competency.
A key element of the redesign is a greater emphasis on customer experience We are committed in line with our strategy to become the UKs most recommended.
For our offshore colleagues, an innovative solution that we have tocreating a working introduced is our Virtual Reality training which enables us to transport our colleagues directly into the lives and homes of our customers.
environment where This has resulted in a far greater level of understanding of our customers enabling our front-line colleagues to deliver an improved colleagues can be level of customer experience.
themselves and give their With the introduction of GDPR regulations, we have completed all.
A place where peers anengaging campaign to all TalkTalk colleagues highlighting the importance of compliance, how to remain compliant and how are called on to out-think tofindout more information.
the competition and We have developed and now deliver a quarterly induction specifically for new People Leaders who have joined, or have been promoted, collaborate with each which sets them up with everything that they need to know to get upand running as a People Leader at TalkTalk.
other to deliver great In terms of providing 1:1 support for our colleagues, we continue to results for our customers.
deliver our flagship Mentoring and Spot Coaching programme and we have embedded training to aid the development of our values and behaviours, harnessing the tools and resources available.
Apprenticeships Building a Great Place to Work We launched our apprenticeship programme in 2017, recruiting six In 2018 we entered the Great Place to Work Institute Awards, by apprentices into our technology business area, studying a range of submitting an extensive Culture Audit and asking all colleagues to technical skills degrees.
In addition, we launched an internal degree complete our engagement survey.
As a result of these submissions apprenticeship programme for 15 colleagues that offers degree pathways we are proud to have been named as one of the UKs Best Large across Leadership and Management and Digital Technical Solutions.
Over thecourse of the programme, apprentices gain job-specific skills, working alongside our Tech experts who provide support, guidance and inspiration.
They are also supported by an external skills coach.
Graduates In 2018 we enrolled six graduates onto our Online Digital business area.
The graduates work alongside tech professionals gaining valuable experience.
The graduates underwent a thorough induction programme, The feedback from the 2018 engagement survey informed our Great have been allocated mentors and attend soft skills training to help Place to Work strategic priority and our focus on four key areas: support their career development.
Future Organisation evolving our structure and making surewehave the right skills and capabilities for the future.
NextGeneration Working creating a working environment that is frictionless, flexible and collaborative.
Culture being clear about the values and behaviours we need to be successful.
Operational Excellence ensuring that we continually monitor and improve the areas that colleagues expect us to deliver every day.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 27 Strategic report Pe ople continued Living our values every day We always save Every customer We zig when the We can be We do the We deliver our our customers matters world zags ourselves here rightthing commitments money Business is about The price has to If something is We want to get more than just be right but that worth doing, it it right for our making money.
does not mean People from is worth doing customers no It is about having compromising When we spot all walks of life properly.
That matter who they the courage to onservice.
an opportunity, thrive here that means we always are, or how long stand up for we are not afraid difference makes take ownership, We provide they have been what is right for to challenge us stronger, more identify clear our customers with us, we focus our customers, andinnovate.
fun and a better priorities, plan with affordable, on the things that colleagues, place to work.
thoroughly and reliable products mean the most partners, deliver flawlessly and services that tothem.
shareholders and from start to finish.
Next Generation Working Colleague recognition At the start of 2017 most of our colleagues were based in the In January 2018 we launched a new online recognition platform: NorthWest of England in two sites about ten miles apart.
We wanted Shout Out, where colleagues can recognise their peers for living tochange that and create one workplace where our people can do one of our six values.
The nominations are then shortlisted by our great work in a flexible, modern, attractive environment.
In June 2017 One Voice colleagues, and each month we recognise our Shout Out Six we moved into our new North West site, the Soapworks, in Salford the winning colleagues receive gift vouchers and are celebrated Quays.
Colleagues have responded well to the new environment: viaour internal channels.
In addition, the Company makes a charity thescores in our Great Place to Work survey 2017 for Our facilities donation for each individual piece of recognition given through the contribute to a good working environment have gone up 13% to 69%.
platform, with the charities being chosen on a quarterly basis by our We also believe that the 9% increase in our collaboration scores is Shout Out Six winners.
This platform hasbeen a great success with also largely due to the improved working styles at this new location.
an average of 28 shout outs per day: colleagues are enjoying the ability to recognise each other and say thank you.
Giving people the tools to work flexibly and enhance collaboration across the business continues to be a key focus.
Once a year at our All Hands event, we also recognise the Superheroes amongst our colleagues and partners who have made an outstanding Over the last twelve months, we have reduced emailtraffic by 28% contribution to the business over the past year.
In 2017, TalkTalk andincreased the amount of instant messaging conversations Superheroes were rewarded with a weekend trip for two to any by27% using Skype for Business to help us collaborate faster and European city.
We have also hosted over 3,000 hours ofSkype conferences helping our colleagues to run their meetings remotely without incurring the time, cost and environmental impact of travelling.
Our SharePoint enabled intranet The Wire continues tobe a core source of information and networking for colleagues andis visited on 28 average 5,000 times a day.
Culture Our unique culture exists thanks to the colleagues who live our values every day.
In May 2017 following consultation with the business, we rearticulated our values, to make them clearer, and introduced a new sixth value We deliver our commitments, to place even greater emphasis on accountability and quality of delivery.
We are integrating these values and the associated behaviours throughout the colleague lifecycle to reinforce our culture, ensuring that we are recruiting, developing and celebrating our people for demonstrating the qualities that are most important for our continued success.
28 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 4.
Operational excellence Colleague benefits and share ownership We continue to offer a comprehensive range of voluntary benefits 43% categorised under our four wellbeing pillars, Financial, Mental, Physical and Lifestyle, enabling colleagues to make choices to suit their of our people participate in individual preferences.
We evaluate these on an annual basis and continue to offer our colleagues a high degree of flexibility, with the our Sharesave and Share ability to opt in and out of certain benefits throughout the year as their circumstances change.
Match Plan Schemes Share ownership remains an important part of our culture and over 43% of our people currently participate in our Sharesave and Share Match Plan Schemes.
Having so many of our people as shareholders creates great engagement and alignment with the interests of our investors.
We strongly believe in our colleagues being advocates for our products and continue to offer free home phone, broadband, fibre and TV to all colleagues, as well as discounted mobile packages with our partner O2 and TV content offers throughout the course Gender and diversity ofthe year.
The Great Place to Work survey told us that 90% of us agree thatwe Colleague consultation One Voice forum have created an environment where people feel they can be themselves One Voice is a consultation and information forum consisting of 80 and are treated fairly.
We are proud of this and are determined to build nominated colleague representatives, management and members on it, ensuring this is a truly inclusive place where people feel that of our People Services team.
The forum meets regularly to discuss they can be at their best.
how the key issues we face as a business might affect our colleagues, In February 2018, in line with the new gender pay gap reporting to share feedback and discuss other relevant colleague matters.
regulations, we reported a mean gender pay gap of 14.6% and a Colleague communications and events median gender pay gap of 14.1% both on the new Government We keep our colleagues up to date, energised and engaged with a Gender Pay Reporting website and on our own corporate website.
In 2017 we introduced TV screens across all floors Our gender pay gap summary, which can be found in both of these of London and Soapworks sites so we could issue news to colleagues locations, outlines the reasons behind our figures and what we in real time whether that be our network performance or reminders intend to do to close thegap over time.
of upcoming events and training.
Our online collaboration tool, The Wire, A key focus for us in helping to close the gender pay gap is to invest remains a critical communication tool for the business and supports inour female leadership population.
In early 2018 we began new posting and blogging at all levels of the organisation, so colleagues partnerships to support our female colleagues at TalkTalk through can share what they are working on and seek feedback.
We have anexternal mentoring scheme with The 30% Club and a partnership continued to run We Talk sessions on The Wire which involve hosting with WISE.
an online Q&A on a specific topic so that colleagues can ask any related questions and have them answered by a subject matter expert.
The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is Weprovide all colleagues with an overview of all the key business news highlighted in our Equality Policy and clearly articulated in our from The Wire every Friday, in an email publication called Re:Wired.
corporate value We can be ourselves here which guides the We also issue bi-weekly email communications to all People Managers respectful way we behave towards each other.
We believe that with all the key information they need to support their teams.
people from all walks of life thrive here that difference makes us stronger, more fun and a better place to work.
In May and November 2017, we communicated the progress we had made across our strategic priorities with an All Hands tour of every A breakdown by gender of the number of people who were site in the UK and abroad.
In the summer of 2017 we also hosted two Directorsof the Company, senior managers and other colleagues summer parties Soapworks and London as a thank you to all colleagues.
asat 31 March 2018 is set out below.
Gender diversity Directors Gender diversity senior management Gender diversity all colleagues 25% 26% 33% 67% 75% 74% Female 3 Male 9 Female 21 Male 61 Female 739 Male 1,521 Including Non-Executive Directors TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 29
