Strategic report Regulatory environment Our business activities, and those of BT, our largest supplier, are subject to the laws and regulations of the EU and the UK.
At the EU level, the telecoms industry is regulated by a variety of legal instruments and policies, collectively referred to as the Common Regulatory Framework, regulating the establishment and operation of electronic communications networks and the provision of electronic communications services, such as telephony, internet access and, to some degree, television services.
We rely upon a number of wholesale products from Openreach The Common Regulatory Framework primarily seeks to open European markets for communications services, rather than tobe able to offer services to our customers.
The key wholesale products are LLU the copper connections into homes businesses, addressing issues of content andcomprises: Generic Ethernet Access GEA access to BTs FTTC network and Directive 2002 19 on access to, and interconnection of, electronic Ethernet fibre links used to connect exchanges to our core network communications networks and associated facilities: and also to connect some business customers.
The prices and terms of these are set by Ofcom though a triennial market review process Directive 2002 20 on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services: which gives us reasonable certainty of future costs.
Directive 2002 21 on a common regulatory framework for We, along with other communication providers, are required to comply electronic communications networks and services: and with various regulation and legislation.
Our compliance with regulation is monitored internally by the Regulatory Compliance Committee.
Directive 2002 22 on universal service and users rights relating toelectronic communications networks and services.
Electronic communication services These Directives are supplemented by EU Directive 2002 58, Ofcom Strategic Review of Digital Communications regulating the processing of personal data and the protection Following a consultation in July 2015, Ofcom published the initial ofprivacy in the electronic communications sector.
conclusions from its Strategic Review of Digital Communications Strategic Review in February 2016, designed to take a longer term, In the UK, the Common Regulatory Framework is implemented more holistic view than the triennial market reviews.
through i the Communications Act 2003, which regulates all forms ofcommunications technology, whether used for telecommunication In July 2016, Ofcom proposed its solution that Openreach should beset up as a wholly owned subsidiary of BT referred to as legal or broadcasting: and ii the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006, which regulates radio communications including with respect to the separation.
TalkTalk has argued for a stronger structural separation remedy, where Openreach would be divested, believing that legal spectrum, licensing arrangements, usage conditions and charges, licence bidding and trading, and enforcement and penalties.
separation did not go far enough.
ThePrivacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003, In March 2017 Ofcom announced that BT had offered voluntary asamended, implemented EU Directive 2002 58, regulating the commitments to legally separate Openreach, in lieu of a mandated processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the process.
The voluntary commitments establish Openreach as a electronic communications sector.
separate legal entity with its own board though BT is permitted to We are also subject to regulation under the UK Broadcasting Acts continue to influence Openreachs decision making.
Furthermore, 1990 and 1996 and other UK statutes and subordinate legislation, Openreach will not own the assets it uses.
including the Competition Act 1998, the Enterprise Act 2002, the The process to complete the legal separation of Openreach is ongoing.
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 and the Digital Economy Ofcom has committed to monitor the new arrangements and if they Act 2017. are not effective will review whether to impose structural separation.
We continue to engage with Openreach and Ofcom tourge quicker The UK telecommunications market is regulated by Ofcom, whichsets the charges and other terms for wholesale access to progress and believe that structural separation will be required if the infrastructure and associated services provided by BT, where BT is legal separation does not yield tangible consumer benefits.
deemed to enjoy Significant Market Power.
Most of the regulated wholesale products we purchase from BT are provided by Openreach.
Ofcoms objective is to serve consumers interests through encouraging investment and ensuring that these wholesale products enable effective competition in retail markets, so that consumers and businesses benefit from a choice of attractive services and retail service providers.
12 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Broadband services Universal Service Obligation LLU charge control and service standards The Digital Economy Act 2017 gives the Secretary of State the power to introduce a new broadband Universal Service Obligation USO, In March 2018, Ofcom published its final determination in the 2018 Wholesale Local Access Market Review WLAMR which set regulated providing residential and business customers with a legal right to request a broadband service of 10Mbps or more.
In July 2017 the prices and quality levels for MPF and GEA.
This determination has resulted in significant real terms price reductions for both MPF and Government published a consultation on the design of the USO.
TalkTalk supported a 10Mbps USO, but advocated a formal, regulated GEA.
The MPF price is expected to remain essentially flat in nominal terms, moving from 84.38 in 2017 18 to 85.36 in 2020 21, while approach that guaranteed costs were spread fairly across the industry.
We were opposed to an alternative BT proposal that would have the 40 10 GEA price is expected to fall from 88.80 in 2017 18 to 59.91 in 2020 21.
Other GEA products both lower and higher introduced the USO on an unregulated basis, with costs spread toonly a sub-set of the industry.
In March 2018 the Government speeds remain unregulated: Ofcom has set out that it expects that their prices will reduce to reflect the increased competition from the confirmed that it would pursue a formal, regulated USO and tabled the appropriate secondary legislation in Parliament.
Ofcom will now regulated 40 10 product.
This is the first time that Ofcom has imposed a charge control for GEA products on Openreach.
There are also consult on which provider s will deliver the USO and how it should be funded.
significant price reductions on the preponderance of ancillary products, such as installations and engineering services.
Business Connectivity Market Regulation In November 2017 the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT released At the same time, quality of service standards imposed on Openreach will increase substantially.
In particular, the proportion of fault repairs its judgement on BTs appeal regarding various aspects of the regulatory structure for leased lines, and in particular market definition and the completed on time will rise to at least 88% in 2020 21, from 80% today: and 90% of new line installations must have an appointment within imposition of a dark fibre remedy.
The CAT found in BTs favour, and overturned the market definition which was the basis for the regulatory ten days of being notified, compared to 80% within twelve days at present.
These increased levels of quality of service are likely to structure of the leased line market.
Subsequent to this, Ofcom reimposed large elements of its 2016 Market Review on an emergency materially benefit TalkTalks customers.
basis, to cover the period until the conclusion of the next regulatory Duct and pole access review in March 2019, in particular the price and quality of service Ofcom confirmed its decision to require BT to improve wholesale regime which had been imposed on EAD lines.
However, it did not access to its ducts and poles so that BTs rivals can use these assets reimpose the dark fibre access DFA remedy, instead opening a to roll-out their own FTTP networks.
The improvements include: consultation on whether this remedy should be reimposed on a relaxing the usage restrictions to allow the use of BTs ducts and more limited basis than previously.
In April 2018 Ofcom set out that poles for leased lines alongside broadband: requiring BT to fix faults itdid not plan to impose a DFA remedy in the current regulatory and relieve congestion to make its assets ready for use to enable period, but that it would be considering an enhanced DFA remedy third party access: and reducing and capping the rental prices BT infuture.
We are disappointed in Ofcoms decision, and will be can charge for duct and pole access.
Duct and pole access could arguing strongly that an unrestricted, cost-reflective, DFA remedy benefit us by reducing the cost and increasing the speed of the should beimposed to take effect from April 2019, along with further roll-out of our own FTTP network.
We are trialling its use in York.
cuts inthe pricing of Openreachs Ethernet product portfolio.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 13 Strategic report Regulatory environment continued Universal Service Obligation continued FTTP policy The Government ambition is for 15 million premises to be connected to full fibre by 2025.
It is committed to promoting infrastructure competition and bringing down barriers to network deployment to We are engaging actively with support this vision: 400m stimulus for private sector investment available through Government on its full fibre the Digital Infrastructure Investment Fund: programmes and the Future 200m Local Full Fibre Networks programme for local projects designed to boost further commercial roll-out: Telecoms Infrastructure a nationwide Gigabit Voucher scheme for SMEs and residential Review to shape policy that customers: supports competitive 100% business rates relief for new full fibre infrastructure from 20172022: and investment.
dedicated barrier busting unit to reduce red tape and bring down the costs of network build.
We are engaging actively with Government on its full fibre programmes The European Commission adopted the implementing regulation and the Future Telecoms Infrastructure Review to shape policy that on fair use and sustainability on 15December 2016 and the wholesale supports competitive investment.
roaming regulation came intoforce during 2017.
Once we fully transition to our new mobile arrangement with O2, the regulatory compliance Automatic compensation issues will be the responsibility of O2 as the MNO.
The Digital Economy Act 2017 clarified Ofcoms powers to impose asystem of automatic compensation.
Following discussions with Television and video-on-demand regulation Ofcom and other providers, TalkTalk agreed to a voluntary code, In the UK, we are required to hold individual licences under the which introduces automatic compensation in specific instances Broadcasting Acts 1990 and 1996 for any television channels onbroadband and landline services.
The voluntary code is in lieu including barker channels which we own or operate and for the offormal regulation and is also supported by BT, Sky, Virgin Media provision of certain other services on our cable television platform, and Zen Internet.
such as electronic programme guides.
These Television Licensable Mobile telephony Content Service TLCS licences are granted and administered by EU roaming regulations for mobile telephony services Ofcom.
Under these licences, each covered service must comply Whilst we wind down our MVNO operations, we continue to be with a number of Ofcom codes, including the Broadcasting Code, subject to EU regulations relating to prices for roaming services.
and with all directions issued by Ofcom.
Breach of any of the terms These regulations set limits on certain wholesale and retail tariffs of a TLCS licence may result in the imposition of fines on the licence forinternational mobile voice roaming, SMS tariffsand data roaming holder and, ultimately, the licence being revoked.
within the EU, provide for greater levels of transparency of retail pricing information, and impose measures to guard against bill shockin respect of data roaming.
In November 2015, the EU passed legislation on the maximum retail roaming surcharges that can apply from 30 April 2016 and the removal of roaming surcharges from 15June 2017.
14 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 As a provider of On-demand Programme Service ODPS, we must Government ambition comply with a number of statutory obligations in relation to editorial content and notify Ofcom of our intention to provide ODPS.
Failure to notify Ofcom or comply with the relevant statutory obligations Premises to be may result in the imposition of fines or, ultimately, a prohibition on connected to full fibre providing an ODPS.
15m by 2025 There is, at present, no wholesale or retail price regulation on theprovision of any TV channel, following Ofcoms withdrawal ofregulation on Sky Sports in December 2015.
Other material current or potential regulation Brexit Illegal file sharing On 23 June 2016, the UK voted to leave the European Union EU.
We, along with other major ISPs, have voluntarily agreed to send The UK Government has been considering how the vote will impact educational notifications to customers who have an IP address the future of telecoms regulation in the UK.
Final decisions will be assigned to their account which has been detected as being used subject to terms of the UKs future relationship with the EU.
We are for illegal peer-to-peer file sharing.
Along with BT, Sky and Virgin working closely with the Government and Ofcom on the issue.
We Media, we sent the first notifications to customers in early 2017. are not advocating radical regulatory changes as Britain withdraws Separately, and pursuant to various court orders, we are required from the EU.
toblock access to certain sites that are used for illegal file sharing Appeals reform and for trademark infringement.
The Digital Economy Act 2017 strengthened the regime for legal Overall trends appeals against Ofcom decisions.
The Act imposes a higher standard Overall, the regulatory climate for telecommunication services for appealing Ofcoms decisions, thus putting Ofcom on a similar providers in the UK is one that increasingly favours challenger footing to other UK sector regulators.
We are supportive of this change, businesses such as ourselves.
Materially lower wholesale FTTC as a stronger, more confident regulator will be beneficial to us and prices and higher minimum Openreach service standards support the industry.
the core business in the short term, whilst our long term interests Child online safety are supported by a regulatory and political climate that supports The Digital Economy Act 2017 introduced new powers designed competitive FTTP investment.
toprotect children from accessing pornography online.
The Act enables Government to appoint a regulator that can compel ISPs toblock access to pornographic websites that do not have adequate age verification mechanisms in place.
We have worked very closely with the Government and the regulator, the British Board of Film Classification, on the issue.
Implementation of a new system has been delayed until late 2018, but we remain supportive of the new powers as a proportionate way to protect children online.
We have Overall, the regulatory climate also engaged constructively with ministers and officials on the for telecommunication Governments Internet Safety Strategy.
We have advocated a more strategic approach to the issue, which focuses on fewer, scalable services providers in the UK is solutions to the range of online harms children may encounter.
one that increasingly favours Investigatory Powers Act The Investigatory Powers Act 2016, which consolidates and challenger businesses such updatesexisting legislation governing the retention and sharing of communications data, received royal assent on 29 November 2016. asourselves.
We worked closely with the Government on the details of the legislation.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 15
