Strategic report Corporate social responsibility At TalkTalk we want everyone to enjoy the benefits of being connected.
That is why we have continued to focus our efforts on improving digital skills, safety and security.
Working with our partners Good Things Foundation and Internet Matters, we have delivered a full calendar of activity to help ensure the services we offer are a force for good for everyone, from our customers to wider society.
Digital skills and inclusion We continued Beat the Scammers, our education and awareness There are 11.5 million people in the UK who do not have the basic campaign to protect consumers from scams and encourage activation digital skills needed in todays world.
Many are older, disabled or of our free protection tools: thousands of customers a month report financially disadvantaged precisely those who would benefit from scammers details to us online to help us prevent them from targeting being connected to loved ones and useful information and services.
other customers on our network.
Action Fraud data shows a 75% Toaddress this, we have worked with Good Things Foundation reduction in reports of scam calls where the caller has purported to previously Tinder Foundation for six years.
They bring together be from TalkTalk.
community partners to run the Online Centres Network, thousands TalkTalk continues to lead the industry with a set of guidelines called of UK venues where people can gain the support and digital skills The Nevers.
It outlines information we will never ask customers.
they need to overcome social challenges.
To help keep children safe online, in 2014 we joined forces with BT, This year we donated 100,000 to the charity, a significant part of Sky and Virgin Media to create Internet Matters, an independent which was used to fund a series of grants awarded to Online Centres not-for-profit organisation that provides information, support and used by vulnerable learners, with the additional objective of helping advice for parents and carers.
This year we invested 300,000 in half of those learners complete an e-learning module we co-created Internet Matters and generated over 4.8m of in-kind marketing with Good Things Foundation to promote safe online behaviour.
value supporting awareness and information campaigns, leading to a By the end of the year, 31,000 in grants had been awarded, 12% increase in brand awareness among customers who are parents.
supporting 496 people 342 of whom had completed the safety TalkTalk joined the Royal Foundations Taskforce on the Prevention e-learning module.
TalkTalk employees have continued to volunteer of Cyberbullying in 2016 and has continued to provide a full time as Digital Champions at local Online Centres, helping learners gain secondee throughout this year to support the organisations mission vital digital skills.
to provide young people and families with the resources required todeal with cyberbullying.
We have also promoted the work of the Digital safety and security Taskforce through our partnership with Internet Matters, to help One of the most significant ways we can improve overall digital safety improve awareness and understanding of the issue.
and security is through the products and services we offer.
In 2011 TalkTalk was the first internet service provider to launch a whole-home TalkTalk is also a member of the Internet Watch Foundation, filtering service, called HomeSafe to all residential customers at no thenot-for-profit entity that works tirelessly to eliminate child extra cost.
We offer an equivalent service to business customers sexualabuse imagery online.
In 2018 we donated 95,000 and providing instant protection to all internet devices, called WorkSafe.
wecontinued to implement the charitys URL list service so that ourcustomers are prevented from accidentally stumbling upon Last year we continued to offer SuperSafe Boost free to all customers, child sexual abuse imagery.
It also helps protect those victims providing protection from viruses and malware, plus the peace of fromhaving their images seen repeatedly.
mind of secure web browsing.
To date it has been subscribed to by 1.9 million customers an increase of 58% year on year.
Ambitious about Autism TalkSafe, a way of identifying a customer when they call using their Every year we host a gala dinner and auction for Ambitious about voice, has seen continued take-up.
As at 31 March 2018, 1.2 million Autism, which, thanks to the enthusiastic participation of colleagues, customers had activated the feature.
customers and suppliers, has raised over 3.5m for children and young people with autism: this years auction raised 420,000 for Blocking scam and unwanted calls was a big priority in 2018.
millions of scam calls every month at a network level and in December, We are passionate about the positive role technology can play went a step further with the introduction of CallSafe, a free security feature for customers that screens inbound calls.
inimproving lives and there is no doubt that technology is critical inhelping to open the world to the children and young people that Once activated, when a customer receives a call, the caller is asked Ambitious about Autism supports.
One of the projects we have to record their name.
CallSafe will then play it back to the customer helped to fund and set up is Talk about Autism, an online community and they can choose how to handle the call.
Unwanted callers usually where families can get advice and support and share their experiences.
hang up at this stage because they do not want to leave their details.
The forum now has over 11,000 members and last year received In the first three months, nearly 100,000 customers had activated the over 430,000 visits.
feature, blocking around 11 million calls each month as at 31 March 2018.
30 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Supporting our people We have also been proud to support the causes that matter to our employees who could nominate a registered charity to receive 50: in 2018 we donated 24,800 to over 130 UK charities.
Protecting our environment This section covers our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations from activities for which the Group is responsible.
We take our environmental responsibility seriously at TalkTalk.
We acknowledge the environmental impact of our business and have been working hard to minimise it since 2010, when we introduced our Energy Policy which included a ten year energy-intensity reduction target of80%, which we are on track to deliver.
2018 2017 2016 Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Emissions from: of CO e of CO e of CO e 2 2 2 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 10,526 1,205 1,172 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 11,593 15,261 16,819 Companys chosen intensity measurement: 1 Emissions reported above, normalised to tonnes of CO e per average gigabit of bandwidth 2 tCO e gb 7.9 7.7 10.3 2 1 Average gigabit of bandwidth for the year ended 31 March 2018 is 2,805gbs 2017: 2,138gbs: 2016: 1,748gbs: 2015: 1,182gbs.
2 I ncrease in the year due to an incident in one of our data centres where the gaseous fire suppression system was activated.
This unfortunately resulted in emissions equivalent to 9,817 tCO e gb.
Such systems are necessary to protect network equipment and we are currently exploring alternative protection systems which offer the same protection but with 2 lesser global warming impact.
This information was calculated using the methodology set out in Environment Reporting Guidelines ref.
PB 13944, published by Defra in June 2013.
Emission factors are taken from the BEIS emissions factor update published in 2017.
We report our emissions data using an operational control approach to define our organisational boundary, which meets the definitional requirements of the Regulations in respect of those emissions for which we are responsible.
We have reported on all material emission sources that we deem ourselves to be responsible for.
These sources align with our operational control and financial control boundaries.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are beyond the boundary of our operational control.
As part of our overall commitment to reducing our carbon emissions, we also track CO emissions from all sources, including those for which 2 we are not directly responsible, such as commercial flights.
According to our internal tracking, we have continued to reduce our carbon intensity as follows: tCO e gb 2018 2017 2016 2 1 2 Energy, transport and hotels 28 29 38 1 Primarily electricity, but also some natural gas and backup generator fuel.
2 Includes rail, air and car travel.
We continue to hold ISO 50001 accreditation and Carbon Saver Gold certification, and will again participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Modern slavery The Group is committed to identifying and challenging aspects of our work that have the potential to be high risk within our business and from within our supply chains, including those of our sub-contractors and partners.
Strategic Report approval This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 24 May 2018 and is signed on its behalf by: Tristia Harrison Kate Ferry Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 31 Corporate governance Board of Directors and PLC Committee Leading with experience Executives Sir Charles Dunstone Tristia Harrison Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Sir Charles is the founder of TheCarphone Warehouse plc and Tristia is Chief Executive Officer of TalkTalk: prior to this Tristia created TalkTalk in 2002.
He was appointed Chairman of TalkTalk wasthe Managing Director of TalkTalks Consumer business.
in2010 and became Executive Chairman in May 2017.
Sir Charles Tristiajoined The Carphone Warehouse Group plc in 2000 and has has directed the development of TalkTalk to become one of the held anumber of senior management and executive positions in leading fixed line telecommunication businesses in the UK.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc and TalkTalk Group.
She joined SirCharles is currently Chairman of Royal Museums Greenwich the PLC Board in 2014.
Tristia is also a Trustee at Comic Relief and andwas previously Chairman of Dixons Carphone PLC.
national charity Ambitious about Autism.
Charles Bligh Kate Ferry Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Charles is the Chief Operating Officer of TalkTalk: prior to this he Kate was appointed Chief Financial Officer of TalkTalk inOctober 2017. was the Managing Director of TalkTalk Business, Technology and Prior to joining TalkTalk, Kate was a Director of Investor Relations Security joining the Group in November 2011 and the PLC Board in and Corporate Affairs at Dixons Carphone Plc for almost eight 2014.
Previously Charles worked at IBM for almost 22 years where years, originally brought in as Corporate Affairs Director in 2010 he held a number of senior executive and board roles leading tofacilitate the demerger from TalkTalk.
Kate began her career multibillionpound businesses.
Charles has worked internationally inaudit with PwC before moving to Merrill Lynch as a Director in Australia, the US, China, Japan and emerging markets in Asia.
within the equity research team where she spent the next ten Charles is also a Trustee of the National Childrens Orchestras of years.
Kate is a chartered accountant and a member of the Great Britain.
32 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 NonExecutives Ian West Roger Taylor Sir Howard Stringer Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ian joined the Board in February 2011 Roger joined the Board as a NonExecutive Sir Howard joined the Board in July 2012. andis the Senior Independent Director.
Director in November 2015, having Until June 2013, he was Chairman of Sony He has been involved in the TMT sector previously been TalkTalks NonExecutive Corporation, where previous appointments for over 30 years as a manager, director Deputy Chairman between January 2010 included President and CEO.
Prior to Sony and investor.
Ian held numerous roles at and July 2012.
From 1999, Roger served over Corporation, Sir Howard had a distinguished Sky over eleven years, latterly as Managing 16 years as CEO, CFO and Deputy Chairman 30 year career as a journalist, producer Director of the Sky Digital subscription of Carphone Warehouse Group plc and and executive at CBS Inc. and President business.
Ian is also currently an investor Dixons Carphone plc.
Roger is also a of CBS Broadcasting.
In addition to his in, and or Director of, a range of small and founding Partner in both Student Castle LLP role at TalkTalk, Sir Howard is Chairman mediumsized businesses and cofounded and Freston Ventures Investments LLP, ofthe American Film Institute, SAID Top Up TV in 2003.
Ian was a supervisory which invests directly in a number of Business School Oxford and New York board member of Kabel Deutschland.
private businesses including Five Guys Presbyterian Ophthalmology Center, Europe and MOD Pizza UK, in addition to aswell as being a board member of various indirect private equity and BBCCommercial Holdings Ltd and investment funds.
John Gildersleeve John Allwood Cath Keers Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman John is Deputy Chairman having joined John joined the Board of TalkTalk in 2010 Cath joined the Board as a NonExecutive and is the Audit Committee Chairman.
Director in August 2016, having previously the Board in 2010, as well as being the Chairman of The British Land Company Hehas spent his entire career in media been Customer Director and Marketing and telecoms, holding a number of senior Director of O2 UK and NonExecutive Director plc.
John was previously the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent executive positions in these sectors, of Telefonica Europe plc and more recently including Chief Executive of Orange UK Royal Mail plc.
Cath is Chairof ustwo, Director of Spire Healthcare Group plc until May 2017, Chairman of Carphone between 2000 and 2004.
Prior to that adigital product, games and venture John spent eight years at Mirror Group plc business, and NonExecutive Director Warehouse Group plc until March 2010, and a NonExecutive Director of Pick n Pay as Finance Director and Chief Executive.
ofSage Group plc and Funding Circle, SA until March 2016.
He was also formerly After leaving Orange he was Managing supporting growth of small businesses.
Chairman of NewLook Retail Group, EMI Director of Telegraph Media Group, and Group and Gallaher Group: Lloyds TSB Chief Operating Officer and Finance Bank PLC and Vodafone Group: and an Director of Mecom Group plc.
In addition Executive Director of Tesco plc.
to his role at TalkTalk, he is Chairman atIMImobile plc, Chairman of Albert Technologies and a Director of Creative Education Trust.
Tim Morris Nigel Langstaff Non-Executive Director Group General Counsel and CompanySecretary Nigel was at Carphone Warehouse Group plc from 1997 until its merger with Dixons Retail Tim is responsible for all legal matters inthe UK and across Europe including acquisitions, in 2014.
He held a number of senior finance roles including UK Finance Director and corporate governance and company secretarial matters at TalkTalk Group.
Group Finance Director, before becoming CFO in 2010.
He was also a Director of Previously he was General Counsel andCompany Secretary at Virgin Mobile France from 2009 to 2014.
Prior to working at Carphone Warehouse CarphoneWarehouse Group plc.
Group plc, he spent fouryears with Arthur Andersen, where hequalified as an ACA.
He is a Trustee fora number of charities, including Renaissance Foundation, Ensemble PourLa Difference and the David Ross Education Trust.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 33
