Our People Working the Tate & Lyle way Every company talks about hiring the right people.
For us, that Values means hiring people who believe in our purpose, who live our Our Values of safety, integrity and respect are at the heart of how Values, and who give of their best to make our business a we work.
They demonstrate what we stand for and how we success.
In return, Tate & Lyle constantly invests in our peoples behave with our customers, suppliers, investors, the skills and expertise through training and development, and by communities we operate in, and with each other.
In line with our providing a workplace that is inspiring and welcoming to all.
Values, we believe that everyone should be safe at work and be treated fairly and with respect.
Policies Our team of Values Ambassadors together with our Employee Our global human resources policies set out our position on Engagement Champions are responsible for promoting our topics such as equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion, Values and the right way of doing business to colleagues across employee training and reward.
We have made these available on the Group.
the Companys intranet as well as communicating them across the Group.
Leadership behaviours Our policies covering ethical conduct and human rights include: During the year, we reviewed our performance values and leadership framework in the context of the cultural and Our Code of Ethics and related internal and external leadership behaviours we need to deliver our strategy.
We communication and training see page 45 decided to focus and simplify our approach by merging our Our Speak Up programme system that supports previous leadership framework and performance values whistleblowing see page 63 achievement, accountability, creativity, speed and teamwork into Our global human resources policies as described above three leadership behaviours of partnership, agility and execution.
Our standards in the supply chain and our anti-slavery and We have started a programme to embed these behaviours across human trafficking statement see page 45. the Group and this will be a key priority in the year ahead.
Employee profile as at 31 March 2018 At 31 March 2018, Tate & Lyle employed 4,192 people 2017 4,146.
During the year, we continued to expand our commercial and technical teams in Asia Pacific and Latin America, and to add staff at our global Shared Service Centre in Poland.
Employees by division Employees by geography As at 31 March 2018 As at 31 March 2018 Primary Central Asia North America Products Functions Pacific 13% 5% 51% 41% Food & Beverage Solutions Europe, Middle East Latin and Africa America 10% 46% 34% 42 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Using the UK Governments methodology, Tate & Lyle has a Diversity and inclusion median gender pay gap of 11% across all UK employees.
This is All employees must feel able to contribute to the Groups the result of having fewer women in senior roles.
Analysis of our performance and have the opportunity to develop their abilities to employee population up to and including manager level the fullest.
We are committed to creating a culture and workplace representing three-quarters of our UK employees shows no that encourages and values diversity and inclusion.
Our policy is difference in median pay by gender.
Across the Group, while to employ the best candidates available in every position female representation in our senior management population has regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, risen by 47% since 2013, doubling the number of female senior nationality, colour, disability, race, religion or philosophical managers, we recognise we have more work to do.
beliefs, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy, maternity, gender reassignment or ethnic or national origin.
Employee wellbeing A diverse workforce helps us reflect our customers and the A key part of our purpose is to focus on how we can deliver an communities we operate in, enabling us to understand and improvement in our employees personal wellbeing.
During the respond to their changing needs.
During 2017, our diversity and year, we launched a taskforce to identify how we can enhance inclusion work included: and support the wellbeing of our employees in the areas of Diversity and inclusion awareness training for senior managers physical, emotional and mental health.
This builds on various initiatives already in place, including: to date, more than 70 have been trained Trialling unconscious bias training for hiring managers Continuing our participation in the Global Corporate Challenge Establishing a Diversity and Inclusion Council in our Global for the fifth consecutive year this saw 1,071 employees Operations unit to help work towards ensuring our employee across the Group take more than one billion steps over mix at plant locations reflects the society and communities we 100 days to help improve their fitness and encourage a more work within balanced lifestyle Continued support for our Womens Network, one of our Encouraging US employees to take part in a healthy eating and Employee Resource Groups, which ran career management and lifestyle programme called Naturally Slim mentoring workshops at multiple locations Providing subsidised healthier food options in plant canteens Improving female representation in our workforce from Sponsoring team-based sports activities in different locations 27% to 28%.
Organising visits from external occupational health professionals at various locations.
UK gender pay gap UK gender pay reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees in each employing business in the UK to publish calculations every year showing the pay gap between male and female employees.
The number of employees we have in each of our two employing businesses in the UK is below the required threshold.
Despite this, we have published details of our gender pay on the Companys website, www.
Gender diversity as at 31 March 2018 1 Board of directors Senior managers All employees Men 78% 7 Men 74% 50 Men 72% 3,004 Women 22% 2 Women 26% 18 Women 28% 1,188 1 Gender diversity for senior managers, including statutory directors, is 80% 115 men and 20% 29 women.
com 43 Our People continued Employee engagement Employee development We believe that engaged and motivated employees will be happier We have a formal annual appraisal process.
As part of this, we and deliver better results for the Group.
In 2017, we conducted empower employees to take ownership of their careers with a our fourth global employee survey to learn about our employees personal development plan.
Nurturing talent and supporting opinions of Tate & Lyle, and to start conversations about how we development is an important part of our culture.
During 2017, can improve our workplace and ways of working.
86% of this included: employees took part, with the overall survey score just above 3.7 Investing in helping our employees and managers improve on a scale of 1 to 5 where 5 is the best score.
This shows a both their technical skills and their management and meaningful increase in positive attitudes from the previous leadership capabilities survey in 2015, highlighting important progress as well as areas Implementing customer-focused development programmes where we can improve.
For example, employees told us they across our frontline sales teams wanted more communications at a local team level: as a result Providing a suite of online eLearning courses that enable we are making sure our management and leadership employees around the world to access training via their smart development programmes actively reinforce how managers and phones and tablets employees communicate through team meetings and face-toUpdating our management development curriculum and face dialogue.
We also distributed engagement toolkits to launching both our flagship Global Leadership Programme and managers and team leaders across the Group to help translate Future Leaders Pool to further strengthen our leaders.
Good internal communications are critical to creating and Priorities for the year ahead sustaining employee engagement.
We communicate with our In the year ahead, priorities to continue developing our people employees around the world through a number of channels include: including email, videos, our intranet, our Yammer internal social Further embed our new leadership behaviours of partnership, network, team meetings, employee town halls, and our global agility and execution employee magazine.
We publish the magazine every four months Increase awareness of diversity and inclusion throughout the in English, with summaries in nine other languages.
Group, including rolling out unconscious bias training Employee reward and recognition Roll out a Group-wide employee wellbeing programme Reward and recognition is a central part of our employee Introduce a quarterly Pulse Survey to measure employee engagement, alongside our annual employee surveys engagement strategy.
We reward people based on their performance and contribution to our success, and ensure Enhance our internal communications programme to further competitive and fair remuneration through regular benchmarking strengthen the link between our ingredients and our purpose of roles.
All arrangements are subject to Group and individual Continue to deliver our employee recognition programme.
We have a strong focus on non-financial recognition.
This takes many forms, from localised recognition moments in team meetings, through to large events.
Extraordinary People Awards 2017 In 2017, we launched our first global Extraordinary People Awards.
These awards celebrated individual employees nominated by their peers for their outstanding contribution to Tate & Lyle, our customers, and the communities in which we operate.
The awards ceremony was held in San Francisco, California, in October 2017 and was attended by the nominees, their guests and the senior management team.
Award categories included: Customer First: Safe Keeper: Star Performer: and Unsung Hero.
There was also a special Chief Executives Award which was won by our VP, R&D Texturants for her outstanding work in delivering and promoting our texturant portfolio.
Winners of our Extraordinary People Awards, held in San Francisco, California, in October 2017 44 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018
