Environment, Health and Safety On a journey to excellence Protecting our people and the world around us is foundational to Journey to EHS Excellence the way we do business.
Our ultimate goal is to provide a safe In January 2018, we launched our Journey to EHS Excellence working environment for everyone and to reduce our impact on for everyone working at Tate & Lyle, employees and contractors.
the environment to the minimum.
This multi-year programme aims to deliver and sustain world-class EHS performance throughout the Group, with a key element being Comprehensive review leads to a new the commitment of and participation by all our Groups leaders.
EHS programme As part of the launch, we developed a new global EHS management In 2017, we undertook a comprehensive Group-wide safety system aligned with the requirements and terminology of review.
The review was conducted by an independent external international standards for environmental, occupational health expert consultancy experienced in heavy processing industries.
and safety, and risk management ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
Our objective was to assess Tate & Lyles safety performance in The system includes a revised global EHS policy available at terms of processes, organisation and culture, and to identify any www.
com which include a number of principles opportunities for improvement.
The review also looked at our designed to keep our people safe.
These include areas such as global safety management systems, and included an all-employee working at height, combustible dust, railcar safety, and hot safety culture survey.
Each element sets out globally The review team reported their findings to the Board and the applicable requirements and expected results.
Executive Committee, highlighting areas where we performed Under the new system, we have also implemented a new Stop well, such as occupational safety, and areas in need of Work Authority across the Group.
Under this, all employees, improvements, such as process safety.
A new strategy and contractors, and people who are conducting work or work-related approach to safety was developed and agreed with the Board to activities under the control of Tate & Lyle, have the authority and deliver excellence, over time, at all Tate & Lyle locations.
responsibility to stop any activity they believe is not being done The review also found that environmental performance is closely safely or poses an environmental risk.
It does not matter how linked to safety performance.
We therefore decided that our critical the activity is for our operations, we will always support a environmental, health and safety EHS programme and decision to stop work that is not being done safely or poses an performance should be coordinated and managed holistically, environmental risk.
led by a senior executive responsible for EHS within the Global Operations team.
Going on a tiger hunt A key part of our Journey to EHS Excellence is implementing a new hazard management process that helps identify and evaluate high-risk processes.
As part of this, we classify all risks as either lions or tigers.
Both animals are predators but have very different hunting techniques.
Lions hunt together in the open and are relatively easy to spot and avoid like easy-to-identify occupational safety issues, while tigers are solitary hunters that hide and use surprise to catch their prey like hard-to-identify process safety issues.
Our review found that we were better at occupational safety than process safety, and so we decided to go tiger hunting.
During 2017, we started to hold tiger hunts at all our sites, and will complete this process in 2018.
When we find a risk during a tiger hunt, we identify the safety barriers currently in place to mitigate it and, using a scenario-based audit, ensure they are working as intended.
If not, we change them to make Tiger hunt team in Kimstad, Sweden, January 2018 sure they do.
46 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 0.19 0.44 0.10 0.11 0.10 0.12 0.16 0.26 0.12 0.76 1.14 0.64 0.76 0.80 0.74 0.76 1.47 0.46 The overall aim of the new programme is to strengthen our We provide updates on EHS performance and improvement workplace EHS culture: programmes to the Executive Committee every month.
In addition, we encourage senior executives to visit sites around the To prevent serious injury and loss of life world to meet employees and contractors to discuss safety and To provide clarity about the behaviour we expect from those identify key issues.
The knowledge they gain from the front line is who work for us and with us invaluable in helping us review and improve our EHS practices To reduce our environmental impact by minimising water and address specific employee concerns.
consumption, CO generation and waste to landfill, considering 2 Looking ahead to 2018, our priority is to roll out and embed the the entire life-cycle of our products, from sourcing raw Journey to EHS Excellence across all Tate & Lyle sites.
materials to processing, packaging and transport of finished goods.
Safety performance The 2017 calendar year saw an 8% reduction in incidents and an Tracking the Journey unchanged recordable incident rate for the third year running.
We will assess the performance of our new EHS management However, the number of lost-work cases increased by 50% or four system, including compliance with the revised EHS policy, incidents compared to 2016, driven largely by an increase in through periodic compliance audits, performance assessments, ergonomic-related accidents.
Total hours worked decreased by 8% key performance indicator monitoring and cultural surveys.
following the closure of the Singapore Sucralose facility and the We will hold annual management reviews to drive compliance, completion of major capital expenditure projects in 2016.
Hands improve performance and ensure the system continues to meet and fingers remained the most injured body parts at Tate & Lyle, our global policy requirements.
with bruises, sprains and strains the most common injuries.
We suffered no fatalities in 2017.
Safety performance by calendar year Recordable incident rate Lost-work case rate 2017 Change versus 2016 2017 Change versus 2016 Employee 0.64 -14% 0.10 -17% Contractor 1.14 43% 0.44 340% Combined 0.76 0% 0.19 73% 1 Safety performance charts Recordable incident rate Lost-work case rate Nature of accidents 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Number of injuries requiring treatment Number of injuries that resulted in beyond first aid per 200,000 hours lost-work days per 200,000 hours Tate & Lyle employees Tate & Lyle employees Slip, trip or fall 26% Contractors Contractors Struck by or against an object 31% Combined Combined Burns 2% Ergonomics or manual handling 27% Number of incidents Number of lost-work cases Other 14% 2 2 combined 2017 combined 2017 49 12 2016: 53 2016: 8 1 We report safety performance by calendar year and all employees at Tate & Lyle owned operations and joint ventures.
2 Tate & Lyle employees and contractors combined.
com 47 4.36 4.53 4.65 4.60 8.35 8.61 10.22 10.10 4.84 4.82 4.87 5.10 XXX 0.345 0.395 0.401 0.441 Environment, Health and Safety continued Environmental performance Our main environmental impacts are energy and carbon, water and waste.
We consider our impacts principally within our own operations, but are increasingly focusing on the sustainability of our agricultural supply chain, particularly our principal raw material, corn.
Our environmental performance in 2017 showed positive progress in our primary carbon footprint, waste to landfill and water usage.
Our energy use remained largely unchanged.
1 Environmental performance by calendar year Primary carbon Energy use Waste to landfill Water use Gigajoules GJ per tonne Tonnes per 1,000 tonnes Cubic metres per tonne footprint of production of production of production Tonnes CO e per tonne 2 of production 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 08 15 16 17 08 15 16 17 08 15 16 17 08 15 16 17 1 We report environmental performance by calendar year and for all qualifying sites both Tate & Lyle owned and joint ventures.
2 Refers to 2015, 2016 and 2017 data that has been externally assured by Bureau Veritas UK Ltd. Their assurance statement is at www.
Highlights of good practice Energy use and carbon emissions For the third year running, our Lafayette South corn wet mill in Environmental considerations play a key part in our approach to Indiana was awarded Energy Star status by the US Environmental business, with climate change risks and opportunities automatically Protection Agency EPA.
This award recognises industrial considered as part of our strategic decision-making process.
This plants that are in the top 25% of similar facilities across approach has helped us reduce our CO e emissions per tonne of 2 the US for energy efficiency, and which meet strict energy production by 22%, and energy use per tonne of product by 5% performance levels.
For the last three years, Lafayette South since 2008.
Since 2016, we have reduced our CO e emissions by 2 has achieved a perfect score, and in 2015 and 2016 was the 13%, although our energy use per tonne of production increased only corn wet mill in the US with Energy Star certification by 0.4% during that period.
Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased Scope 2 decreased by 31% mainly Our corn wet mill in Loudon, Tennessee also received its first as a result of the co-generation project at our Loudon facility, Energy Star award from the EPA.
This award follows the recent which installed more efficient natural gas powered turbines.
completion of a new gas-fired combined heat and power facility at Loudon, helping improve energy and operational efficiency Our Group greenhouse gas emissions for the period 1 January and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
to 31 December 2017 in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents tCO e were: 2 2017 2016 From combustion of fuel and 1,949,248 1,975,058 operation of facilities Scope 1 tCO e tCO e 2 2 From electricity, heat, steam 694,926 1,001,033 and cooling purchased Scope 2 tCO e tCO e 2 2 In total Scope 1 and 2 2,644,174 2,976,091 tCO e tCO e 2 2 2 2 Intensity 0.345 tCO e 0.395 tCO e 2 2 per metric per metric tonne of tonne of production production 48 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Waste to landfill Managing environmental risk We have reduced the amount of waste we send to landfill by 3% Through our new EHS system, we have introduced a process per tonne of production since 2016, and by 17% since 2008. to continually measure and evaluate our environmental performance and take corrective actions as necessary.
Through Water use this system, we: We assess water risks through a well-established enterprise-wide Use effective planning and documented information and action process designed to identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate risks tracking to achieve our short-, mediumand long-term associated with water use during manufacturing and throughout environmental goals our supply chain.
This approach has helped us to reduce water use Employ a systematic approach to risk management that helps per tonne of production by 4% in 2017, and by 5% since 2008. us protect the environment Invest in improving our workers environmental knowledge, Highlights of good practice skills and capabilities throughout their career, helping them Working with local Maliseet Indians, our plant in Houlton, deliver environmental excellence Maine planted 400 trees to help protect water quality in a Comply with all relevant environmental requirements to shared river demonstrate our duty of care to the environment By making simple improvements to its air compressor cooling Systematically consider environmental impact during projects system, our plant in Van Buren, Arkansas reduced its water so we can simultaneously achieve the best possible outcomes consumption by 25% for each unit of production in 2017. and minimise ecological risks.
We are in the process of reviewing the publication by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and will take into consideration its recommendations during the coming year.
Environmental targets Last year, we set ourselves three medium-term targets with a 2008 baseline to be met by 2020, for CO e emissions, waste to landfill 2 and sustainable sourcing.
The table below summarises our progress against these targets.
Target by end of 2020 Progress against target Commentary Reduce CO e emissions Achieved 22% reduction in CO e emissions per Annual reduction driven by natural gas-fired 2 2 from energy use by 19% per tonne of production since 2008. co-generation facility commissioned at our tonne of production baseline Loudon, Tennessee facility at the end of 2016 year 2008 that replaces two coal-fired boilers.
Reduce waste to landfill by Achieved 17% reduction in tonnes of waste per Action plan in place to procure cost-effective 30% baseline year 2008 1,000 tonnes of production since 2008. landfill alternatives for major waste streams.
Implement sustainable This year, we took the opportunity to review As corn is one of our largest raw materials, we agricultural sourcing our sustainable sourcing programme.
We have strengthened our engagement with the Corn programmes for our top 35 built a cross-functional team to add rigour to Refiners Associations through committees and agricultural raw materials our risk assessment and ensure programmatic projects aimed at improving sustainable and ingredients based on improvements are embedded in our business agricultural practices.
In 2017, Tate & Lyle committed to sponsoring We will be finalising and implementing a new the Conservation Technology Information Center programme in 2018 and will describe it and our CTIC Big Pine Creek Watershed Fieldprint performance in next years Annual Report.
Project aimed at improving sustainable agriculture through farm-specific conservation plans.
Sustainable sourcing We focus our efforts on ways to improve sustainable agriculture practices within our corn supply chain, and work closely with key customers to help them meet their targets and realise their ambitions for sustainable agriculture.
For example, we are members of Field to Market www.
org, the US alliance for sustainable agriculture, which helps define, measure and promote sustainability in US agriculture, particularly for corn production.
com 49 Community Involvement More than a local business Tate & Lyle has a proud history of community involvement, starting Healthy Eating, Happy Learning, over 150 years ago with the founding of our original businesses by Shanghai, China Henry Tate and Abram Lyle.
Today, community involvement remains With one in four children in China over the age of seven a strong part of our culture, with employees and teams across the 1 forecast to become overweight or obese by 2030, the world generously sharing their time, talent and resources to make a government and nutrition organisations are looking for positive and lasting difference to the communities in which we work.
ways to address this challenge.
In 2017, we partnered with the Shanghai Nutrition Approach Society to launch the Supporting our purpose of improving lives for generations, the Healthy Eating, Happy aim of our community involvement programme is to build Learning programme.
During the year, we reviewed and refreshed our community involvement programme The programme in to focus even more closely on this goal.
As a result, we decided to summary concentrate on three main areas, with a particular emphasis on Two-year programme supporting children and young adults.
involving 1,000 students Health: we support projects which improve the health and aged between six and wellbeing of people of all ages, helping them understand the nine in three schools role nutrition and physical activity play in a well-balanced life Two schools benefit from healthier lunches, nutrition and Hunger: having enough nutritious food to eat is a basic human health education, and more physical activity, with the third need and the foundation of a communitys health.
We work school acting as a control with global and local experts to give people in need in our Parents and teachers learn about the importance of diet, communities, and beyond, access to nutritious meals nutrition and maintaining an active lifestyle.
To support Education: habits form at a young age.
That is why we work with them, we hold family cooking lessons at our test kitchens local schools, education foundations and other community partners in Shanghai to help prepare students for healthier, brighter futures.
The health of all children involved is monitored regularly, During 2017, in addition to supporting partnerships and with progress compared to the control school programmes in the areas of health, hunger and education, we At the end of the two years, the programmes continued to work with the environmental charity Earthwatch methodology and results will be assessed to see if it www.
org on a project to research sustainable stevia could become a model to improve the lives of more farming.
We also made corporate donations to The American Red children, schools and families within China.
Cross to support relief efforts in areas of Texas ravaged by 1 Peking University School of Public Health 2017.
Hurricane Harvey in August 2017, and the devastating earthquake that hit Mexico City in September 2017.
Overview of the year Programmes and partnerships In the year ended 31 March 2018, cash community spend and We aim to work with local communities in the vicinity of our charitable donations were 479,000 2017 660,000. facilities.
Within our broader global framework, we empower employees at each location to make their own decisions about Cash community spend by area which projects they wish to support and what partnerships they Year end 31 March 2018 want to develop.
We regularly review our programme, and the partners and Education 33% projects we support.
Health 32% Our partners include registered charities, educational Hunger 12% institutions and non-governmental agencies that meet our Environment 10% own high standards for delivering services and results Other 13% Our plan and budget for community involvement are developed and approved as part of our annual operating plan process Ongoing evaluation of our partners and projects examines their reach, results and impact.
50 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Community involvement highlights during the year Health We supported a number of programmes that helped people of all ages understand the role that healthy eating, nutrition, physical activity and mental wellness play in a well-balanced lifestyle.
We supported local community running clubs such as the Staley Striders in Decatur, Illinois Employees at our Santa Rosa, Brazil site took part in a project to restore and update the local Physiotherapy Centre, AIDESA Through our sponsorship of the United Way in the US, we helped to support local agencies like the Boys and Girls Club whose Triple Play programme teaches children the Employees from Santa Rosa, Brazil working to restore the municipal importance of daily physical activity and good nutrition.
Physiotherapy Centre for the local disabled community Hunger Making sure families across our communities have enough to eat remains a key area of support.
Over the last year: We supported students at Enders-Salk Elementary School near our Commercial and Food Innovation Centre, Chicago through the local districts Food 4 Thought programme.
This provided a healthy breakfast to students every morning so they could start the school day with the energy to learn We supported Crisis for Christmas providing food and shelter to homeless people in London, UK We sponsored the North Illinois Food Banks festive holiday meal programme, with our employees helping A joint team from our Commercial and Food Innovation Centre, Chicago pack 30,000 food boxes for families in need over the and Sycamore, Illinois sites supporting a mobile food pantry organised by Christmas period.
the Northern Illinois Food Bank Education Helping communities towards healthier, more positive futures calls for educational programmes that help community members of all ages and levels of education.
In the US, we provided STEM-based teaching grants to classrooms in Decatur, Duluth, Lafayette, Loudon and McIntosh.
These grants gave students from elementary to high school the chance to create, explore and connect with science, technology and maths We funded a number of scholarships for college-bound students in the US, Vietnam and South Africa.
These bursary programmes offered students the chance to undertake college or university-level coursework that Mathematics concepts come to life in Loudon County schools through our counted towards a four-year degree.
annual STEM grants Non-financial information regulation Under sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006, The Board approved the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 51 as amended by The Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts of this Annual Report on 23 May 2018. and Non-Financial Reporting Regulations 2016, Tate & Lyle is By order of the Board required to include in its Strategic Report, a non-financial information statement.
Information required by these Regulations is included in Business Model pages 18 and 19, Risks, Our People, Claire-Marie OGrady Business Conduct, Environment, Health and Safety and Community Company Secretary Involvement reports from pages 38 to 51. www.
