30 Creating value for stakeholders Nurturing key relationships We have therefore introduced the National What we do House-Building Council NHBC 9-month We have already refocused our strategy to Our would you recommend score, as an additional become a customer-centric homebuilder by Key Performance Indicator KPI, which customers better identifying and responding to our captures the feedback from customers living customers needs.
We have made a significant intheir homes for nine months.
step change in our business over the last four years and have made great strides in our Key issues our Right first time quality customer service approach.
However, there are customers care about things that we can and must do better.
We now We have introduced the NHBC Construction Product quality need to ensure the focus of all key business Quality Review score as a new KPI in the Feeling part of a community decisions is on identifying our customers business which measures build quality at key needs and delivering on them in a commercially build stages.
In 2018 we scored an average of Technology to make the process sound way.
This includes offering improved 3.93 2017: 3.74 from a possible score of six.
easier products, continually updating our customer This compares with an industry average score Timely and relevant communication th th facing processes particularly around electronic of 3.68 and we have moved from 12 to 5 Affordability communications, a renewed focus on nationally over the last year.
We aim to improve Homebuying process placemaking and community development, this further by ensuring our quality assurance Responsiveness to issues and a sense of shared responsibility for our processes are embedded at every stage of customers financial ability to access our build.
Our target is to achieve at least a four How we engage homes.
The Board and the employees of Taylor rating by 2020 for each regional business.
Wimpey believe fundamentally in this long term Customer portal, Touchpoint principle for the business, and that it should During 2018 we rolled out our Consistent Customer research project including Quality Approach CQA guidelines to make govern our key decisions.
interviews and focus groups sure our Site Managers, subcontractors, Social media production and customer service teams all have Why is it important for all our Meetings a consistent understanding of the finishing stakeholders?
Customer Journey standards we expect on all Taylor Wimpey We recognise that buying a home is a major homes.
We are developing specific guidance financial and emotional investment and it is Priorities for 2019 within the CQA for the different trades working critical that we give our customers the right on our sites that will form part of our framework Ensuring that all stages of our build experience.
We believe this will ultimately make agreements with contractors in the future.
process are right first time us a higher quality and more sustainable business.
We plan to produce a version of the CQA for Meeting our high standards Whilst we operate in a cyclical market, we strongly customers in 2019 so they know what they consistently believe that a customer-centric approach is should expect from us.
Develop our placemaking skills and a needed throughout the cycle.
By enhancing strong commitment to design and every step of our customers buying and after We are a signatory to the UK Consumer timing location of infrastructure service experience, building homes which are Code for Home Builders that aims to improve Ensure that our customer facing ITis right first time and right for their income and information and protect the rights of buyers.
rolled out properly and we continue lifestyle, we can create real additional value for We remain supportive of the Government plans to collect feedback andimprove on customers, and the rest of our stakeholders.
to introduce an independent ombudsman service what is working and what is not In this way we can grow the business, providing to the new build sector to provide impartial rulings more homes to more people, whilst continuing on unresolved customer issues and help to Read more on page 28 to manage the cycle cautiously and without raise standards in the wider industry.
Read more on pages 14 and 15 We also engage in discussions with the HBF Customer feedback and other housebuilders over how to improve complaints and redress processes for We have made a significant step change in customers.
our business over the last four years and arepleased to have achieved a customer Help to Buy satisfaction score of over 90% as measured by the Home Builders Federation HBF survey.
We welcome the Governments announcement Whilst we have made great progress and over within the Autumn Budget to introduce tapering 90% of customers would recommend Taylor measures to the Help to Buy scheme as the Wimpey to a friend 2017: 89%, this Equity Loan Scheme transitions to a close in performance often drops over time, a common 2023.
Help to Buy has been popular with our trend across the industry.
There are of course a customers and has supported them in getting number of contributing factors, and not all onto and moving up the housing ladder, within our control, but we start from the point however, we believe that the changes that to be genuinely customer-centric, we have announced are appropriate and are in the to understand the causes and look for solutions.
best long term interests of the housing market and homebuyers.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 Springboard Springboard, our rent to buy scheme, was recently trialled at our Kilnwood Vale development in Faygate, West Sussex, with 14 one, two and three-bedroom homes.
Success of the programme will be monitored, giving the opportunity to gain valuable feedback on our service and customer satisfaction.
Ryan Hook and Samantha Goddard Hook found out about Springboard through Facebook.
Before moving to Kilnwood Vale, they were renting a house in Crawley from a private landlord and had been without hot water for over three months.
On securing the property, they said: This three-storey property gives us the family space we have craved as our children get older!
During 2018 we ran a pilot for a new Taylor The Ground Rent Review Assistance Scheme Understanding our customers Wimpey rent to buy scheme, Springboard.
GRRAS announced in April 2017 is progressing Over the years our customers communication This scheme enables first time buyers to rent a well with a continuing number of customers preferences have changed.
We continue to property for up to five years, without a rental accessing the GRRAS.
Our objective is to ensure make improvements to our online capabilities, deposit which we know is often a challenge for our customers are put back into a position they including our website and use of social media those renting and trying to save up for a deposit would have been had the doubling lease not such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
After a minimum of two years been in place, by converting the ten-year doubling the customer is given an option to purchase ground rent clause to an industry standard We aim to give our customers clear and useful the property at a 5% discount.
We piloted RPI-based structure, comparable to that used information so they know what to expect Springboard at one site, with 14 new one, in the majority of residential leases in the UK.
throughout the home buying process and how two and three-bedroom properties.
This proved We have reached agreement with freeholders to contact us when they need to.
Touchpoint, to be very popular, with 12 of the 14 homes representing 95% of the leases concerned, our online portal, is now available to all new reserved within the first weekend.
Springboard with a further 2% in advanced legals.
Customers can log in, at any time enables us to explore different customer needs, customers that currently have the option of and from any device, to check the progress of and gives us the potential to open up a different, converting their ten-year doubling lease to an their new home, contact our teams, request and further, route to market, depending on RPI-based structure have been contacted appointments and find out about their new market conditions.
More information can be about this either by Taylor Wimpey or the neighbourhoods.
With Touchpoint they can also found within the case study above.
customise and select home layout and fitting options, including trying out different Following the tragic fire at Grenfell Tower, we A responsible business configurations for kitchens and bathrooms.
conducted a detailed review into all legacy and After they move in they can use Touchpoint to Whilst the majority of our customers would current buildings with Aluminium Composite access manuals and user guides, to contact recommend us to their friends, we acknowledge Material ACM cladding and worked with our aftercare teams and to report any issues.
that we do not always get it right for our building owners, management companies, customers and sometimes fall short of our high and the Fire Service to implement Government Innovation standards.
Where this is the case, we work with advice on interim mitigation measures, where customers to put this right and learn from our Social, demographic, economic and applicable.
Whilst each situation is different, and mistakes.
We remain supportive of the Government environmental trends will all have an impact on this is an exceptionally complex issue, we have plans to introduce an independent ombudsman our future business and the types of homes our in a number of cases, having regard to all of the service to the new build sector to provide customers need.
We are prioritising research relevant facts and circumstances, agreed to impartial rulings on unresolved customer issues and development, seeking out new processes support our customers both financially and and help to raise standards in the wider industry.
and products that can improve efficiency and practically with removal and replacement of sustainability, and also improve quality and the ACM, even though the buildings concerned met During 2018, we took a number of steps to help final product for customers.
We invest in the requirements of building regulations at the us respond more efficiently and effectively to research and innovation to help us meet time construction was formally approved.
We customers, and to resolve issues more quickly.
changing customer requirements, to continue to took this decision for buildings we constructed We have launched a new two-day training improve the quality and sustainability of our recently because we believe that it is morally course for our Heads of Customer Service and homes and to improve efficiency and deal with right, not because it is legally required.
At the Customer Service Managers.
We have also challenges such as the skills shortage.
We year end, replacement works had been improved our complaint handling processes so appointed our first Research and Development completed on one development and were we have better oversight of the number of Manager in 2018 to coordinate our underway on another.
Since the year end we complaints made, the types of issues raised research efforts.
have started work on a further development.
and the time taken to resolve them.
The build of our Project 2020 prototype homes in 2018, following our design competition with the Royal Institute of British Architects RIBA, has been particularly useful in providing new insights.
32 Creating value for stakeholders continued that they made the right choice choosing a We aim to be the employer Taylor Wimpey home.
Embedding our approach ofchoice in the housebuilding Our to customers and getting buy in and industry.
commitment from our employees has been a employees key part of our strategy.
What we do Skills We aim to be the employer of choice in the Key issues our housebuilding industry, attracting and retaining We have made a significant investment in, employees care about the best people to establish a culture that gives and commitment to, the recruitment of our next Health and safety all individuals the opportunity and support to generation of future leaders, including extending develop to their full potential, regardless of Reward and benefits our trainee schemes and investing in the skills market conditions or their background.
With the and development of our employees across the Technology ongoing challenge for skills and resources in the business, to ensure that Taylor Wimpey attracts Charities housebuilding sector and the targets we have and retains the best people in the industry Flexible working set ourselves, we have continued to focus on through the cycle.
During 2018 we directly Customer service how we effectively attract, develop, and retain employed, on average, 5,358 people across Becoming the employer of choice our people so that they are fully engaged with the UK 2017: 4,893 and provided Pensions the company to deliver both our short term opportunities for a further 13k operatives on our Strategy targets and longer term strategic goals.
Our voluntary employee turnover rate remained low at 14.5% 2017: 14.0%.
How we engage Why is it important for all our We are pleased to report that Taylor Wimpey stakeholders?
National and regional employeeforums was once again recognised in the NHBC Individually, and by working together, our All employee strategy engagement Pride in the Job Awards, achieving a total survey employees are crucial to driving our success.
of 67 Quality Awards 2017: 62, 19 Seal of We believe that having the right people with the Emails Excellence Awards 2017: 24 and three right skills at all levels in our organisation is Yammer Regional Awards in 2018 2017: two.
Paul critical to building a quality, sustainable business Focus groups McLachlan from our North Yorkshire business and delivering our strategy.
also won the 2018 Supreme Award in the Large Conferences Builder category, after achieving Runner-up Appraisals We may be a national homebuilder, but for our in 2017.
Internal teamTALK magazine customers it is their interactions with the local site and sales team and regional office that matters.
Bi-weekly teamTALK express newsletter Health and safety This is where their impression of Taylor Wimpey is formed and where we strive to prove to them Wehave acomprehensive Health, Safety and Priorities for 2019 Environmental HSE Strategy and a fully Ensure that everyone has a high-quality integrated HSE Management System in place development plan and feels engaged which is regularly reviewed at all levels.
and supported by the business A great place to work Improving our induction processes to Whilst our AIIR remains well below both the ensure the best possible joining HBF Home Builder Average and Health and Top 10 experience for all new starters and Safety Executive Construction Industry Average, getting new employees quickly Glassdoor we are not complacent and we will continue embedded into our culture Best places to work to seek to improve this.
Our Annual Injury Continuing the work to deepen the in the UK: 2019 Incidence Rate AIIR for reportable injuries per diversity and quality of our 100,000 employees and contractors was 228 in recruitment pool, particularly focusing 2018 2017: 152.
Our AIIR for major injuries per on people who have not historically 100,000 employees and contractors was 64 in considered a career in housebuilding 2018 2017: 54.
Make flexible working a real possibility for all employees throughout the business We were deeply saddened by the tragic death of a subcontractor on our Stoneley Park site Creating a consistent framework and inCrewe in 2018 following a serious accident.
development path for early and We are assisting the Health and Safety ongoing talent management Executive with the accident investigation and We will launch our new Code of await their findings.
We have offered support to Conduct in 2019.
This will summarise everyone working on the site, encouraging them our key policies and help employees to access counselling via our confidential and to meet high standards of integrity free employee assistance scheme.
and conduct in their work Read more in our 2018 Sustainability Report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Early talent development Direct labour We aim to attract more young people to During 2018, we began our first direct careers in our sector by offering a wide range labour model, increasing the number of trades of attractive entry-level roles.
This work is people we hire directly as well as through overseen by our Future Talent Manager.
This includes both experienced tradespeople and new recruits to the industry, During 2018, we recruited 175 people into such as apprentices and people looking for our early talent programmes which includes a career change.
We piloted this approach in graduates, management trainees and site sixregions during 2017 and 2018, focusing management trainees 2017: 126.
A key priority on five key trades: bricklayers, carpenters, for 2019 will be creating a more consistent scaffolders, painters and joiners.
We currently framework and development path for early and directly employ 748 key trades including trade ongoing talent management.
apprentices 2017: 581, a 29% increase The rates of mental health issues can be on2017.
higher than average in the construction sector.
We relaunched our management trainee We want to be a workplace where people feel programme to help us increase recruitment into Diversity and inclusivity supported and can get help when they need it.
five key roles: site managers, quantity surveyors, We launched our first Health and Wellbeing We aim to be an inclusive employer and to buyers, design and planning executives and campaign and training in 2018, and will roll out attract, retain and promote employees from all engineers.
Trainees now complete a three-year further initiatives throughout 2019. backgrounds.
We have developed a Diversity development programme with the opportunity and Inclusion Strategy that focuses on the to gain professional qualifications.
We not only create homes that our customers impact of leadership for creating and want to live in, we want to ensure that every maintaining a diverse and inclusive culture: Our two-year graduate programme enables step of the way, health and safety is at the improving how diversity and inclusion are employees to learn on the job through forefront.
Partnering with contractors on safety embedded into our policies and procedures, placements in different parts of the business issues is critical to keeping everyone safe on and reflecting our commitment to this.
and through intensive formal training site.
Before we agree to work with a contractor, We published our second Gender Pay Gap programmes, focusing on self-awareness, we require details of their risk assessment report in March which can be found on the business skills and technical understanding.
process and safety procedures for their area of diversity section on our website.
As well as our general graduate programme, activity.
We clearly communicate critical safety we also run graduate schemes focused on messages to site operatives through our Human rights strategic land, finance, and project management.
Operatives Journey process, which starts with We support the United Nations Universal our health, safety and environment HSE site Employee engagement Declaration of Human Rights and have policies induction.
One of the key issues to address is and processes in place to ensure that we act in preventing safety sign blindness, and keeping Across our business operations, we want our accordance with our cultural values which safety at the front of everyones minds on site.
employees to adopt our customer-centric encompass areas such as business conduct, culture and to understand the important role equal opportunities, anti-corruption and The HSE induction is supported by regular they play with our customers.
We do not consider this a poster campaigns and talks on key topics.
we ran a very successful engagement material issue in our business.
We arecommitted to providing a safe place in programme featuring emails, presentations, which our employees and subcontractors meetings and focus groups hosted by senior can work and our customers can live, and management across the country as well as an we will not compromise on ensuring that all staff survey.
everyone leaves our sites safe and well.
Health and wellbeing In the UK 1 in 4 people will experience a mental health issue each year, this number is even higher in the construction industry.
To break the stigma and to promote a supportive working environment, during 2018, as part of our Health and Wellbeing campaign, we launched mental health training sessions.
Every employee attended a Start the Conversation session developed by Mates in Mind, a charity which works within the construction industry to raise awareness of mental health issues.
Line Managers also received Manage the Conversation training and each business has Mental Health First Aiders who are trained in recognising more specific mental health disorders.
34 Creating value for stakeholders continued During 2018, we worked with the HBF and What we do other housebuilders to run the Attract Online We believe in the value of working together with Our recruitment campaign targeting former members our partners, suppliers and other stakeholders of the armed forces, recent school or university partners and are committed to supporting charities and leavers and their parents and people looking for local community groups.
In total, the online adverts were viewed by over 10 million users and Why is it important for all Key issues our resulted in 1,000 visits to our careers website.
partners care about We strive to be an open, transparent and Subcontractors Deliverability responsive company for all our stakeholders Reliability Most people working on our sites are and to work with them to understand and contractors so it is essential that we collaborate Reputation address the wider social, economic and on safety issues.
Before we agree to work Financial stability environmental impacts resulting from our with a contractor, we require details of their Cost operations.
We accept we sometimes get it risk assessment and safety management Health and safety wrong, but we are trusted to do the right thing arrangements and procedures for their area and it makes a difference.
We clearly communicate critical safety messages to site operatives through Industry bodies How we engage our Operatives Journey process, which starts with our HSE site induction.
Our HSE induction We are working with the HBF and the Health Meetings is supported by regular poster campaigns and and Safety Executive on an industry-wide Workshops site safe briefings.
initiative to assess the risks of constructionSupply Chain Sustainability School related dust on sites and develop practical tools Participating in Local Plans During 2018, we ran a series of training and control measures for reducing operatives andconsultations workshops with the SCSS to engage our exposure.
We have standard dust control Trade associations commercial teams and local subcontractors procedures on all sites, including the use of Briefings ineach of our regions.
During the workshops, respiratory protection and extraction equipment.
Tool box talks participants learnt about the SCSS and the In 2018 we worked with our dry lining and resources available, explored best practice Conferences carpentry contractors to promote the use of examples and discussed practical actions they vacuums that automatically collect up dust from can take to improve sustainability performance equipment.
We provide advice and help to small Priorities for 2019 in areas such as carbon and waste reduction, and medium sized businesses with HSE risk Strengthen relationships with social value and inclusion.
Over 400 employees assessments and other site-specific procedures suppliers and increase collaboration and subcontractors have participated in SCSS that they need to prepare in order to tender for Continue to work with land vendors, events to date.
communities and local authorities to convert land from the strategic We work with others in our industry and Suppliers pipeline into the short term landbank with government, suppliers and colleges Suppliers play an essential role in our business, Continue our commitment to charities to promote careers in housebuilding.
providing the goods and services we use to Engage our subcontractors with our For example, we participate in the Home build our homes and carry out the majority customer-centric strategy Building Skills Partnership which aims to train ofconstruction work on our sites.
We spend 45,000 new housebuilding workers by 2019. around 1.5 billion each year with suppliers Read more in our 2018 and contractors.
Sustainability Report Supply Chain Sustainability School To encourage sustainable performance, during 2018 we ran a series of workshops with the Supply Chain Sustainability School SCSS attended by our commercial teams and local subcontractors in each region.
The SCSS members include the UKs top construction contractors and clients.
The SCSS supports its members by creating action plans, as well as e-learning modules and training workshops on topics including human rights, resource uses and sustainable sourcing.
Over 94% of our national suppliers have now joined the SCSS and completed a sustainability self-assessment.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 A significant proportion of our procurement, This accounts for over 80% of our total Local authorities particularly for materials sourcing, is through procurement spend with these type of We engage with local authorities, parish large contracts with national suppliers.
We want to support our suppliers to councils, Homes England, the Greater London However, we also work with many smaller improve sustainability performance.
This Authority GLA, the Ministry of Housing, businesses, who provide labour and services, includes working with the Supply Chain Communities & Local Government and other including companies that are local to our Sustainability School SCSS, an industry public sector organisations to understand development sites.
This can benefit the collaboration aimed at improving standards their priorities and share their views.
As well as business by giving us access to a more across the construction sector.
Over 80% of site specific engagement more detail can be diverse range of skills and experience and help our national Framework suppliers have now found on pages 38 and 39 we also participate support the local economies in which we work.
joined the SCSS and completed a sustainability in the development of strategic frameworks, We provide advice and help to small and self-assessment.
This identifies their strengths Local Plans and Neighbourhood Plans.
This is medium sized businesses with HSE risk and weaknesses in relation to issues such as particularly important for land in our strategic assessments and other site-specific procedures human rights, resource use and sustainable pipeline, where preparation or review of the that they need to prepare in order to tender for sourcing and provides an action plan with Development Plan is the first step in the work with us.
resources and training materials to help address planning process.
Our suppliers have used these The Company welcomes the aims and resources over 3,000 times so far, helping to Central Government objectives of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and strengthen their approach in areas such as takes its responsibilities under the Act very We engage and respond to government directly waste, water, community and climate change.
As part of this we have strengthened and through our membership of industry oversight of standards in our supply chain to organisations.
In 2018, we responded to Charities make sure we are selecting partners who share proposals including shared services, We partner with charities to support the our commitment to responsible business.
Community Infrastructure Levy, leasehold communities where we work and to help address Wepublished our first Modern Slavery Act reform, and the National Planning issues relating to homelessness, education and Statement on our website in March 2017.
We provide financial support as well as sharing expertise and getting our people Wehave been following up with suppliers We are members of the Homes England five involved as fundraisers and volunteers.
Our primary identified as higher risk for further engagement.
goal is to genuinely improve the position of the Further information can be found on our causes that we support.
The secondary goal is website.
We aim to establish long term to engage our employees in these activities as partnerships with suppliers and to collaborate we recognise it is good for their development on issues like safety, skills and the environment.
Whilst there are a large This reduces risks to the business and helps to number of worthy projects and causes, we have ensure a secure supply of essential materials to focus to make sure that we are effective.
We want to work with suppliers who meet high standards in areas such as During 2018, we continued our partnership safety, quality, ethics, human rights and the with our national charities as well as local environment.
Our standards are explained in charity partners across the UK.
Our six national our Supply Chain Policy and Supplier Code charities are the Youth Adventure Trust, of Conduct which are embedded into our End Youth Homelessness, Crisis, CRASH, framework agreements contracts with suppliers.
St Mungos and Foundations Independent Living Trust.
Our national charity partners are Suppliers provide us with information on their selected by our Charity Committee, with approach to health, safety and environment and regional charities selected by our regional other sustainability issues via Constructionline, a businesses.
In total, during 2018 we donated UK Government certification service.
More than and fundraised over 1.1 million for registered 90% of our national suppliers those with whom charities 2017: over 1 million, which includes we have centrally negotiated contracts and all 167k our employees raised on the annual service and material suppliers with a turnover of Taylor Wimpey Challenge.
More information 1 million or over now use Constructionline.
about our charity partnerships and local sponsorships can be found within our Sustainability Report, which will be published on our website in March 2019.
We want to work with suppliers who meethigh standards in areas such assafety, quality, ethics, human rights andtheenvironment.
36 Creating value for stakeholders continued Profit margins are important to us, but as What we do ameasure of quality and to reduce risk, not Our shareholders own a business which has Our as an absolute.
We believe that sustainability astrong, well capitalised balance sheet with of those high margins is better for our investors ahigh-quality landbank and experienced shareholders than peaks and troughs.
management team, which provides a reliable We are focused on delivering strong financial annual income stream, via a recently enhanced performance, in the right way.
Key issues our investors care about Our customer-centric approach will offer The changes we have set out in our strategy will furtherscope for differentiation and will add Current trading develop and be implemented over time, but additional value to our shareholders and other arevery significant.
We aim to deliver increased Guidance and outlook stakeholders.
Together with our response growth, higher dividends and an increase in our Likely impact of Brexit and future tothechanges in the land and planning return on capital by working our existing land Government policy environment, our customer-centric strategy assets harder and smarter.
We have always Strategy willenable us to become the customers first said that running the business in the right way Land market choice of homebuilder in all market conditions.
for the long term was more important than short Financial targets This will make us a more efficient and resilient term financial performance and continue to homebuilder throughout the cycle and ultimately Dividend policy believe this.
enhance our brand and returns by: Remuneration The changes to the way we see ourcustomers Key differentiators and business are long term andfundamental.
Industry leading sales and service 1.
Culture Putting our customers needs and desires at the tocustomers through the cycle, heart of our business will ultimately make us a providing increased resilience in How we engage more valuable, sustainable business for our weaker market conditions and a One-to-one meetings investors and all of our stakeholders.
This route to high-quality and Investor roadshows approach will result in better products that we sustainable growth Site visits are better able to sell in all market conditions, to customers who choose aTaylor Wimpey home Conference calls Optimising our strong landbank, 2. as a preference.
Audiocast webcast online with full to deliver enhanced returns by transcript available to all adopting a factory approach, Why is it important for all to build more efficiently where Briefing to analysts stakeholders?
there is market demand Capital Markets Day Regulatory reporting including Annual We believe that the way we run our business Continuing to improve the operational 3.
Report and Accounts isrecognisably different to our employees and business model to drive efficiency partners, land vendors and suppliers because Half year and full year presentations and reduce costs of our underlying principles: Investor section of website Participation in sustainability Health and safety will always be the number benchmarks and disclosure initiatives Further information about our investment one priority at Taylor Wimpey.
Annual General Meeting proposition can be found on page 27.
Our reputation is important to us and we will not compromise the character of the 2019 priorities Managing the cycle business: we are fair, and the underlying Continue to report in line with best principle to do the right thing is integral to our It remains our belief that homebuilding is practice disclosure inherently cyclical, although we are pleased that daily decision making.
sensible financial management such as the Make progress towards our financial We believe that our future success is Mortgage Market Review has reduced the targets and strategic goals dependent on our ability to develop and boom feel of this particular cycle.
We remain retain talented, flexible people who have the Embed strategy within thebusiness committed to retaining a strong balance sheet, same mindset so we are prepared to make Continue to progress cost and not over stretching investment and maintaining this long term investment.
We run the business for the long term, not for Read more on page 26 short term gain, and whilst we seek to More information on our approach to the cycle maximise opportunities, it is weighed up can be found on pages 10 and 11.
Read more on page 27 and 52 to 56 against our cautious and disciplined nature.
Land cannot be moved and so location continues to be crucial, not just for our customers choosing where to call home, but for our investment return potential.
We target locations where we can create and add to communities and where our customers want to live, now and in the future.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Taking this approach can also help if, and Capital Markets Day when, there is greater competition in high In May 2018, we held a Capital Markets Day growth areas.
Agood example of this can be foranalysts and institutional investors in Bordon, found within our Major Developments business.
Following the release of our new strategy and new strategic objectives, our CEO, Group Land and planning Finance Director and Group Operations Director presented key elements to the new strategy.
Q&A We are highly selective with regard to the types sessions allowed analysts and investors the of sites that we buy, focusing on the quality opportunity to askfurther questions on the strategic ofthe land rather than the number of plots direction of the business.
The day finished with an acquired.
We employ dedicated land teams update from our Major Developments part of the ineach of our 24 regional businesses, which business and a guided tour around Prince Philip use their expertise and local knowledge to Park, ajoint venture between Taylor Wimpey and identify potential high-quality, sustainable sites.
Wehavea targeted approach to our land investment.
This is focused on where we can Read more on our website at add value as we seek to maximise the returns www.
co. uk corporate from our investments, while continuing to ensure that the business is optimally positioned to deliver those returns on a sustainable basis.
The Board will continue to keep the mechanics Dividends and returns During 2018 we acquired 8,841 plots of how the Company will pay special dividends, We are an extremely cash generative business, 2017: 8,040 plots at anticipated contribution including the merits of undertaking a share even in times of market weakness, because of the margins of c. 27% and return on capital buyback at some point in the future should strength of our balance sheet, the length of the employed of c. 32%.
it become appropriate to do so, under regular landbank and as a consequence of the control we review.
More information can be found in our have over the timing of land investment.
This allows Notice of Meeting on page 181.
Efficiency us to provide shareholders with a reliable dividend We achieved an annual return on net operating through the cycle which is a key priority.
Optimising value assets for the Group of 33.4% in 2018 2017: 32.5%.
The annual return on net Our strategy means that we can continue to Our ability to constantly increase efficiency operating assets for the UK business was drive further value from our landbank and our and tightly control costs is part of the 33.1% in 2018 2017: 32.1%.
business model as we focus on our customers, TaylorWimpey culture and remains central delivery and efficiency which in turn drives to delivering enhanced returns.
This extends We have improved our UK net operating asset increased cash generation.
to and encompasses all aspects of our turn to 1.55 times 2017: 1.52 times, business as we strive to optimise and capture benefitting from a low land cost as a percentage As previously announced, commencing in 2019, value at every level from procurement through of average selling price in the short term owned subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 to delivery.
Wealso aim to add value to the landbank, as a result of higher margin land AGM scheduled for 25 April 2019, we intend to charities we support and to our wider acquired in recent years and increased strategic pay an enhanced ordinary dividend of 250 million partnerships.
Wealso balance our desire to pipeline conversion.
per annum c. 7.6 pence on an annual basis improve quality with a focus on making our through the cycle 2018: 160 million, including assets work harder for us and our stakeholders.
The higher proportion of strategic land during a normal downturn.
This has been In the year, we achieved a 0.5 percentage conversion results in higher work in progress stress tested in a variety of scenarios including points margin upside on completions from land spend, due to these sites generally requiring a 20% fall in house prices and a 30% fall in acquired since 2009, compared with the greater infrastructure investment.
The ordinary dividend will be paid expected margin at the point of acquisition.
equally as a final dividend in May and as an interim dividend in November.
We actively review every site, both new and old, through our value improvement meetings which In addition to the ordinary dividend, we have are held quarterly and are tracked centrally.
also paid a special dividend in each of the last Thisallows us to benchmark our success and five years.
As previously announced, and identify opportunities for further improvement, subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 ranging from re-planning of sites to redesign AGM, we intend to pay c. 350 million to and selective enhancements to our specification.
shareholders in July 2019 by way of a special dividend.
It is important to also develop approaches that enable us to control land in a capital-light way, Accordingly, subject to shareholder approval, without unduly burdening the business.
in 2019 shareholders will receive a total dividend Thislight touch improves our returns, frees of c. 600 million c. 18.3 pence per share, money for other investment and reduces risk comprising an ordinary dividend of c. 250 million inthe event of negative changes in the market.
c. 7.6 pence per share and a special dividend of c. 350 million 10.7 pence per share, a 20% increase on 2018 total dividend.
38 Creating value for stakeholders continued Why is it important for all our We aim to be the industry stakeholders?
leader in managing the Our We believe that local communities should have planning and community communities a say in development.
This enables us to engagement process.
achieve the right planning permissions and ensure our developments are valued by their What we do local communities.
As one of the largest Key issues our residential developers in the country, we are We aim to create great places to live, work and communities care about responsible for creating not only the homes play: designing our developments to become Provision of infrastructure and which people will live in for years to come but thriving and inclusive communities with a strong facilities at new developments also for shaping the communities of the future.
sense of place and character.
We want Managing local impacts during We know housebuilding, particularly in its early communities to welcome us to their area and construction stages, can be disruptive and so we seek to recognise the value we can bring and the Contributions to and relationships engage, consult and work in partnership with contribution we can make to the existing with local communities communities and all interested stakeholders on community, as well as trusting us with the each and every site, both before we submit a Housing need responsibility of creating a new one.
We actively planning application and throughout the life of seek the views of local communities and other our developments.
We develop a tailored planning How we engage shows a clear relationship between good and community engagement strategy for each Exhibitions placemaking how we design our site and work closely with communities and Workshops developments and long term customer other local stakeholders throughout all aspects Newsletters satisfaction.
Strengthening our approach to of the planning process.
We believe that we placemaking is part of our commitment to Social media have a responsibility to contribute to our local become a customer-centric homebuilder.
Meetings communities and that this responsibility grows with our success.
We aim to be the industry Events leader in all aspects of planning and to obtain Placemaking the right planning consents that enable us to Priorities for 2019 Our customers have a very strong desire to respond to a changing market, reflect the become part of a community and to do so Continue to maintain best practice desires of our customer base and deliver the quickly after they move in.
We are investing in community engagement and quality homes we want to build, whilst meeting placemaking and design to ensure all our investigate ways to engage with a our financial objectives.
developments become communities that are wider and more diverse range of socially, economically and environmentally people within the local communities sustainable.
We ran our first internal design in which we operate competition in 2018 seeking out the best Renewed focus on placemaking examples of placemaking from around the 455m Understanding where and how we business, celebrating the good practice that can bring forward early delivery of Invested in local communities via already exists and it has inspired us to go community infrastructure planning obligations further.
Around 60 schemes were submitted Undertake a number of community and each was judged against the Building for pilots Life criteria a recognised tool for measuring good design.
170k Read more in our 2018 Contributed to local organisations Sustainability Report Installing infrastructure at an early stage can help in the successful development of a new community.
It can also make new 200 developments more desirable to prospective buyers, increasing sales.
We are looking at how Community meetings and events, we can increase early delivery of community including public exhibitions infrastructure to maximise its positive impact.
We actively seek the views of local communities and other stakeholders.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Investing in local communities Royal Parade At our Royal Parade development in Canterbury, We are very proud of the significant contribution our South East regional business is contributing we make via our planning obligations each year, 1.4 million towards a new secondary school providing local infrastructure, affordable homes, and 730,000 towards the expansion of an public transport, education facilities and other existing primary school.
A new community hub forms of social infrastructure.
In 2018, we will sit at the heart of the development and will contributed 455 million to local communities in include allotments, a walled garden and links to which we build across the UK via planning the nearby community orchard and sports obligations 2017: 413 million.
A Community Development Trust has across the business get involved in local life, been set up to manage the community hub and organising competitions with primary schools, maintain the 11 acre park within the inviting schools to site for health and safety development.
Taylor Wimpey recently recruited training and sponsoring local sports clubs, as a Community Trust Manager, to oversee the set part of their daily working life.
In addition, we up and long term running of the Trust.
contributed over 170k to other organisations, such as scout groups, local football teams and various local community causes 2017: c. 90k.
We also have a Building Our Reputation toolkit that Community Education provides information and practical tools to help our Feeling part of a community is a top priority for employees communicate honestly and openly We sponsor and work closely with our customers.
Our research showed that with communities and customers throughout Buckinghamshire University Technical College customers believe we should play a more active the development process.
We create a tailored Bucks UTC and many of our employees role in facilitating the relationship between the planning and community engagement strategy for give talks and run workshops for students.
new residents, their new community and their each site which reflects the needs of the local area.
Our regional businesses work with local schools neighbours.
This is an area we will be exploring to promote careers in the housebuilding further in 2019 and we will be undertaking a Our approach goes well beyond regulatory industry and offer work experience placements.
number of pilots at a community level to test requirements, with engagement starting before We expect the number of placements we effectiveness and impact.
we submit a planning application and continuing provide to increase with the introduction of throughout the development process.
Wherever T Levels, new technical alternatives to A Levels.
We support the development of local networks possible, we use the feedback obtained as part We are developing a work experience framework and seek to encourage a strong sense of of our community engagement to develop and to ensure we deliver quality placements that are community on our schemes.
As well as our improve our design proposals.
To fully understand valuable for students and our business.
investment in new community facilities this can local views, it is important that we reach a wide include organising events that provide networking range of stakeholders from residents, property We also work with schools to raise the profile of opportunities for local residents and creating owners and local authorities, to businesses, the housebuilding sector.
In 2018, we made connections between community organisations.
schools, residents associations and other groups.
These include interactive We are committed to publishing information on projects showing how homes are built and We establish Community Development Trusts proposed developments online so that members providing information on career opportunities, on some of our schemes to provide long term of local communities and other interested parties safety on live construction sites, building stewardship of the development and its public can easily find out what we are planning and where.
We launched spaces after construction finishes.
On other a childrens book to engage younger children sites this role is fulfilled by the local council or a The Taylor Wimpey website includes pages for on the housebuilding process.
For example, all of our proposed developments throughout our site in Bishops Stortford, will include 2,200 the UK.
We would like people to register their Local consultation new homes as well as schools, commercial and interest so we can update them on progress.
community facilities, sports facilities, allotments, We are committed to working with local people Above all, we want wider and more diverse footpaths, cycleways and bridle ways.
We will and other stakeholders throughout the planning groups and individuals to get involved and tell help to establish and fund a Community Trust process and seek to engage, consult and us their views, whether positive or negative.
to own and manage the open spaces work in partnership with communities and all During 2018 we ran 200 community meetings and community facilities for the long term.
We introduced a and events, including public exhibitions.
comprehensive community engagement Our developments create economic benefits framework in 2011 and have been regularly for local communities.
As well as new housing, improving and updating it since.
We are proud these can include new jobs on site and in the of our approach to community engagement supply chain, increased revenues for local and the way that our employees deliver it.
businesses during construction and from The framework applies to every stage of the new residents, and benefits arising from our development timeline, from pre-planning investment in new infrastructure and amenities.
consultation to ongoing communication with existing and new residents during and after construction.
40 Creating value for stakeholders continued We are a member of Next Generation, We support the aims of the Task Force on Sustainability a rigorous and detailed sustainability Climate-related Financial Disclosures and aim to performance benchmark of the UKs largest increase our disclosure in line with its We aim to enrich the lives of our homebuilders.
In 2018 we were ranked fifth recommendations.
We have summarised our customers and communities today out of 25 in the benchmark with a score of approach below.
Further details are included in and to build a proud and sustainable 74.8% and achieved our first Gold Award our Sustainability Report and submission to legacy for the future.
CDP Climate, both available on our website.
We do this by designing and building our Climate change governance, Our greenhouse gas emissions GHG developments in the right way, so that they become thriving, inclusive and sustainable strategy and risk We have reduced our emissions intensity by communities for generations to come.
In 2018, our emissions Our current target is to achieve a 50% reduction By integrating sustainability into the way intensity remained the same as in 2017.
The in our direct emissions scope 1 and 2 intensity we work, we create a stronger business and gains made through our carbon and energy by 2023 against our 2013 baseline tonnes of more value for our stakeholders including reduction initiatives were offset by a spike in gas CO per 100sq metres of completed homes.
2 customers, communities, our people, and gas oil used for heating during the long investors and suppliers.
period of cold weather in early 2018.
We have Last year we conducted a review of our target.
reduced absolute emissions by 18% since 2013.
We identified that deeper emission cuts are Sustainability benchmarking Our absolute emissions increased by 4.9% needed to align with climate science and the year on year in line with an increase in total rules governing the setting of science based We are a constituent of the Dow Jones floor space built.
targets, whilst also allowing for the construction Sustainability Europe Index and the FTSE4Good of more much-needed homes in line with Index series, the leading responsible investment Our absolute energy use increased by 6.3% government plans.
We are doing further work in indices.
We participate in the CDP Climate year on year due to the spike in gas and gas oil this area, including with the Carbon Trust, to reportand received a score of B in 2018. use and business growth.
Our energy use explore whether we can set a science Weparticipate in CDP Water, which assesses intensity increased by 5% year on year but has based target.
companies corporate water stewardship decreased by 10% since 2013. practices and performance.
We also participated in CDP Forests Read more on page 28 for the first time in 2018, disclosing our approach to timber sourcing.
Read more in our 2018 Sustainability Report Our approach to managing climate change-related risk Governance Our Legacy, Engagement and Action for the Future LEAF committee, chaired by a member of our Group Management Team GMT, is responsible for reviewing climate strategy, risks and opportunities and meets four times a year.
The LEAF Chair reports tothe Board.
Ultimate responsibility for our approach to climate change resides with our Chief Executive.
Below Board-level, the Director of Sustainability is responsible for monitoring climate-related issues as part of the overall risk management process.
They report on risk and progress against targets to the GMT on a monthly basis.
Climate change risks have the potential to impact our business strategy through increased costs, reduced productivity and Strategy reputational damage.
We assess climate risks to the business using short term 0-5 years, medium term 5-10 years and long term 10-100 years horizons.
The most material climate-related risks are: changes in weather patterns and an increase in severe weather events which could affect the availability and cost of raw materials, increase flood risk, and impact productivity: and increased regulation and taxation.
The most material opportunities in the short term relate to the financial benefits associated with our use of low carbon goods and services as well as shifts in consumer preference to favour low carbon homes and products.
Inthe longer term, the most material opportunity relates to improved business resilience due to implementation of climate change adaptation measures.
We have conducted analysis on increased flood risk relating to climate change and are exploring the potential to conduct further scenario analysis.
Climate change risks are integrated into our corporate risk management framework, including through two central risk registers Risk the Land and Commercial and the Technical Risk Registers which feed into a Group Material Risk Register and our Climate management Change and Sustainability Risk and Opportunity Register.
Our Climate Change Register guides the climate change adaptation ofour business practices and the homes we build.
For each climate-related risk and opportunity the register identifies: risk driver, description of risk, potential impact, timeframe, whether the risk or opportunity is direct or indirect, likelihood and magnitude of impact.
This is a standing item on every LEAF committee agenda.
Thecommittee makes recommendations to the GMT on how tomitigate, transfer, accept, or control climate-related risks.
We have set a reduction target for our scope 1 and 2 emissions and report progress on a range of KPIs, covering our direct and Metrics value chain emissions.
We are doing further work in this area and exploring whether we can set a science based target.
Further andtargets detail is available in our 2018 Sustainability Report.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 We have achieved the Carbon Trust Standard for our overall approach to carbon management, including our policy, strategy and verification of our data and processes.
Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 and 2 and energy use for the period 1 January 2018 31 December 2018 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Scope 1 GHG emissions combustion of fuel tonnes CO e 20,328 18,889 17,983 17,768 16,436 2 Scope 2 GHG emissions market based tonnes CO e 4,509 4,794 10,827 12,947 13,326 2 Total scopes 1 and 2 market based tonnes CO e 24,837 23,683 28,809 30,716 29,672 2 tonnes Emissions per 100 sqm completed homes scope 1 and 2 CO e 100 sqm 1.73 1.73 2.13 2.40 2.56 2 Operational energy use fuel and electricity consumption from UK sites and offices MWh 95,170 89,550 92,236 90,524 81,679 Operational energy intensity UK site and office fuel and electricity intensity MWh 100 MWh 100 sqm completed homes sqm 6.8 6.5 6.8 7.1 7.0 Data is provided as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e for all operations.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions are from our sites, offices, show homes and sales areas, plots before sale 2 andcar fleet.
Data on scope 3 emissions is included in our Sustainability Report.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition for data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the Mandatory Carbon Reporting MCR requirements, and emission factors from the Governments GHG Conversion Factors for our corporate reporting.
We use the market-based method of the revised version of the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance for calculating our scope 2 emissions.
We have reported on the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 apart from the exclusions noted.
Thereported sources fall within our Consolidated Financial Statements and are for emissions over which we have financial control.
We do not have responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
Operational energy use and operational energy intensity figures are for our UK business only.
The following sources of emissions were excluded or part-excluded from this report: Fugitive emissions refrigerant gases : excluded on the basis of expected immateriality and difficulty in acquiring data Gas and electricity of part-exchange properties: excluded on the basis of immateriality due to very few completions of this type Certain emissions from District Heating Schemes where we are receiving a rebate from customers prior to handover to the long term operator.
Certain joint venture properties: where Taylor Wimpey was not part of the handover process.
In these cases other homebuilders have captured MCR-related data See our Carbon Reporting Methodology Statement at www.
co. uk corporate sustainability for more detail on our calculations.
Non-financial information statement Our Annual Report contains a range of non-financial information.
The following table summarises where this can be found in our reporting.
Reporting Some of our relevant policies which Where to read more in this report about our impact, Page requirement canbefound on our website including the principal risks relating to these matters Environmental Sustainability Policy We report our approach to climate change governance, matters Climate Policy strategy and risk management as well as our greenhouse Health Safety and Environmental Policy gasemissions within: Supply Chain Policy Waste and Resource Use Policy Creating value for stakeholders our communities 38-41 Employees Business Conduct Policy More information on our employees can be found within: Diversity Policy Becoming an employer of choice 20 Creating value for stakeholders our employees 32-33 Principal risks and uncertainties 48 Engaging with our stakeholders our employees 78-79 Human rights Anti-Slavery, Human Trafficking and Human More information on our approach to human rights Rights Policy canbefoundwithin: Supplier Code of Conduct Creating value for stakeholders our employees 33 Supply Chain Policy Creating value for stakeholders our partners 35 Social matters Community Policy More information on how we engage with our communities Donations Policy andsocial matters can be found within: Charity and Community Support Policy Sustainability Policy Creating value for stakeholders our communities 38-41 Anti-bribery and Business Conduct Policy More information on anti-bribery anti-corruption Anti-Corruption Policy and anti-corruption canbe foundwithin: Fraud Mitigation and Response Policy Whistleblowing Protected Disclosure Policy Corporate governance Board activities 75 Business model Community Policy More information on our business model and its links Sustainability Policy  can be found within: Customer Service Policy Our business model 28-29 Non-financial Customer Service Policy Our non-financial KPIs can be found within: KPIs Health Safety and Environmental Policy Communications and Investor Relations Policy Our strategy 12-25
