PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION EMPLOYEES We depend on the input of around 1,250 employees to maintain relationships with our Members and Partners, as well as consistently delivering high quality service at all times.
We put a lot of effort into recruiting new employees, ensuring that we recruit, train and retain people who have the appropriate skills, and the correct attitude.
We continue to recruit new employees through our own Assessment Centre, which was developed to ensure that we have full control over recruitment, and to ensure that we identify the very best candidates for our available positions.
After joining the Company, all new starters attend a structured training process, making sure they are fully prepared to deliver the high standards of customer service we expect, and to assist with any queries that our member or Partner base may have.
After successful completion of this programme, a quarterly academy graduation ceremony is held to celebrate the attendees achievement, where they are presented with a bottle of champagne and a certificate by the Chief Executive.
In 2016, we introduced our own Technical Advisor Apprenticeships.
This proved to be a very successful venture.
In 2018, we won second place in the Advanced Level 3 Apprenticeship Employer of the Year Over 150 Employees category.
The apprenticeship programme plays a vital role in supporting our demands in technology recruitment.
We conduct employee satisfaction surveys annually, which play an important part in allowing the business to understand what changes we need to make to keep our employees engaged, allowing the opportunity to submit anonymous feedback and have their voices heard.
Following feedback from our 2017 survey, we made the decision to increase employee holiday entitlement depending on their length of service.
Employees who have been employed for over three years will receive an extra two days annual leave, and those who have worked for over five years will receive an extra three days annual leave.
This change was made to both reward our longest serving members of staff, and improve retention amongst those who have joined more recently who can work towards the increase in holiday entitlement.
In addition to our employee satisfaction survey, we hold quarterly breakfast meetings for employees with the Chief Executive and a separate meeting with our Technology team, where they can submit questions about any subject to be addressed during the meeting.
This is an important function to ensure employees feel we value and listen to them, and bridges the gap between employees and senior management.
Where possible, we engage with our staff regarding any significant changes that may occur which could have an impact on them directly or the Company more generally.
We currently maintain a company intranet Babble, where important company updates are shared.
It also allows employees to start up their own groups.
Amongst others, we have a Guitar Club, a Film Club, and an Art Club, all managed by employees, for employees.
We also keep employees engaged with changes through company emails, posters and wallboards.
In 2018, we launched a new company magazine, YOUW, which is distributed monthly, and was designed to give all employees the opportunity to share achievements and celebrate those of colleagues.
We designed our head office building with consideration towards our employees.
We have state of the art facilities available for all staff.
We boast an auditorium, a games room equipped with pool and table tennis 32 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements tables, relaxation pods, showers, and a subsidised staff restaurant offering a wide range of foods.
Alongside this, we provide monthly visits from a nurse who offers free health checks for all employees.
We have also held fun events to reward our staff, such as our 20th Anniversary Party and Christmas Party Grotto.
The Company has a strong promote from within culture, and we offer a variety of opportunities for employees to develop their skills and therefore progress within the Company.
All employees are able to host a Whats on Wednesday or WOW session, which involves a fifteen-minute talk in front of around 100 other members of staff, helping to develop confidence, and giving them exposure to a cross-departmental audience typically including members of the senior management team.
We also have various training programmes tailored to support with skills growth, including human development training focusing on softer skills, and a new management training pilot scheme.
We encourage an active staff social committee, with people from all areas of the business.
Employees are given the opportunity to organise monthly Team Hosted Nights on behalf of their department, as well as team bonding activities using their Fun Fund.
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved employee share option plan, under which employees are granted options to purchase shares in the Company which are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The exercise price is the market price at the time of granting the option.
Our policy is to issue options to all employees after the satisfactory completion of their probationary period, and additional options when 10 years service has been completed and in other appropriate circumstances e. g. promotion.
The Company also operates a Save As You Earn SAYE share scheme under which employees are offered the opportunity to participate in the future growth of the Company through share option arrangements.
As at 31 March 2018 there were outstanding options over 1,884,948 shares which had been granted to employees, representing approximately 2.4% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Employees returning from maternity leave with children less than 12 months old are able to benefit from a company contribution towards the cost of an external childcare service provider of their choice.
We also provide facilities for staff to purchase childcare vouchers in a tax-efficient manner using a salary sacrifice scheme, in accordance with HM Revenue and Customs guidelines.
We encourage all employees to participate in a stakeholder pension scheme operated by Aviva.
Participants can choose their own contribution level, which is matched by the Company within certain limits, depending on length of service.
As a result of pension auto-enrolment the Company is contributing to the pension funds of virtually all employees, on a monthly basis.
We actively facilitate Access to Work grants for employees who have a disability, health or mental health condition providing the practical support to enable them to continue working effectively.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 33 PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION CONTINUED DIVERSITY Full and fair consideration is given to opportunities for employment, training, career progression and promotion on the basis of each individuals ability, attitude and track record, irrespective of their gender, ethnic origin, nationality, age, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
The table below sets out a breakdown of the gender diversity at various levels within the organisation: 2018 2017 MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Board 6 1 6 1 Senior Managers 14 4 13 4 Employees 743 488 641 401 The Boards position in relation to the Code requirement to set out any existing measurable objectives in relation to Board diversity is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 41 and 42.
On 28 March 2018, the Company published its Gender Pay Gap report in accordance with the requirements of The Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations 2017: a copy is available at: www.
Whilst we are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across the Company, the results of the gender pay report showed that we have a gap in average earnings: the main reason for this is that we currently have fewer women in senior roles.
We pride ourselves on being an inclusive and diverse company that aspires to an equal and balanced workplace.
We are supportive of the decision to make these results available to all, and we are committed to addressing this gap in the context of our firm belief in hiring the right person for the job, no matter what.
We have recently appointed a new People & Culture Director, who will continue running internal focus sessions to discuss how we can create a culture of inclusion at all levels.
34 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018
