Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT We are conscious of the role we have to play in minimising the environmental impact of our activities.
We operate an energy efficiency helpline to provide advice to Members on how they can reduce their energy usage: we enable qualifying Members to access free home insulation: we actively promote Feed-In Tariffs: and we encourage Members to monitor their energy usage by providing regular meter readings.
We also provide certain Members with free LED light bulbs which reduces the amount of electricity they consume.
Since moving to an online Member application process, we have increasingly reduced the amount of printed marketing materials we are using, and seen a significant increase in the proportion of new Members choosing not to receive a paper bill each month.
We participate in a waste paper recycling programme, with a certificated saving of 259 trees and 47,540kg of CO2 during the year 2017: 235 trees and 43,710kg of CO2 : we also recycle all of our cardboard, and use only fsc-certified paper.
We recycle both mobile phones and toner cartridges.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS STATEMENT The greenhouse gas GHG emissions statement below provides a summary of the Groups greenhouse gas carbon emissions from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
It gives a summary of emissions from fuel combustion and the operation of our facilities which include our offices and company cars, scope 1, and from our purchased electricity use during the year scope 2.
We have adopted the operational control approach, as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition 2004, therefore emissions associated with our Members energy usage, the activities of our Partners and the supply of energy from npower are not included in this statement as they are outside the Groups operational control.
Global GHG emissions TOTAL EMISSIONS TONNES CO2e 2017-2018 2016-2017 Emissions from combustion of fuel scope 1 337.4 337.1 Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and 2,165.5 2,216.3 cooling purchased for own use scope 2 Total emissions 2,502.9 2,553.4 Intensity: Emissions per full time employee FTE 2.14 tCO2e FTE 2.62 tCO2e FTE The emissions figures in the above table for 2016-17 have been re-based to include the Groups Daffodil van fleet to allow for a like-for-like comparison with 2017-18.
This accounts for the difference in the 2016-17 reported footprint between the 2016-17 and 2017-18 reports.
Methodology We have reported on all the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our own business activities over which we have operational control.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data gathered from our own operations, and emissions factors from UK Governments Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016.
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT During the year, our Staff, Members and Partners were active in raising funds for our Charity Partner Macmillan Cancer Support.
In addition, at a more local level, we have supported our neighbourhood by helping our local food bank, the Colindale Foodbank.
HUMAN RIGHTS This report does not contain information about any policies of the Group in relation to human rights issues as it is not considered relevant to understanding the impact, development, performance or position of the Groups business.
MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT The Board has approved a Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement in compliance with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, which is available to view on the Companys website here: www.
co. uk legal  ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICY The Group supplies a range of utility services in highly regulated markets sourcing the vast majority of its supplies from large UK-based regulated organisations such as npower Limited owned by Innogy and ultimately RWE AG for energy services gas and electricity, TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC for fixed telephony services and BT Group PLC for mobile telephony services.
Overall the risk of employees within the Group knowingly breaching bribery and corruption legislation is therefore considered low.
Nonetheless, the Group operates an anti-bribery and corruption policy which is communicated to all staff and compliance with which is ultimately the responsibility of the Board.
STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL The Strategic Report, set out on pages 1 to 36, which incorporates the Financial and Operating Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, People and Organisation and Corporate Responsibility, has been duly approved by the Board.
By order of the Board David Baxter Company Secretary 18 June 2018 36 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018
