STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE LEARNING, DEVELOPMENT AND DIVERSITY applications, where appropriate, to retain specific talent within TALENT MANAGEMENT The Group believes in respecting individuals and their rights the business.
We respect cultural difference and actively seek Talent, commitment and passion are three essential strands to Employee performance is reviewed formally during the in the workplace and that diversity supports the dynamic to learn about each territory we operate within.
The energy and inspired performance probationary period as the employee settles in to life at Ted and of our teams to deliver success.
With this in mind, specific Our commitment to diversity across the Group continues of our team are key factors in helping the Group to deliver then bi-annually.
This focuses on behaviours, competence, policies are in place setting out our stance and commitment and consideration to diversity and gender is given with a view growth and drive innovation.
The Group places significant talent and career development.
Goals and objectives linked to managing harassment and bullying, whistle blowing, to appointing the best placed individual for each new role.
The importance in building an out of the ordinary employee to business development and contribution are a key focus to equality and diversity.
Our team represents a wide and diverse tables below demonstrate the gender split across the Board experience, creating learning and development opportunities, ensure performance is directly linked to Group delivery.
Talent workforce from all backgrounds, sexual orientation, nationality, of Directors, the Groups leadership and senior management nurturing individual employee growth and recognising and is mapped every quarter to identify high performers, areas for ethnic and religious groups.
We support sponsorship of visa teams and global employees as at 27 January 2018. rewarding contribution.
This supports the development 2018 2017 of dynamic and diversified teams.
Male Female Total Male Female Total REWARD AND RECOGNITION We invest in employee development from specialist Ted Baker Plc Board of Directors 5 2 7 5 1 6 The Group entered into its second year of a pay for performance and technical skills to bespoke courses developed by Teds remuneration approach for employees at our London head Academy.
During the period we launched Teds Fountain, an Executive Committee and other senior managers 60 88 148 55 64 119 office Tedquarters and also rolled out the scheme to the online learning resource that allows each employee to easily Global team members 1,141 2,441 3,582 1,063 2,160 3,223 USA head office.
Such employees performance is measured access trusted information to quickly improve their skills, against competency criteria, objectives linked to business knowledge and understanding of essential business topics.
2018 UK North America Europe Asia success and behavioural identifiers that directly support our Continuing to bring in fresh and specialist talent as well Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Total unique culture and brand values.
This approach enables Ted as nurturing our existing employee population remains high Ted Baker Plc Board of Directors 5 2 - - - - - - 7 to award remuneration annually based directly on individual on our business and people agenda.
Inter-departmental Executive Committee and success and achievement.
We continue to review all other and international transfers play a large part in retaining and other senior managers 46 60 9 15 1 4 4 9 148 employee groups remuneration annually and a benchmarking growing talent as well as ensuring the Ted story translates Global team members 687 1,358 294 513 98 424 62 146 3,582 analysis is undertaken against market intelligence to ensure across the globe.
we remain competitive and commensurate across all areas of During the period, we established a Development Board the business.
comprised of senior management across the business.
Their HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES In each territory we offer reward and recognition schemes focus is on assisting the Executive Board to achieve key Our duty and commitment to the well-being of our team is Applications for employment by persons with disabilities are in line with local legislative and market requirements for strategic aims and provides an opportunity to develop future supported by activity such as private healthcare, occupational always fully and fairly considered, focusing on the aptitudes employees but also seek to bring parity across the Group Ted leaders for the Group.
health, health seminars and funding for flu jabs.
During and abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event of an where feasible.
Our reward packages include bonus Following the success of Teds Extraordinary Diploma, the period, we conducted a Well-being Week including employee becoming disabled during their employment, schemes linked to sales targets and individual and corporate our latest and third programme, Teds Extras, now helps financial, health and mental well-being seminars, to health every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the performance.
We encourage all UK employees to join our Save to identify highly motivated and engaged talent with multiassessments and healthy eating options.
We offer health and Group continues and that where appropriate reasonable As You Earn share scheme.
Ted also provides a Long-Term faceted knowledge and develops their expertise across fitness classes to our employees at Tedquarters.
We also adjustments are made and relevant training and education of Incentive Plan LTIP for key senior employees throughout various departmental functions.
run a Childcare Voucher Scheme in the UK.
An Employee the wider team is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the business spanning a three year award period.
The LTIP is Assistance Programme in the UK and US further supports our the training, career development and promotion of persons currently in its fifth tranche of issue and it is anticipated that commitment to the well-being of our employees.
To support with disabilities should, as far as possible, be identical with this will continue on a rolling yearly award basis to enhance health and welfare we launched a new Buy Holiday option for that of other employees.
total annual reward and support retention.
Tedquarters employees to buy additional holiday.
During the period we celebrated the seventh year of The Group employs a dedicated Health and Safety team to CULTURE Wisdom Awards, our Group scheme that recognises long support the identification of risks and prevention of accidents Our brand values are important in everything we do and are serving members of the team and provides the opportunity in the workplace.
The team provides ongoing education instilled into the hearts and minds of all our employees from for employees to share their unique Ted stories.
Additionally and training to strengthen employees knowledge and initial inductions with the Founder and Chief Executive telling during the period we launched The Bank of Tedland, an in commitment in this area.
This includes emergency and crisis the story behind the brand.
Employees are encouraged the moment recognition scheme with cash rewards for out of event management and business continuity plans.
to always ask: Would Ted do it that way?
We continue the ordinary performance.
employees cultural journeys throughout their employment with Ted through various events.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 32 33 STRATEGIC REPORT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and continues to keep them informed on matters affecting them and the Group, communicating in a way that aligns with the brand tone of voice and actively encourages feedback.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, BroadcasTED communications, Talk to Ted sessions, team member surveys and e-postcard messages from Ted.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting employees current and future interests.
Employees are regularly informed of the Groups performance and any factor affecting its performance during the period, in addition to business development initiatives to maintain interest and encourage participation.
During the period we launched our first engagement survey across the Group with exceptional results and validation that the employee experience is a positive one.
Results have been shared with the global teams and Ted will continue to drive continuous enhancement and improvement and work hard to exceed employee expectations.
SYSTEMS Our new integrated HR and Payroll system has been implemented in the UK Tedquarters and we will continue its implementation across the UK Retail population during 2018 19 along with adding modules in learning and development, resourcing and talent management.
The phased roll-out will continue in forthcoming periods to the remainder of the Group.
With focus on self-serve technology we can expect improved people processes and analytics.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Charles Anderson Finance Director and Company Secretary 22 March 2018 34
