STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY PLANET PEOPLE PRODUCT The Group has engaged in a number of environmental projects Our employees and the people who work in our supply chains As part of our commitment to product we place great emphasis At Ted Baker we believe in being open and honest in the way during the course of the period: are our greatest asset and it is very important to the Group on producing more sustainable products.
This includes doing the right thing by all of our that our products are produced in factories that are committed stakeholders throughout our supply chain and operating in a We continue to participate in the Carbon Disclosure to providing a fair and safe environment for their workers.
We are part of the Sustainable Clothing Action Plan fair and sustainable manner.
During the period we continued Project to measure and disclose our greenhouse gas To enable this: SCAP, a DEFRA sponsored action plan organised implementing our sustainability strategy Fashioning a Better emissions and climate change strategies.
We maintained to improve the sustainability of clothing throughout its 3 Future, developed from our Ted plan which was introduced our disclosure score of B.
We have begun working with Segura, an online platform lifecycle by bringing together industry, government and in 2012.
All of our UK head office business travel within Scopes 1 that will help us to map our supply chain.
We have so far third parties.
SCAP members collaborate to develop We approach our social, environmental and ethical and 3 is CarbonNeutral.
This means that the unavoidable brought on board all of our Chinese factories and their sector-wide targets along with the tools and guidance commitments SEE with the same focus and attention to emissions generated by air, road and rail journeys required subcontractors.
It is helping us to reach beyond our direct necessary to achieve them.
As a SCAP 2020 signatory, detail that permeates the rest of the business.
To ensure that to visit our stores, trustees and suppliers have been offset suppliers and ensure we have more visibility of the supply we are challenged to reduce carbon, water and the we continue to meet our responsibilities in these important in full through the purchase of carbon credits from verified chains that make Ted Baker product.
amount of waste generated or consumed by our areas Fashioning a Better Future focuses on Planet, People carbon reduction projects.
Ted Baker Ethical, Production and Buying teams products by 15% by 2020. and Product.
Our Global Sustainability Strategy has been We are constantly reviewing the waste our business regularly visit our suppliers to build and maintain We have introduced internal sustainable fibre targets to developed and continues to be advanced and improved generates in an effort to achieve our overall aim of relationships.
These are key in ensuring open and our collections to ensure that we are meeting our SCAP ensuring that every department is included.
sending no waste to landfill.
We participate in the honest communication.
commitment, and, as part of SCAP, we participate in the Wastepack Compliance Scheme as part of the Producer All Ted Baker suppliers are governed by our Ethical Metrics group.
This Group identifies the key industry HOW WE WORK Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations Code of Conduct.
We review and revise our Code of metrics that businesses should measure and is working The Chief Operating Officer and Group Finance Director is 1997 and continue to reduce unnecessary packaging.
Conduct regularly to ensure that it reflects legislative on a tool to measure baseline carbon, water and waste responsible for overseeing the formulation of the Groups We work with local schools and charities to recycle as changes and make sure that our suppliers continue to footprints.
It also identifies improvement actions that policies and procedures to manage risks arising from SEE.
In much waste from head office as we can.
The Code is based on international businesses could take in this area.
addition, the Board has tasked four members of the Executive We have been working with the charity Newlife to ensure conventions such as the Ethical Trade Initiative Base We became a member of the Better Cotton Initiative Committee to oversee specific areas of our SEE agenda for that all faulty garments returned to our UK stores do Code, the United Nations Universal Declaration of BCI in 2016.
The aim of the BCI is to make global cotton the Group.
These Executive Committee members participate not end up in landfill.
Since March 2014 we have been Human Rights and the Fundamental Conventions of the production better for the people who produce it, better because of the relevance of their departments to our ongoing sending these faulty garments to Newlife for resale as International Labour Organisation, and can be found at for the environment it grows in and better for the cotton commitment in these areas Brand Communication, Product second-hand garments.
com media Files T Ted-Baker industrys future.
Through education and training the Design, Production and Special Projects Interior Design.
Our Through our relationships with Oxfam, Newlife and Age UK documents .
farmers learn more sustainable farming methods and pool full-time Teds Conscience team co-ordinates these areas and we have been able to ensure that our end of line garments Through our partnership with MADE-BY, a non-profit their resources with the aim of reducing environmental the Groups cross-functional team which is responsible for are utilised in the best way, raising over 580,000 and multi-stakeholder initiative set up to improve sustainability impacts, using less water and harmful pesticides, and addressing SEE concerns of the Group.
diverting over 44 tonnes of waste from landfill since the within the fashion industry, we report through MODE increasing yields.
Earlier this year we made a public start of these relationships.
Tracker, a new progress tracking tool.
It is aimed at commitment to source 50% of our cotton as more OUR SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS supporting fashion brands to become more sustainable, sustainable cotton by 2020.
More sustainable cotton We believe in three very important areas of sustainability: focusing on eight areas of fashion business including includes Better Cotton through BCI, Organic Cotton and People, Product and Own Operations.
Planet: the Group is committed to managing and reducing In December 2014, we started to collect donations of its impact on the environment: leftover restaurant food.
Those proceeds are donated to 2.
People: the Group is committed to looking after those who Magic Breakfast, a charity that provides underprivileged create, make and wear our product: and school children in London with much needed breakfasts 3.
Product: the Group is committed to producing beautiful, before school.
During the period, we raised enough money more sustainable product.
We keep two Buckfast bee colonies on the roof of our London head office from which we had a hugely successful honey harvest for the eighth year running.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 28 29 STRATEGIC REPORT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In measuring the Groups GHG emissions, all of the Groups The Group has for a number of years participated in the Carbon stores, warehouses and head offices around the world were Disclosure Project and is now required, in accordance with the taken into account.
The space occupied by the Group within Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report concession stores is excluded from Scope 1 and 2 calculations Regulations 2013 the Regulations to report its greenhouse because the Group has neither financial nor operational gas GHG emissions.
Such emissions are included in The Group has adopted a GHG reporting policy and a the Groups Scope 3 figures which are published in our annual management system based on the methodology established Carbon Disclosure Project Report.
under the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which has been used to calculate the Groups Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the period for activities within the financial control of the Group.
The Groups GHG emissions during the period are disclosed in the table below: 2018 2017 Scope 1 Direct CO emissions tonnes CO e 175 129 2 2 Scope 2 Indirect CO2 emissions tonnes CO2e 4,389 4,469 Total tonnes CO2e emissions 4,564 4,598 tCO2e per square foot 0.012 0.012 tCO e per thousand GBP sales 0.008 0.009 2 GHG emissions for the period ended 27 January 2018 have been calculated using the appropriate 2017 UK Government Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and, for energy consumed overseas, the International Energy Agency Emission Factors.
THE BRIBERY ACT 2010 MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 The Group has an established anti-bribery policy in place The Group has issued its second statement in compliance with designed to manage risks relating to bribery and corruption.
the Modern Slavery Act which is available at www.
Teds Handbook, which is provided to all Ted employees, com.
The statement sets out the Groups policies for assessing includes information and instructions on how to manage these the risk of modern slavery within its supply chain and the risks and is supplemented by internal training.
Ted also ensures steps taken to improve transparency.
The Groups crossthat suppliers are made aware of Teds anti-bribery policy functional committee, the Modern Slavery Act Working Group and how to manage risks by including relevant provisions in MSWAG, was established to critically assess and address Teds Supplier Manual and other supply contracts.
Both the Teds modern slavery objectives.
During the period, we have handbook and the supplier manual are regularly kept under introduced a tailored training programme to understand the review to ensure they are sufficiently robust to prevent bribery warning signs of modern slavery and also understand how our and corruption.
practices can directly impact suppliers and their workforces.
We are also working with Segura to develop an online platform, to enhance our existing supply chain management systems.
MSWAG will continue to develop the Groups policies in line with the evolving business and landscape, with a focus on supply chain management and compliance.
