Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY One year into the launch of our making a difference with every holiday sustainability strategy, we have been focused on progress towards our three goals, as well as responding to emerging sustainability issues.
We understand that we face, as a Our Thomas Cook Sport and Freedom Travel society, huge social and environmental businesses are based in the city and of 1.
Our response is set out course we have a large retail presence not byour Sustainable Tourism Policy.
only in Manchester but in the surrounding area too.
It was clear that we needed to take the 2020 TARGET key principles from our Sustainable Tourism In the months that followed this atrocity, 100,000 people reached through our Policyand create a strategy which is clear, Thomas Cook Childrens Charity committed charitable and community programmes.
simple and easy to understand for our to support those affected.
As well as colleagues and our customers.
a corporate donation to the We Love OUR PROGRESS IN 2018 Manchester fund, our Charity also pledged Our sustainability strategy is aligned to In 2018, we have accelerated our charitable they would donate all monies raised the our customer journey, making it easy activities and aligned our measurable impact following month to organisations and and relatable to our customers and our across our business, targeting those in most charities working to support those who colleagues.
Within each of the three strands need in the countries where we operate.
hadbeen affected by the tragedy.
Together, of the strategy: At Home, The Journey, and we raised 280,000 in those five weeks.
Thomas Cooks operations affect individuals OnHoliday, we have articulated a vision and communities around the world.
for how we can make our product more In the last year, we have focused on providing By working with our partners, NGOs and sustainable in the long term.
We have also funding where it is most needed for those other industry tourism groups, we can better set stretching three-year targets aligned impacted by the tragedy We are now working understand and mitigate the negative impact to this strategy, to accelerate our journey with the Manchester Resilience Hub set up of our business.
by the NHS mental health providers in Greater Manchester as a joint response to the The key strand of our work at home focuses We know that operating in an ethical attack to provide funding that will focus on on our impact through our charitable and and sustainable way is not only what ensuring children, young people and families community initiatives.
This concentrates on our customers demand, but is also how who need one to one therapy following the improving health and well-being, supporting we reduce our environmental impacts attack receive it.
The Manchester Resilience vulnerable children, providing natural disaster while maximising the social and economic Hub screens and coordinates the mental relief and enhancing community spaces.
health care of any child, young person or We aim to make a transformational impact While last year was focused on launching adult involved in the attack, and we are through our charitable work and positively the strategy, in 2018 the focus has been on committed to this cause.
influence the lives of 100,000 people by 2020. implementation of this strategy and driving We have seen a huge step towards meeting change within our business.
this target this year, moving from 17,979 people directly benefiting to 36,135 people.
Our commitment to the communities in which we live and work was brought to life in our reaction following the Manchester Arena Attack in May 2017.
Manchester is the main base for our UK Airline and one of our main airports our customers use.
38 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our Airline is among the most efficient in 2018 2017 Tonnes of CO2 Tonnes of CO2 Europe, with only 72.5g CO per passenger 2.
ON THE 2 equivalent equivalent kilometre, compared with an average of JOURNEY 84.9gCO for the five largest European 2 Total Scope 1 airlines last year.
Condor, our German Airline, Direct emissions 4,348,922 4,342,127 2020 TARGET was ranked ninth in the Charter Carrier Total Scope 2 sector by the 2017 Atmosfair Airline Index, 12 per cent increase in fuel efficiency for Indirect emissions 17,949 17,931 which ranks the carbon efficiency of the Group Airline, from a 2008 2009 baseline.
Total emissions 4,366,871 4,360,058 200largest airlines in the world.
Total emissions OUR PROGRESS IN 2018 In 2018, we have continued our drive to million turnover 456 484 The environmental impact of the travel achieve operational efficiencies across our industry is considerable, with growing Airline.
Our fuel efficiency working group We have reported on all the emission emissions from the travel and tourism sector.
continues to work on key projects such sources required under the Companies Act We recognise the risks presented by climate asreducing weight on board, improve flight 2006 Strategic report and Director reports change and our duty to reduce our impact.
planning processes and optimising routing.
We only have responsibility This year, we launched a new Airline, Thomas We have for a number of years worked to for the emission sources that are included Cook Balearics, which gave us a new base reduce our environmental impact across our in our Annual Report and Accounts.
We have in one of our popular destinations.
This has business and supply chain.
As outlined in our used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting given us greater operational flexibility and Environment Policy and Sustainable Tourism and Reporting Standard revised edition, better control of operations.
Policy this includes reducing the use of water data from EU Emission Trading Scheme and in our hotels: using sustainable products emission factors from the UK Government and materials wherever possible: reducing GHG Conversion Factors Guidance 2018. our production of waste: and sourcing or producing renewable energy.
As a result of one such project, this year in one of our hotels, Sunwing Kallithea, we used 12.000 cubic metres less water than the year before.
We are committed to making progress across our business to decrease our environmental impact.
This is demonstrated through our continued listing on the FTSE Russells FTSE4GOOD index, and our annual response to CDP, the not-for-profit charity that runs the global disclosure system for companies.
In 2017, we scored B, which means we are taking coordinated action on climate change issues.
Fuel efficiency in our Airline is central to this effort and is a key part of our approach to running an efficient and profitable Airline.
This is demonstrated through our target ofa 12 per cent increase in fuel efficiency per passenger km by 2020 based on a 2008 baseline.
We recognise the challenges presented by the Paris Climate Agreement and the latest IPCC climate report to the airline industry and we are determined to drive incremental improvements in our current fleet, while working with the industry to develop more efficient aircraft and more sustainable fuels.
39 Strategic report Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED By 2020, we aim to have all of our ownThis year, we announced the next step in brand hotels accredited by Travelife, our Animal Welfare Policy recognising that 3.
ON HOLIDAY the  scheme the animal attractions we sell are consistent which helps hotels and accommodations with our customers expectations of us.
to manage and improve their social and So far we have audited 49 animal attractions 2020 TARGET environmental performance.
and removed 29 which didnt meet the minimum ABTA standards that we measure 100 per cent of our own-brand hotels to The scheme also ensures that staff in resort against.
During the year this policy was obtain aTravelife award.
are employed fairly and the hotel promotes updated so that from the summer 2019 we local sourcing of products.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2018 will not sell any animal attractions that keep We know that Travelife hotels are not only orcas in captivity.
Instead we will continue We know our own-brand hotels are key better for us, but they are better for our toidentify more sustainable alternatives.
customers too, recording higher NPS scores They also have a social and economic and This year, we have launched the in customer satisfaction surveys than our environmental impact in a local community.
noplaceforplastic campaign which will other hotels.
We aim to maximise the positive impact seeus eliminate single-use plastic wherever andminimise the negative.
We work All of our own brand hotels have a contractual possible throughout our supply chain.
extensively with our hotel brands to obligation to achieve accreditation of the We have committed to remove 70 million enableour customers to experience local Travelife scheme and while we have seen single-use plastic equivalent to 3,500 products and services, giving them an limited growth in 2018, we expect this to suitcases full within the next 12 months.
authentic taste of the local culture.
40 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CASE STUDY HUMAN RIGHTS A N D T R A F F I C K IN G DAVID VILLE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER The tourism industry employs a higher proportion of women and young people.
These groups are more likely to be susceptible to human rights and trafficking.
The issues of human rights and trafficking are becoming increasingly important to our customers.
In a recent survey, Swedish holidaymakers said the most important topic for holiday companies was that they work against child sex tourism.
At Thomas Cook, we want to encourage socially-responsible practices that promote employment and the creation of jobs that are sustainable, adhere to regulation and deliver equality, justice and economic development.
Across our business we have extensive supply chains leading to the potential risk of human rights abuses if policies are not adhered to.
This is why we are being proactive and striving to take a leadership position on thisissue in the tourism industry.
Across our extensive supply chain which includes many suppliers, we implemented a mandatory tool kit that requires all suppliers to sign up to a Code of Ethics and Conduct that includes a preventive Modern Slavery Policy.
We also require suppliers to share their internal policies and conduct modern slavery risk assessments on all new suppliers as we do internally.
The number of own-brand hotels which have attained Travelife Awards has risen to 56 out of 186 hotels over the year.
To achieve this award hotels have to comply with independent oversight and audits on key purchasing processes.
This reduces the risk of modern slavery practices in these hotels and strives to ensure the hotels comply withlocal employment legislation.
In 2018, we asked Stronger Together, an organisation whose aim is to reduce modern slavery, to conduct an independent wide ranging review of our policies, procedures, implementation and governance concerning human rights.
They have many learnings and insights from other sectors which they have applied to Thomas Cook.
Stronger Together visited a number of our resorts to examine our work first hand.
Their recommendations included better tracking of the implementation of our policies and expanding our training programmes.
We are rolling out a programme of policies to address the issues over the next year which will help mitigate the risks across the Thomas Cook supply chain.
