Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OUR APPROACH TO OUR PEOPLE We introduced our new people strategy in 2015, focused on improving engagement and putting the customer at the heart of what our people do every day.
Last year, we introduced a new set of values and behaviours that better reflected our purpose as a holiday company.
We have in place many policies to support VALUES our colleagues in their learning, development and working life and also to support them in The work we undertook in 2017 to listen to behaving in a way which reflects our values our customers and establish a set of values and culture, for example our Code of Conduct and behaviours that truly reflect a holiday and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
company has shown clear results in this years survey.
These values of Put our heart Colleagues are encouraged to use the into it, Wear their flip flops and Were one Companys independent whistleblowing Thomas Cook received the largest increase service Speaking Out if they suspect or in positive feedback, with 84 per cent of our witness any behaviour which does not people saying they know and understand reflect the high standards set out in these our values.
policies and these reports are monitored and investigated and any significant issues We continue to embed these values across Three years into our new strategy, are escalated to the Board.
As set out on the Group, supporting our Customer at our we can see the results of the consistency page 37, we engage with our colleagues in Heart ethos.
The values are simple, relevant in our approach.
Our sixth successive a number of ways to seek feedback on the and easy to use.
Were pleased to see them annual colleague survey, Every Voice effectiveness of the various policies and become everyday language in many parts of showed we have achieved significant programmes we pursue to ensure that they Thomas Cook being recognised internally increases since 2015 across our key are achieving our overall aim of providing our asthe factor that most unites our workforce.
people metrics of values, openness, colleagues with a great working environment The values are embedded in our performance pride and customer orientation.
which allows them to put the Customer at management processes so our people the Heart of everything they do.
score their performance against each value.
Our primary Key Performance Indicator These are equal weighted to the achievement for monitoring the success of all of our of objectives set at the beginning of the year.
people related activities and policies is We encourage the involvement of colleagues the result of our Every Voice employee in the Companys performance by including engagement survey.
NPS as a key measure of success in incentive plans for many of our colleagues across the Group.
Put our heart into it Wear their flipflops Were one Thomas Cook We seek feedback & act on it We listen carefully to Were open and honest understand whats required & act with integrity We challenge the status quo & continually look for ways to Were solution focused & strive We take ownership & deliver make things better for the best outcome whatweve promised Were proactive to anticipate We focus on the little things We work as one customers needs that makeabig difference ThomasCook team 34 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Every year we recognise our Customer COLLABORATION Heroes across each part of our Group, those people most reflecting our values.
As we make progress on strategy to bring our source market businesses together, OPENNESS delivering more projects centrally to reduce duplication and improve our operational To fully harness the strength of talent efficiencies, our value of Were one Thomas acrossour Group, we need to foster a Cook becomes ever more important.
culture of openness, where our colleagues In October last year we made changes to feel empowered to express opinions and ourExecutive Committee which gave crossshare suggestions on how to improve the market horizontal responsibility to Source businessfor our customers.
Market Management, designed to further This years Every Voice shows a significant expedite global collaboration.
improvement in openness scores up We implemented the Group Tour Operator We plan to roll this framework out across three percentage points to 67 per cent.
Business Change division, designed to lead the Group in early 2019, along with our This represents a 12 point increase since global change programmes across the Tour Group-wide Diversity and Inclusion Plan for 2015 and demonstrates a sustained cultural Operator, delivering business efficiencies and promoting diversity.
shift in this element of our people strategy, greater alignment of systems and processes where differences are valued and our We have taken some good steps forward in designed to benefit our customers.
climate continues to become more open.
respect of diversity during the year, including Improvement in this area has come from We introduced a Group Mentoring Programme, rolling out unconscious bias training, which all parts of our business, with particular promoting international support for our high raises awareness of implicit bias and seeks progress in our Group Airline and UK Tour potential future leaders.
In addition, we are to eliminate discriminatory behaviours.
finalising the development of a global mobility The Executive Committee has now received framework to help our people to more easily this training and we will continue roll-out to This year, weve introduced more ways for move around the organisation in their career.
the Thomas Cook Leadership Council TCLC our people to share their views, including This recognises the global nature of our business.
in 2019, including an online module to further two-way feedback channels, informal focus support this important behavioural change.
groups, regular town halls, and colleague After its first year last year, we further suggestion schemes.
More information about developed our Global Leadership Plus, Our Sponsoring Women to Success how we engage with our colleagues can be our Group-wide leadership development programme launched across Group this year.
found on page 37. programme, to bring together leaders from 34 women are sponsored by senior leaders across the Group, with a focus on influencing to build confidence, open doors, develop and We have also become more transparent in skills, leadership and collaboration.
our talent processes, sharing thoughts on performance, potential and career aspirations Our Group Airline has introduced an Airline DIVERSITY AND with the colleagues in question.
This measure Senior Female Leadership Forum ASFLF has led to more meaningful conversations which has 30 female members.
Meanwhile, INCLUSION AGENDA between leaders which will help develop our our Northern European business has a people in a way that brings out individual As a customer-focused business, we know Women in Thomas Cook Northern Europe strengths across the Group.
that a more balanced workforce at all levels network, providing networking and brings wider perspectives and makes decisions mentoring support for women regardless Weve also taken a more proactive approach which better reflect the customers that we of role and seniority.
We have a dedicated to the way we discuss business change serve.
Ultimately this helps us to build a more Womens sponsorship programme with 34 proposals with employee representative successful business over the long term.
At least 50 per cent of groups, while also making sure that our those who have taken part in the programme colleagues hear about these changes earlier As a large international business, we have have been promoted or offered secondment than previously both those directly affected in place a number of local equality, inclusion opportunities during the time theyve been and others in the business.
and diversity policies and programmes which sponsored.
In the UK, we released our first have been developed by, and tailored to, the This more transparent approach both Gender Pay Report in March which covers different segments of the Group.
During the sharing the difficult news as well as just our UK employees and will report again year we have worked to develop a Group communicating the wider vision to all has progress made in 2019.
Diversity & Inclusion Framework which will act helped improve the way our people feel about as an overarching Group-wide framework for the the environment they work in even when various local policies and initiatives and clearly we are communicating difficult decisions.
set out our commitment to offer a working environment in which everyone is accepted and included and has an equal chance to succeed.
35 Strategic report Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED GENDER DIVERSITY ACROSS THE THOMAS COOK GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 77% Male 10 colleagues 23% Female 3 colleagues THOMAS COOK LEADERSHIP COUNCIL 69% Male 72 colleagues CASE STUDY 31% A P P R E NT I C E S H I P Female 32 colleagues SARAH ATT H O M A S TIMPERON APPRENTICE, COOK AIRCRAFT THOMAS COOK OTHER AIRLINES EN G I N EER I N G MANAGERS When I left school, I wasnt sure which I have achieved a lot of new qualifications 33% path I wanted to take.
I had lots of wild at college, achieving distinctions across Male 890 colleagues career ideas, and engineering has always the board, whilst also completing an NVQ appeared as being a manly job, which Level 3 in the hangar.
In my final year I will never really bothered me.
My passion for gain valuable experience and knowledge 67% learning about how things work, being from the engineers that I spent time with, Female 1,813 colleagues hands on, having a creative flare and a helping me work towards my aircraft lust for travel influenced me to go for the maintenance licences.
I have also been opportunity offered by Thomas Cook and showcasing my skills nationally for the I have never looked back.
Every day in World Skills competition.
OTHER the hangar is completely different from EMPLOYEES Despite being in the minority as a young another, so you never know what the day woman in a mostly male environment, it may entail.
has no impact whatsoever on how I am 38% My Aircraft Engineering apprentice scheme treated.
It is great to see that three of the Male 8,398 colleagues lasts for four years, the latest cohort new apprentices are also young women are on a three year programme and you who will be working towards becoming 62% work in the Thomas Cook Airlines UK aircraft engineers too.
Female 13,972 colleagues base in Manchester Airport learning to I have another year to go and I look maintain aircraft.
forward to graduating from my TOTAL During my apprenticeship I have been apprenticeship in September 2019. studying at college in North Wales full time in my first year.
I started in Thomas 37% Cook Airlines hangar in Manchester while Male also doing a mix of study and work for mysecond and third years.
63% Female Sarah Timperon photo credit: Andy Stenning, Daily Mirror 36 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 TALENT AND EVERY VOICE SUCCESSION ENGAGEMENT OUR PRIORITIES FOR 2019 2020 Building on last years work, we strengthened Our annual Every Voice colleague survey is our talent approach this year by introducing at the heart of our people strategy.
Our sixth We intend to move to a more agile and more transparency into the talent evaluation annual Group-wide survey was completed by continuous approach to performance process.
We are implementing a global 18,907 colleagues, representing a response and talent management across the grading system across the Group which will rate of 76 per cent.
By introducing a continuous better show career paths for different roles performance management process, We are pleased with the progress we are across the Group.
This will be supported by we will move away from the making, particularly in the area of developing the upcoming introduction of our new global traditional annual performance an open, values-based culture.
We are also mobility framework to make mobility easier.
review, supporting a more frequent pleased to see an increase in commitment development and career discussion.
Our Navigator alumni emerging talent to the organisation and continued This flexibility mirrors the changing programme met this year to continue their customer orientation, especially given the external environment and helps development.
From our alumni of 52 future significant change across the business us to target development for leaders, 50 per cent have now secured a and the challenging trading and operating identified successors and high promotion, and a further 15 per cent are environment this year.
leading key projects in their business area.
Our Core Index has remained high at 74 per We know we have more work to Global Leadership Plus has continued to be cent this year.
We redefined our Commitment do to strengthen our diversity and delivered across the Group with 43 leaders Index this year to focus on the five areas inclusion and the role out of Group completing the programme this year and that have the greatest impact on colleagues Diversity & Inclusion Framework acommitment moving forward to deliver it commitment to the organisation: knowledge and Plan as explained on page 35. toafurther 150 leaders across the Group.
and awareness: customer orientation: This development in early 2019 will be teamwork: learning and development: and Further new talent programmes we have an important step on this journey.
Were pleased that we launched during the year including the achieved a one percentage point increase Shining Stars initiative across the Thomas to 70 per cent, taking it into the excellent Cook global IT function, and Spotlight Camp category as defined by the independent across Continental Europe.
Employee engagement also designed to encourage colleagues to join remained stable at 77 per cent.
a development programme if they wish to advance their career in Thomas Cook.
Our China business took part in the survey for the first time, achieving a strong commitment index of 82 per cent, while our new office in Palma also participated with aresult of 69 per cent.
Over the four year period, we have seen significant gains across the core metrics.
These results are evidence of a sustained cultural change in openness, belief in our values, pride in working for the organisation and customer orientation.
It alsoshows that our people believe we havemaintained focus on people development and employee satisfaction during our transformation journey.
