Corporate responsibility We are committed to providing a strong foundation for a responsible business.
We aim to: Environment Across all our activities, we Value our employees Encourage the prevention of pollution Achieve sustainable profits and cash and the conservation of resources have robust safety systems flows for our shareholders Sustain enduring relationships with key in place to protect our These corporate social responsibility stakeholders, especially our customers principles are part of the way we operate people, customers and Give something back to our local people on a daily basis and reflect the way we and the communities where we operate interact with our people, customers and communities.
To this Respect the environment and reduce the community.
our carbon footprint end we remain committed Customers to developing and Our corporate responsibility objectives We promote a customer-focused culture support our Core Values: and are proud of the strong and longimplementing a corporate standing relationships we have with our Customers customers all around the world.
In 2018, responsibility programme Ensure that our customers are the focus as in past years, we received numerous of our business awards from our customers in every that benefits our Build a foundation for positive, mutual region recognising our commitment to stakeholders.
The values success quality, delivery, safety and innovation.
We have and continue to invest in training and standards that we and systems to improve customer service.
Innovation and improvement Stay ahead of business challenges subscribe to as a company Develop new methods and skills that Employees are embodied and reflected improve our business Our commitment to our customers is Maintain and strengthen continuous embedded in our recruitment, selection, in our Code of Business improvement culture in all areas of our development and compensation business arrangements with our employees across Conduct and related the Group.
We seek to attract, motivate and retain the best talent we can, and this Employees policies collectively, underpins our strong customer Hire, develop and retain talented people relationships.
Provide a safe, respectful and inclusive working environment Foster teamwork through Our people are considered for communication employment, training, career development and promotion on the basis of their abilities and aptitudes, regardless of age, Communities gender, sexual orientation, religion or Be a responsible member of our ethnic origin.
communities Support local engagement in charitable and other activities that benefit our local communities Ethics and Compliance Comply with all laws that are applicable to our business, operations, workforce and products Demonstrate the highest levels of integrity by embracing our COBC Continue to expand and enhance our COBC training programme TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 24 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our gender split in 2018 across salaried Ethics and Compliance Leadership employees of the Group was 2.58:1.00 Our Code of Business Conduct COBC The Group has a global Health and Safety Male:Female with a total global salaried encapsulates our core values and sets the Policy which is implemented and overseen work force of 4,842, as shown in the ethical standards as to how we do by local Health and Safety committees table below: business.
The COBC applies to the Group located at each manufacturing facility.
Our on a worldwide basis and covers a wide Global Environmental, Health and Safety range of ethical and compliance matters, Director is responsible for environmental, Salaried employees including compliance with laws and health and safety matters.
Regional as at 31 December 2018 regulations, anti-discrimination, selfmanagers lead environmental, health and Male Female dealing, bribery corruption, sanctions, safety matters in each geographic area.
Executive Directors and 7 0 non-retaliation and anti-trust competition.
Executive Committee The COBC was updated in 2015 and Continuous improvement i. e. direct reports to endorsed by the Board.
All salaried We have implemented enhanced systems CEO employees receive regular refresher designed to measure and benchmark training.
We also provide our employees Senior Directors i. e. 24 12 health and safety performance and with ad-hoc training each year at different direct reports to accident frequency rates at each locations and via online training.
Executive Committee manufacturing facility and within each Other salaried 3,459 1,340 geographic area.
We use this information We continue to review our ethics and to compare injury rate, safety culture and employees compliance program to ensure it is levels of engagement for each location.
Total 3,490 1,352 consistent with best practices.
In 2018 we As part of our health and safety strategy, started the process of updating our ethics we are in the process of developing more and compliance program and this included robust reporting and control measures in We seek to ensure that our people rolling out specific policies in China, and order to further improve our safety benefit from effective communications having Executive Directors and Senior practices.
and engagement, with regular business Executives deliver in person training to updates, senior directors briefing sessions employees in Asia Pacific, Europe and and constructive relationships with Our environment North America.
employee representatives across the We have procedures and policies in place Group.
We also encourage our to monitor compliance with all applicable management teams to hold regular Environment, Health and Safety laws and regulations related to the informal update meetings to keep our The health and safety of our employees environment, including air and water employees informed and engaged.
and environmental guardianship remain discharges and the handling and disposal central to everything we do.
We have a global energy safe working environments and eliminating monitoring programme which we use to Communities work-related injuries and illnesses.
calculate our CO2 equivalent greenhouse We operate in 28 countries worldwide.
gas emissions with a long-term goal of We encourage each of our operations implementing efficiency programmes to develop a local strategy to give back to reduce energy consumption and our to their communities.
employees around the globe participated and contributed to over one hundred community and charitable projects and programmes.
These took place in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and North America.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25
