66 Governance report How the Board engages with stakeholders Shareholders Clients Employees Regulators Suppliers The Board recognises the importance The Board understands that our clients Engagement with employees is vital As the Group is lead regulated by the The Board recognises the importance of effective engagement with and are integral to the success of TP ICAP and in order to understand the needs of our Financial Conduct Authority FCA, of engaging with our key infrastructure participation from shareholders.
endeavours to stay informed regarding people and ensure that we attract and we regularly engage with them to better suppliers in order to monitor performance, Prospective investors and shareholders important client developments.
understand and respond to their views manage risk and drive value.
can find information on the Groups and concerns and to receive feedback activities, results, products and recent on our policies and ways of working.
developments on the Companys website, www.
How we engage How we engage How we engage How we engage How we engage During the year we engaged with Our relationships and engagement with The Board gains an insight into employee Engagement is typically with the FCAs We rely on a number of key suppliers to institutional investors through results our clients are fundamental to the success of sentiment from the results of the annual supervisory team as our lead regulator but provide business critical infrastructure presentations, investor roadshows both TP ICAP.
We recognise that we need to have employee survey.
The survey is shared with depending on the issues to be discussed services and certain outsourced operations.
in the UK and US, as well as individual regular and effective dialogue with our the Board and measures engagement levels.
we may meet with the FCAs policy, These key suppliers provide services across meetings with shareholders and sell-side clients to understand their needs and how prudential or competition teams.
We also a wide spectrum of sectors including IT, In the UK there is an employee analysts.
The Chairman also contacted the satisfied they are with our business.
We also engage with the FCA and other regulatory telecommunications, market data and representation forum, made up of elected top 15-20 shareholders offering to meet with engage with our clients to identify any areas bodies via sector consultation and round clearing and settlements.
individuals, which provides an opportunity them.
In addition, this year members of the that we could improve in order to serve them table exercises.
for employees to engage with members of Progress has been made during 2018 to Remuneration Committee met with major more comprehensively.
the executive team on various issues.
The Board is kept apprised of those identify our key infrastructure suppliers using investors to discuss the proposed changes to Progress has been made throughout 2018 discussions with the FCA as well as with a strategic segmentation tool and quantify the Remuneration Policy and this feedback In addition, the Chief Executive Officer holds to foster and institutionalise relationships, regulators in other jurisdictions in which we the risk associated with third party was taken into consideration in finalising the frequent listening sessions in which he is able not just between traders and brokers, but operate through Board presentations and infrastructure failure.
We have been Remuneration Policy proposals.
to answer questions directly from employees.
also between firms at a senior level.
regular legal and compliance updates at the developing the strategic relationships with He also runs town hall meetings in all The AGM is open to all our shareholders Board meetings.
We also invited the FCA to our key suppliers, using structured executive The Board receives regular updates on our regions and uses this forum to present to to attend and the Chairman aims to ensure attend two Board meetings during the year engagement to explore opportunities to clients through the Chief Executive Officer employees and hold Q&A sessions.
all Directors, including chairs of the Board which provided the Board the opportunity deliver enhanced value, agree shared as well as the Head of Client Relationship committees, are available to answer to engage with the FCA directly on objectives and manage risk.
We have also The Board also receives periodic updates Management.
Specific reports from our questions and meet shareholders.
established the ongoing monitoring of our from HR on talent, succession and leadership client relationship management team the notice of the AGM and related papers to supplier base for sanction compliance and development as part of the Board and are also periodically included on the We share our experience and expertise shareholders at least 20 working days before risk management.
In addition, we maintain committee papers and spent time discussing Board agenda.
through engagement with various trade the meeting.
purchasing policies which aim to minimise these matters during the Strategy Day.
bodies, to help to raise standards and the risk of modern slavery in our supply The Chief Executive Officer has regular All Non-executive Directors are also Given the recent changes to the Code, the approaches across the sector.
chain and the Board annually reviews and meetings with major clients to obtain available to meet shareholders, if requested, Boards engagement with employees has approves the Modern Slavery Statement.
feedback regarding broking satisfaction Given the increasingly complicated and and the Board is regularly updated on been enhanced through the appointment and trading platform preferences.
fast paced regulatory environment in shareholder feedback and, in particular, of one Non-executive Director for each of During 2019, it is our intention to formalise which the Group operates, the Board has any specific comments from institutional our three key regions Americas, EMEA and our key strategic supplier management brought regulatory compliance matters investors.
Asia Pacific to engage directly with the framework, focusing on consolidating our to the forefront of its discussions with workforce.
With the assistance of regional supplier base, monitoring spend and the appointment of Philip Price as an HR teams, the Board hopes to improve performance, driving forward strategic Executive Director in September 2018. its oversight and communication with initiatives, developing relationships, further employees and gain a deeper understanding expanding the risk management controls, of their views.
and reporting quarterly to the Board.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 67 Our stakeholders Shareholders Clients Employees Regulators Suppliers The Board recognises the importance The Board understands that our clients Engagement with employees is vital As the Group is lead regulated by the The Board recognises the importance Our ability to engage effectively with of effective engagement with and are integral to the success of TP ICAP and in order to understand the needs of our Financial Conduct Authority FCA, of engaging with our key infrastructure our stakeholders and to understand their participation from shareholders.
endeavours to stay informed regarding people and ensure that we attract and we regularly engage with them to better suppliers in order to monitor performance, diverse perspectives is vital to our success Prospective investors and shareholders important client developments.
We are committed to maintaining and developments on the Companys website, enhancing our engagement with our key www.
stakeholder groups: shareholders, clients, employees, regulators and suppliers.
How we engage How we engage How we engage How we engage How we engage We value these relationships as they are fundamental to achieving our objectives During the year we engaged with Our relationships and engagement with The Board gains an insight into employee Engagement is typically with the FCAs We rely on a number of key suppliers to in building a sustainable business.
institutional investors through results our clients are fundamental to the success of sentiment from the results of the annual supervisory team as our lead regulator but provide business critical infrastructure presentations, investor roadshows both TP ICAP.
We use various methods to engage with in the UK and US, as well as individual regular and effective dialogue with our the Board and measures engagement levels.
we may meet with the FCAs policy, These key suppliers provide services across each stakeholder group which are set meetings with shareholders and sell-side clients to understand their needs and how prudential or competition teams.
We also a wide spectrum of sectors including IT, out in more detail on these pages.
The In the UK there is an employee analysts.
We also engage with the FCA and other regulatory telecommunications, market data and Directors are mindful of their duty under representation forum, made up of elected top 15-20 shareholders offering to meet with engage with our clients to identify any areas bodies via sector consultation and round clearing and settlements.
section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 to individuals, which provides an opportunity them.
have regard to stakeholder interests when for employees to engage with members of Progress has been made during 2018 to Remuneration Committee met with major more comprehensively.
discharging their duty to promote the the executive team on various issues.
The Board is kept apprised of those identify our key infrastructure suppliers using investors to discuss the proposed changes to success of the Company and will continue Progress has been made throughout 2018 discussions with the FCA as well as with a strategic segmentation tool and quantify the Remuneration Policy and this feedback In addition, the Chief Executive Officer holds to evaluate, evolve and improve the to foster and institutionalise relationships, regulators in other jurisdictions in which we the risk associated with third party was taken into consideration in finalising the frequent listening sessions in which he is able effectiveness of our engagement.
not just between traders and brokers, but operate through Board presentations and infrastructure failure.
