TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 32 Corporate Responsibility Exercise of voting power The Board has approved a corporate governance voting policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys portfolio has been delegated to the Manager who takes a global approach to engagement with issuers and their management in all of the jurisdictions in which it invests.
The Manager is required to include disclosure about the nature of their commitment to the Financial Reporting Committees Stewardship Code and details may be found at www.
com Environmental policy & Socially Responsible Investment The Company considers that good corporate governance extends to policies on the environment, employment, human rights and community relationships.
Corporates are playing an increasingly important role in global economic activity and the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing damage to its business or reputation.
The Company has adopted an environmental policy in respect of its investments in both physical property and listed property companies.
Within the context of the overall aim of the Company to maximise shareholders returns the Directors will seek to limit the Companys and its investee companies impact on the environment and will comply with all relevant legislation relating to its operations and activities.
The environmental policies and behaviour of all the companies in which the Company invests are taken into account in decision making.
Good environmental management can play a role in overall risk management and also have a financial impact in terms of savings through energy and water efficiency.
Where appropriate the Manager will engage with investee companies to raise concerns about environmental matters.
So far as direct property investments are concerned, the Company conducts environmental audits prior to purchase to identify contamination or materials considered environmentally harmful.
The Company will take remedial action or enforce tenant obligations to do so wherever appropriate.
The Companys advisers assess the environmental impact of its properties on an ongoing basis and will take all necessary action to comply with environmental responsibilities.
The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, including those within its underlying investment portfolio.
Diversity, Gender Reporting and Human Rights Policy The Board recognises the requirement under Section 414 of the Companies Act 2006 to detail information about employee and human rights: including information about any policies it has in relation to these matters and effectiveness of these policies.
As the Trust has no employees, this requirement does not apply.
The Directors are also satisfied that, to the best of their knowledge, the Companys principal suppliers, comply with the provisions of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The Board currently comprises four male Directors and one female Director.
The Boards diversity policy is outlined in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Manager has an equal opportunity policy which is set out on its website www.
By order of the Board Hugh Seaborn Chairman 6 June 2018 TR Property Investment Trust 32 STRATEGIC REPORT
