Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Keeping people safe As Chairman of the Stay Safe Committee I am pleased to present the Committees Healthand Safety report for 2018.
Keeping people safe is at the very heart of how the Group operates and the Committee continues to help, support and challenge the Executive Team in continually improving workplace standards as well as managing the risks associated with out-of-branch activities which affect customers, members of the public and colleagues.
This year the Committee approved the Groups new Health and Safety strategy and continued to monitor performance including the progress made by each business across a range of key risks areas.
Whilst there is still much to do, I am pleased with the progress made and the momentum and colleague engagement the Group has in this important area.
Pete Redfern Chairman, Stay Safe Committee 25 February 2019 The Group remains committed to managing occupational road Performance risk, with the Contract Merchanting and General Merchanting divisions retaining their Fleet Operators Recognition Scheme In 2018 415 lost time incidents LTIs were reported FORS Gold accreditation.
The importance of road risk was across the Group compared to 438 in 2017 and 502 in 2016. highlighted in August 2018 when a cyclist, Dr Peter Fisher, Consequently the number of LTIs per million hours worked tragically lost his life in an accident involving one of the Groups the Accident Frequency Rate decreased by 3%, continuing commercial vehicles travelling at slow speed in London.
The Group lost 6,127 work days in 2018 as a result of LTIs: this Strategy compares favourably to 2017 when 6,518 work days were lost.
Despite this improvement in absolute numbers, a reduction in the The Groups Stay Safe strategy has been in place since 2015 and number of hours worked means that the number of lost work days has delivered significant cultural and performance improvement as per 1,000 hours worked the Severity Rate remained stable at 0.11. well as raising local standards.
The Group reviewed its approach in 2018 and decided to evolve this strategy.
Each business will continue The mix of LTIs the Group is experiencing is changing.
to focus on risk assessment, safety leadership and embedding In 2018 25% of incidents occurred out-of-branch 2017: 19%, a fair and just culture.
Over the next three years the Groups typically in the final part of delivery to the customer, so reducing businesses will be given more flexibility in how they improve safety risks associated with out-of-branch activities is an increasing and wellbeing, enabling them to take into account their specific risk priority for the Group.
profiles, accident experience and colleague wellbeing needs.
The Group continues to embed the safety assurance programme Moving more accountability to the businesses will enable them that is gathering pace.
In 2018 635 locations underwent a to focus more closely on the unique challenges and opportunities detailed safety review comparing local arrangements to the that each face and facilitate a continued reduction in the number Groups expectations in a range of key risk areas.
47 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Accident frequency rate Severity rate 10.0 0.120 9.0 0.115 9.2 8.9 0.115 8.0 0.114 0.110 7.0 7.7 7.5 0.110 0.109 0.105 6.0 5.0 0.100 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Improvements and innovation Throughout 2018 there has been significant Health and Safety Wellbeing and Mental Health innovation and improvement across the Group.
A number of business units have engaged with colleagues to understand their wellbeing needs using the Vitality Health Survey.
Manual handling Each achieved strong response rates that provide the businesses Manual handling continues to be one of the major accident with insight into how to best shape their wellbeingplans.
Whilst focus continues on Recognising the importance of mental health, BSS Industrial reducing the amount of lifting and handling colleagues have to gave their front line managers the opportunity to complete do, resources are also being deployed to provide more innovative mental health awareness training with their chosen corporate solutions and support effective training.
charity, MIND, providing managers and colleagues with tools The Contract Merchanting division worked with Soter Analytics to to help improve their mental health and to spot signs and pilot the use of wearable technology that helps make colleagues symptoms inothers.
aware of their ergonomic injury risk and provides personalised The Group partnered with Neyber, one of the UKs largest insights to reduce the chances that they will suffer an injury.
financial wellbeing companies, to help colleagues improve their The pilot delivered impressive results and investment is now being financial wellbeing and happiness in the workplace by providing made to deploy the technology more widely across the division.
financial guidance and education and offering affordable loans, repaid directly from colleagues salaries.
Delivery safety With an increasing number of LTIs occurring out-of-branch, the Plumbing & Heating division undertook a hands on review External recognition of the final 25 yards of delivery, holding listening groups with drivers and learning from other organisations that carry out home All of the Groups merchanting businesses have had their deliveries of large and bulky items.
Health and Safety management systems subjected to external, independent scrutiny to the Safety Schemes in Procurement As a result the division is rolling out a complete tool kit for SSiP standard.
Having successfully passed this annual review drivers that helps them reduce the amount they have to lift and they can now provide further confidence to customers that their carry as well as a driver-led training programme.
arrangements meet or exceed legal requirements.
Wickes have invested in two new driver training venues to improve The businesses in the Contract Merchanting division and the safety and the customer delivery experience.
Every kitchen and primary distribution hubs for the General Merchanting and bathroom home delivery driver will receive training at one of these Plumbing & Heating divisions received awards from the Royal venues in 2019 covering real-life product lifting, handling up and Society for the Prevention of Accidents for their arrangements down stairs, risk awareness and product placement.
and continued cultural development and performance.
Workplace transport Achieving external recognition is more than a certificate for For a number of years the Group has been working hard to the sites and business units that take part.
They use it as an improve pedestrian safety at branches and stores by keeping important external benchmark as well as an opportunity to thank them apart from vehicle movements.
This work continues, those colleagues who have been champions and ambassadors with six Travis Perkins branches relocating in 2018 to sites with for health and safety.
More broadly, a significant amount of money continues to be invested in improving local arrangements across the Group.
48 LTIs per million hours worked Lost workdays per thousand hours worked Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 49
