Strategic Report Our Sustainable Approach.
We understand that our responsibility to society is broader than Driving the sustainability performance of our assets simply generating financial returns for Shareholders.
We therefore The portfolio consists predominantly of modern, well designed strive to act responsibly in the areas where we can influence as a properties, built to ensure future flexibility for Customers and landlord, for example by working with Customers to improve the constructed utilising modern, safe working practices and a environmental performance of our assets and minimise their impact sustainable choice of materials.
This work is principally implemented by the Manager.
Where appropriate, we also obtain advice and expertise The Manager adopts a formal Green Property Review process, on sustainability matters from specialist third-party professionals in which begins pre-acquisition with a detailed review of environmental order to keep us appraised of developments in best practice.
Our and building surveys, combined with physical inspections.
This approach is proactive, helping us to prepare for compliance with review then directs the individual propertys Green Action Plan, future legislative requirements and make sustainable operational which aims to maximise the potential for initiatives to enhance the advances.
Accrediting the assets through EPC ratings and BREEAM provides a benchmark of their sustainability performance, with the Group aiming to achieve EPC ratings of D and above for acquired investment properties and for new buildings BREEAM ratings of Very Good or above and EPC ratings of A.
The Green Action Plan is then expanded following engagement with our Customers, which identifies opportunities to help them meet their corporate responsibility commitments.
This may involve consents for additional welfare facilities, such as staff shops and break-out areas, or environmental initiatives, such as replacing lights, boilers or other mechanical and electrical equipment with more energy efficient systems, potentially powered by renewable sources.
We are in the process of expanding this Green Action Plan to include initiatives benefiting local communities of a conservational and educational nature.
54 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Highlights in 2018 2018 Case study: Enhancing Sustainability During 2018, we implemented a number of initiatives to improve the sustainability performance of our assets.
Performance When we acquired the B&Q, Worksop asset, our Green DSG Newark: We agreed to install a roof-mounted PV panel Property Review identified the opportunity to install roofscheme, which is expected to provide around 15% of the mounted PV panels.
B&Qs in-house Sustainability team Customers annual consumption, generating substantial cost decided to proceed with the project and supplement this savings for the Customer over the remainder of the lease term.
DSG with the installation of a biomass boiler at the same time.
has also decided to replace the original light fittings with passive infrared PIR sensor systems, which switch on when they detect We worked collaboratively with the Customer to quickly people moving, thereby reducing energy use.
DSG has entered into progress the necessary reports and consents, ensuring a 20-year power purchase agreement with us for the power created the installation of the equipment was not detrimental to by the PV panels, providing the Group with an additional source the building fabric and that it did not limit the potential for of income.
The capital expenditure of c. 626,000 should earn an future expansion.
The biomass boiler uses waste wood, internal rate of return of around 9.1% a year over the remainder of such as redundant pallets, to supply the main office with the lease.
These changes should improve the assets EPC rating heat and hot water.
It takes priority over the existing gas from its current D to C or better.
heating system, which remains in place as a back-up.
Brakes, Harlow: We have committed to a roof-mounted PV scheme Following completion of the works in 2018, we which is expected to be operational in April 2019.
The capital commissioned a new EPC rating and were delighted that in January this year the grading improved from E to A, expenditure of c. 728,500 should produce an internal rate of a level of grading usually associated with a new build return over the remaining lease length of c. 9.35% per annum.
is expected to improve the EPC rating for the property from the current grade of C to B.
If this new and improved EPC certificate is added to the Groups EPC rating as at 31 December 2018, the Brakes, Portbury: Together with our Customer Brakes, we percentage of the portfolio rated A would increase from commissioned a sustainability consultant to review the potential 1 30% to 34%.
The initial feasibility study indicated the potential for substantial power cost savings for Brake Bros 1 By gross internal area by reducing reliance on the national grid supply.
We are currently negotiating the potential terms of a power purchase agreement.
This project could produce additional income and a valuation improvement for the asset, whilst also improving the EPC rating for the property.
Our portfolio by gross internal area is rated as follows as at 31 December 2018 : Portfolio Energy Performance, % % A, , sq ft B, , sq ft % % C, , sq ft D, , sq ft E, , sq ft % % None of our properties are rated F or G. Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 55 Strategic Report Our Sustainable Approach Building sustainable assets 2018 Case study: Developing our For new pre-let forward funded developments, the Manager Strategic Land Responsibly works closely with the Groups Developer Partner to ensure that the contractors working practices comply with industry codes From demolition through to the completion of fully of practice and best practice schemes, such as the Considerate operational assets, we are focused on delivering Constructors Scheme.
This includes an emphasis on health and safety high standards of sustainability performance at our management.
As part of the development process choice of materials, development site at Littlebrook, in Dartford.
To date, we transport methods and recycling opportunities are all appraised and have recycled more than 98% of waste produced during similarly shape the approach for the future property management.
We strive to ensure that developments protect ecology and We are targeting BREEAM Very Good as a minimum and encourage biodiversity, for example through careful landscaping an Energy Performance Certificate A Rating.
and incorporating trees and plants that support habitats.
We also look to minimise the impact of construction related traffic on our Our design objectives include the following: ensuring all neighbours and the public.
The success of these methods and elements of design and construction are in accordance decisions are evaluated in the BREEAM rating achieved.
with all relevant Standards including BSRIA: higher standards of air tightness than required by Building Regulations: highly efficient LED lighting: low water usage Highlights in 2018 WC and shower facilities: thermodynamic panels which Five of our completed forward funded pre-let developments totalling will provide all domestic hot water: and provision for Solar 2.5 million sq ft became operational.
These included TK Maxx, PV areas.
Wakefield: Hachette, Didcot: Gestamp, Wolverhampton: Ocado, Erith: and Screwfix, Fradley.
BREEAM Rating for assets that became operational during by gross internal area % Very Good, % Excellent, % % % [Image box] 56 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Monitoring and mitigating risk Benefiting local communities Property management is undertaken by the Manager, which involves Big Boxes are important for job creation.
At Littlebrook, our the mitigation and identification of risks to the health and safety of development partner seeks to employ construction staff from the Customers, such as fire.
The Manager maintains a comprehensive local community.
Once up and running, Big Boxes can be major schedule detailing construction materials and suppression systems sources of jobs, with some multi-level facilities employing several such as sprinklers and this is regularly reviewed in conjunction with thousand staff.
A formal programme of re-commissioning reinstatement valuations is undertaken every three years to ensure accurate levels We often work closely with local authorities to support the of insurance cover are in place.
In 2018 the manager extended community in other ways, as part of the planning process.
For the insurance policy terms to enhance cover for the risk of example, for Amazon Haydock, we paid for major road improvements.
Similarly, at Raunds, the creation of a footpath and park as part of the development scheme provides the community with a popular dog Green facilities management walking amenity space.
The Manager appoints third-party facilities managers for properties requiring a service charge.
This enables the agent to apply its A number of our Customers are extremely active in supporting procurement practices and bulk buying abilities over a wider local communities through sponsorship, charitable donations portfolio, thereby generating economies of scale.
We are developing some of those links and are strategy recommends contractors based on a large number of reviewing proposals received from charities with environmental factors including price, health and safety practices, track record and educational aims.
One such charitable initiative is at our and localism.
During 2018, the facilities managers have moved Trafford property, where our Customer LOral has appointed a electricity supplies for common parts onto green electricity tariffs, charity to install beehives.
The charity supplements the installation where the supply is generated by wind and hydro assets matched and management of the hives with educational presentations to to Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin REGOs enabling zero local schools.
Honey produced from the hives is provided to the emission reporting.
This type of project may be of interest to other Customers in the portfolio.
Where we have management responsibility for waste as part of the service charge responsibilities we are achieving zero waste to Similarly, we are reviewing a proposal to sponsor volunteers who landfill.
Landscapers are required to use battery powered strimmers supplement teachers in primary schools with reading practice.
We as opposed to petrol equipment when possible and recycle all are working with this charity to see if we can support this initiative in waste.
P. I. R. light sensors have been fitted to the common parts all of the areas where we own assets.
lighting at the Companys asset in Harlow, with a bulb replacement scheme of switching to LEDs.
The Group supported a charitable training event at Littlebrook, which saw local firefighters and some of our consultants Proactive Customer engagement undertaking a zip wire challenge from the major tower.
This provided Building and maintaining close relationships with our Customers the firefighters with both training and sponsorship, raising money for is an important feature of our business model.
The Manager holds the firefighters Charity.
regular customer meetings, both at the asset and at the Customers head office.
The Manager also engages with current and potential Looking forward Customers at industry events, including participation in the We have reviewed the numerous ESG reporting indexes and Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transportation events.
In addition, schemes and identified those which we consider to be most relevant the Group hosts various social events with key Customers, to enable to the Group.
the Non-Executive Directors and Senior Management team to meet with key contacts.
We will build on our public reporting by subscribing to the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB and expanding During the year the Manager circulated a Tenant Handbook to our European Public Real Estate Association EPRA reporting to Customers, providing useful reference information regarding lease include its Sustainability module in 2019.
These evaluation reporting obligations and responsibilities, insurance cover, how to approach schemes require assessment relating to physical, social and future projects including sustainability initiatives and full contact environmental areas, where we will formally demonstrate the range details for the Managers team member who can assist and provide of objectives, practices and processes in place and in development.
The intention is for this to be supplemented by a questionnaire, to formally ascertain our Customers key objectives and enable us to consider and review initiatives.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 57
