Governance Relations with Shareholders and Stakeholders As a Board, we recognise the importance of maintaining strong relationships with the Companys Shareholders and stakeholders and an understanding of their priorities and concerns.
In 2018 we have focussed on developing strong relationships with our Customers.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, alongside Colin Site visits Godfrey of the Manager, are the Companys principal spokesmen who The Manager has undertaken several Big Box site visits for existing regularly communicate with the Companys Shareholders, the press, Shareholders and lenders, prospective investors and analysts during analysts, investors and other stakeholders.
All Directors are available to the year, notably to the Companys development site at Littlebrook speak to Shareholders on any matters relating to the Company.
In November, the Manager arranged a tour of a number of sites for US based prospective subscribers to the private placement Investor relations of loan notes as part of their due diligence process on the Company.
During the year, the Manager together with the Companys Broker, We will continue the initiative in 2019 as we believe that such site Jefferies, devoted time to meeting with existing Shareholders and visits provide Shareholders and other stakeholders with a better prospective new investors in the UK, Continental Europe, South East insight into the nature of the assets we invest in and our strategy.
The roadshows, together with a series of ongoing ad hoc meetings with Shareholders and stakeholders, enabled the Annual General Meeting AGM Manager to listen to and understand the views of Shareholders Shareholders are encouraged to attend and vote at the Companys and stakeholders and report those views to the Board so it could general meetings so they can discuss governance and strategy with consider and appreciate these opinions.
On the whole, feedback the Directors and the Manager.
This enables us to better understand from the roadshows and other meetings has been positive and Shareholders views.
All the Directors usually attend the AGM and constructive over the year.
we make ourselves available to answer Shareholders questions at all the general meetings of the Company and are contactable as necessary.
The Chairman makes himself available, as necessary, The Manager has a dedicated investor relations team who liaise with outside of these meetings to speak to Shareholders.
The Senior the Companys public relations advisor and provide regular investor Independent Director is also available for Shareholders to contact relations reports to us, which include major press coverage, analyst reports and Shareholder feedback.
In January 2019, the Company if other channels of communication with the Company are not changed advisors from Newgate Communications plc to Maitland available or are inappropriate.
The Companys Broker provides a bespoke quarterly report, which has a section dedicated to investor relations.
The Manager Various Directors also regularly attend the biannual financial results also produces a quarterly fact sheet on behalf of the Company presentations to analysts.
which can be viewed on the Companys website.
The Company held a General Meeting on 23 November 2018 to seek The Chairman and Colin Godfrey, together with other Directors, shareholder approval for the amendment of the Companys existing are planning to hold a series of lunches in March 2019 with several Investment Policy to increase the exposure limit to land and options Shareholders to discuss, informally, the Company and its business over land from 10% Net Asset Value to 15% of Gross Asset Value strategy in the present economic climate.
In the past, the lunches of which 5% could be invested in speculative developments the proved informative for the Board and the Manager and were well development of buildings where no tenants are in place.
The change received by those Shareholders who were able to attend.
The to the Investment Policy was duly approved at the General Meeting.
feedback received was generally highly supportive of the Company.
The salient themes to emerge included, a desire for the Company The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director as well as other to maintain its focus on the progressive dividend and on the quality Directors can be contacted by emailing the Company Secretary, on of its tenants and real estate.
Some Shareholders were also keen to cosec@tritaxbigbox.
co. uk, who will pass the communication directly explore how and when the Company might become more organic in to the relevant person, or by post at the Companys registered office.
These themes were reported to the Board and have proven useful to the Company in the formulation of its strategy in 2018.
Public communications The Company ensures that any price sensitive information is released As well as the Chairmans lunches, the Company hosted a private event to all Shareholders at the same time and in accordance with regulatory for Customers and other key stakeholders during the summer of 2018. requirements.
All Company announcements which are released As well as the Board, representatives from the Manager were also through the London Stock Exchange are also made available on the present.
This event enabled us and the Manager to better understand Companys website.
The website also holds the quarterly fact sheets, the main concerns and development points for our Customers which share price information, investor presentations, the Key Information should enable the Company to partner with its Customers more Document required by PRIIPS regulations and the Annual and Interim effectively, as well as promoting a more open discussion for future Reports which are available for download.
The Companys Annual asset management and other property initiatives.
Report and Interim Report are also dispatched to Shareholders by mail.
98 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 https: tritaxbigbox.
