Strategic Report Our Responsible Approach.
The Group has no employees, however the Manager has 31 Slavery and human trafficking policy employees.
The Manager endeavours to provide a professional The Company is committed to maintaining the highest standards of and enjoyable place of work, with a strong focus on constructive ethical behaviour and it expects the same of its business partners.
The Manager provides and organises professional The use of slavery and human trafficking is unacceptable and training and attendance at industry educational and networking entirely incompatible with our ethics as a business.
Employees receive an annual appraisal and career review all efforts should be made to eliminate it from our supply chains.
with their line manager, followed up by a further reflection meeting We recognise that real estate and construction are sectors that with an alternative senior member of staff to their line manager.
are ranked highly in terms of being most prone to exploitation.
Employees are encouraged to partake in However, we seek to mitigate our exposure to any illegal slavery or industry events, with a number appearing on panels and talking at human trafficking activity by engaging with reputable third-party conferences in both the UK and overseas.
professional service firms based in the United Kingdom who also adhere to the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
We also make regular A number of employees are members of professional bodies, such requests from our suppliers for formal governance information as the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, the Investment to enable ongoing monitoring of business and supply chain risk Property Forum, the Institute of Chartered Accountants, the and conduct due diligence and risk assessment on potential new Law Society and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and suppliers.
We will continue to monitor and collaborate with our Administrators.
Similarly employees make up representation on suppliers and Customers to ensure that they continue to adopt sector specific groups, such as the Vice Chair of the British Property systems and controls that reduce the risk of facilitating modern Federations Industrial Committee and the Steering Committee of slavery and human trafficking.
Sponsorship Networking Events Students are invited for work experience during university The Company sponsored the Industrial Agents Society inaugural holidays and a programme of involvement, incorporating property golf event, which was well supported by approximately 100 property inspections is provided.
The Manager has also participated in agents, plus employees of the Manager and the Companys graduate research projects.
The Manager regularly organises social events on a formal and The Company sponsored a bespoke British Property Federation informal basis for its employees and supports individuals who research paper, titled Which Warehouse Where?, which included undertake sponsored events, such as triathlons and marathons.
contributions from the Companys Customers in respect of employee engagement and retention initiatives.
58 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 59
