S S S E E E I I I R R R T T T N N N U U U O O O C C C T T T S S S O O O H H H R R R U U U O O O GOVERNANCE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS To deliver the Companys long-term strategy, the Board The Company has multiple stakeholders across its operations understands the need to build and maintain successful but has identified its current key stakeholders into three groups: relationships with the Companys stakeholders.
This is achieved our investors: our host countries: and our people.
Below are through accurately identifying the Companys stakeholders examples of how the members of the Board have directly and ensuring effective engagement with them.
A key role engaged withthese stakeholders during 2018.
Engagements ofthe Board is to directly engage with our stakeholders are undertaken by individual Directors, including non-executive andunderstand their views, so they can be considered Directors, and also by the Board as a whole.
Feedback from duringthe Boards decision making.
these engagements is regularly communicated to the Board and taken into account during Board discussions.
OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS HOW THE BOARD ENGAGED - Senior Independent Director sought input - Executive Directors met with equity OUR INVESTORS from major investors during Chair investors and debt investors throughout succession process theyear - Chair-Designate wrote to and met with - Chair met with major investors to discuss major investors following her appointment plans for diversity and inclusion - Annual General Meeting in London offices - Chair of Audit Committee sought input from major shareholders on external audit - Ghana shareholder meeting in Accra tenderprocess - Ghana institutional investor meeting inAccra - Capital Markets Day in London - Board received results of independent investor feedback survey at its annual strategy session - Board hosted a Ghana stakeholder event - Directors visited community events and OUR HOST COUNTRIES inAccra projects in areas of operations - Chair met with Presidents, Ambassadors - Directors attended Africa Oil Week in and key officials of certain host countries SouthAfrica and hosted a stakeholder event during herinduction - Directors met with ministers and key government officials during the year - Chair arranged multiple one-to-one - Chair visited our offices and engaged with OUR PEOPLE meetings across the employee group during staff in Nairobi, Accra, Dublin, Cape Town the year and London and at our operational sites inTurkana and Takoradi - Directors travelled to our office locations topresent and engage in Tullow in - Board hosted dinners for Functional Heads Focusevents - Board attended deep-dive sessions with - CEO presented town hall events which employees working on matters of strategic include open Q&A throughout the year at significance, for example the TRP different locations - EHS Committee members visited both the - Board hosted informal evening event for all TEN and Jubilee FPSOs and met with staff staff when visiting Accra office in Ghana and key contractors - Executive Directors host Meet the Execbreakfasts with staff 68 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts S S S R R R O O O T T T S S S E E E V V V N N N I I I R R R U U U O O O OUR INVESTORS OUR PEOPLE 2018 GHANA INVESTOR FORUM 2018 TULLOW IN FOCUS EVENTS In May 2018, the CEO and Chair-Designate joined the Tullow held two Tullow in Focus events in 2018, which Ghana senior leadership team at the Ghana Investor Forum areopportunities to bring colleagues together and reflect held at the Holiday Inn in Accra.
The Company is listed on on Company performance and share the wider strategic the Ghana Stock Exchange and understands that many of direction of the business.
These two-hour events are led its Ghanaian shareholders are not able to travel to London bythe Executive Team, including the Executive Directors, for the Companys formal Annual General Meeting in April.
which travels to each of our six key locations, giving a Therefore we hold the Ghana Investor Forum in May to formal presentation and then socialising and networking engage with our Ghanaian shareholders and answer with colleagues.
At the mid-year event, the Executive Team questions they may have.
The feedback received by the and leaders presented the 2030 Vision and at the year end, Board at the event was considered during subsequent they reflected on 2018 performance, celebrated our first decisions, such as the plan to start paying dividends from CEO Awards and looked ahead to key milestones for 2019. the 2019 financial year.
OUR HOST COUNTRIES 2018 BOARD STAKEHOLDER EVENING In October 2018, the Board held one of its meetings at Tullows offices in Accra.
During the visit, which included travel to our operations in Takoradi and the FPSOs, the Board hosted an evening for our stakeholders in Ghana.
Guests were invited from the various ministries of the Government of Ghana, our regulators, the Ghana Stock Exchange, our contractors and suppliers, institutional investors and traditional leaders and Chiefs.
The event provided an opportunity for the Board to directly engage with and receive the views of our host communities inGhana.
Events such as these provide the Board withtheopportunity to learn about the priorities of Angus McCoss, Dorothy Thompson and Mike Daly onboard the Jubilee FPSO.
OUR MAIN SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENTS DURING 2018 January Trading Statement and Operational Update February 2017 Full-Year Results April Annual General Meeting and Trading Update May Ghana Investor Forum June Trading Statement and Operational Update July 2018 Half-Year Results November November Trading Update Capital Markets Day www.
