STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY FURTHER INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY INTO OURBUSINESS Sustainability is one of the four pillars of our 2030 Vision and central to our new business strategy.
In 2018, as part of the development of our 2030 Vision, werenewed SHARED PROSPERITY andexpanded our sustainability strategy.
We started by improving our Our approach to shared prosperity concentrates understanding of the perspectives of our investors, host countries and onthree core areas: optimising local content and communities, and colleagues on the sustainability agenda and their developing supplier capacity: building local skills expectations of Tullow in this regard.
Drawing on this work, ournew and developing people: and making socio-economic sustainability strategy incorporates four core areas: shared prosperity, investments that deliver shared infrastructure and environmental stewardship, responsible operations and equality and support local communities.
Further detail about our activities in each ofthese four stakeholder engagement toensure that we are areas is set out in the following pages.
aligned with national and regional priorities and that we establish a two-way dialogue with our stakeholders.
We also focus on building capacity through educating and training local employees SHARED and suppliers, and supporting local communities Local content and capacity to make their own choices about development.
PROSPERITY Local content and capacity Developing local skills We aim to create meaningful and enriching business opportunities in our countries of Social investment operation, improving livelihoods and community welfare by building the skills that will increase local business participation in the supply chain.
In Ghana, in 2018, Tullows overall supplier spend was 14percent more than in 2017 due to increased ENVIRONMENTAL capital expenditure related to Jubilee Full Field Climate resilience Development.
Absolute spend with local suppliers STEWARDSHIP in Ghana is 29 per cent of the total spend.
Absolute Ecosystems spend as a proportion of total spend has continued to increase from 26 per cent in 2017 and16 per cent in 2016.
Meanwhile, our spend with international suppliers fell from 19 per cent in2017 to 14 per cent in 2018.
This partly reflects our continued efforts to direct spending towards local firms.
RESPONSIBLE Safety and wellness In Kenya, in 2018, 37 per cent of Tullows overall OPERATIONS supplier spend was with Kenyan businesses, up Responsible production from 29 per cent in 2017, but with a lower absolute value due to reduced expenditure following the end of the drilling campaign in 2017 and the lull in activities ahead of the start of the Early Oil Pilot trucking activities.
EQUALITY & As the Kenya project is in the development phase Good governance we have continued to focus on capacity building in TRANSPARENCY local companies.
A total of 300 contractor personnel Promoting equality have received training, including in defensive driving and transportation of dangerous goods by road as part of the Early Oil Pilot Scheme.
40 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Developing local skills leveraging existing infrastructure plans and projects We support better education and skills development tobenefit local communities.
for our colleagues and communities, specifically One example in Turkana, Kenya, is that Tullow, in collaboration inSTEM to enhance employability.
Wealso have with the National and County Government, has supported the programmes supporting womens development setting upof local WaterResource Users Associations WRUAs ineducation and vocational training.
One such around theAmosing and Ngamia fields inTurkana.
We have example is the LVTC Scholarships, outlined in the also supported capacity building of the WRUAs to effectively case studybelow.
manage sustainable community water projects.
Our support in providing water in Turkana has increased access to water Social investment forover 67,000 people which has helped reduce therisk We invest in shared infrastructure and logistics ofwaterborne diseases and supported increased economic such as water, energy or waste, by adapting and activity as less time is spent looking forwater.
INVESTING IN QUALITY EDUCATION IN GHANA LVTC SCHOLARSHIPS: UPSKILLING IMPACTEDCOMMUNITIES SUPPORTING EDUCATIONAL In Kenya, there is a large and growing young Turkana population who INFRASTRUCTURE want to play their part in the growth of the oil and gas sector, as well A key component of Tullows investment strategy asin the more general development of their county following devolution.
is to support the building of capacity through Tullows support for the Lodwar Vocational Technical Centre LVTC education and skills acquisition in STEM.
In inTurkana is helping them to do that by improving the availability 2018, Tullow committed $10 million to building andquality of technical and vocational education.
school infrastructure for Senior High Schools This practical partnership provides training in mechanics, plumbing, SHS in Ghana over a period of five years, masonry and joinery, as well as vocational coursesin catering and making an annual contribution of $2million garment making.
In 2018, 52 students graduated from the Tullowover this period.
This project demonstrates funded scholarship scheme.
Tullow has recently collaborated with Tullows shared prosperity philosophy and is theKenya Commercial Bank Foundation to provide a further 120 aligned with the Government of Ghanas objective scholarships at LVTC.
to support the Sustainable Development Goal byproviding free Senior High School education.
The LVTC partnership is aligned to the Government of Kenyas job creation priority in its Big Four economic plan.
In the medium to The project aims to provide classrooms, longterm the programme will increase thenumber of skilled Turkana dormitories and furniture in support of the who can participate in the ongoing development of their communities.
Government of Ghanas free SHS policy.
The The initiative also supports livelihood diversification.
project will be implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Education and Ghana Education Service.
Over five years the project aims to deliver at least 10 two-storey classroom blocks and 10 two-storey dormitory blocks and associated furniture across the country.
School dropout rates across Ghana are 30percent from basic to senior school andthis project aims to reduce that dropout rateat the sponsored schools by 15 per cent.
Itis also expected to raise the number of rural Junior High School graduates enrolling in Senior High School by 10 per cent.
Ultimately the project will support girls education by benefiting almost 12,000 students in the first five years of the project.
com 41 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP DEVELOPING PRODUCTION OPERATORS IN TURKANA Amailo Investments, a Tullow-supported outsourcing firm Climate resilience that carries out recruitment in Lokichar, has worked with In 2018, Tullow undertook a series of benchmarking AlMansoori, a Tullow contractor in Lokichar that is building exercises to assess and review its position regarding the upstream Early Oil Pilot Scheme EOPS production climate change.
The results of this analysis have facility.
Following a recruitment process, eight out of58 been communicated and discussed with the applicants from the local community were selected and Executive Team, and we are now working on a set placed with AlMansoori.
of plans that will continually improve both our operational performance and transparency in this The employees were on a two-month contract to work on area.
In 2019, this will include operational reviews the construction phase of the EOPS project to install and of sources of emissions and opportunities for commission the Degassing and Early Production Facilities reduction in our Ghana operations.
At a Group level, in Lokichar Basin.
After the initial two-month contract we are reviewing our current process for the analysis through Amailo, AlMansoori was pleased with the progress of climate risks and resilience of investment the trainees made and hired them as full-time employees.
decisions with a goal of making it more robust.
AlMansoori also went ahead and hired more Kenyans to join its team.
Tullows total Scope 1 emissions were 1.2 million tonnes of CO e 2017: 1.6 million tonnes and Since March 2017 the trainees have undergone on-the-job 139tonnes 2017: 185 tonnes of CO e per training as production operators as well as specialised 1,000tonnes of hydrocarbon produced.
The total training in the UAE at refineries and sites where AlMansoori air emissions decreased by 36 per cent from last operates.
Further training including sampling, well testing year.
This was mainly due to the TEN FPSO achieving oil and oil production operations is also planned for this steady-state operations post commissioning for a year.
Nassir Sulaiman, the AlMansoori project supervisor protracted period of time second to third quarter.
in Kenya, said, I enjoy working in Turkana as the local Emissions from Jubilee FPSO in 2018 compared team are hardworking, responsible and friendly.
Asproduction starts at the Ngamia 3 well we want toprepare the team with adequate training.
Ecosystems The production operator trainees are pleased that TullowTullow continues to review and improve its contracted companies are being encouraged to partner, Environmental and Social Impact Assessment train and work with locals.
Jairus Lobuin, production ESIA work and uphold its stated commitment to operator trainee, said We will soon have the ability not undertake operations in World Heritage Sites, tooperate the facility because of the excellent training in addition to robust screening of potential new andexperience we are receiving.
projects against Protected Area Guidelines.
During 2018, our Kenya and Ghana operations continued to be assessed by independent monitoring groups and have again demonstrated adherence to the IFC Performance Standards and Tullow IMS Standards.
COe EMISSIONS PER 1,000 TONNES OF HYDROCARBON PRODUCED 300 250 200 150 1 261 1 1 1 100 185 141 139 123 121 50 99 98 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 COe Scope 2 COe 42 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY LTIF RATES RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS LTIF per million Safety and wellness man hours We are committed to ensuring our colleagues and host 1 communities are kept safe and well, and to raising awareness 0.9 of potential dangers related to our operations and the locations 0.8 where we operate.
All of Tullows colleagues have access to 0.7 private healthcare and we aim to achieve top quartile industry performance on our occupational safety measures.
We also 0.6 protect our colleagues and assets with robust emergency plans.
0.5 0.4 Providing a safe working environment for our employees 0.3 andcontractors is a core value and business priority and ourperformance on safety andsustainability is incentivised 0.2 through our annual corporate scorecard.
Our goal is to 0.1 achievetop industry quartile safety performance, and during 0 0 2018 we continued to improve our performance.
Wesaw an 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 overall decrease in the number of lost time injuries, total Tullow LTIF OGP average LTIF recordable injuries and high-potential incidents recorded across our operations.
This performance improvement was To continually improve our performance, Tullow also tracks achieved during a period of highactivity, with the Turret Tier 3 IOGP events to raise awareness and address areas for Remediation Project, return to drilling in Ghana and the improvement.
These events are small releases from processes EarlyOil Pilot Scheme in Kenya all increasing our potential or identified challenges to safety systems.
During the year, the exposure to accidents and incidents.
number of events recorded was 58, an increase of 48per cent on 2017.
Our occupational health performance in the prevention ofmalaria cases for non-immune personnel continued This increase in process safety events, we believe, is due toremain strong with zero malaria serious cases being toapositive, more diligent reporting culture and correct recorded in 2018.
The Company is committed to improving classification and investigation of incidents.
A plan has been employee health, wellbeing and resilience in the workplace, put in place, which includes our major contractors toimprove and a new employee wellbeing and resilience programme process safety performance in 2019 with nominal and stretch wasintroduced in the latter part of 2018.
This will be further target KPIs being set to measure the plannedimprovements.
rolled out globally in 2019across the organisation.
In 2018, Tullow created a Process Safety Management Steering Committee made up of senior leadership from Group Functions Responsible production and Business Units, led by Gary Thompson, EVP for West Africa, Major accident hazards represent a material risk to Tullow.
and supported by the EHS Process Safety manager.
The Toaddress this, process safety management policies, standards objective of the committee is to assure that risks associated and plans are applied to all drilling and production activities.
with Process Safety are being adequately communicated, They are incorporated in planning and decision making managed and mitigated across Tullow.
throughout the project life cycle, from concept selection, design and construction through to commissioning, Tullows approach to asset protection incorporates the operations, modifications and decommissioning.
traditional corporate security function, business continuity, and crisis and emergency management CEM.
Our policies, Following the 2017 audit of process safety management for standards and plans in this area apply to all employees and the Jubilee and TEN facilities our approach to process safety contractors.
They are designed to protect Tullows assets was revised and updated in early 2018.
A new Process Safety people, physical and intellectual and reputation from Management IMS Standard based on the Energy Institutes sources of potential and actual harm.
They also ensure that Process Safety Management framework has been introduced we can rapidly adapt and respond in aresilient way to for all Tullow operations.
Animprovement plan was produced unforeseen events that could impact normal business for the Tullow Ghana operations and all Business Units will operations and mitigate the impact on people, the work to ensure compliance with this standard throughout 2019. environment, assets and our reputation.
In line with this standard, process safety management Agreed plans, procedures and resources are in place that training has been carried out across most of the Company cover all operational activities, ensuring that we are ready to in2018 including with the Executive Team, Group operations, respond to any major emergency.
These plans are based on wells and engineering personnel, and the Tullow Ghana credible emergency scenarios identified during the ESIA leadership, operations and engineering personnel.
The Kenya process and or the Business Unit activity risk assessment, leadership and operations team will receive training in the and follow the mandatory requirements of the Group first quarter of 2019.
Tullow recorded two International Association of Oil & Gas In 2018, we undertook a number of CEM preparedness exercises Producers IOGP Tier 2 events in the form of hydrocarbon across the business.
This increased awareness among liquid releases from the Jubilee facility.
Both releases were members of the Crisis Management Team and in-country contained and caused no secondary or escalation events Incident Management Teams, and which generated useful andno injuries or environmental spills were recorded.
feedback for further improvements to the CEMprocess.
com 43 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED In Kenya, the Tullow Social Performance and External Affairs EQUALITY & TRANSPARENCY functions and the Golder EMC teams have been consulting Good governance with a range of stakeholders nationally and in Turkana since We will promote good governance through our commitment the start of the ESIA process.
tothe Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, These stakeholder groups include: government representatives, theExtractive Industries Transparency Initiative, and our zero non-governmental organisations, civil society organisations, tolerance of bribery and corruption.
faith-based organisations, local communities, academia and Our payments to governments, including payments in kind, media stakeholders.
Total payments to all major stakeholder groups including employees, suppliers and communities, as well as governments, brought LOOKING AHEAD ourtotal socio-economic contribution to $907.2 million 2017: For 2019, as part of our new sustainability strategy, Tullow is $667 million.
In addition to payments to governments, this increasing its ambition on all aspects of this agenda and has included $283 million spent with local suppliers, $189.8 million introduced new KPIs to ensure momentum in the year ahead.
in payroll globally and $4.4 million in discretionary spend on social For local content, we intend to increase spend with local projects.
Our total payments made to the Ghanaian Government companies by more than 10 per cent proportionately from in 2018 amounted to $270 million 2017: $162 million.
ourbase target, among other targets.
To strengthen our approach to stakeholder management, 2018 TOTAL SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION inKenya we are targeting to negotiate an industry-leading Global payroll $189.8m Consent Agreement in Turkana by the end of 2019.
To progress our approach to environmental stewardship, we TOTAL will implement a range of initiatives, from commissioning an ECONOMIC Social projects independent verification of Tullows carbon strategy through Payment to government CONTRIBUTION $4.4m $M including payment to improving the environmental impact of Tullow offices in kind $432m through energy efficiency and waste management.
Finally, we Payment to local will develop a Biodiversity Plan to measurably improve our suppliers $283m 47 31 1 21 I approach, ready for execution in 2020.
We will also ensure 2D seismic in Cte dIvoire is conducted witha minimal footprint, Tullow supports the public disclosure of Production Sharing seamless land access and minimal impact on the environment.
Agreements PSA, but will only publish thesewith the express For equality and transparency, we will launch a set of support and agreement of itsgovernment partners.
This year, inclusion and diversity targets, with the support of Tullow in addition tothePSAs for Ghana, we have also published leadership and the broader staff base.
We intend to achieve Tullows Petroleum Agreements and other related agreements positive progress by increasing both African and female for the Orinduik and Kanuku licences atthe request of the representation at Senior Management levels.
Government of the Cooperative Republic of Guyana.
For responsible operations, we intend to demonstrate Promoting equality improvement in monitored environmental metrics including Strong community relationships are central to oursuccess and greenhouse gas emissions and flaring reduction and increase whether we are discussing land access in Kenya or maintaining the usage of less intrusive and more environmentally friendly safe access to offshore installations we engage in dialogue technologies, such as drones, airborne surveys for integrity withthose affected by our work.
Our Social Performance teams, management and or seismic surveying.
in conjunction with our Operations teams, continue to update host communities and engage with them on a regular basis.
At a corporate level in 2018 we strengthened our Grievance Mechanism and the tools we use to support and record engagements with communities across our businesses.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS As part of the work to develop our sustainability strategy, we have chosen to align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
These contain 17 ambitious goals, agreed in 2015 by all 193 UN Member States, that aim to tackle the worlds most pressing social, economic, and environmental challenges and provide a common vision for sustainable development for business, governments and civil society.
Through our research and analysis, we have chosen to focus on ten SDGs.
This will help to provide additional focus to our work, give us insights into best practice, help us communicate ourambitions and provide a clear structure for our action in this area.
44 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
