DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED importance of focusing on speed and responsiveness to the market.
OUR PEOPLE We use survey results to help us take action in areas where there is UNILEVER EMPLOYEES ARE EMPOWERED TO ACT LIKE room for improvement.
For example, last year we implemented the BUSINESS OWNERS IN A PURPOSEFUL CULTURE.
new Standards of Leadership in response to feedback we received.
The world of work is rapidly changing.
Automation, flexible resourcing Alongside our UniVoice survey, we use Glassdoor to benchmark our and new business models continue to impact our business and employee experience.
As at 31 December 2018, our rating of 3.9 out workforce.
The workforce expects more flexibility and is increasingly of 5 was above the site average of 3.2. freelance.
A job for life is no longer the norm.
Once employed, people must regularly reinvent themselves with new skills.
The digital DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION transformation of work and growth of automation is bringing both We want our culture to be inclusive, promoting gender balance and great benefits, but also great disruption.
The composition of the respecting the contribution of all employees regardless of gender, age, workforce is changing too.
By 2020, Millennials will make up around race, disability or sexual orientation as set out in our Code Policy on 35% of the global workforce.
Just over half of Unilever's own workforce Respect, Dignity and Fair Treatment.
The USLP sets out clear targets for expanding opportunities and enhancing access to skills and training for women in our value chain.
CREATING A FUTURE-FIT WORKFORCE It also sets out our ambition to build a gender-balanced workforce In response to the trends outlined above, we are taking action across within Unilever, with 50% of women in management positions by 2020. our business, including simplifying processes and ways of working By the end of 2018, 49% of total management were women 47% in to free people from non-value adding tasks so they can focus on key 2017.
Among the top 92 executives, 23% were women 22% in 2017. priorities.
2018 saw the continued implementation of Connected If you include employees who are statutory directors of the corporate 4 Growth C4G, our organisational change programme, and the entities whose financial information is included in the Groups 2018 creation of three new Divisions to bring further focus and simplicity.
consolidated accounts in this Annual Report and Accounts, the Our regular surveys show that 74% of our people now feel more number increases to 474 71% males and 190 29% females.
Our time to bring innovations to 5 out of 13 of the Board were female 38% in 2017.
Of our total market is now 40-50% faster than in 2016. workforce of 154,848, 101,383 65% were male and 53,465 35% With the advance of AI and robotics, it is more important than ever that were female at the end of 2018. we strike the right balance between the use of technology and more We run programmes across Unilever aimed at attracting, retaining human-centred approaches.
We have invested in Una Hub, an AI-based and developing female talent.
This includes developing candidates for platform, which automates responses to all general employee potential future roles, aiming for 'balanced slates' so that we interview enquiries so People Experience Leads and HR Business Partners equal numbers of men and women for roles, and practical help such can focus on more complex queries, and provide face-to-face support as a minimum 16 weeks paid maternity leave as a global standard where relevant.
more than the regulatory requirement in over 50% of countries where Our research shows that a focus on purpose helps attract talent we operate.
In 2018, we also committed to introduce by the end of and binds us together for growth.
Through our People with Purpose 2019, three weeks of fully paid paternity leave as a benefit to all new programme, more than 30,000 employees have joined workshops to fathers, adopting partners and parents in same-sex couples.
help them define their purpose, with 50,000 targeted by 2019.
Our Unilever has a commitment to gender equality and fairness in the global Univoice survey results reinforce the importance of these workplace based on equal pay for equal work and achieving greater workshops 92% of employees who believe they can live their purpose gender balance.
Pay and overall reward is intended to be gender at Unilever, also say that their job inspires them to go the extra mile.
neutral, with any differences between employees in similar jobs As the workplace changes it is important that we continue to prioritise reflecting performance and skill.
Gender pay gaps develop where mental wellbeing.
In 2018, we officially recognised World Mental there is a representational imbalance between genders.
When we look Health Day in October and continue to invest in the mental wellbeing at our worldwide business as a whole, in countries with more than of our people, alongside their physical wellbeing.
This builds on the 250 employees, the average female pay was 26% higher than male roll-out of a mental wellbeing framework globally several years ago pay in 2018 2017: 25%.
This is largely due to the fact that 80% of our which guides us in tackling the health risks across our business.
lower paying blue-collar roles are held by male employees.
Equal pay for equal work is our primary ambition and is a crucial part of fair Another area of focus is on personalising training and capability compensation.
Our Framework for Fair Compensation reviews the building to develop the right leaders and teams who are fit for average pay differences between genders at each work level and in the future.
We are responding to demands for new skills through each country.
The most recent analysis highlights that there is more continuous learning.
Since the launch of Degreed, our online learning work to do to continue improving our gender balance, and related platform in 2017, 76,000 people have access to 2.3 million pieces of gender pay gaps, at various levels and in various countries throughout learning content, with 55,000 pieces being consumed on a monthly the business.
basis, including PowerUp, our digital upskilling programme.
We are also accelerating impact through new agile ways of working.
In the UK BUSINESS INTEGRITY and US we are piloting more agile team structures to ensure we have Our principles and values apply to all our employees through our the right people, doing the right job at the right time, while breaking Code and Code Policies.
Our employees undertake mandatory annual down silos.
training on these Policies via online training modules and an annual business integrity pledge.
Our Business Integrity guidelines include RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION clear processes for managing Code breaches.
For more information Our attractiveness as an employer is improving amongst Millennial on Business Integrity see our website.
We are the number one FMCG graduate employer of choice in around 50 countries and the most followed In 2018 1,206 whistleblowing incidents were opened defined as Code FMCG employer on LinkedIn with over 4 million followers as at the Policy cases raised.
We closed 1,252 incidents across all areas of end of 2018. our Code and Code Policies, with 662 confirmed breaches.
In 2018, we terminated the employment of 330 people.
Business integrity risks In 2018 we introduced more ways to give our employees a voice, are included as part of our ethical and legal and regulatory principal through monthly pulse surveys and global and local surveys on a range risks see page 30.
The Code and Code Policies reflect our desire to of topics, reaching around 70,000 people.
Our largest listening exercise fight corruption in all its forms.
We are committed to eradicating any is the annual engagement survey called UniVoice which covered practices or behaviours though our zero-tolerance policy.
a representative sample of almost 25,000 office-based employees in 2018.
We maintained high levels of employee engagement 90% Our Responsible Sourcing Policy and Responsible Business Partner of employees said they were proud to work for Unilever and our Policy help to give us visibility of our third parties to ensure their Engagement Index remained at 74%.
The survey also reinforced the business principles are consistent with our own.
16 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
