Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 18 Financial statements Our people and culture Attracting, developing, engaging and retaining talent at Ultra is critically important and fundamental to Ultra beingable to deliver sustainable value toall of our stakeholders.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 19 Underpinning the success of our employees is creating and maintaining the right culture and work environment where employees feel valued.
Building the talent pipeline Partnering through apprenticeships To continue to build the talent pipeline to Many Ultra businesses have well-established and meet todays and future business needs, we successful apprenticeship programmes, which have a holistic approach to attracting talent has historically and continues to provide the into the business.
In the last 12 months, Group with engineering leaders.
The Group we have significantly invested increating runsapprenticeship schemes at most of its UK internal talent acquisition teams with the businesses and currently has 31 apprentices right specialist recruitment backgrounds and intraining in the UK.
supported by the right systems and processes to enhance our ability to bring in experienced There have been a number of notable successes: external professionals into the business.
These teams are working closely with the business to Energy NCS were finalists at the UK Nuclear directly source and hire candidates from the Skills Awards in the Business Support external market.
"The talent pipeline isfurther Apprentice of the Year category: they were enhanced through our continued support for also finalists for ""Developing the next The right people and commitment to, a number of programmes generation"" award from the British Energy Our focus as an organisation is on ensuring that not only bring talent into theorganisation Coast Business Cluster."
that we have the right people, in the right but also encourage students todevelop CIS continues to work closely with SEPnet by roles, with the right skills, doing the right careers in engineering and the widerbusiness.
sponsoring eight-week placements alongside work, at the right time and to do all of this others funded internally.
within a supportive, rewarding and learning Partnering with schools culture.
This starts at the top with the Ultra businesses engage and partner with schools Partnering with universities and commitment we have to hiring and developing in the local communities within which we do colleges the right leaders for Ultra, leaders that can business and have office facilities.
These In addition to traditional career fairs, Ultra set the direction, give the boundaries and relationships encompass a multitude of different actively engages with lecturers and faculties provide the right level of space and support initiatives but include offering work experience: during degree courses as part of the excellent to enable our people to do what they do longer-term work placements or internships: visits links the Group maintains with universities best, which is delivering domain expertise to as part of AS-level courses: interview practice around the world.
These have created win-win help our customers solve problems or deliver sessions: and careers events.
Many of Ultras solutions in which Ultra is given access to innovative, winning solutions.
By investing employees also volunteer time to support both leadingresearch and specialists in their fields in the professional growth and development lessons and after school clubs.
Examples include: collaborating on programmes or innovation of all ofour existing employees and whilst also enabling the Group to form early supplementing thiswith hiring the best talent PCS continued their relationship with relationships with students well before into Ultra, we continue to ensure that we meet Balcarras School and attended interview graduation with a view to bringing these customer needs via a deep understanding preparation sessions, whilst also giving students into the organisation.
Ultra sponsors of the specialist capability areas and a deep presentations to students on apprenticeships university students and also provides a number knowledge of the users environments.
of work placements as part of degree courses.
CIS continue to support a number of STEM Culture students at local secondary schools and in Ultra businesses provide opportunities for Underpinning the success of our employees, 2018 supported a Year of Engineering students to work on real projects via work and therefore our business, is creating and STEM event.
placements, co-operative programmes and maintaining the right culture and work internship schemes: all internships are paid environment where employees feel valued, Ultras main focus remains within the for, to promote access to all.
The Group also know what is expected of them and feel engineering disciplines but extends also to works with SEPnet to provide summer work included and engaged so that they bring including other STEM subjects, as well as finance placements to students to help advance and their best contributions to work.
The Groups and the commercial disciplines.
The Group is sustain physics as a strategically important values and behaviours are an essential recognised as a major sponsor of students subject for the UK economy.
cornerstone to this and are focused around through their A Levels via the Arkwright four key areas: Leadership, Entrepreneurship, Scholarship and currently Ultra has eight Audacity and Paranoia.
This programme provides students with are known within the Group as LEAP.
support and mentoring during their studies and has led to more and more students electing to undertake STEM degree courses.
STEM: Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 20 Financial statements Our people and culture continued areas like Ultras successful competitive strategy, SUCCESS STORIES CULTURE strategic selling, programme management andsystems engineering.
Specic training Maritime Systems works with both Dalhousie programmes are also provided for individuals LEAP University and the Nova Scotia Community asnecessary and according to individual College to whom they provide four-month needswhich are identified through personal work placements on a continuous basis.
development conversations through the year.
Energy NSPI is on the Lancaster University Industrial steering board and delivers lectures, Leadership To give students access to real-life current work Good leadership is essential to Ultra and sponsored research and set MDc BSc challenges, and to enable Ultra employees to a number of models of leadership are projects.
incorporated in the development and develop their management and leadership skills, training programmes that are delivered there are opportunities to participate in national Partnering with institutions around the Group.
schemes, such as the Engineering Education Ultras UK businesses are members of Scheme run by the Engineering Development Engineering UK and other bodies that research Entrepreneurship Trust and competitions promoting STEM and develop new ways to attract people into Being entrepreneurial is a behaviour which careers.
Ultras businesses have also developed engineering careers, as well as helping to underpins the Groups strategy.
All Ultra corporate partnerships with engineering forecast future trends in the sector.
Ultra businesses seek to provide customers with institutions, including the Institution of businesses worldwide have a variety of links with solutions which are different from, and Engineering and Technology, in order to their local business forums and chambers of better than, those of our competitors.
Ultras support and encourage employees to pursue commerce members, helping to encourage entrepreneurial culture seeks to maximise the professional recognition in the form of CEng, STEM activities.
capability to generate exceptional ideas and IEng or EngTech status for both their current the business skills needed to bring them and previous work and academic achievements.
Training and development successfully to market.
Ultra actively invests in, and supports, the Succession planning and retention training and development of all its employees.
Audacity Each of Ultras businesses prepares an annual As a Group, Ultra has invested in its Learning Audacious thinking is the difference Organisation, Succession & Development Plan Academy, an online portal, which is available to betweenincremental improvement and to ensure that Ultra has the right people in the all of the Groups businesses to support training.
It takes the idea of right place.
The plan assesses individuals Many of the courses in the Learning Academy innovation, one of Ultras core values, and performance in their current role and their invites employees to think about issues in are tailored to the specic requirements of Ultra, potential to perform a larger role in the short ways which are unconstrained by existing and include programmes on leadership and norms, making use of creative approaches orlonger term.
management, in addition to core offerings in inevery aspect of the Groups business.
Paranoia Paranoia, in the business sense, is a concern and fear about competitors and what they may do.
It also relates to concerns and fears about things which can go wrong internally.
Total 2018 Total 2017 For Ultra, paranoia is important in focusing UK its people on maximising their knowledge of the competitive landscape, by constantly Apprentices 31 45 asking questions of the Groups individual University placement students 13 7 businesses, customers, teaming partners andsuppliers.
Sponsored university students 6 1 Arkwright scholars 8 11 US Undergraduate interns 39 21 New graduates 6 6 Employees working on graduate-level degrees 8 15 Canada Undergraduate interns 23 16 New graduates 4 1 Employees working on graduate-level degrees 2 1 Australia Undergraduate interns 2 New graduates 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 21 GROWTH THROUGH ENGAGEMENT LAUNCH In addition to these internal behaviours that form the basis of our culture, we have a set of behaviours that have been developed to facilitate external customer engagement and interactions.
These help us to generate sustainable long-term customer relationships and have been an integral part of why we continue to create a strong pipeline of opportunities and programmes within the business.
These behaviours are known within Ultra as LAUNCH: LISTEN to customers ASK the right questions UNDERSTAND what their Assessments are recorded in Ultras Talent & RETENTION OF HIGH PERFORMERS pain is Succession system and give a performance versus potential rating for each employee.
The system is used by businesses to ensure a supply 99% identify the customers NEEDS of suitable talent is available and that succession and get their agreement candidates are identified and developed to step 2018 99% into new and or bigger roles as required by the business.
Ultra maintains a strong retention rate CREATE a relationship, 2017 97% for those identified as high performers, with a opportunity and solution 99% retention rate in 2018.
2016 80% Identified top talent and high potential talent 2015 100% HOLISTIC Examine the are developed through critical experiences biggerpicture: how can on the job which is supplemented by 2014 60% Ultramaximise the scope access to and participation in a number of leadership programmes offered within the andvalue of the opportunity?
The Maximising Leadership Impact MLI programme has been run for several INTERNAL APPOINTMENTS AT years across the organisation and is targeted EXECUTIVE TEAM, DIVISIONAL at senior managers whilst the Making a ANDMD PRESIDENT LEVEL Difference MAD programme is targeted at middle managers and high potential individuals.
Both programmes cover skill builds 38% in Influencing styles, Emotional management, Inspiring others internally and externally, High performance feedback and Negotiating 2018 38% & resolving differences, Holding difficult conversations, Leading change, Resilience: self 2017 60% and teams, Developing others, and Coaching.
