Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 22 Financial statements Responsible business Ultra recognises that the success andsustainability of the business is enhanced by the positive relationships built with stakeholders and continues to focus on value creation for all: shareholders, customers, employees, the environment, local communities and suppliers.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 23 Ultra believes that the right people are its mostimportant asset: the capabilities of its employees allow the Group to innovate continually Fundraising and volunteer work in the local Maritime Systems was awarded a place on community or at a national level is something theCanadian Combat Ship CSC Team led by the Group actively encourages.
It supports Lockheed Martin, on which Maritime Systems employees who undertake voluntary activities.
won the Anti-Submarine Warfare lead role.
"Some noteworthy examples in 2018 include: This success provides Ultra with a place on the CSC ""Board of Governors"" alongside major Energy NSPI raised over 9,000 for local industry partners."
charities through activities such as a skydive, ATS received an Exceptional rating on their cake sales and a Truck by Truck Snack Box.
Contractor Performance Assessment report ATS received the Distinguished Partnership for the US Marine Corp programme.
Award from Del Valle Independent School District for the fifth consecutive year for Employees outstanding contributions throughout the Ultra believes that the right people are its most year to Smith Elementary School.
important asset: the capabilities of its employees allow the Group to innovate continually and Shareholders meet customer needs.
Ultra has a solid Ultras goal is to deliver long-term, sustainable, commitment to developing people and securing value creation for all our stakeholders.
the talent pipeline and as such, the Group believes that, to ensure its continuing growth Customers and success, these initiatives for talent Ultra aims to be an excellent strategic supplier to development and employee retention are its customers.
To enable this, Ultras businesses crucial.
A number of Ultra businesses launched In the community are focused on helping customers identify their unique initiatives to ensure continuing employee Ultras businesses continue to be active in their true needs whilst developing long-term development and engagement in 2018. local communities, building positive links by relationships based on performance excellence Examples include: engaging with local people and local issues.
Ultras businesses Many businesses form special relationships with aim to build long-term, mutually beneficial Energy NCS and NSPI held knowledge educational establishments in the surrounding relationships with their customers and become transfer talks during lunch breaks throughout communities offering work placements and part of the customers extended enterprise.
the year on subjects including technology visits to businesses as part of School, College Examples from 2018 that highlight Ultras skills and personal safety.
and University courses, as well as providing commitment to its broad customer base are: ATS held a wellness day in November 2018 to interview practice sessions, supporting lessons, promote a healthy lifestyle for employees.
careers events and school science fairs.
Ultra is involved in the nationwide initiatives on STEM education and in the UK also offers Arkwright scholarships: a scholarship that sponsors A-level students looking to pursue a career in engineering through their education.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 24 Financial statements Responsible business continued Providing guidance and training toemployees The Group continues to promote and strengthen its policies, processes and training to ensure employees have the clear guidance they need inidentifying and managing ethical matters.
Ultra uses EthicsPoint in all of its businesses.
EthicsPoint is a Group-wide independent, condential weband telephone-based hotline, which enables all employees to report concerns anonymously about possible improprieties and other compliance issues.
All reports registered through EthicsPoint are reviewed and responded to in a timely and appropriate manner.
The responsibility for handling reports rests with Ultras Senior Independent Non-Executive Director with the exception of US securityrelated issues which are routed to the Chair of the Security Committee of either Ultras Special Security Agreement company or Ultras Proxy Board company, as appropriate.
No retaliatory action is taken against employees formaking reports in good faith through EthicsPoint.
Any employee found to be in breach of the Policy statement on Ethics and Business Conduct is Suppliers ensure that its products are not incorporated subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
Ultra views its suppliers as an extension of the into weapons or other equipment used for the Ultra enterprise as many businesses rely on these purposes of terrorism, internal repression or the Independent Ethics Overview Committee suppliers for delivery of their products and abuse of human rights.
Key statements and The Ethics Overview Committee was formed to services.
These are safety or performance critical policies can be found on the Ultra website.
provide independent advice and scrutiny of in their end markets so working together is Ultras business activity, giving assurance that crucial.
Partnership with suppliers and customers Ultra is committed to ethical business conduct.
the Groups current and planned undertakings generates innovative and differentiated solutions, are conducted in a manner consistent with the which are at the core of Ultras business model.
Meeting legal and ethical standards legislative environment and are transparent.
The Many Ultra businesses work with their suppliers Ultra requires all employees, businesses and Committee comprises four permanent to enable them to operate more efficiently.
third parties, who act on Ultras behalf, to members, three of whom, including the Chair, comply with the applicable laws and regulations are independent.
Corporate and social responsibility of the countries in which it does business.
Ultra recognises its commitments and its To maintain the highest degree of impartiality, reputation for meeting them, believing that a Ultra is committed to operating in accordance the independent members of the Committee successful and sustainable business is built on with all legislative requirements, including those areself-electing with the appointment of the more than just financial results.
pertaining to anti-corruption and bribery Chair exclusively within the remit of the practices, competition and antitrust laws and independent members.
The Committee meets Ultra is committed to maintaining high standards relevant national export control regulations.
regularly and provides assurance that Ultras of business ethics as part of being a responsible business is being conducted in line with the business.
The Group endeavours to uphold the Ultra has a corporate ethics code, which Groups policies, processes and any relevant rights of its employees as well as creating an encompasses a gifts and hospitality policy.
This is ascertained through honest and transparent business both internally AllUltra businesses are required to report on discussions with senior managers, receiving and externally.
The Groups corporate compliance with the corporate ethics code reports and visiting Ultras businesses.
During responsibility initiatives are focused in the monthly and the Board reviews compliance these reviews, the Committee undertakes a following key areas: withthe code twice a year.
formal review of business activities and the independent members provide advice and Human rights Ultras ethics code can be found within Ultras guidance on the appropriateness of target Ultras Board requires that the Group should, at Policy Statement on Ethics and Business Conduct markets and customers and on potential all times, be a responsible corporate citizen and, along with its policies on anti-corruption and teaming partners.
The Committee also considers as such, the Group complies with all applicable anti-bribery, competition compliance and gifts the reports that come through EthicsPoint.
For legislation in the countries in which it operates.
All of these policies more information on the Ethics Overview Ultra recognises and respects the rights of its can be found on the Group website: Committee see page 48. employees, stakeholders and the communities in which it operates.
As such, Ultra adheres to all http: www.
com aboutus relevant government guidelines, designed to  Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 25 Ultra's values are embedded into the organisation to ensure each business is truly representative of the environment in which it operates.
FIGURE 1: LOST TIME ACCIDENTS Diversity and inclusion The safety of the products and services provided PER 1,000 EMPLOYEES These values are embedded into the to users and customers is a key priority for Ultra.
organisation to ensure each business is truly Each business ensures the appropriate legal and representative of the environment in which it ethical levels of safety are met across a products operates.
It is essential to the Group that all life cycle, with particular emphasis on the 3.0 employees feel fairly treated and are not manufacturing, in-service and disposal phases.
discriminated against in any way.
To enable this, 2018 3.0 Ultra complies with all applicable employment All operating businesses are required to have rights and legislation in the countries in which a written health and safety policy, which 2017 2.8 itoperates.
In addition, the Group is strongly is to be upheld at all times.
Within each committed to maintaining a work environment business, Managing Directors Presidents 2016 3.6 which provides equal opportunities for all are responsible for health and safety and employees, regardless of age, disability, gender for providing adequate resources to meet 2015 3.4 re-assignment, marriage or civil partnership, the requirements of the health and safety pregnancy or maternity, race, religion or belief, policy.
Independent external audits, which 2014 2.5 sex or sexual orientation.
take place biennially, assess compliance, with the next audit taking place in 2019.
Overall Ultra uses rigorous recruiting practices to health and safety responsibility at Board level FIGURE 2: EXTERNALLY REPORTABLE ensurethe best candidate is selected, based on resides with the Chief Executive Officer.
ACCIDENTS PER 100 EMPLOYEES objective requirements and assessments.
Ultra monitors gender and age diversity.
Each business is required to submit an annual report on health and safety performance which Health and safety is summarised and presented to the Board.
0.6 One of Ultra's most important commitments is to the health and well-being of its employees.
Ultra reports lost time accident rate being 2018 0.6 A healthy, committed and engaged workforce, anaccident resulting in half a day or more working in a safe environment, is necessary to off work per 1,000 employees, see Figure 1 2017 0.7 achieve superior business results.
Ultra places andexternally reportable accidents per great emphasis on maintaining high standards 100 employees, see Figure 2.
2016 0.7 of health and safety, not just to employees but also to visitors and local communities in which 2015 0.5 the Group's businesses operate and engages in 2014 0.4 continuous safety improvement activities.
The businesses manage a wide range of safety risks, from ofce and manufacturing risks to providing services at customer sites, including military bases and platforms.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 26 Financial statements Responsible business continued Initiatives that have taken place within the Group include: PCS and PMES both achieved accreditation toISO14001:2015.
USSI retained its registration as a Conditionally Exempt Waste Generator, which no longer requires waste reporting due to efforts in reducing landfill waste.
Products Environmental considerations are taken into account throughout a products life cycle, from concept through to disposal: each individual business ensures its practices and processes consider the environment.
Businesses work withtheir suppliers to reduce the impact of theirproducts and to maximise the use of acceptable components.
Ultra ensures the full cooperation of all employees to minimise environmental impact and maximise the conservation of materials.
Implementation The Chief Executive Officer is the main The environment One of Ultra's most Boardmember with overall environmental Ultra is committed to implementing and responsibility and the Managing Directors and applying effective measures to minimise the important commitments Presidents of the operating businesses are environmental impact of its activities.
All responsible for the implementation of the businesses are audited at least biennially.
is to the health and environmental policy.
Ultra continues its commitment to investing in manufacturing facilities to well-being of its Ultras formal environmental policy addresses offer increased efficiencies and reduce compliance with environmental legislation, employees.
energy consumption, while improving conformity with standards for air, waste disposal productivity across the Company.
The and noise, the economical use of materials and Group also looks for its suppliers to the establishment of appropriate environmental reduce their environmental impact.
Progress is monitored through annual reporting and a biennial external audit process: the last one took place in 2017 and the next will take place in 2019.
Where appropriate, individual businesses have ISO 14001 accreditation.
FIGURE 4A: TOTAL CRC EMISSIONS FIGURE 3: PACKAGING WASTE PER 1,000 CO2 TONNES IN UK FIGURE 4B: TOTAL CRC EMISSIONS T M SALES IN UK BUSINESSES BUSINESSES T M IN UK BUSINESSES 0.187 5,067 15.8 2018 5,067 2018 0.187 2018 15.8 2017 6,374 2017 0.098 2017 19.2 2016 7,474 2016 0.097 2016 21.0 2015 8,178 2015 0.162 2015 21.9 2014 8,424 2014 0.164 2014 23.6 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 27 Each site plans and manages compliance with environmental requirements and the processes for the storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or pollutant materials are reviewed on a continuous basis.
Ultra caused no contamination of land in 2018, continuing the excellent track record of the previous five years.
There were no environmental incidents reported in the year.
Ultra measures and reports on its packaging waste annually and this is shown in Figure 3.
Inthe UK, businesses are encouraged and incentivised to reduce the net amount of waste they produce.
The Group continues to address energy conservation and emissions.
Energy consumption is measured annually and thedatacompared with previous years.
We are registered under the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment 'CRC'.
We filed our annual return in July 2018 and paid 90k, which is 18.2% lower than in 2017 110k.
The cost per tonne of CO2 increased from 17.20 to Greenhouse gas emissions Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme 17.70 2.9% but our actual UK emissions fell Ultra is committed to the systematic reduction The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS from 6,374t to 5,067t 20.5% reduction.
In compliance is a relatively new piece of legislation introduced withthe 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by the UK Government that applies to Ultra.
The As part of the CRC programme, Ultra, in the UK, Regulations, Ultra collects and consolidates scheme is run by an Environment Agency such is registered with the Environment Agency.
The information on carbon dioxide CO2 emissions as CRC and its focus is to reduce the demand Groups compliance emissions reported in our from across its portfolio of 16 businesses: 2013 for energy.
Ultra has successfully demonstrated annual return in July 2018 were 5,067t CO2, was the first year this was undertaken and compliance with the requirements using a20.5% reduction over the previous year.
serves as the baseline year.
ESOS-compliant energy audits and notified its Historical performance data is shown in compliance to the Environment Agency in Figures 4a and 4b.
Ultras Global Greenhouse gas emissions January 2016.
The opportunities for energy tonnes of CO2 tCO2 savings identified during the ESOS assessment were reviewed and various changes were implemented e. g. installation of replacement Total tCO2 emitted by all Ultra boilers and LED lights.
A follow-up audit will businesses 18,452 take place in 2019.
Total tCO2 from Ultra business activities scope 1 2,610 Additional environmental initiatives All businesses are audited biennially.
In the US in Total tCO2 purchased by Ultra 15,842 2017, EMS, 3eTI, Flightline and NSPI all achieved Ultras annual emissions shown as 100% in the audit.
Additionally, in the UK, tCO2 per m of revenue 24.07 Energy, CSS, PMES and PCS all maintained the ISO 14001 environmental standard.
CIS gained FIGURE 5: TOTAL TONNES OF CO2 Methodology itduring 2018.
EMITTED BY ALL ULTRA BUSINESSES In 2018, each UK business reported on the appropriate greenhouse gas metrics.
These LOUISE RUPPEL metrics were aggregated to produce the figures General Counsel and Company Secretary reported above to which standard DEFRA 6 March 2019 conversion factors were applied.
