IMPROVING HEALTH & WELL-BEING SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT Our activities impact the health and well-being of millions of people OUR MULTI-STAKEHOLDER MODEL AIMS TO REWARD OUR through brand-led health and hygiene, and nutrition interventions.
SHAREHOLDERS WHILE POSITIVELY IMPACTING SOCIETY.
Significant progress has been made against our first USLP goal of helping more than one billion people improve their health and wellOur impact on society starts with our 155,000 employees who received being by 2020.
By the end of 2018, we had reached 653 million people, 5.3 billion in pay in 2018, and extends across our value chain including making a significant contribution to the Sustainable Development Goal the millions of retailers and distributors who sell our products in more on Clean Water and Sanitation SDG6.
than 190 countries, generating income and employment for many more.
Our suppliers also benefit from the 34 billion we spent on goods and In order to increase the reach and social impact of some of our biggest services in 2018.
The taxes we pay are another important contribution health & hygiene programmes we continue to explore the potential of using to society.
Total tax borne by Unilever in 2018 was 3.7 billion, of which mass media and digital to drive behaviour change at greater scale, as well 2.3 billion was corporation tax.
Unilever fully complies with the tax laws as scaling up partnerships to increase the reach of more conventional in the countries where we operate.
Where tax law is unclear, or has not on-ground programmes.
Dove, one of Unilevers biggest brands which grew kept pace with modern business practice, we interpret our obligations in at 7.8% in 2018, has reached around 35 million young people since 2004 a responsible way, guided by our Tax Principles.
To expand its reach, Dove has partnered with the Cartoon Network to create Steven Universe mini episodes which UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN bring to life the proven themes from our on-ground programmes to boost Our impact on society is significant but we want our impact to go beyond self-esteem for young people.
Our aim is that this will reach 20 million business as usual, delivering value for multiple stakeholders at the young people over the next two years.
This series is supported by a music same time as growing our business.
This idea is encapsulated in the video which has so far received over 1.8 million views on YouTube.
As well as Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP which represents a simple idea reaching more young people with body confidence messaging, this activity that business growth and sustainability are not mutually exclusive.
By is helping to raise overall awareness of Doves work to improve self-esteem focusing on sustainable growth, we believe we will generate consistent which correlates with higher purchase intent.
and profitable long-term shareholder returns.
The USLP has three big Since 2010, Lifebuoy's programmes have reached 458 million people goals: improving the health and well-being of more than one billion through schools, health clinics and community outreach.
Lifebuoy people by 2020: halving our environmental footprint by 2030: and has recently expanded its behaviour change programme on the enhancing livelihoods for millions by 2020.
These goals are supported importance of handwashing with soap using mobile technology.
by over 50 time-bound stretching targets and a transformational The new service aims to reach out to women in media dark areas, change agenda which aims to create change on a systemic scale.
We providing free advice to mothers on their childs health.
Another recent are making good progress overall against our targets although some Lifebuoy partnership with Gavi the Vaccine Alliance ties together the remain a challenge to achieve by the end of 2020.
Our Sustainable importance of handwashing with soap and immunisation, using a variety Living Report includes extensive disclosure on progress against our of channels including home visits and mobile communications.
While USLP targets including challenges we have faced, some of which are our programmes have focused on reaching children and mothers onsummarised in this section of the Annual Report & Accounts.
ground, we have long believed that TV advertising can drive behaviour Our actions on sustainability are creating value in numerous ways, change.
To test this, we ran a study in India to assess the effectiveness generating more growth, lower costs, less risk and more trust in the of specific Lifebuoy TV adverts.
The study showed a significant increase business.
Our Sustainable Living brands, which combine a powerful in the frequency of handwashing with soap after people watched the purpose with products contributing to the USLP, are a key driver adverts.
We are progressing with peer review publication of our study.
In 2017, 26 of our top 40 brands were Sustainable Living For more than a decade, we have been working to make our products brands including Ben & Jerrys, Dove and Lifebuoy.
Our Sustainable even healthier by increasing goodness and reducing nutrients Living brands grew 46% faster than our other brands and accounted of concern like sugar, salt and saturated fat.
We aim to double for 70% of total growth.
Product innovations which respond to water the proportion of our portfolio that meets the highest nutritional scarcity and climate change at the same time as helping consumers, standards, based on globally recognised dietary guidelines.
So far continue to create growth opportunities for us.
Recent sustainability 48% of our products have reached this standard and we are on track innovations which deliver consumer benefits include our new Love to meet our 2020 commitment.
We are also using the power of our Beauty and Planet range in the US which uses fast-rinse technology brands to empower people to make responsible choices.
In support in its conditioners thereby requiring less water.
Domestos Flush Less, of our Code Policy on Responsible Marketing, in 2018 95% of our available in water-scarce South Africa, keeps toilets clean while saving Foods and Refreshment portfolio had full nutrition labelling on pack nine litres of water per flush.
that aligned with Unilevers product labelling criteria based on 96% The USLP strengthens our business by helping us to save costs.
Since of global sales from 1 April 2018 to 30 June 2018.
We continued our baseline year of 2008 we have saved over 600 million on energy our efforts to improve the goodness in our products and set out the costs in our factories: and by using fewer materials and producing less ambition to provide 200 billion servings by 2022 containing at least one waste we have avoided costs of approximately 234 million.
of the 5 key micronutrients: iron, iodine, zinc, vitamin A or D. We are developing plans to deliver against the ambition.
Through the USLP, we are also responding directly to a number of macro forces see page 8 that are both risks and opportunities in our REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT markets such as a lack of access to water and sanitation, strains Our activities impact the environment, principally through the use of water, on the food system, climate, the environment, and rising inequality.
energy and land as well as the production of waste and greenhouse gas We have identified the broad issue of sustainability, related to the emissions, largely as a result of consumer use.
These impacts are reflected achievement of our goals in the USLP, as a principal risk page 29 in the USLP environmental pillar and are supported by our Environmental as well as a number of specific risks including climate change page Policy which is available on our website.
Our environmental big goal is by 30 and plastic packaging page 30.
Mitigating the physical impacts 2030 to halve the environmental footprint of the making and use of our of climate change is critical because we depend on raw materials products as we grow our business.
This is a challenging target requiring sourced from countries that are particularly vulnerable to rising sea action across our value chain on waste, water and greenhouse gas temperatures and changing weather patterns.
See pages 33 to 35 for emissions in turn contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals.
our response to the risks and opportunities from a low-carbon economy.
As a consumer goods company, we are acutely aware of the causes Trust is essential for any business, but it must be earned.
The USLP is a and consequences of the linear 'take-make-dispose' model of key driver of trust among our employees and potential recruits.
We are taking action across our value chain to reduce, number one FMCG graduate employer of choice in around50 countries reuse, recycle and recover post-consumer waste and move towards where we recruit.
We have been ranked first in the annual GlobeScan a more circular model.
Our manufacturing operations have seen a survey of sustainability leaders for eight years and also came top of the reduction in total waste disposed to landfill, or incineration without Dow Jones Sustainability Index Personal Products sector in 2018. energy recovery, of around 97% per tonne of production since 2008.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 13 DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED Furthermore, we achieved zero non-hazardous waste to landfill ENHANCING LIVELIHOODS across our global factory network in 2015 and have maintained this Our activities have the potential to positively impact the livelihoods of every year since.
We are more than half way towards meeting our not only our employees, but the millions of people who are involved 2020 commitment to reduce waste associated with the disposal of in our value chain notably smallholder farmers and small-scale our products.
This has reduced by about 31% since 2010 due to retailers.
By 2020, we aim to enhance the livelihoods of millions of increases in consumer recycling and changes in our portfolio.
people as we grow our business.
In 2018, we made steady progress across the three pillars of our Enhancing Livelihoods goal.
In 2017, we made a further commitment on waste, ensuring that all our plastic packaging will be fully reusable, recyclable or compostable by We believe that women's empowerment is the single greatest enabler 2025.
We are moving in the right direction to make all of our packaging of development and economic growth.
We are building a genderrecyclable but there is more work to do.
Find out more on page 15. balanced organisation page 16 while improving womens safety in Seventh Generation is eliminating virgin petroleum plastic new plastic the communities in which we operate, and developing employment made from oil and virgin fibre virgin wood pulp from its packs and has opportunities through the Shakti programme which has provided work committed that all its packaging will be fully recyclable or compostable for around 113,000 women, equipping them to sell Unilever products by 2020.
In Brazil, Omo is launching its first plant-based detergent in a in low income rural communities.
Shakti continues to scale up in India, 100% recyclable pack containing recycled plastic.
Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Nigeria and is now being rolled out to new countries, including Colombia.
By 2018, we had also enabled about We have reduced the water used in manufacturing by 44% per tonne 1,724,000 women to access initiatives aiming to develop their skills.
Our biggest water impact occurs when consumers shower, bathe and clean clothes with our products.
In As well as directly creating wealth and jobs, our business supports 2018, our water impact per consumer use reduced by around 2% millions of people who source, make and sell our products we call compared to 2010.
We recognise that we are a long way short of this inclusive business.
By 2018, we had enabled 746,000 smallholder halving our water impact and we will not achieve this very challenging farmers and over 1.7 million small-scale retailers to access initiatives target by the end of 2020.
This is due in part to our portfolio being to improve agricultural practices or increase incomes.
The Philippines made up of more products that have a higher than average water Kabisig programme, for example, has reached over 165,000 small footprint than in 2010 and the significant consumer behaviour change retailers, training them in stock control, financial management, sales needed to reduce water consumption when our products are used, and customer service increasing the earning potential of small-scale where the vast majority of our water footprint resides.
Going forward retailers at the same time as growing turnover for Unilever.
we want to broaden our water strategy by recognising the role of water Our Responsible Sourcing Policy RSP is at the heart of our ambition in our consumers lives and its importance as a growth driver for our to source 100% of procurement spend responsibly and through business.
We are developing and launching innovative products which suppliers that meet our RSP requirements.
In 2018, we focused on deliver the benefits people need with less water, or even no water at completing the onboarding of high risk suppliers into our compliance all, as well as products that improve the quality of water.
Over 20,000 suppliers have now completed As with water, our biggest greenhouse gas impact comes through their registration and are undergoing review processes allowing us to consumer use.
The greenhouse gas impact of our products across verify their compliance to the RSP and identify areas for remediation.
their lifecycle has increased by about 6% since 2010.
We are having In 2018, 61% of procurement spend was through suppliers who were more success in areas that are within our direct control such as assessed as meeting the mandatory requirements of the RSP.
manufacturing where we have cut CO from energy by 52% per tonne 2 We continued to embed human rights with a focus on our eight of production compared to 2008.
Similarly, we continue to make salient issues ie those at risk of the most severe negative impact savings through the ongoing roll-out of freezer cabinets that use through Unilevers activities or business relationships.
We also began more climate-friendly natural hydrocarbon refrigerants.
Our ability a process to review these through a series of global and regional to meet our target partly depends on changes in the energy markets consultations.
This year, one of our primary areas of focus has been worldwide, such as the rate of installation of renewable electricity on the eradication of forced labour in our supply chain through in many countries.
We have a role to play as an industry leader to training, capacity building and driving a robust vetting process for help shape those markets.
We are committed to implementing the temporary labour agencies.
We launched and are rolling out our Land recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Rights Principles and Implementation Guidance.
Human rights risks Disclosures see pages 33 to 35.
Two of our carbon reduction targets are included as part of our sustainability and ethical principal risks have been officially approved by the Science-Based Targets Initiative.
See our website and our latest Human Rights Our sustainable sourcing strategy focuses on a set of key agricultural report for more on our activities and due diligence processes.
crops, which are not only crucial to our brands, but also where we Safety is a critically important part of our USLP.
Our Vision Zero can drive measurable impact for sustainable transformation of the strategy continues to aim for: Zero Fatalities: Zero Injuries: Zero Motor industry.
By the end of 2018, the total volume of our agricultural raw Vehicle Accidents: Zero Process Incidents: and Zero Tolerance of materials that were sustainably sourced was 56%.
In line with our Unsafe Behaviour and Practices.
This is supported by our Code Policy strategy, sustainably sourced volumes for our 12 key crops increased on Occupational Health & Safety.
Our Total Recordable Frequency Rate by over 4% including significant increases for palm oil and tea, whilst from 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018 went from 0.89 accidents our sustainably sourced volumes for non-key crops reduced.
As a per 1 million hours worked in 2017 to 0.69, thanks to a continuous result, our performance versus 2017 was flat.
The sale of our spreads focus in high risk areas.
See page 47 for more on safety.
business during 2018 had a slight downward impact on overall sustainable sourcing performance given the substantial volume DRIVING TRANSFORMATIONAL CHANGE of sustainable palm oil used by our spreads business.
Our USLP is a bold ambition to achieve change within our company.
A number of key activities moved our sustainable sourcing agenda However, we are just one company among many and the problems forward in 2018.
We deepened our commitment to transparency with our society faces are urgent, large and complex.
Our 'transformational the publication of our palm oil mill list and the creation of a grievance change' agenda combines direct action on the SDGs with partnerships tracker for our palm oil supply: and we, along with key NGOs including and external advocacy to create change on a systemic scale while WWF, initiated a new jurisdictional approach to palm oil in Malaysia.
unlocking business opportunities at the same time.
The additional programmes were also supported by digital solutions We are working on a number of areas where we believe we can like leveraging satellite data for deforestation detection and risk make the biggest difference: climate change and forests: sustainable assessments, mapping of smallholder parcels in Indonesia, sending agriculture, land use and food security: health and well-being including critical weather alerts to farmers' mobiles in India, and using the water, sanitation and hygiene: and improving livelihoods and creating Internet of Things to optimise tea production in Kenya.
We are also more opportunities for women.
Many of these issues relate directly to piloting innovative approaches to achieving upstream traceability in the SDGs.
We are stepping up our engagement with governments, NGOs several supply chains.
and others in our industry on these issues.
We are also developing a range of partnerships that will accelerate and scale new solutions.
14 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
