UNLOCKING GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES FROM THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Sustainable Development Goals SDGs are fundamental to future economic and business growth.
The Business & Sustainable Development Commission, co-founded by Unilever, concluded that successful delivery of the SDGs will create market opportunities of at least $12 trillion a year.
By using our resources as a business to address issues such as sanitation, hygiene, nutrition, gender equality and climate change among other interconnected growth opportunities covered by the SDGs we are delivering benefits for our business, shareholders and society.
Partnerships SDG17 play a key role in unlocking these opportunities.
Business, governments and civil society must work together, through innovative partnerships, with new types of funding and new business models.
We are working with a range of partners across many of the SDGs, often through our brands.
Below we provide three examples where we have taken action in 2018.
There are many more on our website.
SDG1 NO POVERTY: EMPOWERING SMALL-SCALE RETAILERS FOR GROWTH Our products are sold in more than 190 countries, generating income and employment for millions of retailers and distributors who bring our brands to consumers.
Inclusive distribution models such as Shakti and our retailer training programmes such as Kabisig in the Philippines help small-scale retailers to grow while strengthening our own sales and supply networks.
For any small retailer, selling out of a product line is a missed opportunity.
But for retailers who are stuck in cash economies without access to credit, especially in the developing world, running out of stock can be a routine event.
In 2017, we began a strategic partnership with Mastercard in Kenya.
Together, we'five launched the Jaza Duka 'fill up your store' initiative, which uses a combination of innovative technology, targeted training and the strength of our relationships with our distribution network to free retailers from the constraints of cash, helping them fulfil their potential.
By digitising the processes of buying supplies and selling goods, small-scale retailers can build the credentials they need to access short-term working capital loans from Kenya Commercial Bank.
This gives them better control of their inventory, so they can keep their shelves full and meet consumer demand.
They are also able to access training and essential financial tools to help them grow their sales and incomes.
Our research found that stores that fully moved to the new platform grew their sales of Unilever products by up to 20%.
These are still early days.
But if the partnership keeps succeeding, we believe it could help drive growth and improve incomes.
Our partnership with Mastercard is just one of a number of exciting new innovative last-mile distribution projects which harness the power of digital and e-commerce to create positive social impact at the same time as helping retailers grow.
SDG6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION: ADDRESSING BASIC NEEDS THROUGH OUR PRODUCTS Nearly a billion people defecate in the open and around 2.3 billion people live without adequate sanitation.
Addressing water, sanitation and hygiene needs is a significant opportunity for Unilever.
A number of our health and hygiene brands directly address these needs through products and innovative partnerships which drive growth and deliver positive impact at scale, including Lifebuoy, Domestos, Vaseline, Signal and Pureit.
Domestos, which is one of our fastest growing brands, has committed to help 25 million people gain improved access to a toilet by 2020 in countries such as India.
By partnering with UNICEF, over 16 million people between 2012 and 2017 gained access to a toilet through behaviour-change interventions and capacity-building initiatives.
In 2018, Domestos went one step further and refocused its brand and marketing investment around its purpose.
The new Unstoppable campaign, now live in the UK and Poland, is showcasing how Domestos is helping to fight germs while improving sanitation conditions for millions around the world.
Pureit, our water purification business, is another brand that is well positioned to address clean water needs in South Asia.
It has provided 106 billion litres of safe drinking water since 2005 through the sale of water purifiers.
Pureit is looking at different models to serve communities with accessible and affordable clean drinking water where it is most needed.
One model is community water plants, which provide 20 litres of clean drinking water from a central point for just 8 to 10 rupees.
In 2017, we began partnering with Water Health International WHI who are global experts in community water systems.
So far, we have set up four pilot plants in the city of Tumkur in India, managed by WHI.
These examples show that everyday products can help prevent disease and improve peoples wellbeing, while helping us grow our business.
SDG12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION: RETHINKING PLASTIC PACKAGING Plastic has become an integral part of our lives.
It protects products and makes them easy to dispense or reseal after use.
But with that has emerged the enormous and growing problem of plastic waste.
It is littering our environment, polluting our seas and killing aquatic life.
The challenge is that so little plastic packaging is currently recycled, recyclable or reusable.
The result is a significant economic loss for society and business.
It is for these reasons that we have singled out plastic packaging as a principal risk for our business in 2018 see page 30 for more.
In 2017, we were one of the first multinational companies to make a public commitment to address plastic packaging waste.
By 2025, all our plastic packaging will be reusable, recyclable or compostable and at least 25% of it will come from recycled plastic content.
To help deliver these commitments we have an internal framework: Less plastic.
'Less plastic' is about cutting down how much we use in the first place.
Since 2010 we'five reduced the weight of our packaging by 18% through lightweighting and design improvements.
For example, several years ago we launched MuCell technology which uses gas-injection to create gas bubbles in the middle layer of a bottle wall.
This cuts the amount of plastic by at least 15%.
'Better plastics' is about making our products recyclable and eliminating problematic materials.
Specifically, how we get recycled content in our packaging a number of our brands are working to incorporate post-consumer recycled PCR plastic in their products including Love Beauty and Planet, TRESemm, Sunlight and Omo.
Better plastics is also about how we work with governments and partners to build infrastructure so we can help keep plastic in the economy and out of the natural environment.
Our Community Waste Banks and CreaSolv Sachet recycling technology pilot plant in Indonesia are at the heart of these efforts.
The plant is currently processing around three tonnes of discarded sachets per day with an aim to scale up this process.
'No plastics' is about thinking differently using alternative materials such as aluminium, glass, paper and board where possible and removing plastic where it is not necessary, such as plastic stiffeners from soap bars.
We're also looking at reuse, encouraging shoppers to refill or reuse through vending machines.
It's early days but we are committed to finding non-plastic packaging solutions.
We're putting significant resource into tackling the issues associated with plastic packaging.
It makes business sense to keep plastic in the economy and is imperative for the planet.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 15
