REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE MEETINGS Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required four were held COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE in 2018.
The Committee Chairman is responsible for reporting the findings from meeting to the Boards, thus ensuring that the Boards ATTENDANCE can fulfil their oversight responsibilities.
Strive Masiyiwa Member since April 2017 Chair 4 4 Youngme Moon 4 4 Following the Committees terms of reference and Unilevers principal risks and priorities, the Committees agenda covers the Feike Sijbesma 3 4 Code and third-party compliance, alongside litigation, occupational This table shows the membership of the Committee together with and product safety, the USLP and corporate reputation as well as a their attendance at meetings during 2018.
If Directors are unable to range of strategic and current issues.
In addition to the areas listed attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any below, in 2018 the Committee also reviewed topics such as media agenda items with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the communications, the process for integrating business acquisitions number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
and progress on alternatives to animal testing.
CODE OF BUSINESS PRINCIPLES The Code and associated Code Policies set out the standards HIGHLIGHTS OF 2018 of conduct expected of all Unilever employees in their business Competition and anti-bribery compliance endeavours.
Compliance with these is an essential element in Third-party compliance ensuring Unilevers continued business success and is identified Product quality and safety as an ethical and legal and regulatory risk to Unilever.
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP While the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for implementing these principles, supported by the Global Code and Policy Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee is responsible for oversight PRIORITIES FOR 2019 of the Code and Code Policies, ensuring that they remain fit for purpose and are appropriately applied.
It maintains close scrutiny of Compliance with Unilever policies on fair competition and the mechanisms for implementing the Code and Code Policies.
This anti-bribery and requirements for third parties is vital as compliance is essential to promote and protect Unilevers Product quality and safety values and standards, and hence the good reputation of the Group.
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP including plastic packaging At each meeting the Committee reviews an analysis of investigations into non-compliance with the Code and Code Policies and is alerted to any trends arising from these investigations.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees Unilevers conduct The Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary reports to the Committee as a responsible global business.
As the Unilever Sustainable Living on litigation and regulatory matters which may have a reputational Plan USLP is at the heart of Unilevers vision to grow its business impact including environmental issues, bribery and corruption whilst decoupling its environmental footprint from its growth and compliance and competition law compliance.
The Committee studied increasing its positive social impact, the Committee tracks the how compliance was achieved during 2018.
For further information progress and potential risks associated with the USLP.
please see notes 19 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Committee is also charged with ensuring that Unilevers reputation is As another of its other priorities in 2018, the Committee also scrutinised protected and enhanced.
Therefore a central element of its role is the need to the mechanisms for anti-bribery compliance.
The primary mechanism identify any external developments that are likely to have an influence upon is to understand the profiles of the markets Unilever operates in and Unilevers standing in society, and to ensure that appropriate and effective to ensure that there are robust internal and third-party compliance communications policies are in place to support the companys reputation.
These are complemented by training for all employees in tandem with advanced capacity building for those in the The Committees discussions are informed by the experience of the senior Business Integrity and Legal functions.
leaders invited to the Committee to share their views on a variety of topics and external trends.
Many of these leaders are members of the Unilever PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS FOR THIRD PARTIES Sustainable Living Plan Steering Team, the group of senior executives The Committee retained its focus on third-party compliance in 2018. accountable for driving sustainable growth through Unilevers brands and Extending Unilevers values to third parties remains a priority, not only operations.
These discussions ensure the Committee stays abreast of current to generate continued responsible growth and a positive social impact and emerging trends and any potential risks arising from sustainability on the industry, but to counter the significant risk that non-compliance issues.
This enables the Boards to draw on a well-rounded view of issues.
by third parties can pose, particularly in the context of increasing During 2018 the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and regulation around the world.
approved minor changes to the terms.
The Committee tracks compliance with Unilevers Responsible The Committees responsibilities are complemented by those of the Audit Sourcing Policy RSP for suppliers and its Responsible Business Committee, which is responsible for reviewing significant breaches of the Partner Policy RBPP for customers and distributors.
Together they Code of Business Principles as part of its remit to review risk management set out Unilevers requirements that third parties conduct business and for overseeing the independent assurance programme for the USLP.
with integrity, openness and respect for universal human rights and core labour principles.
Sourcing 100% of Unilevers procurement The Committees terms of reference are set out www.
com spend in line with the RSP is also a target within the USLP.
corporategovernance and details of the USLP Steering Team at www.
com sustainable-living our-strategy  policies enable Unilever to evaluate risk and provide the right governance measures to address the diversity of market conditions in which it operates and the range of third parties it works with.
The Committee MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE was briefed on progress.
For the RSP, this detailed the number of The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises three Non-Executive suppliers making a positive commitment to the policy, greater alignment Directors: Strive Masiyiwa Chair, Feike Sijbesma and Youngme Moon.
The on industry standards via the process of mutual recognition and a Chief Marketing & Communications Officer and the Chief Sustainability substantial increase in site audits and resulting corrective action plans.
Officer attend the Committees meetings.
The Chief Business Integrity Enhanced anti-bribery and corruption screening was also put in place.
Officer also attends to present Unilevers company report that covers The training and enhancements developed for the RBPP include cases under Unilever's Code of Business Principles the Code as well new IT tools launched in over 180 countries, simpler assessment as updates on third-party compliance, product quality and safety.
processes, enhanced due diligence and risk mitigation plans.
46 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 To promote transparency and traceability of palm oil sourcing, SAFETY in 2018 Unilever was also the first consumer goods company to Sustainable growth is only achieved if Unilever also grows responsibly publish the names of its suppliers and a map of the 1,400 palm by providing safe, high quality products, and protecting employees and the people and communities in which it operates.
Safe and high oil mills in its extended supply chain on its website.
This was accompanied by a more visible grievance mechanism to facilitate quality products are one of Unilever's principal risks, see page 31. the reporting of issues of non-compliance in the supply chain.
Occupational safety continues to be the personal and everyday responsibility Another important step was an industry-first partnership with of all those working at Unilever.
Reducing Unilevers Total Recordable Frequency Rate TRFR is also a target within the USLP.
In 2018 TRFR Indonesian government-owned palm oil plantation company PT Perkebunan Nusantara PTPN.
The partnership is designed to continued to decrease from 0.89 accidents per 1 million hours worked in support local mills and smallholder farmers to produce palm 2017 to 0.69 in 2018 measured 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018. oil according to the NDPE standards that are key to multi-sector In factories, Unilevers World Class Manufacturing programme efforts to transform the palm oil industry.
hardwires safety into all aspects of the production process by enabling good design principles, engineering and operating practices PACKAGING WASTE to be applied from the start of any project.
This focus drove a reduction Packaging waste, particularly post-consumer plastic packaging waste of 39.5% in process safety incidents in 2018.
Capacity building and in oceans and waterways, has never been higher on the global agenda leadership also improved safety for contractors those who work on than in 2018.
Plastic packaging now sits alongside climate change Unilever sites under the direct supervision of their own management, as a major environmental challenge and is identified as a risk for reducing their recordable injuries by half 51% over 2014-2018 Unilever's business, see page 30. measured by Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Rate, LTIFR.
Unilever has reduced the waste associated with the disposal of its Unilevers approach to product safety is based on risk identification products by 31% since 2010 measured as impact per consumer use, and mitigation.
This approach covers all aspects of the value chain towards a target of 50% and is making strong progress in its own from development, sourcing, manufacture and transport to consumer operations and product design.
However, the challenge for postuse and disposal of the product and is centred on the application of consumer waste is in having the right infrastructure in place to ensure rigorous standards based on sound science and the principle of Safe materials are collected and processed, while encouraging consumers by Design and Safe in Execution.
Thanks to a strong focus on product to segregate and recycle them.
quality, a significant improvement was achieved in 2018 with potentially serious marketplace incidents reduced by 40%.
Over 2017-2018, To support its specific, time-bound targets, at the beginning of 2018 potentially serious marketplace incidents originating in manufacturing Unilever introduced a new three-part framework designed to sharpen have been reduced by 88% and those originating in suppliers of raw thinking on plastic packaging and innovation: i Less Plastic means using and packing materials have been halved.
lighter, stronger and better materials which have a lower environmental impact: ii Better Plastic entails eliminating problematic materials and HUMAN RIGHTS using recyclable plastics with a minimum 25% recycled content: iii No Plastic involves using alternative materials, new packaging formats and By addressing strategic human rights issues and helping the business tackle and prevent endemic abuses in global value chains, Unilever is alternative models of consumption such as vending to help reduce use of single-use plastics through innovation, behaviour change and new seeking to deliver a positive social impact alongside business growth.
Unilevers human rights aims are part of the Enhancing Livelihoods goal of the USLP and human rights are included within the company's MCIP sustainability and ethical risks.
Unilevers Reward Framework includes the Management Co-investment Plan MCIP, a long-term incentive plan that is linked to financial and In 2018 Unilever continued to embed human rights with a focus on its eight salient issues ie those at risk of the most severe negative impact USLP performance see page 53.
Corporate Responsibility Committee through Unilevers activities or business relationships.
These are set out in members shared their views on the context and progress of the USLP and sustainability initiatives with the Compensation Committee to help Unilevers Human Rights Report 2017, with an update on further progress at the end of 2018.
The Committee noted that Unilevers approach to this inform its recommendation on MCIP.
work is sophisticated and that while there is still much to do, it is making good progress in this complex field.
EVALUATION OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE PALM OIL As part of the internal board evaluation carried out in 2018, the Boards Palm oil is one of Unilevers most significant raw materials and Unilever evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also is one of the worlds major buyers of palm oil.
Alongside sustainability and carried out an assessment of its own performance in 2018.
While supply chain, Unilever has identified climate change as one of its principal overall the Committee members concluded that the Committee is risks see page [29] and is committed to eliminating the deforestation performing effectively, the Committee has agreed to further enhance associated with unsustainable palm oil production.
Securing supplies of its effectiveness by keeping close track on progress on the ambitious sustainable palm oil is therefore a critical element in Unilevers business Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
This will ensure the Group maintains and climate strategy and represents a significant target in the USLP.
its sustainability momentum and leadership.
The Committee was briefed on plans for driving transformational change in the palm oil sector.
Unilevers Sustainable Palm Oil Sourcing Policy has a focus on the implementation of No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation of people or communities NDPE commitments by 2020.
However, implementation and enforcement remain challenging.
Strive Masiyiwa To support the transformation of the sector and the implementation of Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee its Policy, Unilever is investing in multiple initiatives.
One example is the &Green Fund which is designed to kick-start investments in deforestationYoungme Moon free agriculture in countries that are working to reduce deforestation and Feike Sijbesma peat degradation.
Unilever was announced as the first investor.
The Fund aims to protect over 5 million hectares of forest and peatlands by 2020, by Further details on the USLP will be set out in Unilevers online Sustainable Living Report 2018, to be published in April 2019. fide-risking private capital investments into large-scale deforestation-free production, protection and inclusion initiatives.
With an aim to trigger $1.6 billion in private capital investments, the Fund is an opportunity to jointly shape solutions to mitigate deforestation and a good illustration of the collaborative, transformational approaches the company is seeking to scale.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Report 47
