Strategic report We take great care to remain a responsible business.
UNDERSTANDING OUR We actively listen to the views of our students, University STAKEHOLDERS partners, employees and investors to create a positive impact within the communities where we operate.
Its important for us to maintain this engagement to ensure we continue to grow with their support.
Why its important to engage Universities Students We are experts when it comes to understanding Our goal is to be the partner of choice to the students, engaging with c. 50,000 each year strongest Universities.
It is key that Universities across the UK, coming from all over the world.
understand how our Home for Success purpose We know their needs and use our unique research aligns with their own ambitions for their students.
and insights as leverage to provide them with Quality properties, in the best locations, along a living environment that helps them to get the with our enhanced service, are an asset to best out of their time at University.
We call this Universities and can make them a more offer Home for Success.
Investors We aim to show transparent, clear and balanced communications, allowing investors to best understand our business and strategy, and how we deliver long-term shareholder value through earnings and capital growth.
Stakeholder interests With a Higher Education trust score of 81, a 1-point Our 28 years of insight ensures we can deliver We hold regular results briefings, trading updates rise on last year, we know our University partners products and services that students want and meetings with institutional shareholders, are confident in our abilities to provide a Home for and need.
Our MyUnite app allows students equity analysts and investors, publishing all reports Success for their students, as we are a key element to chat with new flatmates before arrival, log and presentations on our corporate website.
in each students experience at University.
We are maintenance requests, book laundry machines there to support them as an integral part of their and access our 24 7 support functions.
We take personal and academic achievements.
the hassle out of student living with all-inclusive The Unite Foundation bills, and our people help them feel at home.
Through the Unite Foundation we work with We do whats right by supporting students 27 209 27 Universities to provide scholarships for a safe and through the Unite Foundation, which provides secure home for 209 students.
Working together, accommodation scholarships to young people We work with We provide scholarships we can create better futures for our students.
who come from care backgrounds or are 27 Universities.
for a safe and secure estranged from their families.
Relevance to the business model and strategy Building in collaboration with our University We strive for the best customer experience for We need our investors as a key source of partners and deepening our relationships our students, increasing our customer satisfaction efficient capital that enables the business allows us to grow the proportion of beds in rating up to 83 points.
This is delivered by our to invest and grow.
strong, long-term nominations agreements quality service in quality properties that help us that underpin security of earnings.
to deliver on our brand promises to get students settled in, feel safe and secure, and know that we are there when they need us.
Read more about Universities on page 15 Read more about Students on page 07 Read more about Investors on page 59 08 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Suppliers We continually investigate new, better and modern ways to use the latest technologies to keep us at the forefront of our sector.
We work with the right suppliers in the right places to deliver an efficient and boundary pushing service.
Employees Communities Our people are at the heart of us providing a We operate in 22 cities across the UK, each Home for Success to our students, stakeholders with their own unique communities.
From our Student Ambassadors to be actively engaged with these communities, who are there for new students, to our 24 7 listening to their needs and giving back where emergency contact centre, our people we can by being responsible neighbours, understand our brand promises to help students volunteering and supporting local charities.
get settled in, keep them safe and secure and We also consult these communities when to be there when they need us.
All our city teams planning new buildings.
are trained in active listening and to provide exceptional service.
We are driven by our values that guide us to deliver We support regional and national charities We hold supplier events to stimulate innovation a strong internal culture, focused on operational each year, with city teams choosing their and keep us on top of the latest technologies, efficiency, high performance and engagement.
own local charity of the year to nurture our taking a leading role in industry developments.
We are proud of our responsible outlook, career local communities.
We collaborate with local We also ensure our partners share our corporate development, high retention rates and ability partners, for example, volunteering space in commitment to excellence and responsibility to attract the best people to the right places, some buildings for charities to help them and through a rigorous tender process.
achieving an employee engagement score of us give back more to the areas we operate 75%.
We hold Investors in People Gold status and in.
On a national level, we have now raised are a Living Wage employer.
586,125 for the British Heart Foundation, and taught hundreds of team members and students CPR.
586,125 raised for the British Heart Foundation in 2 years.
Our people deliver a Home for Success both We work hard to grow and develop strong Strengthening the right relationships with the to our customers and our University partners, local relationships to ensure our students right partners helps us to drive efficiencies and ensuring we are a service-focused business.
and employees have a positive impact improve margins, from both an operational and We employ and train the best people which on the communities we live in.
developmental perspective, while consistently enables us to provide quality service and drive delivering high-quality and innovative outcomes.
Read more about Employees on page 45 Read more about Communities on page 49 Read more about Suppliers on page 46 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 09 Strategic report Unites business is focused on addressing the demand MARKET for student accommodation.
In doing so, we aim DRIVERS to provide our University partners and students with much-needed certainty and a living environment that helps some 50,000 students get the best out of their time at University.
Key long-term trends The record participation rates Student numbers among UK 18-year-olds is Student numbers remain robust, offsetting demographic decline.
supported by the global standing A further 2% decrease in the of UK Universities.
In 2018, the total UKs 18-year-old population is number of applicants for full time predicted for 2019 however, University degrees declined the total number of applications slightly -0.6%, as expected due has fallen just 1% for 2019. to demographic changes in the number of 18-year-olds in the UK.
Acceptances remained largely flat -0.1% demonstrating that Universities continue to manage student recruitment proactively.
The strong reputation of UK higher education continues to drive student demand abroad, with a 6.5% rise in non-EU applicants, and 2.8% rise in EU applicants.
While Brexit uncertainty The outlook suggests the rate does not appear to be impacting EU Competition and supply of new supply will continue at students appetites for UK Universities, The Purpose Built Student 20,000-25,000 beds in 2019 government policy towards EU Accommodation sector, which before starting to reduce.
students post-Brexit could be a Unite effectively created 28 years key driver of change in demand.
ago is maturing, and today is However, the University Applications for 2019 entry from worth c. 50 billion.
The widening accommodation market EU students rose 1%, while non-EU appeal of PBSA has attracted continues to be under-supplied, applications rose 9%, reaching significant levels of capital with c. 750,000 first year and record levels.
investment in the sector in recent postgraduate students, most years, with over 16 billion of of whom require accommodation.
There are now c. 33 providers operating over 600,000 beds in the sector.
How were responding With higher participation rates There also remains a deficit New supply is slowing, particularly We have a strong development expected to continue alongside between the number of places in saturated markets but there and University partnership pipeline the rapid reversal of the demographic offered by Universities and the remain opportunities where with 3,074 beds opened in 2018 decline from 2021, the longer-term number of beds they have to student numbers continue to and 6,579 beds being delivered outlook for UK students looks house students.
The strength and depth of over the next four years in strong encouraging.
While demographics accommodation guarantees our relationships with Universities University cities where demand is have reduced the number of are becoming more attractive provides us with opportunities high.
On completion of this pipeline 18-20-year-olds, the desire to go to to students particularly not open to our competitors, and our exposure to highand mid-tier University has grown and participation postgraduate and international allows us to work on long-term Universities rises to 91%.
rates have increased steadily from students and University bed accommodation strategies aligned 33% in 2015 to a record level of 38% numbers remain flat, we see to student acquisition.
Our focus on Optimising our portfolio through in 2018. an opportunity for us to leverage the best Universities means we are disposals in tandem with new our University relationships and well positioned to grow alongside developments, ensures our We remain focused on creating a support both their and our our University partners.
properties remain attractive high-quality portfolio aligned to the ongoing growth.
strongest Universities, where student demand is highest.
We constantly review our portfolio to ensure we have the right properties, in the right locations, aligned to the strongest Universities to mitigate Read more about R ead more about Our University risk to student numbers.
Market risks on page 28 partnerships on page 12 10 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Deepening partnerships with Universities Accommodation is an increasingly important part of Universities overall propositions, as the experience impacts on retention and satisfaction, which in turn impacts their Teaching Excellence Framework result a key indicator of quality for prospective students.
Universities are under increasing financial pressure: attracting students is now more important than ever, and accommodation guarantees have become a key programme has heavily focused marketing tool, particularly for Wellbeing on resilience and mental health postgraduate and international Student mental health and in the past six years, allowing us students.
However, investment wellbeing is a key focus for to support our students and our in their own accommodation Universities, government and the University partners with pioneering estate remains difficult versus the media.
Unite Students has long initiatives.
With one in four students competing needs of teaching recognised that the leap to reporting a mental health issue, facilities, research and staffing University while liberating and delivering our Home for Success costs, meaning these commitments exciting is also an intensely purpose for our c. 50,000 students are difficult to meet without support challenging time.
Our insight is more important than ever.
As a trusted partner to Universities, In the past 18 months, we have We were the first student We work closely with our University we dont just supply quality secured two further University accommodation provider to partners to integrate into their homes for their students, we partnership schemes, in London train our employees in basic student services organisation, can help them build a long-term, and Oxford, and are in active mental health awareness and and signpost to campus services.
This can discussions with a number of active listening skills, to ensure we All of our students can access include financial and property others to work together on new can help students when they need Nightline a telephone support consultancy, partnership or existing properties.
Each city also has Welfare Leads service run by students for students.
approaches to development ever HE Trust score of 81 shows who have mental health first aid or asset refinancing, integrated Universities trust us to support training and are supervised by our We launched the Leapskills accommodation management them with 60% of our beds dedicated student services team.
programme, which is designed or a bespoke combination.
under long-term nomination to better prepare prospective agreements, we are confident University students for independent we can continue to deliver for living.
We have already delivered our partners well into the future.
sessions to almost 1,000 16-18-yearolds and are continuing to expand the programmes reach.
Read more about Read more about PBSA on page 25 Wellbeing on page 34 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 11
