Vesuvius plc 10 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Our external environment The world is changing, and we are responding Sustainability improvements Environmental pollution and emissions e. g. CO continue to 2 be a major challenge across industries and in particular along the steel and foundry value chain Technical upgrade of steel and foundry Steel and foundry producers globally, are upgrading their production capabilities to deliver better quality, higher technology steel and castings Automation delivering safety and efficiency Safety across their operations is of utmost concern to our customers Our business 11 Whats happening How we are responding Case studies Making ongoing Steel and foundry production are highly Vesuvius products and services robotic repairs 7-9% energy intensive processes, with steel improve the sustainability saves energy of global direct CO 2 manufacture alone accounting for a footprint of our customers emissions are significant amount of global direct CO production processes.
These industries are facing consumables enable our the steel industry increased scrutiny about their customers to increase their as estimated by sustainability footprint.
throughput while lowering the World Steel energy consumption, increasing Association Steel plays an integral part in the modern yields and improving the quality Laser technology and world, and will remain crucial for many robotics are used to of their end products end products.
Whilst it is infinitely assess refractory wear recyclable, solutions that improve the At the same time, Vesuvius and repair requirements throughout production, environmental footprint of its manufacture continues to optimise its own reducing energy and are needed to ensure that the impact of operations, focusing on refractory consumption its production is reduced, and makes maximising the utilisation of in the steel mill the best use of available resources.
raw materials and recycling Improving quality Steel producers are increasingly focusing Vesuvius is strongly positioned with our new products 9% on higher quality steel grades where to facilitate this upgrade and Our internal annual the consistency of the finished steel is benefit from its development.
As a result there is We have a wide product and high technology above-market growth forecast for service offering designed to steel in India high technology steel in all regions.
support the production of high technology steel across our Foundries are experiencing a similar broad, global customer base Our new technology development where metal quality is solution ladle shrouding paramount and higher strength is In Foundry, Vesuvius innovative for steel foundries demanded from thinner castings.
portfolio of products and lowers oxidation and inclusions in the end services and global footprint, products, significantly enable us to provide high improving the quality technology solutions to our of the final castings and worldwide customers thus their performance Leaving the most Companies face ever-increasing scrutiny Vesuvius has the global dangerous work 42% to ensure that their operations and capability to combine to robots of total task hours products are safe and that they are know-how in steel mills are expected to not causing harm to the environment.
and foundries with robotic be performed by capabilities: a winning New technologies, such as advancements machines by 2022 combination for superior in automation, help transform production, as estimated by the safety performance bringing greater flexibility and lower World Economic Forum costs, whilst also delivering the potential to Vesuvius in-depth understanding Vesuvius installed fully significantly improve safety performance of production processes automated robots for in a plant.
enables us to provide robotics a large steel customer and laser technology that in South America to Robotics help support or even substitute execute safety-critical work reliably and consistently operators in hazardous production areas, activities, removing in hazardous areas of thus lowering the safety risk and ensuring operators from a production, reducing operator hazardous production consistency of the process.
exposure to risk area See Strategy section on p16-17 Vesuvius plc 12 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Vesuvius internal segmentation of global crude steel production 14% Our markets 30% Above average market growth Steel Vesuvius inte 56% rnal segmentation for high technology steel of global crude steel production High technology steel is our internal Market steel production World crude steel production 2 018: marketing segmentation that describes World crude steel production 1,808.6mt World Steel Association Flow Control 2017: 1,808.6mt steel which is either high performing e. g. high strength steel for wind turbines Crude steel production and or where the production process 34% and the above average to produce the steel is complex e. g. the 33% near net shape production process, market growth of high which is a continuous casting process technology steel are that produces steel in very thin slabs drivers of Flow Control i. e. near to its final thickness.
33% business unit product Complex production processes and the demand need for higher quality steel grades where the consistency of the finished Flow Control business unit steel is paramount, are gaining Vesuvius internal segmentation end-markets of global crude steel production momentum worldwide because they provide steel producers with 14% differentiated products and significant Advanced benefits in terms of cost savings and a reduced environmental footprint.
Refractories 30% Crude steel production Advanced steel cans are produced from 56% and level of activity in high technology steel because of the need to achieve other high-temperature a challenging combination of Market steel production industries, such as World crude steel production thin gauge and high rigidity Ke 2017: 1,808.6mt y strength aluminium, copper, High Medium cement, petrochemical technology steel technology steel Selected examples: Selected examples: 34% and energy from waste, Near Net Shape 33% Construction sheets production process roofing, cladding are the drivers for the Stainless steel etc.
Engineering steel Heavy plates for ship Advanced Refractories bearing, shafts, building, pipe business unit product tools etc.
Commodity steel 33% Automotive Selected example: demand Basic rebar for concrete reinforcement and manufacturing efficiency, whilst Above average market growth Foundry reducing the environmental impact of the for highly sophisticated and casting process and improving the ratio complex castings of finished castings to the amount of The Foundry Division benefits from Higher sophistication metal poured which is a key parameter its capabilities to improve highly for foundry efficiency.
and increasingly complex sophisticated and complex castings, castings are the drivers which are the segments of the foundry Foundry market end-markets market growing the fastest.
Foundry for Foundry Division The most important end-markets customers are evolving towards these product demand for the foundry industry are general more sophisticated and increasingly engineering, followed by light vehicles complex castings because of increased including passenger cars and light requirements for cleaner metal to deliver commercial vehicles, medium and complex shapes with thinner sections, heavy commercial vehicles, construction resulting in a greater need for Vesuvius agriculture and mining equipment, foundry expertise.
power generation equipment Whilst Foundry Division products and railroad.
typically represent less than 5% of a foundrys production costs, they contribute significantly to the improvement of product quality Our business 13 Crude steel production is a World crude steel production mt structurally growing market bnt According to the World Steel 2.5 Association, global crude steel Chart for style production in 2018 increased by 4.6% to be plotted compared with 2017.
Production in 2.0 the majority of major steel-producing countries was up year-on-year.
1.5 In the past 20 years the growth in crude steel production came mostly from 0.5 China.
We do not forecast China to continue to grow at the same rate as 0 it has done historically.
2.9% 5.6% 0.5% 0.2% We believe that the majority of the Other emerging India China Developed growth in crude steel production going 1 2 markets markets forward will come from India and other emerging markets, mostly Middle Sources: Historical data from World Steel Association.
East, Africa, South East Asia and Notes: 1.
Eastern Europe, Middle East incl.
Turkey, Africa, Latin America and South East Asia.
EU28, USA, Canada and North Asia.
Globally we expect crude steel production to grow at a rate of 1.3% Growth in crude steel production 2018 vs. 2017 per annum and the world excluding vs. 2018 steel production volume Vesuvius key regions China at a rate of 2.0%.
13% South East Asia 11.3% 11% 9% China 6.6% 7% India 4.9% 1 5% EEMEA Crude steel production growth 2018 2.9% 3% World 4.6% China 6.6% USA & Canada 1% EU28 4.8% Rest of the world 2.5% -0.3% Size of bubble represents relative revenue -1% Latin America of Vesuvius Steel Division in 2018 1.2% -3% Crude steel production volume 2018 1.
Technology changes and Iron casting Steel casting environmental drivers Iron casting is split between grey and Steel is used in casting for manufacturing ductile iron with grey iron representing components with very high mechanical New technologies, such as 3D printing, the majority of metal being cast.
Steel casting is the most are expected to continue to influence a cost-efficient and robust process demanding casting process due to the metal casting industry, allowing for producing components that do not higher melting temperatures and faster prototyping and production of need to tolerate extreme mechanical greater tendency for shrinkage.
All iron castings require filters This drives greater demand for products regulations, driven by the desire to and coatings but grey iron is not as and technical expertise in this segment.
reduce volatile organic compound reliant on feeding system utilisation due emissions and the use of silica within the to its lower shrinkage on solidification.
industry, are also expected to continue Aluminium Non-ferrous casting Conversely, ductile iron production to tighten.
This will drive the trend to find Aluminium casting is the segment of the requires more sophisticated processes and consumable products foundry market growing the fastest.
consumable products to cope with which support production efficiency It has captured a significant share of the high shrinkages of metal and reduce a foundrys impact on the light vehicle market.
below 700C, aluminium can be cast in iron moulds which can then be reused.
Vesuvius concentrates on supplying fluxes, filters and machines that refine the composition and cleanliness of the metal.
Crude steel production growth 2018 Vesuvius plc 14 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Business model A profitable, flexible, cash-generative model focused on sustainable growth What we do Our key resources We develop and manufacture high-technology products and Financial capital Human capital solutions predominantly for We use the cash generated by our We invest in developing our skilled and supply to the steel and foundry business to invest in innovation, motivated workforce of approximately casting industries, operating people, operating assets, technology 11,000 people and provide them with and sales to generate further growth.
a safe environment in which to work.
a profitable, flexible, cashgenerative and growth-building Manufacturing capital Social capital business model.
Over many years We have a global footprint, We champion our values and our we have built the brand equity with 59 production sites on six ethical conduct.
We maintain strong continents, giving us proximity relationships with customers and of our Vesuvius and FOSECO to our customers.
products through technology leadership, reliability and service.
Intellectual capital Natural capital We have seven R&D centres of We utilise high-quality raw materials, excellence and over 300 R&D staff secured through reliable and worldwide, generating innovative well-developed supply chains.
products and solutions for our customers.
7 10,809 59 300 R&D centres of excellence employees production sites R&D staff Our sustainable competitive advantages Global presence Optimised manufacturing Using our global expertise to identify Low-cost lean manufacturing provides and create market opportunities reliable just-in-time products Vesuvius is present on six continents, Our successfully tested products can supporting the development of global be produced at high volumes across steel and foundry manufacturing all of our manufacturing footprint, processes with new technologies.
guaranteeing cost-competitive and We have manufacturing capability in time-efficient delivery.
We optimise See more all the main steel and foundry markets our cost-competitiveness by investing about Our See more and hire and train local engineers.
in low-cost production sites and global about Our Our local manufacturing, local increasing production automation presence operations expertise and global knowledge of and have established manufacturing on p4-5 on p42-49 customers processes give us a special facilities to support our expansion in relationship with our customers.
Our business 15 How we deliver The value we create Our Investors Our industry experts are embedded at Our Suppliers many customer locations and are Our efficient use of capital generates Maintaining cost-effective access to therefore ideally placed to collaborate annual profits, giving returns to our high-quality raw materials is vital to with customers to identify their needs, shareholders and underpinning our success.
Our suppliers are critical and potential service and process sustainable growth.
This also enables us to grow our solutions and service portfolio.
Our Customers Our Communities Our investment in innovation creates We are committed to maintaining We develop high technology products cutting-edge products and solutions, positive relationships with the that deliver quality enhancement, delivering enhanced value for our communities in which we operate.
efficiency gains and energy savings customers and differentiating us Our social responsibility activities to our customers.
We focus on from our competitors.
We embed complement our values and we sustainability in our own business technical experts within our customers, encourage our employees to engage through the efficient use of energy giving us a fundamental understanding with communities and groups local and natural resources.
of their needs and delivering them to our operations.
Our model is profitable by allowing access to our global network of highly Students and Graduates value pricing for bespoke products skilled individuals.
It generates growth as Attracting new talent to Vesuvius is Our People we enlarge our market with additional vital for the Groups continuing success.
We focus on the health and safety Recruiting new students and graduates of all our staff.
We engage with our feeds the talent pipeline and allows us Our model is resilient to end-market people, encouraging and rewarding to tap in to new sources of up-to-date volatility due to the flexibility of our high performance to create an business ideas and R&D capability.
diversified manufacturing footprint environment where all can realise and adjustable cost base.
Our commitment to ethical business delivers strong, long-term, sustainable commercial relationships.
Advanced technology Service and consistency Our technology centres develop Serving our customers reliably, value-adding solutions involving competitively and consistently with engineered systems and high-value consumables critical for their consumables manufacturing processes Our continuing investment in Vesuvius Alongside our global presence, we R&D centres of excellence is reflected ensure a local service to our customers, in all areas of our offering.
We have from inventory management to highknowledge of the most advanced quality technical support at their sites and Read more Read more ceramic and metallurgical techniques the ability to swiftly modify production about about quality using state-of-the-art equipment and and supply to reflect changes in Innovation and reliability the most advanced technologies of flow customer requirements.
Our knowledge on p24-27 on p42-49 simulation and finite element analysis.
of end-market processes, specifications We are therefore able to provide and techniques around the world gives our customers with sophisticated, our experts an unparalleled ability to innovative, custom-designed solutions.
