Vesuvius plc 56 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Health and safety The Group is striving to become a best-in-class organisation for safety performance Health and safety is identified as one of Changes were also made to the relevant We remain fundamentally Vesuvius key strategic objectives, and our local management team to strengthen committed to protecting commitment to health and safety is management supervision and control.
the health and safety of Our ethos is to identify, eliminate, reduce or Safety leadership employees, contractors, control all workplace risks, and an ongoing Safety performance remains the priority system of training, assessment and visitors, customers and any item on the agenda at all our Group improvement is in place to focus on achieving other persons affected by Executive Committee and management this.
In 2018, despite achieving our best meetings, and safety performance is our activities.
overall safety performance since demerger, reported to the Board by the Chief with a lost time injury frequency rate of Executive as a matter of priority at each 1.3 per million hours worked, a third-party Board meeting.
The Group Executive contractor working at one of our premises Committee reviews all of the more serious was fatally electrocuted a grave reminder incidents, including all lost time injuries, that there is still much work to do on safety.
and the responses to these from local As a result of this incident we conducted a management.
The Group remains complete review of the working practices fully committed to continuing safety and procedures related to contractors, improvement with a Group health and issuing a red stripe alert to all employees.
safety policy stating a clear goal of: All related internal standards were updated No lost time injuries and reissued.
No repeat injuries No harm to our people or contractors Safety Breakthrough Safety Breakthrough is our global Health and safety responsibility initiative to reduce the number of and accountability accidents, fires and lost time injuries, and to increase safety awareness The business units are directly accountable through greater employee for their health and safety performance, engagement.
Our aim is to raise health with each business unit determining its own and safety performance to best-inpriorities and resource allocations.
Health class levels throughout our business, attaining the lowest level of accidents and safety performance is included in the within our industry sector with the target objectives and linked to the remuneration of reaching zero accidents throughout of all senior managers.
It is regarded as a Vesuvius.
This applies to all Vesuvius core management responsibility, with employees, whether working at one of executives and line managers directly our facilities or located on a customer accountable for health and safety matters site.
The specific focus on customer location safety continues to yield results in the operations under their control.
This not only for our employees but also tone from the top is demonstrated by the our customers employees, helping to requirement for all senior managers to support the strong relationships built perform executive safety tours, report on between customers and Vesuvius.
their findings to local operations Our approach to health and safety is based on the following beliefs 1.
Good health and safety is Safety is everybodys Working safely is a condition All work-related injuries good business responsibility of employment and work-related ill-health are preventable Non-financial information 57 Vesuvius employees and contractors must carry out a Risk Assessment and obtain a Permit to Work for non-standard activities, to ensure risks have been properly identified and evaluated, and a safe work procedure defined.
management and follow up on methodology, they must then incorporate improvement requirements.
In this findings into their site safety improvement Vesuvius health and structure all employees understand that plans and share their incident investigation safety standards they have a responsibility to take care of and action plans across the Group.
themselves and others whilst at work.
Accident & Incident Reporting Health and Safety Policy Business Continuity We expect everyone to participate and standards positively in the task of preserving Control of Contractors workplace health and safety.
All employees are required to adhere to Crisis Management & Crisis the Groups Health and Safety Policy and The Group Vice President HSE and Communication Alcohol and Drug Policy.
Copies of the Quality is responsible for setting the Ergonomics Standard policies signed by all members of the Groups policies for health and safety and Group Executive Committee are Fork Lift Truck Safety controlling their application, with the translated into local languages and business units taking full responsibility for Gas Standards displayed prominently in all locations.
their implementation and accountability Inspection Maintenance and Testing for performance against them.
The Health and Safety Policy is supported of Fixed Electrical Installations with standards, procedures and ISO Every business facility has an appointed Legionella certifications, which are reviewed and health and safety manager, who works updated on an ongoing basis.
In 2018, a Lock, Tag and Try with management and all employees new standard was created relating to the to review site health and safety, assess Machine Safety safe storage of bulk bags and pallets of training needs and develop and Permit to Work bags, and the standards relating to the implement site safety improvement plans.
Control of Contractors and the Inspection, Planning These local health and safety managers Maintenance and Testing of Fixed are assisted by central experts who not PPE Minimum Electrical Installations were reviewed only identify adverse trends and respond and updated.
The findings and lessons Risk Assessment to them, but also enable the sharing of learned from incident investigations are best practice across Vesuvius.
Road Vehicle incorporated into updates to prevent Safe Storage of Bulk Bags and any reoccurrence and new or improved Accountable management for Pallets of 25kg Bags standards are issued for implementation safety performance across the Group.
Working Safely with Fibres Site safety improvement plans are now in place for all production sites with implementation being the direct responsibility of local managers.
Any site experiencing a serious dangerous occurrence or medically treated injury is required to investigate using 8D Vesuvius plc 58 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Health and safety continued Health and Safety highlights Awards In our Customers plant in Huachipato Chile we received an award from the customer for our results in HSE and for the outstanding HSE systems we have in place.
Foseco India Ltd in Pune was recognised by the Deccan Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture-Pune DCCIAPune for Excellence in Best Safety Practices 2018.
DCCIA recognised our unique safety practices, overall safety culture, the commitment of management to safety, and the efforts of employees in this regard, along with our continuous journey towards safety improvement.
ArcelorMittal South Africa, Newcastle Works recognised Vesuvius for an exceptionally good safety performance.
Vesuvius India received awards from TATA including the award for best safety practices in runner management, best safety model, best safety Kaizen and best safety performance.
Essar awarded Vesuvius their trophy for consistent performance in health and safety.
JSW recognised Vesuvius for best safety practices in runner management, best performing safety contractor and best contractor employee performance in safety for 2018.
Vesuvius Health and Safety Policy We will encourage our Suppliers to We will operate all work and business Risk assessments will be undertaken adhere to the same Health & Safety activities in a manner which ensures to identify hazards, prioritise any standards as we do.
the health and safety of employees, deficiencies and correct them in an contractors, visitors, customers and appropriate way as well as to develop Our Beliefs any other persons affected by these appropriate safe work procedures Good Health and Safety is Good activities.
We will abide with simple and Business We will comply with the legal health non-negotiable standards Safety is everybodys responsibility and safety obligations.
We will provide Training for all Working safely is a condition We will be pro-active in preventing employees and contractors to of employment injuries and ill-health, and continuously ensure that they understand their improve our H&S systems and responsibilities and are able to act All work-related injuries and workperformance.
accordingly related ill-health are preventable Organisation and Responsibilities Every business facility will have an Our Aims appointed H&S Manager We regard health and safety matters No Accidents as a mainstream management No Repeat Injuries responsibility.
Executives and line managers are directly responsible for No Harm to People health and safety matters in operations Our Commitments under their control.
Management is accountable for H&S performance Every business facility will follow the against objectives.
agreed H&S plans This policy has been approved by the Group Executive Committee All employees have a responsibility to We will thoroughly investigate any take care of themselves and others and is displayed and incident to learn, share and avoid implemented at all facilities.
We expect everyone repeats to participate positively in the task of The Group Executive Committee preserving workplace health and safety.
6, 10 2018 Non-financial information 59 Health and safety certifications Training activities undertaken in 2018 for our employees and We have 11 sites certified to OHSAS contractors included: 18001:2015, eight 14% manufacturing sites and three Vesuvius operations in 5S ISO 45001:2018 customers.
Vesuvius sites choose to Arc flash hazard training Legionella certify based on local regulatory and customer requirements.
Control of Contractors Lock, Tag and Try Environmental Waste Reporting Incident and Performance reporting Training employees to Ergonomics Machine Safety work safely Executive Safety Tour Leader Permit to Work Turbo S training pulls together all of our safety management practices.
Using a Fire Fighting Practical Safety in Steel Customers train-the-trainer approach, Turbo S First Aid Radiation training sessions are tailored to the General Health and Safety and refresher Safe Stacking audience and their activities.
For example, training there is a special training course Steel mill orientation developed for employees at customer Hazard Perception Safety and Environmental Auditing locations that focuses on the specific risks Hazardous Goods faced by these individuals.
We conduct Turbo S Safety and Safety Leadership Health and Safety Representatives Permit to Work training in all Group Working at Heights facilities, including customer locations, which ensures that all non-standard work conducted in our facilities, whether by our And in relation to vehicles employees or contractors, is the subject of Bike Safety a pre-commencement risk assessment and a formal permission to commence Defensive Driving activity, setting out the safety Fork Lift Truck requirements.
We have developed machinery safety training with an outside industry leader, Pilz GmbH & Co, a company specialising in safe automation Turbo S technology.
We are now extending Turbo S, as part of our Safety As part of the continuing Turbo S initiative: recognised best practices throughout Breakthrough initiative, builds on the the Group through a series of machinery Senior executives regularly lead safety foundation of Safety Breakthrough assessments and training programmes tours at all locations and includes a strong focus on the with each site identifying and addressing standardisation of all our repetitive Severe accidents are formally reviewed the top five issues by severity as a matter activities.
Turbo S also integrates good by the Group Executive Committee management practices in the workplace, of priority.
Employees are routinely engaged in with a strong emphasis on developing an safety audits organisation that enables everybody Working in tidy plants to work to the same high standards in We invest significantly in safety training safety performance.
The continuing use of 5S, the workplace for all employees, irrespective of their organisation method, throughout role and function within our business the Group has driven significant All employees are expected to routinely improvements in our workplace raise and implement safety environment.
Employees are encouraged improvement opportunities: we focus to develop ownership of their working on the number of implemented ideas areas and take pride in their cleanliness Safety standards are continually and organisation.
The added support updated, translated and deployed of our lean specialists has been key to throughout the Group improving plant safety by removing All injuries and dangerous occurrences hazards for employees and offering are analysed locally, with a formal a clear, bright and safe working presentation of findings, root causes and environment.
Regular 5S audits led improvement actions cascaded through by team leaders ensure continuous management improvement of working conditions and promote a safer workplace.
Vesuvius plc 60 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Health and safety continued We have actively been encouraging the Health and safety auditing Accident and incident reporting reporting of all dangerous occurrences and and analysis In 2018 a new central safety auditing team injuries as only through reporting, sound was established, reporting to the Vice A significant investment in time and root cause analysis and preventative action President HSE and Quality.
Its main resources has been made over recent plans, can future occurrences be prevented.
purpose is to verify the deployment and years to develop robust, comprehensive As a consequence, there was an increase in ongoing application of the Groups and timely reporting of incidents including the number of dangerous occurrences standards and policies in our locations all fires, explosions and any material spill or reported in 2018 to 649 2017: 409. including manufacturing sites, other chemical releases.
In our internal warehouses and R&D facilities and the Vesuvius investigation procedures are standards, we continue to use more customer locations in which a significant based on the 8D Practical Problem Solving stringent definitions for lost time injuries number of our employees operate daily.
8D tool, which aims to identify the true LTIs and severe accidents than the This team will systematically audit Group root causes of incidents to prevent a definitions used by many regulatory locations worldwide against these policies repeat.
Results are formally presented to bodies.
As the number of lost time injuries and standards, and will include an management, with details of the 8D-based sustained in the organisation fell, we assessment of each sites HSE leadership.
root causes and improvement actions introduced reporting on Medically Treated In doing this they will contribute to the cascaded throughout the organisation.
Injuries to maintain the focus on safety, ongoing improvement of Vesuvius health with investigation extended to all serious Based on the analysis of the kind of and safety standards by combining their dangerous occurrences and all Medically accident, type of injury and parts of the experience from other industries, the Treated Injuries.
body affected, the businesses develop observations made during audits, and the risk-based action plans that consider both In 2018, there was tragically one fatality of application of risk-based improvements in the frequency and severity of incidents and a contractor working at a Vesuvius site.
In response to external developments on a track progress.
Every site management addition, 37 LTIs were reported which consistent Group-wide basis.
team receives a monthly dashboard of resulted in 2,132 lost days, and gave an LTI The Group HSE audit team will report the health and safety related performance frequency rate for the year of 1.3, a marked results of audits as well as the progress of indicators covering both lagging and reduction versus the 1.6 recorded in 2017 action plans addressing the most critical leading metrics.
The LTI frequency rate for the 782 issues to the Board.
contractors who worked for us during the As part of management reporting, the year was 0.65.
Board receives a detailed monthly update Executive safety tours 200 medically treated injuries MTIs were on all lost time injuries.
The executive safety tours carried out by reported in 2018 out of a total of 491 injuries senior managers provide visible safety reported, resulting in an MTI frequency rate leadership on the shop floor in our sites of 7.26.
One additional MTI recordable was and at our customer locations.
These, reported in respect of contractors giving a along with our daily safety audits, are a contractor recordable MTI frequency rate pillar of our Safety Breakthrough initiative.
There was also one other medically In 2018, 115 Executive Safety Tours, of treated injury reported in relation to a which seven were in customer locations, contractor, a total for three contractor were carried out by members of the Group accidents.
Executive Committee and their direct reports.
Executive Safety Tours carried out Vesuvius 8D Practical Problem Solving Methodology in 2018 D1 clarify the problem D2 grasp the current situation D3 contain and set target 115 Executive 115 Executive Safety Tours Safety Tours D4 analyse causes D5 define countermeasures D6 execute and track progress D7 check results China China Europe Europe India D8 standardise and establish control India NAFTA NAFTA North Asia North Asia South America South America South Asia South Asia Non-financial information 61 In 2018, we achieved Safety Performance in 2018 our best overall safety Lost time injuries per million hours worked LTIFR 12 month rolling performance since Lost time injuries Severity Rate in lost days per LTIFR Severity Rate 12 month rolling million hours worked demerger, with a lost time injury frequency rate 10 300 of 1.3 per million 8 240 hours worked.
6 180 4 120 2 60 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lead and lag indicators Safety performance in 2018 is detailed below: In our plants in 2018, more than 80% of our All Employees working population performed routine Contractors safety audits every month, generating an Performance Indicators and Visitors average of more than ten implemented Work Related Death 1 improvement opportunities per person, Severe Injuries 2 more than 9,900 in total, resulting in an Lost Time Injuries LTI 37 improvement in worker safety.
The audit Lost Time Injuries frequency LTIFR 1.34 programme involves employees at all levels Recordable Injuries 122 from the Group Executive Committee and Recordable Injuries frequency RFR 4.43 safety specialists through to local site management, employees and contractors.
Medically Treated Injuries MTI 200 Medically Treated Injuries frequency MTIFR 7.26 Our Take 2 initiative ensures that Total Number of Injuries 491 employees think again before performing Injury frequency 17.83 any unusual or non-standard activity.
Simply stated, the employees take 2 Lost Time Incident Lost Days 2,132 minutes to discuss the task, any hazards Lost Time Incident Severity Frequency Rate Lost Days 77 and how to prevent accidents before any Dangerous Occurrences DO 649 work is started.
This process allows the Dangerous Occurrences Frequency Rate 23.56 team to consider and reflect on hazards Safety Audits Number 121,202 and the controls required before work Safety Audits per 20 Employees per month 16 commences.
Employees Participating in monthly Safety Audits 9,971 For new contracts in customer locations, we Employees Participating in monthly Safety Audits % 80% use a formal risk assessment which aims to SIOPA 92,793 identify significant risks to our employees Other IOPA 36,502 and contractors.
This enables appropriate IOPA Total 129,295 control measures to be agreed and implemented with the support of our SIOPA per Employee 7 customers in advance of work Other IOPA per Employee 3 commencing.
We continue to work hard IOPA Total per Employee 10 to reduce incident severity and generate Hours Worked 27,544,837 actionable insights from the performance indicators we capture.
The lost time injuries All Frequency Rates are per million hours worked IOPA: Improvement opportunity implemented with a permanent corrective action frequency chart shows how injuries have SIOPA: Safety Improvement opportunity implemented with a permanent corrective action been reduced and how that reduction has been maintained through a combination of a behaviour-based approaches to safety and the implementation of physical safeguards.
We focus on the safety of all our personnel, whether they are employees or contractors.
Vesuvius plc 62 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Sustainability We continue our efforts to reduce energy consumption and waste generation in our manufacturing processes four processes consume more than 24% of Our customers and their Our solutions improve the the Groups total energy consumption.
processes quality of our customers The Group has clear targets for energy Under the Vesuvius and Foseco brands, we saving, with ongoing effort focused on products and reduce the deliver a wide range of solutions that help increasing the efficiency of our production environmental footprint of our customers improve the productivity processes.
As a result of this work and of their operations.
These solutions also also as a result of increased efficiency in their processes.
improve the quality of our customers Slagdol production, we achieved a 19.8% products and reduce the environmental decrease in the amount of coal consumed Vesuvius and climate change footprint of their processes.
Vesuvius total energy Vesuvius recognises societys expectations costs are less than 3% of revenue, with only Thermal optimisation and reject reduction for greater transparency around climate 1.6% of the total energy requirements are key factors in the efficiency of the change, expressed by initiatives such as across the Group consumed in the UK.
processes for which we supply solutions.
the recommendations of the Financial We contribute to the reduction of our Stability Boards Task Force on ClimateVesuvius operates sites in a number of customers energy usage and subsequent related Financial Disclosures.
Vesuvius developing markets where environmental CO emissions through insulating 2 businesses focus on delivering solutions concerns have become politically materials, metal flow management, to help our customers improve the significant, as air quality deteriorates facilitating extended manufacturing productivity of their operations and and residential expansion takes people sequences meaning less reheating and reduce their environmental footprint.
closer to areas historically reserved to reduced downtime.
According to estimates from the World manufacturing.
As a result, environmental Steel Association, on average for 2017, compliance at our sites, reduction in waste, How does Vesuvius Contribute?
1.83 tonnes of CO were emitted for every increased recycling and treatment of 2 tonne of steel produced, with the steel emissions, are now fundamental to Since 2011 we have used a CO impact 2 industry generating between 7% and 9% Vesuvius operations, and can be a key stamp to highlight the most energyof direct emissions from the global use of differentiator for our business.
Correctly efficient solutions in our portfolio of fossil fuel.
With around 10 kg of refractory managed, these issues can deliver social, products and services and to support material required per tonne of steel environmental and economic benefits to the deployment of energy-efficient and produced, the careful selection and the Group and to our wider stakeholders.
sustainable solutions engineered by our use of energy-saving refractories can technology departments.
beneficially impact on the net emission of CO in the steel manufacturing process.
2 In the foundry process, the amount of metal melted versus the amount sold as finished castings is the critical factor impacting a foundrys environmental efficiency.
Vesuvius continuously works with its customers to increase the ratio of metal in finished castings to metal melted.
With respect to our own operations, The table below details the fuel consumption for the main fuels consumed across the the Board recognises that good Group in 2018. environmental management is aligned Energy Used Energy Used % CO e m kg, CO e m kg, % 2 2 Category MWh 2018 MWh 2017 change 2018 2017 change with our focus on cost optimisation and operational excellence.
Whilst Vesuvius Coal 274,684 342,399 -19.8% 89 111 -19.7% products vary significantly in the energy Electricity 214,195 215,577 -0.6% 111 119 -6.5% intensity of their manufacture, the majority External Heat 4,615 5,045 -8.5% 1 1 -8.8% of our manufacturing processes are not LPG 70,389 71,879 -2.1% 15 15 -2.1% energy intensive nor do they produce large Natural Gas 731,273 711,460 2.8% 135 131 2.7% quantities of waste and emissions.
Two of Non Fuel Emissions 0 0 0.0% 130 137 -5.5% our 35 main manufacturing processes 1 Total 1,295,156 1,346,360 -3.8% 481 514 -6.6% VISO and Slagdol production account for 39% of our energy consumption and All fuel consumption is converted to MWh for reporting.
Total reflects total of those fuels identified, not total consumption of all fuels in the Group as data for kg of CO equivalent CO e. A further 2 2 some minor forms of fuel use are not currently collated.
Non-financial information 63 Vesuvius products and services facilitate metres of diesel in the operation of fork-lift Energy conservation plan environmental benefits by: trucks on its sites and 236 cubic metres of The Vesuvius Energy Conservation Plan fuel oil.
Thanks to this improved energy Enabling lighter, thinner and stronger was launched in 2011 with the objective mix and global energy consumption components, leading to lighter vehicles of reducing our normalised energy decrease, we decreased our CO 2 and less energy consumption consumption by 10% over the following emissions by 6.6%.
In June 2015, we reset our Improving customer processes through focus and set the objective of a 10% the supply of innovative consumables to Environmental monitoring improvement using 2014 as our base reduce energy intensity and the CO e 2 year by 2018.
Against that 2014 base, All our factory emissions are proactively intensity ratio managed in accordance with local a 10.2% improvement has been realised surpassing this target.
Reducing customers refractory usage regulations.
Regular analysis enables us to per tonne of steel produced through act to reduce our emissions where possible Managing our energy intensity not only higher-quality, longer service-life and to operate more efficiently.
The Group has an environmental benefit but is also products monitors its energy consumption, part of our long-term strategy to enhance worldwide CO e emissions and usage of 2 Increasing the level of sound castings our cost-competitiveness.
Vesuvius proactively seeks to produced per tonne of metal melted reduce waste in production and to reuse through improved mould design and Water Conservation and to recycle materials where practical.
the application of molten metal filtration Vesuvius works to reduce the consumption In 2018, Vesuvius recorded 22 minor and feeding systems of water in its manufacturing processes environmental incidents.
All but one of by recycling and improving processes to these related to minor spills on-site that Vesuvius energy consumption reduce consumption.
No saltwater or were immediately cleaned up, with the and emissions cooling water is abstracted.
As with energy other pertaining to an on-site odour use, normalised consumption of water In 2018, we achieved a 3.8% decrease in generated from a research experiment.
In 2018 there was the amount of energy consumed.
Natural Total spills are estimated to be less than a slight increase in both absolute water gas use increased by 2.8%, primarily as a one tonne.
Where incidents occur they are consumption, and normalised water result of an increase in production volumes contained via Vesuvius site environmental consumption that is water use per tonne and changes in product mix, whereas response plans and reported through the of product manufactured reflecting electricity use decreased by 0.6%.
Coal Vesuvius incident reporting system.
We changes in product mix and product consumption decreased by 19.8%, from comply with local reporting requirements packed for shipment where we 45.6 thousand metric tonnes in 2017 to in respect of such incidents.
No action was manufacture more of our products 36.4 thousand metric tonnes in 2018.
In taken by any authority in relation to any that demand water consumption.
2018, the Group also consumed 387 cubic incident in 2018.
Water conservation Energy conservation 1.2 Energy used kWh per metric tonne product packed for shipment 1,200,000 1,000,000 1.0 1550 800,000 0.8 1500 600,000 0.6 0.4 1450 400,000 1400 0.2 200,000 1350 0 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1300 Water used in metric tonnes 1250 Water used in metric tonnes per metric 1200 tonne of product packed for shipment 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Vesuvius plc 64 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Sustainability continued Greenhouse gas reporting Global GHG emissions kg of CO e 2 2018 2017 In line with our total energy consumption, Emissions source both total emissions and normalised emissions decreased in 2018.
Our Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 370m 397m Greenhouse gas GHG emissions are Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 113m 121m limited to CO, with emissions of other 2 Total GHG emissions 483m 518m GHGs at a fide minimis level.
Change -6.6% In reporting GHG emissions, we have used 2 Vesuvius chosen intensity measurement kg of CO e per metric the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting tonne of product packed for shipment and Reporting Standard revised edition Emissions reported above, normalised to per tonne of product output 478.9 527.5 methodology to identify our GHG Change -9.2% inventory of Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 indirect CO e. We report in kg of CO 2 2 Methodology We have reported to the extent reasonably practicable on all the emission sources required equivalent CO e. under Part 7 of the Accounting Regulations which fall within our Group Financial Statements.
2 Scope 1 covers emissions from fuels used in our factories and offices.
The Group also meets all its obligations Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heat, steam and hot in relation to the Carbon Reduction water we purchase to supply our offices and factories.
Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency We have used data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme and Scheme, the Producer Responsibility emission factors from UK Governments and the IEA GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2018 in the calculation of our GHG.
Packaging Waste regulations and the Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme by which the UK has implemented the EU Vesuvius Environmental Policy Energy Efficiency Directive.
We will operate all work and business A ll environmental incidents are Environmental Policy activities in a manner which ensures preventable appropriate care and protection of All employees are expected to adhere to Our Aims the environment.
the Groups Environmental policy, which R educe waste at source and during is translated into local languages and We will comply with all applicable production displayed prominently in all locations.
legal and other local environmental This policy is supported with standards M inimise consumption of energy, obligations.
We will be pro-active in and procedures which are reviewed water and other resources preventing negative effects to the and updated on an ongoing basis.
environment, and will continuously M inimise releases of substances improve our environmental which could adversely affect humans management systems and or the environment performance.
Our Commitments Organisation and Responsibilities W e will raise environmental issues at We regard environmental matters all levels and openly address them as a mainstream management W e will build environmental protection responsibility.
Executives and line into our products and processes managers are directly responsible for environmental matters in operations E nvironmental risk assessments will under their control.
Management is be undertaken to identify hazards, accountable for environmental prioritise any deficiencies and correct performance against objectives.
them in an appropriate way as well as to develop appropriate procedures Each and every employee is responsible and accountable for environmental W e will provide training to all employees matters in activities under their control.
and contractors to ensure that they understand their responsibilities and We will encourage our Suppliers to are able to act accordingly adhere to the same Environmental standards as we do.
E very business facility will have an appointed Environmental Manager We expect everyone to participate positively in achieving our environmental aims.
This policy has been approved by the Group Executive Our Beliefs Committee and is displayed and P reserving the Environment is implemented at all facilities.
Good Business The Group Executive Committee A ll employees must contribute to Version 2.0.
6, 10 2018 protect the environment Non-financial information 65 Certifications We have 25 manufacturing sites certified to ISO 14001:2015, representing 42% of our manufacturing sites.
Local management makes the decision on whether to certify their site based on local regulatory and customer requirements.
Country Company Name Site Australia Foseco Pty Ltd Sydney Belgium Vesuvius Belgium N. V. Ostend Brazil Foseco Industrial e Comercial Ltda Sao Paulo China VSV Advanced Ceramics Anshan Co. Ltd. Anshan China Vesuvius Advanced Ceramics Suzhou Co. Ltd Suzhou Czech Republic Vesuvius esk Republika, a. s. Trinec Czech Republic Vesuvius Solar Crucible, s. r. o. Moravia Germany SIR Feuerfestprodukte GmbH Siegen Germany SIR Feuerfestprodukte GmbH Kreuztal Germany Vesuvius GmbH Grossalmerode Germany Vesuvius GmbH Borken India Foseco India Limited Puducherry India Foseco India Limited Pune Indonesia P. T. Foseco Indonesia Jakarta Japan Foseco Japan Limited Toyokawa Netherlands Foseco Nederland BV Hengelo Poland Vesuvius Poland Sp.
z o. o. Skawina South Africa Vesuvius South Africa Pty Limited Olifantsfontein South Korea Foseco Korea Limited Gyeonggi-do Spain Vesuvius Iberica Refractarios S. A. Langreo Sweden Vesuvius Scandinavia AB Amal Taiwan Foseco Golden Gate Co. Limited Ping Tung United Kingdom Vesuvius UK Limited Chesterfield United Kingdom Vesuvius UK Limited Tamworth USA Vesuvius USA Corporation Cleveland Vesuvius plc 66 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 People and community People are the centre of our business Our objective is to support and drive a deciding on development, succession and We believe that the high-performance culture leading to cross organisational moves for this personal growth and better business outcomes delivered by a leadership group.
This illustrates the cadre of truly engaged employees.
We do strong commitment at the highest level of job satisfaction of our this by building broad organisational our organisation towards growing the employees is key to the understanding of our strategy, goals and Group using its Company-wide resources.
accountability, supported by our CORE success and growth of We employ individuals who embody values, continuous improvement and the business.
an entrepreneurial mindset and an positive management behaviours.
Whether they foster a working environment that is are recent graduates or seasoned inclusive and diverse, where people can be professionals, everybody who wants to themselves without fear of harassment, leave their mark in a dynamic rapidly bullying or discrimination.
developing business environment has a Our leaders take full responsibility for chance to succeed.
Special attention is managing and developing their teams.
paid to building strong, diverse teams They are provided with access to a central that bring different backgrounds and resource, offering expertise in Global experiences to our daily work.
The team Rewards & Mobility, Talent & Performance of top leaders currently consists of Management, Culture and Learning, and 25 nationalities located in 24 countries.
supported by Group-wide processes The Company invests in a constant and information systems.
We have dialogue with employees at various levels, implemented best-in-class talent using a mix of traditional communication development programmes for high channels, such as posters and websites, potentials and we collaborate with as well as modern digital solutions, market-leading learning institutions to such as mobile applications.
mechanisms are built into our processes, The Group Executive Committee holds so that we can capture the spirit of our direct responsibility for the top managers, workforce and the best ideas of jointly reviewing capability needs and employees.
Our training programmes ADVANCE who manage other managers.
Wings is an individual and group projects, in which established programme in partnership with participants are assessed individually for This is a first-generation management Vlerick University, Belgium.
Participants are development programme aimed at provides an introduction to general individually sponsored by members of our developing individual contributors who are management theory and practice, and Group Executive Committee, and actively likely to occupy a line management role and encourages managers to explore their supported by their line managers and by managers who need to be familiar with a leadership styles.
senior HR management for the duration of broad range of people management skills the programme.
ASCENT Last year we ran the programme for our first HeaTt This is the Vesuvius high-potential and senior cohort and we have since launched it across leadership development programme which These courses form part of the Vesuvius all regions.
The programme is designed we developed in partnership with INSEAD.
Technical University aimed at the continuous to last 12 months and blends learning It is aimed at accelerating the development technical development of Vesuvius approaches, using online, face-to-face and of top talent within the organisation and employees.
Courses range from entry to project-based techniques.
Participants developing skills such as strategic business expert levels and are continuously updated are supported by line management and leadership, general business administration, to keep pace with developing technology, HR business partners for the duration of value innovation and performance culture thereby guaranteeing that Vesuvius experts the programme.
are at the forefront of technical innovation.
They are a great way for our hugely The programme takes place over a WINGS experienced technical experts to pass on nine-month period, and involves initial online This is the Vesuvius middle management their knowledge to the next generation and modules, face-to-face workshops and development programme aimed at those ensure the sustainability of our know-how.
Non-financial information 67 67 VESUVIUS HAS OFFERED ME NUMEROUS OPPORTUNITIES TO GROW AND DEVELOP MY CAREER.
I love that my job exposes me to new and exciting situations.
Alex Brown Product Development Engineer Cleveland, USA and creativity, and the diversity of our selection, promotion, or training and Employee diversity employees is one of the core strengths development.
Wherever a gap, we seek At Vesuvius, we believe that the dedication of the Group.
to address it as part of our wider and professionalism of our people is the commitment to promoting diversity most significant contributor to our success.
We are committed to providing equality and inclusion.
Having a balance of cultures, ethnicities of opportunity in all areas of human and genders helps to promote innovation resources, whether in recruitment and Female Male Total Female Male Group Executive Committee member 1 8 9 11% 89% 1 Senior management 9 113 122 7% 93% Middle management 51 318 369 14% 86% All other employees 1,369 8,940 10,309 13% 87% Grand total 1,430 9,379 10,809 13% 87% 2 Directors of subsidiaries included in consolidation 44 408 452 10% 90% 1.
Of these 122 senior managers, 43 directly report to members of the Group Executive Committee, and of these, three are women.
T here are 452 directors of Group subsidiaries, 10% of which are women.
This disclosure is made to comply with regulatory requirements.
It includes Directors of dormant companies.
Some individuals hold multiple directorships.
European management and the EWC appropriately equipped to fulfil their Employee consultation and meet formally once a year.
In 2018 management notified one industrial relations management provides an update on special event to the EWC, relating to the In most of the countries in which we the performance of the business, with a restructuring of the European Advanced operate we inform and consult local works focus on developments likely to impact Refractories and Foundry operations, councils and trade unions in matters European employees.
Additional Special which had transnational application.
Event Meetings are held when the Group In addition to formal discussion and These processes and procedures are is required to consult with the EWC about regulated by local law and we find that consultation mechanisms, in many particular matters, including proposed countries our operations hold town hall the constructive dialogue that takes place restructurings in the European organisation.
between employee representatives and meetings on a regular basis.
These provide The EWC Select Committee also meets an opportunity for local management to management provides benefit to our twice a year to receive additional updates, business.
In addition to local employee meet with staff and provide an update on and the Chief HR Officer of Vesuvius joins corporate developments and matters representation we operate a European part of these meetings.
All EWC Works Council EWC that contains material to the business.
representatives receive four dedicated representatives from each of the EU training days per year, to ensure they are countries where Vesuvius has employees.
Vesuvius plc 68 68 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 People and community continued Spark Leadership Forum 2018 The Spark Leadership Forum was hosted by The Forum was also used as an opportunity Patrick Andr and the Group Executive to launch the new set of corporate values: Committee, in June 2018, in Rome, Italy.
CORE Courage, Ownership, Respect, The Groups top managers from around the Energy, and managers discussed action globe, attended a two-day programme plans for promoting their use, embedding focused on Vesuvius strategic growth and the associated behaviours, and for profitability targets.
disseminating them throughout the organisation.
Patrick Andr and Guy Young gave presentations on Vesuvius vision and Our Chairman, John McDonough, CBE strategy, emphasising the need for everyone gave a keynote address emphasising the to strive to be the best, to focus on delivering fundamental role of people in achieving to our customers and becoming world class Vesuvius growth objectives.
Each of the business unit It is incumbent on everyone in this room to Presidents expanded on this vision and focus your efforts, on attracting, developing strategy, providing operational detail on the and retaining the very best people plans proposed to achieve this performance.
worldwide bearing in mind the proven fact that there is strength through diversity.
We empower our people to drive the Talent management business with an entrepreneurial spirit.
Strengthening the leadership pipeline To develop a focused, performanceand facilitating people development oriented culture as well as support the throughout the organisation remain key entrepreneurial drive, we align our senior areas of focus for Vesuvius.
In 2018 we management in their strategic business worked hard to ensure that we have the outlook and performance goals across all right capability in every part of the operational and functional business areas.
organisation to drive our strategy and realise market opportunities.
As a result, We encourage and reward high we have built high-calibre leadership performance, foster talent and aim to teams, many of whom are relatively new to create an environment where all can their roles and to Vesuvius.
As a next step realise their individual potential.
To meet we will focus on integrating this new talent the demands of the business and add into our organisation, building strong rigour to our employee value proposition, teams across all our geographies.
we have launched several training programmes to assist our employees to develop their skills and progress their careers, details of which are set out on page 66.
Non-financial information 69 performance management systems which Vesuvius expatriates do not come from Global reward are transparent and objective, where one or two countries alone.
We have a truly Reward and recognition are integral employees receive equal pay for work international mix of nationalities in our components of our employee value of equal value, regardless of their age, expatriate population.
Individuals move proposition, enabling us to attract, engage race, disability, sexual orientation, not only within a region, but also between and retain key talent and highly-qualified gender, marital, civil partnership or regions, with existing assignments employees.
Our reward systems are parental status, religion or beliefs.
Our including Malaysia to China, China to designed to create a market-competitive management Annual Incentive Plans are Germany, Poland to the USA and Brazil to and fair pay environment for all our measured against both Vesuvius financial China.
Our mobility programme shows employees and to reinforce the vision, targets and personal performance, an that our expatriate population is as diverse strategy and expectations set by incentive structure consistent with that of as our Group.
The Vesuvius Vesuvius operates a number of Share Plan for Executive Directors and We seek to create a culture that international assignment policies to Group Executive Committee members champions performance, building provide for the different circumstances encourages decisions based on long-term a strong link between individual of these assignments whether they goals rather than short-term gains and performance and pay.
Supported by our be short term, longer-term, or require works to align the interests of participants online people management platform, extended commuting.
These policies are and shareholders.
MyVesuvius, performance reviews supplemented with clearly identified and subsequent reward decisions are benefits, delivering support appropriate based not only on how employees have Global mobility to the nature of the assignment.
By performed against their individual Vesuvius is active worldwide.
We believe accessing this broad range of policies, objectives but also on assessments of we can manage our international that our companies should be managed behaviour and commitment to our CORE and staffed by local personnel.
However, assignments with greater flexibility, values.
Our global job grading framework, thus catering for changing expectations we also provide selected groups of based on a structured assessment employees with a range of international and demands from employees, whilst at methodology, enables us to compare the same time meeting the needs of assignments.
These assignments are roles and ensure internal consistency usually for a limited period, most often the business.
committed to creating reward and Vesuvius International Key rationale behind international assignments Scholarship Programme Vesuvius considers individuals for international assignment for three primary reasons: The Vesuvius International Scholarship Providing Vesuvius companies with Career development.
We believe that Programme is set up to assist qualified skills that are not locally available the personal development plan of any dependent children of Vesuvius and that are required at short notice.
employee being developed for a senior employees in helping to finance This typically occurs in countries where management, or senior expert position undergraduate and graduate we are establishing a new presence.
should include a posting outside their education at accredited institutions.
The number of expatriates working on home country.
This encourages them to Awards are granted globally without this basis diminishes over time as the develop the skills necessary to function regard to race, colour, creed, religion, organisation matures and we recruit successfully in an international sexual orientation, age, gender, and train local talent to take over environment.
These postings are tailored disability or national origin.
to the needs of the organisation and the needs of the individual Vesuvius has been involved in this programme for 23 years, during which Enhancing diversity.
Management period it has paid out $1,157,000 to teams benefit from having a mix of assist 992 students in achieving their gender and cultures.
In specific cases higher education goals.
Individual we use international assignments to scholarships have been awarded to achieve this goal employees children living in: Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, France, India, Indonesia, Italy, Malaysia, Netherlands, Philippines, Poland, Romania, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, UAE and the UK.
Vesuvius plc 70 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 People and community continued Vesuvius in the local community Our social responsibility activities complement our values and drive our culture.
Our operating sites engage with their local communities through various social action projects.
Mexico Annual Homes Visit Aosta Half Marathon In September 2018 Vesuvius Italia In December 2018, employees and sponsored the fourth annual half CORE committee members from marathon of Aosta, Italy.
The half Vesuvius Mexico volunteered at a marathon, organized by COGNE childrens home for girls and home for steelworks, passes monuments and the elderly.
The home for girls aged other sites of historical importance and 2-18, who are victims of domestic beauty in the town of Aosta in north violence, and nursing home for western Italy.
A group of Flow Control 53 elderly people, are both run by and Advanced Refractories sales, nuns.
The team spent the day with the technical and administrative staff plus residents and donated clothing and their family members, teamed up to groceries.
These annual visits have been form a group of runners.
In addition to taking place for the past five years.
the half marathon, other shorter races are held including an 11 km race, a 6 km family run, a 1 km baby run, and a 4 km tour, offering tasting options with typical Aosta Valley food!
The runs raise a significant amount of money for local charities.
Sites hosted full day events In October, Vesuvius France and Mexico which included speakers from local Sport employees took part in Pink October & Health Associations, physical activities Breast Cancer Awareness Month.
and also a raffle draw for free checkups.
This worldwide annual campaign involving A donation of 400 was made for breast thousands of organisations, highlights the cancer research.
importance of breast awareness, education Non-financial information 71 Alongside its work with those members of the community who are not directly connected with our facilities, Vesuvius also organises activities to involve the families and local communities with our operations.
Family Day and Open House Foseco India celebrates 2018 Vesuvius Mexico Family Day at Pune In August 2018, Vesuvius Mexico held an In 2018 Foseco India celebrated a Open House event, to give the families Foseco Family Day at Pune.
The day of its employees the opportunity to get was aimed at bringing employees and to know the facilities where their father, their families together in a fun-filled mother, husband or wife works.
Around environment to build stronger ties with 90 children attended the event, at which each other.
400 people attended, Vesuvius Mexico launched a new award with various events laid on throughout Successful father successful son to the afternoon and evening in an recognise children with a grade 90 or environment of energy, fun, creativity higher and parents with excellent work and entertainment.
There were emotional commenced with a Bollywood Oscar scenes when children received their theme warm welcome, with people awards with their parents.
There were walking the red carpet to make an entry.
Mrs and Mr Sanjay Mathur lit the lamp before a gala stage performance of Everyone received a tour of the facility a talent show was held.
This was put and offices, and as a gift the children together by Foseco family members received their own personal protective and was followed by a team dinner.
The event drew together the wider Foseco India community, celebrating the pride of our employees in the Company they work for.
Vesuvius Foundry China sponsors first Young Entrepreneur forum In May 2018 Vesuvius sponsored the first foundry industry is facing and offering.
Young Entrepreneur forum of the China The foundry industry needs to inspire a new foundry industry, organised by the China generation of entrepreneurs to promote Foundry Association CFA, and held in innovation and secure the future growth of Beijing.
The General Manager of our the industry.
Vesuvius is proud to support Foundry Division in China, Benny Yang, such events.
gave a speech in which he encouraged young entrepreneurs to embrace the challenges and opportunities that the The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 71 contains a fair review of our businesses, Approved by the Board on 27 February strategy, and business model and the associated principal risks and uncertainties.
2019 and signed on its behalf by We also deliver a review of our 2018 performance and set out an overview of our Patrick Andr Guy Young markets.
Details of our principles, our people and community engagement, together Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer with our focus on safety, are also contained in the Strategic Report.
Vesuvius plc 72 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 SEC TION FOUR G O V E R NAN C E In this section: 74 Board of Directors 76 Group Executive Committee 78 Corporate Governance Statement 78 Chairmans Governance Letter 79 Board Report 86 Audit Committee 93 Nomination Committee 95 Directors Remuneration Report: 95 Remuneration Overview 97 Remuneration Policy 105 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration 116 Directors Report 120 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 121 Independent Auditors Report Governance 73 WERE ADVANCING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR TREASURY SOLUTIONS ACROSS THE GROUP.
I work with my finance colleagues around the globe to provide proactive treasury support.
Andrew Matthews Group Treasurer, London, UK
