Strategic report Sustainability report Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer JakobSigurdsson Our sustainability strategy is built around three key areas which, through our 2023 Vision, demonstrate the positive benefits that Victrexs polymers and solutions deliver to our customers and markets, to the environment and to our communities.
With several of our interim targets completed, we remain focused on our long-term targets, whilst reviewing the practicality of areas such as waste management.
As Chief Executive Officer I have directresponsibility for our sustainability strategy.
Our sustainable solutions area saw new or enhanced targets introduced last year: to increase the level of PEEK polymers in carsfrom an average of 8g to 12g in the next three to five years and, in our Medical area, we increased our target for the number of implanted patients with PEEK-OPTIMA from 9 million to 12million.
This year we were also recognised by FTSE Russell Green Revenues Index for our sales into Transport markets, where our lightweight Jakob Sigurdsson materials offer the opportunity of CO reduction.
2 Chief Executive Officer Across our resource efficiency area, our focus on CO reduction 2 perunit of revenue continues to see steady improvement and wehave also increased the proportion of renewable energy webuyto support our operations.
We also verify our efforts A sustainable incarbonreduction independently, through participating in theCarbon Disclosure Project CDP.
In social responsibility, our activities in the community, and to business support the next generation of scientists and engineers, including the recruitment of 15 new apprentices, show progress.
Our target to have over 75% of employees engaged and active on sustainability Victrexs sustainability strategy creates by 2023 was revised down to 50% last year, largely reflecting acompetitive advantage for Victrex, realistic timing.
anddelivers sustainable solutions to our Nevertheless, with continuous improvement and cost efficiency atthe forefront of our business, we have a great opportunity to customers and markets: as well as being further improve our sustainability record over the coming years.
efficient with our resources: and socially With our Polymer & Parts strategy focused on moving further responsible in ourcommunities.
downstream to supply semi-finished products and components beyond manufacturing polymers we have an opportunity to deliver further benefits to our customers and markets.
Whether As well as helping reduce CO in transport 2 itbein Aerospace, where the current commercial airline fleet is through lighter and more durable materials, expected to double by 2035: in Automotive, where durability, we have long-term sustainability targets electrification and lightweighting are key themes: or in Medical, where our polymers are delivering real performance benefits to through our 2023 Vision, timed to mark patients, sustainability remains integral to our strategy and the30th anniversary of Victrexs creation.
Jakob Sigurdsson Chief Executive Officer 4 December 2018 28 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Our sustainability goals Victrex creates a competitive advantage and delivers sustainable benefits and solutions to our customers and our markets, alongside maximising our resource efficiency across our global footprint.
Sustainable Resource Social solutions efficiency responsibility Vision: Vision: Vision: Develop and deliver sustainable polymer Maximise resource efficiency across Inspire the next generation by supporting solutions that provide clear social and thevalue chain science, technology, engineering and environmental benefits to society maths education STEM 2023 target: 2023 target: 2023 target: Save more CO than we produce 50% reduction in CO per revenue 10,000 employee hours cumulative u u u 2 2 carbonneutral supporting community activity 50% reduction in waste u by2023 5 million-tonne reduction of CO perrevenue u 2 inAerospace and Automotive 1,000 young people reached u through education activities Target 12 million patients with u PEEK-OPTIMA implanted globally 50% of employees engaged u target enhanced from current onsustainability 9million Our 2023 Vision: interim targets Our 2023 Vision: interim targets Our 2023 Vision: interim targets Metric: Metric: Metric: u CO savings u Reduction in energy and waste u Employee involvement in the community 2 u Scale of patient benefits u Tonnes CO per revenue u Number of young people worked with 2 Interim targets: Interim targets: Interim targets: COMPLETED COMPLETED COMPLETED Independently review method of Engage with key suppliers by FY 2016 to Employee network in place to support u u u measuring CO savings in Transport identify their climate change impact and community STEM education activities in 2 improvement plans the UK by end of FY 2015 and globally Extend PEEK-OPTIMA further intonew u byend of FY 2016 andexisting spinal therapeutic areas Establish an R&D programme by FY 2015 u toidentify process yield improvements Victrex Catalyst Science Education u Extend PEEK-OPTIMA intonew u and waste reduction opportunities Centre project fully up and running therapeutic areas byend of FY 2015 Engage with key suppliers by FY 2016 u toidentify their waste impact and Employee engagement insustainability u improvement plans assessed inFY 2018s employee survey, with results benchmarked against peer companies TO DO TO DO TO DO Extend Invibio solutions into Establish a long-term energy Ongoing support to Fleetwood High u u u emerginggeographies efficiencyplan School to achieve improved STEM academic results ENHANCED TARGETS ENHANCED TARGETS Corporate responsibility benchmarking u by BITC Business in the Community Increase volume of PEEK in cars from Establish long-term resource efficiency u u 8 grams to 12 grams over the medium plan with raw material supplychain term, supporting lighter vehicles and Translate low carbon energy sourcing u CO savings 2 strategy across UK manufacturing sites Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 29 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Our Code of Conduct Doing the right thing Passion, innovation and performance are integral to our behaviours and we support and uphold Victrex Strategy&Objectives them in an ethical manner.
Our ethical principles are set out in our Code of Conduct and underpin Behaviours & Values the way we do business and treat one another.
Our Code sets the foundations of how we act personally, with others and in our communities.
Our continued success as a business rests on maintaining these principles and ensuring we strive to always do the right thing.
Our Code of Conduct is supported by CODE OF CONDUCT policieson each of the Conduct, People and Sustainability pillars shown in the table below.
Doing the right thing Doing the right thing Doing the right thing in our CONDUCT for our PEOPLE for SUSTAINABILITY u We are open and honest u We treat people with fairness u We deliver sustainable andrespect, and hold ourselves polymersolutions u We comply with all applicable laws andeach other to account and regulations u We work to minimise the u We do not discriminate environmental impact of our u We do not engage in anti-competitive businessoperations activity, bribery or corruption u We provide a safe and healthy workplace and ensure our activities u We contribute to the wellbeing u We protect our Company information donot harm our employees, the ofourlocal communities and confidential information shared publicor the environment with us u We seek to inspire the next generation u We follow good standards of corporate governance and do not abuse market regulations Performance reviews from  Pages 18 to 20 30 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 CONDUCT PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY Strategic report We conducted our periodic employee survey this year with a 75%engagement rate, a near double-digit improvement on our previous survey and some five percentage points above the industry benchmark.
We continue to develop and progress action plans to further develop areas not scoring as highly.
Details of our Gender Pay Gap report can be found on page 37 andon www.
Respect for human rights We recognise the importance of treating the people around us, and those we may impact, with respect but also acknowledge there are practices globally that seek to threaten human rights.
Victrex does not tolerate these practices.
In relation to our supply chain activities we have focused policies on Modern Slavery and Conflict Minerals, as part of onboarding and ongoing due diligence supplier management activities.
Our Modern Slavery Act statement is available on www.
com reaffirming our policy commitment and our ongoing actions in this area.
Additionally we have updated our Data Protection Policy and underlying processes to reflect the new General Data Protection All of our employees, officers and Board members are responsible Regulation GDPR this year to ensure we treat our employees forfollowing our Code of Conduct and its supporting policies.
andthird parties personal data securely and appropriately.
Thereis annual recertification of the Code of Conduct through mandatory awareness learning for employees, with additional Anti-bribery and corruption training on specific supporting policies for targeted employees and Our Code of Conduct commitment to being open, honest and this programme continues to develop.
The Code is available in five following all relevant laws and regulations is supported by underlying languages, viewable on www.
policies and processes including Fraud, Anti-Bribery & Corruption, We encourage employees and our stakeholders to speak up if they Market Abuse, Competition Law and Export Controls & Sanctions, have concerns that our Code of Conduct or its supporting policies and reflected in our principal risks on pages 23 to 25.
Our focus on are not being followed and our Global Whistleblowing Policy gives Doing the Right Thing extends beyond the letter of the law to ensure help on how to do this.
we act ethically and openly, treating others fairly and how we would want to be treated.
Relevant processes therefore include appropriate due diligence.
We consider the risk of exposure to bribery and Sustainability matters corruption across our business areas and with our various stakeholders We recognise that some of our operations can impact on the safety and take mitigating actions where necessary.
This can involve rejecting and wellbeing of our people and those in the communities around us.
potential suppliers if risks are deemed too high.
Ouradditional This is reflected in our principal risks on pages 23 to 25.
Our Safety, policies on declaring Conflicts of Interest and managing the threats Health & Environment Policy promotes our continuous improvement against Information Security including our intellectual property set in this area, and we have again received the Gold Award from RoSPA out our expectations and how we further safeguard our business this year.
Our employees Additionally we have completed risk assessments of the potential We value our employees and continue to seek to recruit, retain forfacilitating tax evasion under the new Corporate Criminal Offence anddevelop our talent, and this too is reflected as a principal risk legislation introduced in October 2017, and taken actions to further onpage 23.
We have policies on Diversity & Equal Opportunities, strengthen controls as required.
Disciplinary & Grievance, and Whistleblowing to ensure we recognise the positive contribution of a diverse workforce and hold ourselves to account for delivering it.
We are enhancing processes to ensure we continue to recruit the highest quality people with the right fit toour organisation.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 31 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Sustainable solutions Our sustainable solutions area focuses on products and services which help shape future performance for our customers and markets, by providing sustainable environmental and social benefits.
Focus: Innovation for the sustainable Aerospace industry of tomorrow According to latest projections for the global Aerospace industry, airlines are expected to require more than 42,000 new aircraft over 1 the next 20 years.
This global expansion will pose a major challenge to sustainable and cost efficient production and calls for pioneering approaches and technologies.
To meet future needs, Victrex developed an innovative composite product family, Victrex AE250, which supports fast automated manufacturing: a typical PAEK thermoplastic composite part can reduce manufacturing time by 2030% compared to metals or other polymer materials.
Manufacturing cycle times can be 2 measured in minutes versus hours for thermoset alternatives.
In addition, they are lower-temperature processing composites and enable a unique hybrid moulding process.
As a consequence, the The implications for the cost efficient manufacture of the aircraft strength of continuously reinforced thermoplastic composites is fleets of the future, and for environmental sustainability, are combined with the design flexibility and demonstrated performance tremendously exciting.
Weight reductions and lower CO emissions 2 2 of VICTREX PEEK injection moulding polymers.
More specifically, can be realised through the design of lightweight, thermoplastic a short fibre reinforced VICTREX PEEK polymer is over-moulded PAEK composite parts contributing to also speed up manufacturing onto lower melting VICTREX PAEK composites.
This also results in time.
Victrex has proven in the past, across different industries, an excellent fusion bond, avoiding the need for adhesives and thatby leading the way with pioneering VICTREX PAEK based reducing the number of mechanical fasteners necessary to combine innovation we can deliver real benefits to our customers, our 3 sub-component parts simultaneously reducing processing steps markets and the environment.
and lowering energy consumption for a positive environmental Sources 4 impact.
However, itisthe injection moulding mentioned that also 1 http: www.
helps to speed upthe manufacture of aircraft parts in the future Boeing Forecasts $15 Trillion Commercial Airplanes and Services Market and reduce production waste.
Sustainable solutions Snippet: The massive fleet generates a strong and growing demand for aviation services ranging from supply chain support parts and parts Such PAEK composite-based parts can deliver weight savings of up logistics, to maintenance and engineering services, to aircraft modifications, to 60% over conventional metallic solutions and contribute to cuts to airline operations.
Over the next 20 years, Boeing forecast an $8.8T market in fuel consumption and thus emissions, delivering both cost and for commercial aviation services with annual growth of 4.2 percent.
Furthermore, thermoplastic composites are 2 Victrex press release, Victrex, 12 March 2018 https: www.
Once a thermoset is cured, it cannot be reused, news 2018 03 .
leading to associated costs from scrap.
3 Green, Stuart, Overmoulding of PEEK Compounds for Composite Aerospace Increasing the amount of PAEK thermoplastic composite solutions Brackets Tech paper delivered at CAMX 2017. https: www.
aspx?ID 11023413. infuture aircraft programmes is also dependent on supply chain and capacity being ready and available.
Therefore Victrex invested, for Snippet: We demonstrate that overmoulding with short fibre reinforced PEEK compound onto the novel PAEK creates an excellent fusion bond between the example, in TxV Aero Composites, a joint venture with Tri-Mack Plastics.
selected compatible materials, avoiding the need for adhesives and reducing TxV will offer a range of composites from custom laminates to the number of mechanical fasteners when sub component parts pre-formed composite inserts for hybrid moulding processes, as well arecombined.
as finished composite parts and complete over-moulded hybrid 4 Victrex Sustainability report 2016. composite components and assemblies.
The acquisition of fibre Snippet: Environmental benefits of hybrid overmoulding include reduced specialist Zyex and participation in the Thermoplastic Composite energy consumption, elimination of secondary process steps such as Research Centre TPRC are also in line with Victrexs long-term autoclave curing, and the use of 100% recyclable materials that have objective of enabling greatly enhanced efficiency within the unlimited shelf life.
32 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Resource efficiency Our performance in how we are managing and measuring our resource efficiency is shown in our 2023 Vision on page 29.
Resource efficiency Compliance Whilst our sustainability credentials are strong, through lighter Proactively staying well ahead of environmental standards is part materials which can support CO savings, we have an impact on ofVictrexs philosophy across our operations.
Our chemical 2 theenvironment through the resources that we use to make our production plants are regulated under Environmental Permitting products and the processes that we operate.
We focus on controlling Regulations and, as such, are subject to close regulatory review by these impacts and, as we grow, are committed to continual the UK Environment Agency EA.
We carry out extensive routine improvement.
Our priorities remain the efficient use of energy and environmental monitoring to proactively make sure our plants are waste minimisation and weare proactively focusing on improvement well controlled.
When we design and build new plants wework in these areas.
closely with the EA to make sure that the best available techniques to protect the environment are adopted.
For example, on our APTIV film plant, right-first-time performance hasbeen improved by 25% reducing the need to recycle material Victrex has an effective system for reporting and investigating and reducing energy use.
This has been achieved specifically by incidents and near misses.
Unfortunately during 2018 we recorded better control of plant roller maintenance along with giving operators three notifiable environmental events.
At our Hillhouse manufacturing better control of the process.
In addition, on our compounding plant plant in the UK, during routine environmental monitoring we detected a continuous improvement project delivered yield improvements with an instance when suspended solids in a waste stream were slightly associated reductions in waste.
This was achieved by optimising the elevated above agreed levels but with nopotential to cause significant operation of the compounding extrusion process.
There were two notifiable spill incidents at our Hillhouse site.
Principal environmental impacts Duringoperation of a demineralisation water plant we detected a The Groups operations and environmental impact are set out in leak tounmade ground.
In aseparate incident, whilst maintenance thecharts on page 36 and are different from the Groups overall troubleshooting was taking place on a hot oil pump, there was a GHG emissions see overleaf.
These show energy use, water use leakof oil into the pump containment bund.
The spill was contained andwaste from our main UK production sites.
The impact from and removed with no potential to cause significant environmental ouroverseas Gears facility, UK Fibres plant Zyex and ourtechnical harm.
Robust remediation plans were put in place and measures and office facilities is not material and is not included.
We have reported data per unit of revenue to best align our We have well established systems and procedures in place to manage indicators with our business strategy as we move downstream into environmental performance and to achieve continuous improvement.
more specialised manufacturing with a varied product mix, along During the year we successfully attained new ISO 14001:2015 with absolute data to demonstrate our total impact.
Encouragingly accreditation for the environmental management system on our whilst output has increased this year our environmental indicators compounded pellets production plant, validating our high level improved or remained stable due to higher revenues and operating commitment to environmental improvement.
Our GHG report required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 shows our corporate CO 2 emissions by emission type Scope 1 emissions generated by the direct combustion of gas: Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity andsteam: and Scope 3 emissions from other sources, for example distribution.
Absolute emissions data is reported along with Scope 1 and 2 emissions per unit revenue.
We also participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, which measures companies in their efforts to reduce carbon.
This year we also joined Operation Clean Sweep, an industry group targeting waste reduction in the polymer and plastics industry.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 33 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Resource efficiency continued Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Our emissions have been calculated based on the GHG Protocol Whilst absolute direct emissions from gas combustion Scope 1 Corporate Standard.
Emissions reported correspond with our increased slightly this year due to higher production levels financial year.
We have included emissions from both our owned encouragingly, our indirect emissions from electricity purchased and leased assets for which we are responsible in the UK and Scope 2 decreased.
This is primarily due to a favourable overseas.
This includes our manufacturing plants, technical reduction in theUK grid electricity CO e factor benefiting the 2 centres and offices.
No material Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions are Victrex UK manufacturing base.
The combined Scope 1 and 2 omitted.
National and regional emission conversion factors have emissions inaddition to higher 2018 revenues has resulted in been used.
Indicative Scope 3 emissions have been included in our afurther decrease in the intensity measurement.
report for greater transparency including indirect emissions from Other indirect emissions Scope 3 from transport of goods business flights and international air and shipping goods freight.
andemployees have encouragingly remained steady.
Whilst Our GHG emissions are predominantly from gas combustion theamount distributed increased during the year to meet global andelectricity use on our chemical production plant in the UK.
customer demand the corresponding emissions have remained Emissions from our Gears facility in the US and Fibres facility in steady principally as a result of favourable emission factors.
the UK are relatively immaterial.
Additionally, emissions from ouroverseas technical facilities and offices are small compared toproduction activities, which explains our focus on production site reporting metrics.
Victrex GHG emissions 2018 Tonnes of CO equivalent 2 2018fromPEEK manufacture SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 .
Direct emissions resulting from Indirect emissions resulting from combustion of fuels Tonnes CO e electricity purchased location- 2 based method Tonnes CO e 2 2018 25,231 2018 12,689 Scope 3 2017 22,478 2017 13,667 2016 22,048 2016 16,206 2015 21,203 2015 17,932 Scope 1 2014 16,728 2014 15,363 Scope 2 SCOPE 3 INTENSITY MEASUREMENT Other indirect emissions from related SCOPE 1 AND 2 55 27 18activities such as transport of goods Tonnes CO e m revenue 2 andemployees Tonnes CO e 2 2018 8,197 2018 116 2017 8,136 2017 126 2016 4,583 2016 152 2015 3,839 2015 149 2014 2,815 2014 127 Note: The Scope 2 emissions reported above are based on regional or national emission conversion factors the location method.
Scope 2 emissions have also been calculated based on supply-specific emission conversion factors the market method 12,898 tonnes CO e. 2 This was an increase on last year 10,159 tonnes CO e primarily due to a more adverse supplier fuel mix at one of our key manufacturing 2 sites.
Victrex strategy is to transition to lower carbon energy supplies for our main users.
A zero carbon tariff for electricity was introduced during the year at one of our manufacturing sites contributing to a reduction of over 500 tonnes of CO compared with the previous 2 tariff.
We anticipate further reductions as low carbon tariffs are introduced at other sites.
34 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report REACH The EU chemicals policy known as REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals regulations isawell established regulatory regime for the chemical industry andVictrex has well established processes in place to comply with it.
We regularly monitor and review to ensure that raw materials involved in our manufacturing process are compliant and that REACH will not adversely impact on security of supply, which is important both forVictrex and for our customers who are focusing on long-term demand.
Following theBrexit referendum, we are also monitoring any potential amendments to regulations such as REACHor other EU-led legislation.
Health and safety Protecting the occupational safety and health of all our employees, along with contractors and visitors to our sites, remains the highest priority for Victrex.
We continue to have a strong track record and have won several accolades to mark our success in this area.
We received the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Order of Distinction award this year.
It is the 21st consecutive year that we have received a Gold award and the seventh year running that we have received an Order of Distinction award, a great achievement and one which underlines our significant commitment to health and safety and consistently high level of performance.
Whilst we have a strong track record, we set targets to drive continual safety, health and environment SHE performance improvement.
During the year, over 1.4 million employee hours were worked with no employee reportable injuries and no cases ofreportable ill health.
This has been achieved by establishing andmaintaining a strong health and safety culture throughout the business from the Executive Leadership Team to the shop floor.
Wehave a strong business risk management culture and believe thatgood health and safety management is just one part of it.
The occupational health and safety of contractors working on our sites is of equal importance as our employees.
This year over 60,000 contractor hours have been worked on our UK manufacturing site at Employee hours worked with Hillhouse with no contractor reportable injuries or incidents.
Health noreportable injuries and safety management remains a priority during projects, achieved by working closely with project contractors to ensure that robust project health and safety procedures are in place and that they 1.4 million areactively monitored, audited and reviewed.
One delivery driver reportable injury was recorded during the year.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 35 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Resource efficiency continued Energy use UK operations Primary energy Primary energy per unitrevenue In line with previous reporting, energy use Thousands GJ Thousands GJ m is reported for our UK manufacturing sites.
Total energy has increased this year driven 2018 847 2018 2.6 by higher volumes manufactured.
Energy 2017 764 2017 2.6 per unit of revenue remained stable.
2016 735 2016 2.9 2015 731 2015 2.8 2014 574 2014 2.3 Water UK operations Water usage Water usage per unitrevenue Water use is reported for our UK production 3 3 Thousands m Thousands m m operations North of England.
Our overseas water usage is not material.
Whilst total 2018 605 2018 1.9 water usage increased this year, again driven 2017 566 2017 2.0 by higher volumes manufactured, pleasingly, water use per unit of revenue decreased, 2016 532 2016 2.1 principally driven by increased process 2015 602 2015 2.3 water recycling.
This is an area we will 2014 499 2014 2.0 continue to drive forward to further enhance recycling opportunities.
Waste UK operations Hazardous waste produced Hazardous waste produced per Whilst our manufacturing process Tonnes unitrevenue Tonnes m generates hazardous waste, we work closely with licensed waste service 2018 54,611 2018 168 providers to ensure that it is recovered, 2017 53,135 2017 183 recycled or disposed of with minimal environmental impact.
2016 51,041 2016 202 2015 60,908 2015 231 Total hazardous waste generated hasincreased this year driven by higher 2014 55,072 2014 218 volumes manufactured: however, waste perunit revenue decreased continuing theimprovement trend.
Hazardous waste disposed to Hazardous waste disposed to landfill after treatment Tonnes landfill after treatment per We have invested in improving and unitrevenue Tonnes m optimising the production process to reduce waste, but we are already striving 2018 7 2018 0.02 to reduce it further.
This is a priority sustainability objective and there is an 2017 19 2017 0.07 ongoing programme of work to examine 2016 1 2016 0.00 how we can further minimise generation 2015 12 2015 0.05 of waste at source and how we can also 2014 14 2014 0.06 recover value from waste generated over the medium term.
36 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Social responsibility Our focus is to inspire the next generation of talent by supporting science, engineering, technology and maths `STEM education, alongside our commitment to employees and to thecommunities where we operate, both in the UK and globally.
We continue to make good progress in this area, whilst remaining practical in some of our longer-term objectives.
Employees as at year end Average number of people employed during the year including Directors, by category IN 1993 60 TOTAL: TOTAL: 763 874 IN 2018 16 54 30 L15 56 29 L IN 2017 IN 2018 921 Make 410Make 493 Develop, market and sell 232 Develop, market and sell 250 Support 121Support 131 Gender pay Following the introduction of the new gender pay regulations The mean hourly rate of pay for males compared with females u in2017, we are required, as a private sector employer with more was 5.65% higher.
than 250 employees, to publish information about our gender The median hourly rate of pay for males compared with u pay gap.
The UK government defines this as: females was 13.47% higher.
The difference in the average earnings of men and women, 83.11% of males were paid a bonus, compared with 82.35% u expressed relative to mens earnings.
For example, women earn of females.
The mean bonus payment for females compared with males u For reporting purposes, we took a snapshot of Victrex was 9.00% higher.
Manufacturing Limited our UK entity at 5 April 2018, whentherewere 630 relevant people employed on full pay.
The median bonus payment for females compared with males u was 0.08% higher.
Gender pay headlines Of the 630 employees in the UK, 83% were male and 17% 42% of our employees were receiving shift premium pay and u u female, the same as 2017.
74% worked within STEM functions, and 89% of this group Gender pay: analysis and action u were male.
Following the initial results in 2017, we commenced work on reviewing our pay, bonus and progression policies to support 75% of our executive team were male and 25% female.
u allour employees and this work is well underway.
The proportion of male vs female employees in each of our u We have continued to work closely with our schools and pay bands was split as follows: communities to attract more female employees and are pleased u Lower quartile 69.14% male vs 30.86% female that of the apprentices who joined in 2018, four out of 18 are Lower middle quartile 87.66% male vs 12.34% female female up from previous years.
We have broadened our range u ofrecruitment sources and now promote all vacancies on our u Upper middle quartile 91.08% male vs 8.92% female website, as well as utilising local media to make the local Upper quartile 82.80% male vs 17.20% female u population more aware of us and our opportunities.
To see our full Gender pay gap report, including calculations andconsiderations, please visit our corporate website, www.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 37 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Social responsibility continued Diversity & inclusion Diversity is something we actively support and promote.
Approximately 79% of our employees are male as at 30 September 2018 and 21% are female as at 30 September 2018.
In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual orientation, religion, socioeconomic status, physical and mental ability, thinking style, experience and education.
We operate a global diversity and equal opportunities policy which is reviewed each year and provides the framework for productive working relationships within theorganisation.
Development This is our 12th year of recruiting apprentices, and this year we have extended our programme to recruit 15 apprentices, including Project Management and Research & Development, as well as our traditional Engineering & Manufacturing.
In addition, we have a number ofcurrent employees undertaking apprenticeships as part of their Recognition development.
We see professional development of people as one Our well established recognition programme ranges ofthe keys to helping deliver our strategy over the coming years.
from instant and functional awards through to our annual CEO Awards, which have become the Wellbeing showcase of the year, with an increased number of Occupational health and private medical services are available for all categories to reflect the global talent across our business.
This year employees in all locations.
Our focus on wellbeing services includes we introduced the Professional Development Awards to celebrate on-site medical checks, provision of financial education sessions and employees who have completed professional qualificationsover the driver safety for company car owners and frequent travellers.
Involvement We have a number of channels, both formal and informal, to keep employees informed on business news.
These include quarterly Participation in employee global staff briefings involving all employees globally and more share schemes formally we hold country-based employee forums alongside union and works council meetings.
We have over 50 employees involved across all countries, functions and levels.
The Company supports employee share ownership and offers the opportunity to participate in a variety of share plans.
As at 30 September 2018, approximately 95% 2017: 88% of employees worldwide were participants in employee share plans, principally as option holders under the Companys employee share option plans.
We also provide pension plans for employees across almost all our global operations.
Details 95% of the Groups principal pension schemes are set out in note 15 to the financial statements.
Voluntary employee turnover 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 5% 3% 7% 7% 5% Note: The breakdown by region also continues to be consistent with last year.
38 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report As a business we continue to: provide a clean, safe working environment which meets all legislative requirements and 1 all the necessary training and support for employees to operate safely within it: provide appropriate remuneration for work carried out and equal opportunities for 2 development and career advancement: Community volunteering Supporting local communities and participating in regional and national events, which inspire the next generation of employees isabig focus for Victrex.
Our main focus is to get young people be intolerant of any unacceptable working interested and excited about science, technology, engineering and maths STEM.
This year our employees participated in activities in practices such as any form of discrimination, local schools and colleges, spending over 1,100 hours supporting 3 bullying or harassment: the next generation.
Since 2015 when we started formally measuring our activities, we have committed 3,461 hours to the community, with a bold target of 10,000 hours as part of our Sustainability strategy.
prohibit illegal activities on our sites: and We continue to partner with Catalyst Discovery Centre in the UK which teaches school-age children about chemistry and how 4 polymers are made in an interactive way and are actively involved in the Science Industry Partnership SIP.
Working with other manufacturers in the UK to shape the skills agenda is also important for Victrex.
We continue to support Fleetwood High School with its promote fair, ethical and transparent business STEM activities and remain members of Business in the Community BITC, with a number of outreach activities in progress.
practices both within our business and in 5 dealings with externalstakeholders.
Charitable giving Our Community Investment team looks after the distribution of the charitable donations budget in the UK, through nominations made by employees.
This helps to support buy-in from employees on our community activities.
A similar approach is now in its third year in the US and we are making good progress in targeting investments to the right areas across Europe.
Charitable donations totalling 167,211 2017: 115,450 were made during the year.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 39 Directors report Corporate governance 41 I ntroduction from the Chairman 42 B oard of Directors 44 S tatement of corporate governance 55 D irectors remuneration report 69 Directors report other statutory information 73 Statement of Directors responsibilities 74 Independent auditors report
