Governance 58 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Engaging with our stakeholders Committed to maintaining good communications We are committed to maintaining good communications and building positive relationships with all our stakeholders as we see this as fundamental to building a sustainable business.
We rely on more than 15,000 suppliers, ranging from small businesses and start-ups to multinational companies: Every year we hold Supplier Safety Forums to share best practice anddiscuss ways to reduce safety risks in our supply chain: and This year, Vodafone and three other operators set up a supplier academy, focusing on training to help them assess and improve the social, ethical and environmental performance issues inherent Our within supply chains.
suppliers Read more about how we work with our suppliers 34 to mitigate human rights risks on page 34 Our shareholders How we communicate with our shareholders What our shareholders have asked us this year We maintained an active dialogue with our shareholders throughout Common topics raised by our institutional and individual the year through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
shareholders include: We also respond to daily queries from shareholders and analysts through Cash flow generation, capital intensity, debt, and dividend cover: our investor relations team and have a section of our website which Rationale for the Liberty Global transaction: is dedicated to shareholders and analysts: vodafone.
5G investment and business case: Our registrars, Computershare and Deutsche Bank as custodians of ourAmerican Depositary Receipts ADR programme also have Regulation in Europe and emerging markets: a team of people to answer shareholder and ADR holder queries Vodafone India and Idea Cellular merger: and in relation to technical aspects of their holdings such as dividend payments and shareholding balances.
All of our financial results Administration of shareholding.
presentations are available on our website at vodafone.
AGM Institutional shareholder meetings Our AGM is attended by our Board and Executive Committee members We hold meetings with major institutional shareholders, individual and is open to all our shareholders to attend.
A summary presentation shareholder groups and financial analysts to discuss the business of financial results is given before the Chairman deals with the formal performance and strategy.
These are attended by the appropriate mix business of the meeting.
All shareholders present can question the of Directors and senior management, including our Chairman, Chief Board during the meeting.
Representatives from investor relations and Executive, Executive Committee members, senior leaders and the customer services are available before and after the meeting to answer investor relations team.
Institutional shareholders also meet with the any additional questions shareholders may have.
Chairman to discuss matters of governance.
Our investor calendar May 2017 August 2017 November 2017 Roadshows in London, Edinburgh, Netherlands, Roadshows in Austin, Houston, Dallas, Kansas, Roadshows in London, Netherlands, Edinburgh, Boston, New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Singapore and Hong Kong Frankfurt, Switzerland, Paris, Boston, New York, San Francisco, Toronto, Pittsburgh, and Milan Toronto, Los Angeles, Portland and San Francisco Investor conference with Credit Suisse in London Investor conference with JP Morgan in London Morgan Stanley European TMT conference September 2017 in Barcelona June 2017 Roadshow in Madrid December 2017 Chairmans London Roadshow Investor conferences with Deutsche Bank Investor conference with Berenberg in Surrey Roadshows in Abu Dhabi, Frankfurt in London, with Goldman Sachs in New York and and Switzerland with Bernstein in London March 2018 Bank of America Merrill Lynch Summer TMT Analyst and investor Open Office event in Venice Roadshow in Atlanta Conference in London Investor conference with Deutsche Bank Investor conference with Exane in Paris in Palm Beach Citi European & Emerging Telecoms conference Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 59 We engage with regulators and governments to inform the policy frameworks that affect our customers, investments and competitive stance: In April 2017, we organised a stakeholder event with European Union institutions to advocate for future-proof gigabit networks in the context of the European Electronic Communications Code: and In March 2018, we engaged with policy makers through a high-profile event to launch our international Future Jobs Finder Our programme, What will you be?
people Read more about how we mitigate political 40 and regulatory risk on page 40 Our business performance depends on our ability to attract, Regulators develop and retain talented individuals at all levels.
This year, we and employed an average of 103,564 people with 136 nationalities: governments 88% of our employees responded to our annual global people survey.
Of those, 87% stated that they are proud to work for Vodafone: and In March 2018, a week-long campaign to recognise and support International Womens Day engaged more than 17,000 employees.
Read more about how we engage with our 36 employees on page 36 Our customers Our local communities Our customers range from individuals living in some of the worlds poorest communities to some of the worlds largest multinational companies: Our products and services are found in local communities Our Customer eXperience eXcellence CXX programme drives everywhere we operate, and range from remote villages to how we engage with customers to help us deliver an outstanding capital cities: and differentiated user experience: and We work to understand and address any public concerns about Every time a customer contacts us we measure their satisfaction the location of our base stations.
This year in South Africa, through our touchpoint net promoter score.
In the UK, this year Vodacom engaged with stakeholders on over 40 separate we increased this rating to its highest ever level.
occasions on this topic: and Read more about our CXX programme on 11 Our local businesses support the communities in which they page 11 operate in many different ways.
For example, this year in the Czech Republic, we ran a public Giving Tuesday campaign to raise money for a local health charity.
Read more about our approach to mobiles, masts and health at vodafone.
