Strategic Report 32 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Sustainable business To contribute towards that goal, we have Building a launched commercial propositions focused on women living on low-incomes, such as sustainable business our Business Women Connect programme in Tanzania and Mozambique, and Vodacoms Our sustainable business strategy is built on an unwavering commitment Mum & Baby initiative in South Africa see case tooperating responsibly and a recognition that we have a significant role study overleaf.
to play incontributing to the societies in which we operate.
Progress towards our 50 million women goal Estimated number of female customers millions 113.7 109.7 100.3 Our sustainable business Our transformation areas strategy Our sustainable business strategy is founded on Vodafones purpose to connect Baseline: 2016 2017 2018 Womens everybody to live a better today and build a empowerment We are committed to diversity and believe that better tomorrow and on our commitment achieving greater gender parity will strengthen to responsible behaviour in everything we do.
our business significantly over time.
Our longCommunications technology plays a critical At the heart of our strategy is our intention term ambition is to become an employer role in empowering women to improve their to deliver significant transformation in three with such a strong track record for attracting, lives and livelihoods.
Owning even the most distinct areas, each of which has the potential retaining and developing talented women that basic mobile device enables a woman to to deliver meaningful socio-economic by 2025 we are widely considered to be the communicate, access information, learn, benefits for our customers and for wider worlds best employer for women.
We are manage her finances and set up and run a society.
Our programmes focus on womens making progress in this area: women currently business.
Mobile technology also enhances empowerment, energy innovation and youth hold 29% of our leadership and management many publicand commercial services of value skills and jobs, and we now have long-term roles and as of 31 March 2018, they hold 33% to women and girls in emerging markets, targets in place for each of these areas.
from accessing vaccinations and maternal We remain committed to helping to achieve healthcare, to mobile banking and online Goal the UN Sustainable Development Goals support for smallholder farmers.
We aim to be the worlds best employer SDGs through the delivery of our strategy To enable women to access greater opportunities for women by 2025 and have identified the areas in which we have we are focused on delivering commercial the greatest impact.
To help us recruit, retain and develop talented programmes that help us to achieve our goal: Read more about how our networks and women at every level of our workforce, we are innovative products and services make Goal developing a range of programmes, including a difference to societies and the SDGs in To connect an additional 50 million our ground-breaking global maternity policy 1 our Sustainable Business Report 2018. women living in emerging markets and our ReConnect initiative, which supports to mobile by 2025 people to return to work after a career break.
com sbreport2018 This year, we also piloted an approach to This year, we have made progress against that adjustthe vocabulary used in Vodafones job goal and now have an additional estimated advertisements to help increase the number of 13.3 million active female customers, 3.9 million women who apply for our vacancies.
This brings the total number 1 Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Ghana, India, Kenya, of female customers to 113.7 million.
Mozambique, South Africa and Tanzania, Turkey and Qatar.
Sustainable businessstrategy Our purpose is to connect everybody to live a better today and build a better tomorrow Our transformation areas Womens empowerment Energy innovation Youth skills and jobs Our transparency areas Tax and total economic Digital rights Supply chain integrity Mobiles, masts contribution and freedoms and safety and health Principles and practice Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 33 Providing mums and babies with free health advice Greenhouse gas GHG emissions million tonnes of CO2e Scope 1 emissions over which we have direct control Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity 2.58 2.54 2.54 2.20 2.15 2.15 0.39 0.39 0.38 2016 2017 2018 Note: Internet access is often key to finding a job, helping a child get a better education, finding health information, Calculated using local market actual or estimated data sources from invoices, purchasing requisitions, or keeping in touch with friends and family.
In South Africa, Vodacoms Siyakha we are building platform direct data measurement and estimations.
aims to lower the cost of communicating while simultaneously seeking to increase peoples digital and social Carbon emissions calculated in line with GHG connectivity.
Targeted at people on low incomes, Siyakha offers free access to websites related to education Protocol standards.
Scope 2 emissions are and job seeking, as well as lower priced products and services.
The platform currently has 7.5 million users.
reported using the market-based methodology.
For full methodology see our Sustainable Business This year, Siyakha services were expanded to include a mobile-based platform for pregnant women called Report 2018.
This new service provides parents and caregivers with free health information and includes videos that are useful at different stages of pregnancy and through the first five years of a childs life.
For many, this is the first time such health information has been made easily available to them.
During the year 1.2 million GHG emissions per registered users accessed this free health information.
petabyte of data carried by our mobile networks tonnes of CO2e initiatives across our networks, particularly in power supply and cooling, and moving 1,813 Energy towards purchasing 100% of our electricity innovation fromrenewable sources.
1,137 We have also joined RE100, a collaborative There is clear evidence that global temperatures initiative led by The Climate Group in are rising rapidly and a consensus among partnership with CDP, which brings together 682 scientists and policy makers that man-made major businesses committed to switch to greenhouse gases GHGs are having a direct 100%renewable electricity.
Our business has a role to play in holding global temperature rises In parallel, we are innovating to help our 2016 2017 2018 to below 2C and this year we have introduced customers minimise their energy needs, Note: two new targets as a result.
By 2025, we aim to: particularly through the development Figures include all data carried by our mobile of IoT services that use network intelligence networks with an adjustment to include only part Goals to optimise performance and minimise energy of the data carried in India, where only base stations Reduce our greenhouse gas emissions under our operational control are included in our use.
In 2015, we set ourselves a goal to help GHG emissions totals.
by 40% our customers reduce their CO e emissions 2 Purchase 100% of the electricity we use by two tonnes for every one tonne of emissions from renewable sources produced from our own operations, by March Ratio of GHG emission savings for customers 2018.
We have met that goal, helping our This year, our total GHG emissions increased to our own GHG footprint customers to save an estimated 2.1 tonnes by just over 1% to 2.58 million tonnes of CO e 2 of CO e for every tonne we generated through 2 2.1 carbon dioxide equivalent, predominantly due our own activities.
1.9 to a slight increase in our energy consumption 1.8 in response to customer data demand.
This does not include Vodafone Qatar, which was Vodafone Foundation sold in March 2018, where GHG emissions were 1 0.03 million tonnes of CO e. We continued to 2 improve our overall energy efficiency profile during the year and achieved a 40% reduction in the amount of GHG emissions per petabyte PB of data carried, to reach an average of 2016 2017 2018 682tonnes CO e per PB 2017: 1,137.
2 Note: Figures include all data carried by our mobile We have also estimated our indirect Scope 3 networks.
Emissions savings for customers GHG emissions to identify and prioritise where have been calculated based on GeSIs ICT emissions are highest and where we have the Enablement Methodology.
Through its Connecting for Good programme, the Vodafone Foundation supports projects greatest opportunity to influence third party around the world that are run in partnership GHG strategies.
with charitable organisations and NGOs.
In 2018, We will meet our targets through a combination the total amount donated to the Vodafone 1 Following the sale of our stake in Qatar in March 2018, Foundation from Vodafone was 54.3 million.
the GHG emissions for Vodafone Qatar are no longer of further investment in energy efficiency included in our total GHG emissions figure.
Strategic Report 34 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Sustainable business continued Supply chain integrity and safety Our transparency areas Our businesses rely on a very large global and Youth skills complex supply chain.
We recognise there and jobs We remain committed to ensuring that our are many different labour rights and safety business operates ethically, lawfully and and environmental risks inherent within our responsibly.
Our transparency programme Youth unemployment is a significant social and supply chain and that similar risks can also provides detailed information on our policies, economic challenge in many of our markets.
arise in the business operations under our own principles and approach in four areas, The International Labour Organization estimates direct control.
Through our policies, training each the focus of intense public debate, that more than 210 million young people and audit programmes, we work to ensure the as well as a number of statutory and material are either unemployed or work while living safety and wellbeing of everyone who works non-financial disclosures.
Simultaneously, some advances with Vodafone, in any capacity.
in technology, such as robotics and artificial Taxation and total economic contribution Mobiles, masts and health intelligence, are enabling the automation In 2013, we became the first communications The health and safety of our customers and of many categories of job, reducing employment company in the world to report our total the wider public is an absolute priority for opportunities and altering the nature of work.
taxation and economic contribution Vodafone.
While our mobile devices and masts on a country-by-country and actual cash With a growing digital skills gap, in addition operate well within the guidelines set by the paid basis.
We have expanded the data to the challenges facing the world of work, International Commission on Non-Ionizing we disclose in this report year-on-year, we believe that urgent action is needed to help Radiation Protection ICNIRP, we recognise to ensure we continue to share the most young people develop their digital skills and that in a number of countries there is still some relevant information available to help our access learning and employment opportunities, public concern regarding the electromagnetic stakeholders understand our tax position so that they can thrive in the digital economy.
frequency EMF emissions from mobile devices andeconomic impact.
To respond to these challenges, we have and base stations.
We endeavour to address introduced two new goalsthat will enable us, these concerns by providing up to date, open, Read more at vodafone.
com tax by 2022 to: transparent information on our website and by engaging with local communities.
Digital rights and freedoms Goals In 2014, we published our first Law Support 10 million young people Read more at vodafone.
com mmh Enforcement Disclosure transparency report, to access digital skills, learning and explaining how we respond to lawful demands employment opportunities for access to our customers private data from Human rights Provide up to 100,000 young people law enforcement and intelligence agencies.
with a digital workplace experience Our networks, products and services play The report has been updated and expanded at Vodafone an important role in helping to underpin since then and is available in our online individual human rights.
We enable citizens Digital Rights and Freedoms Reporting This year, we introduced our international future around the world to share information widely, Centre, which contains our principles and jobs programme, What will you be?, to provide extending their ability to freely express approach on a wide range of topics including career guidance and access to training content themselves as well as enabling greater scrutiny law enforcement surveillance, privacy, and job opportunities in the digital economy.
data protection, freedom of expression, As part of this programme we launched our censorship and the digital rights of the child.
Future Jobs Finder platform, outlined in the Some of our most salient human rights risks case study below.
relate to an individuals right to privacy and Read more at vodafone.
com digitalrights freedom of expression.
Rights and Freedoms Reporting Centre contains our views on these topics and those most closely related to the protection of our Future Jobs Finder: Improving digital skills customers private communications.
In addition to human rights that extend into the digital realm, there are also other human rights risks in our operations and particularly in our complex supply chain.
Our respect for an individuals human rights is enshrined in our Code of Conduct, which underpins everything we do.
The most relevant human rights risks applicable to our business include: labour rights: civil and political rights particularly privacy and freedom of expression : the rights of the child: and economic, social and cultural rights in particular with regard to bribery, corruption Over the past year, Vodafone has worked with psychologists, HR professionals, training providers and young and political lobbying.
Ensuring responsible people, to develop a smartphone-based service called Future Jobs Finder.
It offers young people a free and comprehensive gateway to understand the digital skills they will need in the workplace, as well as find new and ethical behaviour across our supply opportunities for employment in the growing digital economy.
chain is important and challenging.
We have developed and implemented policies A choice of quick, gamified psychometric tests have been designed to help users identify their aptitudes and interests.
The service uses this information to suggest the top five most suitable digital job types for each and processes to extend our human rights individual and directs them to current job opportunities in their region, including those on offer with Vodafone.
commitments into our supply chain, as In the first four weeks since launch, 111,000 unique users completed Future Jobs Finder accessing digital job specified in our Codeof Ethical Purchasing.
The Code sets out the standards we expect our You can visit Vodafones Future Jobs Finder at www.
com whatwillyoube suppliers to meet on health and safety, labour Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 35 including child or forced labour rights, ethics Ensuring compliance in our supply chain and environmental protection.
On-site audits provide detailed insights into how a suppliers policies translate into action in the workplace.
Our commitment to human rights is overseen These involve an examination of written policies and procedures, inspections of site facilities, and discussions by our Group Executive Committee.
In each with factory management and employees.
We work through the Joint Audit Cooperation JAC initiative of the countries in which we operate, the to share audits with peer companies with whom we share a number of suppliers.
Between January and chiefexecutive responsible for our operating December 2017, there were 81 shared on-site audits, of which 75 were within Vodafones supply chain.
In parallel, we conduct our own on-site assessments for specific suppliers that we have identified as high risk company oversees human rights matters, but that are not covered by the shared assessments.
This year, we conducted 17 such on-site assessments.
withgovernance support from the relevant local market professionals.
Detecting excessive working hours and ensuring ethical working conditions are an important part of our supplier assessments but are often hard to assess.
Increasingly we seek feedback directly from our suppliers Over the past year, we have undertaken employees to help us and our suppliers to identify areas for improvement.
We use Laborlink, which is a simple significant work and introduced robust mobile phone-based independent worker survey, to gather confidential and unbiased feedback directly from measures in order to prepare for the European employees.
This enables employees to reply anonymously to pre-recorded questions in their local language at any time and from any location.
During 2018, more than 2,500 suppliers employees in tensupplier General Data Protection Regulation, which factories responded to Laborlink surveys directly to tell us about their working conditions.
com sbreport2018 Read more at vodafone.
com digitalrights Our Group Chief Executive and Group All Vodafone employees are encouraged Anti-bribery and corruption Executive Committee oversee and to report any suspected breaches of our spearhead our efforts to prevent bribery Code of Conduct as soon as possible using Vodafone does not tolerate bribery and and corruption.
They are supported by our our Speak Up process.
Senior executives corruption in any form we would rather walk country chief executives, who are responsible review every Speak Up report and the away from a business opportunity than engage for ensuring our anti-bribery and corruption programme is reviewed by the Group Risk in any act of corruption.
Our anti-bribery and programme is implemented effectively in their and Compliance Committee.
In our latest corruption policy is summarised in our Code local market.
Global People Survey, 86% of respondents of Conduct, which is mandatory for everyone said they would use Speak Up to report working for Vodafone.
It states that employees The implementation of the policy unethical behaviour.
or others working on our behalf must never is monitored regularly in all local markets offer or accept any kind of bribe.
Our policy is by our anti-bribery specialist teams, consistent with the UK Bribery Act and the US and also as part of the annual Group Find out more Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any breaches Policy Compliance Review assurance Our Sustainable Business Report 2018 can lead to dismissal or termination of contract.
process, which assesses key antiprovides more detail on our progress bribery controls.
Visits to local markets The policy provides guidance about what against our sustainable business strategy.
on a rotating basis enable us to formally constitutes a bribe and prohibits the giving review the implementation of the antior receiving of any excessive or improper gifts bribery programme.
This year, reviews and hospitality.
It also makes clear that where conducted in Ghana and Greece found our policy differs in degree from an equivalent good implementation of key controls, local law, the more stringent of the two must however some areas for improvement be followed.
Training in our Code of Conduct in relation to supplier management and is incorporated into our standard induction monitoring were identified and are now processes and all employees complete being addressed.
refresher training every two years.
com sbreport2018 Engaging employees to raise awareness of bribery risk Every Vodafone employee has an obligation to help us address the risk of bribery and corruption.
To ensure We have also published a Slavery and they understand how they can each play a part, we run a high-profile communications programme, Doing Human Trafficking Statement, our first Whats Right.
This uses a range of materials to highlight some of the most common compliance challenges UK Gender Pay Gap Report and a Conflict facing employees and focuses in particular on bribery-related risks, as well as gifts and hospitality.
Minerals Report, in line with our statutory This year, we launched an updated version of our e-learning training programme which included a specific reporting requirements.
To date, over 80,000 employees around the world have completed the e-learning training module.
In addition, for higher-risk employees who work in areas such as procurement, network operations, Enterprise sales and government relations, tailored face-to-face training programmes are rolled out to cover relevant scenarios for those employees.
Read our latest reports at vodafone.
