GOVERNANCE ENSURING EFFECTIVE ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Annual General Meeting AGM CUSTOMERS We work hard to build strong relationships At Vivo Energy, we are committed to The Companys first AGM will be held at with customers in all our markets, from building positive relationships with all 2.00 p. m. on 7 May 2019 at the Conrad Hotel individuals coming to our retail sites to some stakeholders.
This is vital to us in building StJames, 22-28 Broadway, London SW1H0HB of the largest mining companies in Africa.
Details of the business to We work to improve our understanding be proposed at the meeting are contained We consider that our stakeholders are of each of our customers needs so we in the Notice of AGM which will be sent to everyone impacted by our business, and canincrease the value we deliver to them.
shareholders at least 20 working days prior this includes our employees, investors, to the date of the meeting.
Voting atthe Further information on how we build customers, partners and the communities AGM will be conducted by way of a poll and relationships with customers located and governments of the countries in which the results will be announced through the intheStrategic Report on page 22. we operate.
Regulatory News Service and made available Here is a snapshot of how we engage with on our website.
COMMUNITIES some of these important stakeholder groups: We are committed to being good and To encourage shareholders to participate supportive neighbours in the communities in inthe AGM process, the Company will offer SHAREHOLDERS which we operate.
During 2018, the Company electronic proxy voting through both our invested $1.2 million on projects in the local Investor Relations registrars website and, for CREST members, communities of our markets, this investment the CREST service.
The Board is committed to maintaining was primarily focused on projects to improve good communications with shareholders.
It is anticipated that the whole Board road safety, education and the environment.
The Company has a designated investor will be present at the AGM.
It provides Additional information is included in the relations function which acts as the primary a valuable opportunity for shareholders Strategic Report on page 23. point of contact with the investment to engage with the Board and receive community andis responsible for maintaining an update on the performance of the PARTNERS Vivo Energys relations with investors, analysts Company and ask questions during the Our principal partner is Shell with whom we and shareholders.
As part of its ongoing meeting.
Shareholders will also have the have a brand licence agreement in place until programme, the Company maintains an opportunitytomeet the Company Secretary December 2031 and a 50:50 lubricants joint active dialogue with its shareholders, including and the Auditors.
We also work closely with a number those institutional investors which monitor of other partners including owners of storage the Companys governance policies and EMPLOYEES facilities, transport contractors and other procedures, and discusses issues relating During 2018 we conducted an employee fuel suppliers.
totheperformance of the Group including engagement survey.
This survey gives strategy and new developments.
management information about how More information on our relationships with our our employees feel about working for partners in the Strategic Report on page 22.
The Board places importance on communication the Company.
The results are reported with all shareholders.
Arrangements can be to the Board and this years results were GOVERNMENTS made for major shareholders to meet with overwhelmingly positive and an improvement We maintain good relationships with our host the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, on 2016s successful survey.
Over 89% of governments and are both a major collector of, theChief Financial Officer and the Independent ouremployees shared their feedback and and payer of, taxes and duties in the countries Non-Executive Directors as required.
90%were proud to work at Vivo Energy.
We primarily engage with The Company conducts regular investor governments through industry bodies in each Further information is available in the meetings and telephone calls with the of our operating units.
StrategicReport on page 18. investment community and participates in More information on our relationships with relevant conferences to meet with current ourgovernments in the Strategic Report on andprospective investors.
Brokers research reports and investors feedback are circulated regularly to the Board, who discuss these and any other key matters relating to investors.
In each case, the Board, in conjunction with advisers where appropriate, determines the strategy to address significant issues raised.
70 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
