Strategic Report 36 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Our people and culture Living the Digital Vodafone Way The people behind our The Vodafone Way underpins our culture and purpose.
At its centre is a focus on three core purpose led business principles: speed, simplicity and trust.
We want our people to respond swiftly and effectively Our people are behind every aspect of our Digital Vodafone strategy to challenges and opportunities, especially and are committed to delivering a superior network performance and those that affect our customers.
We want outstanding customer experience.
them to do so while avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy and costly and cumbersome internal processes.
And we want all of our business activities and decisions to be informed by an understanding that earning and retaining the trust of our customers, employees and all other stakeholders must be integral to everything we do as we connect people Our people: key information to the Gigabit Society.
By contract By gender By location This year, we incorporated digital behaviours Employees: 103,564 Male: 62.5% Germany: 12.6% Italy: 5.8% Vodacom: 7.3% Other: 37.5% 1 and mind-sets into the Vodafone Way and Spain: 4.7% India : 20.9% Contractors: 23,978 Female: 37.5% UK: 11.2% renamed it the Digital Vodafone Way to reflect 2018 2017 2016 the shifts required to support an acceleration Average number of employees 103,564 105,870 104,553 of our digital strategy and purpose.
Key initiatives have also taken place at all levels of Employee engagement 80% 80% 79% the organisation to support this.
The Group Employee turnover rate 18% 18% 20% Executive Committee completed a Digital 2 Women in senior leadership positions 25% 25% 24% Discovery in Silicon Valley to explore new products and services and examine the impact Women in management and leadership roles 29% 28% 27% that digital disruption has on various business The headcount figures are an average of our monthly headcount and includes India but excludes the Netherlands.
More than 200 leaders attended the 1 Includes Vodafone Shared Services India.
2 % of senior women in our top 225 positions.
Digital Vodafone Way programme to deep dive on digital products, understand required A diverse and inclusive Doing whats right leadership shifts and gain insights on what organisation We believe that ethical conduct is just becoming a purpose-led organisation means.
as important as high performance, as failure This year, we employed an average of 103,564 Digital Boot Camps, focusing on digitalising the to operate ethically impacts our business.
people with 136 nationalities as well as over customer experience have also been rolled out Our Code of Conduct outlines the behaviours 23,978 contractors.
Our senior leadership team to our people managers.
we expect from every single person working includes 26 nationalities, bringing together Our ITsystems, processes and capabilities for and with Vodafone.
Our Business Principles a diverse set of experiences and opinions, are a key enabler to unlock the value are the foundation of how we do business which helps us achieve our goals by better in data driven services and solutions.
In 2018, and set out the values we want everyone understanding the needs of our customers.
to support our Digital Vodafone strategy who works for or with Vodafone to respect.
Our commitment to all forms of diversity we launched an acceleration programme, Together, these elements ensure we protect and inclusion begins at the top, with clear which strengthened our internal IT capabilities, Vodafones reputation, our people and leadership from the Vodafone Group Plc Board adopted agile and lean ways of working, our assets.
and is embedded at every level of our business modernised ourITarchitecture and through the Digital Vodafone Way, the Code This years, Doing Whats Right campaign implemented a newIToperating model.
of Conduct and our Business Principles.
utilised e-learning and gamification techniques to increase employee participation and Our commitment is acknowledged and Focusing on our customers engagement.
The campaign highlighted supported by our employees worldwide: Over the last year, we have continued to focus a number of common compliance situations, in our 2018 annual Global People Survey, 89% on improving the customer experience such as dealing with personal data, conflicts of employees who responded said they felt through the roll out of the Digital Vodafone of interest and accepting gifts.
they were treated fairly, irrespective of age, Way CARE training initiative.
The core of the gender, disability, sexual orientation, gender By bringing to life specific risk situations, programme aims to ensure front line staff take identity, cultural background or beliefs.
the programme aimed to increase awareness end-to-end ownership for resolving customer This year, we reviewed and updated our Code and, importantly, understanding of the issues problems and deliver an outstanding of Conduct in order to emphasise our zeroan individual may face and how to deal with customer experience.
tolerance stance towards sexual harassment situations that could arise.
By the end of March and abuse of authority.
We also launched As part of the training, new interactive 2018, more than 95% of employees who had a global minimum paternity standard and scenarios have been developed to provide access to the training had completed it.
continued to support women returning employees with a deeper understanding to work through our Reconnect programme of how to interact and support our diverse and global maternity standard, which, in the customer base.
For instance, supporting last three years has benefited more than 5,600 a customer who is transitioning gender women.
The two latter initiatives support our or customers who are physically disabled.
ambition to become the worlds best employer for women by 2025.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 37 This is all part of our approach to ensure the Better future for women our #Codelikeagirl programme addressesthe gender needs of our customers are understood and gap in STEM careers everyone leads by putting the customer first.
In partnership with social enterprise Code First: Girls, This year, an additional 40,693 people have Vodafones #Codelikeagirl experiential programme been trained and the programme is now a core provides girls aged 1418 with basic coding experience partof our induction process.
including html, CSS, GitHub and Bootstrap.
Our customers are also becoming increasingly The programme is intended to encourage more digital, meaning they want to be able girlsto pursue science, technology, engineering and to interact seamlessly and consistently with maths disciplines.
During the year, 550 girls across Vodafones markets participated in the programme.
Making sure our In the 2019 financial year the programme will seek customers have the most engaging digital to engage with1,000 girls.
customer experience possible means that we need to work and operate in a simple, engaging and dynamic manner.
To support this, Vodafone has embraced an agile methodology and established cross Better future for youth apprentices in Vodafone Germany functional teams, bringing together the skills needed to improve specific customer journeys Apprenticeships are a good alternative for high school students who do not want to pursue an academic education before starting work.
Vodafone Germany offers apprenticeships in three areas: consumer retail, to better respond to changing customer customer care and technology.
All our apprenticeships last between 2.5 and 3.5 years, during which time, demands.
Earlyresults are promising, with participants combine part-time work at Vodafone with their studies at vocational schools.
Since 2013, Vodafone new customer features now delivered within Germany has hired between 90 and 105 apprentices every year.
two week periods as opposed to six-month We also offer a study and work programme for degree-level students with options to focus on consumer and release schedules.
enterprise sales, customer care or technology.
Students can spend three-month periods working at Vodafone while also studying at the Baden-Wuerttemberg Cooperate State University in Stuttgart.
Every year, Vodafone Attracting and developing Germany hires up to 40 study and work students.
great people In the last year, we have significantly increased to improve standards.
This has included Recognising performance the opportunities we provide to young consolidating our tier one and tier two We reward people based on their people to experience work at Vodafone.
suppliers and reducing our reliance on tier performance, potential and contribution Opportunities include, but are not limited to: three suppliers.
to our values and success.
This year, to drive work experience, apprenticeships and our simplification, empower our line managers, Road traffic accidents are one of our high graduate Discover programme.
and encourage more future-focused and risk areas.
In the last year, weve rolled out In the last year, we estimate that we have developmental conversations between telematics tracking in Vodafone-dedicated provided more than 14,000 young people employees and managers, we implemented vehicles and outbound warehouse with access to digital workplace experiences, a new performance dialogue rating system.
In Vodacom, weve doubling our previous years efforts.
This has The approach was piloted with our senior introduced the Road Guardian programme, a ranged from: innovative programmes like leaders last year and fully implemented full telematics tracking package with vehicle #Codelikeagirl, week long placements and this year.
The impact of these changes is bring your child to work day.
starting to materialise, with a significant To maintain compliance with our fair pay decrease in key indicator events such as We extended our apprenticeship standards, we benchmark and monitor our pay speeding, harshbraking and swerving.
programme from 8 to 19 markets, providing practices in every country in which we operate.
individuals who do not go to university with This ensures our pay practices, including Improving employee wellbeing has also been an opportunity to join our Technology and retirement and other benefit provision, are: a key area of focus and we have continued Retail programmes.
compliant with all local legislation, free from to embed the Group Wellbeing Framework discrimination, market competitive and introduced in 2016.
Our Discover graduate programme has been easily understood.
in place for ten years and has supported more Increasing employee than 4,600 graduates to join Vodafone through We also offer competitive retirement and other engagement structured schemes.
Last year, more than 800 benefit provisions.
Global short-term incentive graduates joined the programme with our plans are offered to a large percentage Every year, all our employees are invited highest performing graduates progressing of employees and global long-term incentive to participate in a global survey which allows to our international scheme Columbus.
plans are offered to our senior managers.
us to measure engagement levels and identify Our arrangements are subject to company and ways to improve how we do things.
This year, we invested more than 60 million individual performance measures.
in employee training and development.
These The 2018 survey demonstrated that programmes take many forms and in the 87%of employees who responded were Creating a safe place to work 2018 financial year our core focus was on proud to work for Vodafone, consistent developing leadership and management skills We want everyone working with Vodafone withthe previous years survey.
An even higher in agile and digital ways of working: as well to return home safely every day.
Despite all 91% of respondents felt that they were treated as initiatives toempower front line staff and of our efforts, we deeply regret to report nine with respect at Vodafone.
In addition, 90% improve thedigitalcustomer experience.
recordable fatalities during the year.
felt that Vodafone was a socially responsible company, while 87% of respondents would To make further improvements in this area, recommend Vodafone as a place to work this year we have increased the focus on our to their friends and family.
non-technology suppliers and introduced a range of structural and corrective measures
