The Weir Group PLC 56 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Sustainability Review Integrating sustainability throughout our business Why sustainability matters to Weir Our approach to Sustainability Our mission is to enable our customers to We focus on priority areas which balance the sustainably and efficiently deliver the energy and broad environmental and societal benefits of natural resources needed by a growing world.
our business with potential impacts arising from Sustainability underpins our strategic priorities our operations.
and is intrinsic to our purpose and values.
Through the effective management of the Acting in a sustainable way protects and creates priority areas we can reduce our impacts long-term value for our shareholders, other and create positive outcomes.
We will stakeholders and the long-term future of Weir.
continue to review the balance and content of our sustainability priorities, so they We have a clear commitment to meaningfully reflect the development of our current and reduce the impact we and our customers have future programmes.
In 2019 we will co-create our sustainability strategy roadmap with key stakeholders and experts both internal and external to identify and communicate the highest business value Group-wide priorities that will deliver tangible value across the Group.
Sustainability Highlights Employees Ethics Communities Environment Launched our first ever global Inclusion in the FTSE4GOOD Celebrated 10 years of Weir Scored B in the 2018 CDP employee engagement survey index series Cares India Climate Change Submission Reduced the total incident rate Updated our Code of Conduct Total amount of charitable Successfully implemented TIR by 15% to 0.45 after a comparative assessment donations made was energy pilot projects in 504,178.90 major locations Mean pay gap reduced from  8% to 6% General Data Protection Launched No Time to Waste Regulation Innovation Challenge and Median pay gap reduced from engaged over 7,000 votes 10% to 8% Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 57 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Non-financial information statement Non-Financial Polices and standards which Reporting govern ourapproach and Relevant Group Outcomes and Requirement due diligence Principal Risk KPIs additional information 1 Employees Code of Conduct Staff recruitment, Rating within the People pages 8 and 9 2 development and retention SHE performance 1 SHE Charter Becoming a Zero Harm measurement process.
Safety, Health and Workplace page 58 1 SHE Management System 2 Environment SHE Total Incident Rate Promoting Inclusion and 1 Diversity and Inclusion Policy Gender pay gap results Diversity page 59 1 Board Diversity Policy Employee engagement Chief Executive Officers survey participation rates Safety Committee Employee engagement eNPS SHE Excellence Committee Organisational 3 Risk Committee effectiveness measure 1 Human Rights Code of Conduct Ethics, governance & FTSE4Good score Doing business, the right 2 control way pages 60-61 1 Human Rights Policy Sustainably Higher Margins 3 through the cycle 1 Modern Slavery Statement Risk Committee 1 Anti-Corruption Code of Conduct Ethics, governance & FTSE4Good score Doing business, the right 2 and Anti-Bribery control way pages 60-61 1 Conflicts of Interests Policy Training completion 1 Gifts Policy Anti-bribery reviews 1 Hospitality Policy Sustainably higher margins through the cycle Member of Transparency International Supply Chain Policy Risk Committee 1 Social matters Code of Conduct Ethics, governance & Charitable Giving Working with our 2 control Communities pages 62-64 Risk Committee FTSE4Good score 1 Environmental Code of Conduct Safety Health Rating within the Respecting the 1 2 Matters SHE Charter and Environment SHE performance environment pages 65-66 1 measurement process SHE Management System GHG Emissions SHE Excellence Committee CDP score Risk Committee FTSE4Good score Material reuse Sustainably higher margins 3 through the cycle 1.
These policies are available on our website https: www.
More information about our principal risks can be found on page 51.
M ore information about medium term Key Performance Indicators and priorities which are aligned to our We are Weir Strategic Framework and the Groups remuneration policy can be found on page 28.
The Weir Group PLC 58 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Sustainability Review continued Becoming a zero-harm work place Chief Executive Officers Safety Committee increasingly given the opportunity to share their The CEOs Safety Committee was established in views and concerns about their work 2016 to give Board-level leadership to the Groups Standing up for Safety ambition of becoming a zero-harm workplace.
In both the Minerals and the Flow Control The Committee is chaired by the CEO consists of Divisions this year all work stopped for a four hour senior leaders from across the Group, including period on every shift in every location across the the four divisional presidents and the Chief People Weir footprint.
The aim was to remind people that Officer and embodies the priorities of our Safety, safety is our number one priority and that nothing Health and Environment Charter.
The Committee is important enough to get in the way of keeping oversees Safety, Health and Environment SHE our people safe.
performance, ensuring the Group systems and Leaders were tasked with organising their processes are best set up to deliver our Zero employees into multi-function teams that Harm vision.
normally would not work together and given a SHE Excellence Committee variety of tasks to review, update and improve The Safety, Health and Environment SHE tasks and processes to make them safer.
Excellence Committee supports the CEOs Introduction Teams were challenged to identify hazards, Safety Committee and provides leadership, improve work flows and then share their findings co-ordination and support for the delivery of the People are at the heart of the across the various Group communications Group SHE objectives.
The progress towards an Groups We are Weir strategy with platforms.
Everyone from the Divisional President increasingly behavioural safety culture has been our commitment to caring for our to the most junior apprentice and including the priority of the SHE Excellence Committee colleagues, our neighbours and the all those in the offices in less hazardous and is evident in the focus on the engagement environment and inspiring them all environments took part in the activities.
elements of our Zero Harm strategy.
In Flow Control the aim was to ensure employees SHE performance The quality and commitment of our feel engaged, empowered and listened to.
In 2018 we maintained our continuous positive people has always been a competitive We were particularly keen to empower teams trend regarding recordable injuries and it was advantage for the Group, from the and individuals to challenge the way things another year without fatality on our operations.
engineers that design our equipment to are done ensuring that what Group asks for is The number of lost time injuries reduced by 20% the operations staff who manufacture it realistic.
But also to give them the freedom to from 20 to 16 and, on average, the numbers of and the on-site experts who support our approach the challenges in a way that suited days lost to each injury reduced by almost half.
This even resulted in songs and poems This and an overall reduction in recordable injuries being written in some of the businesses.
reduced the total incident rate TIR by 15% to As a business that relies on a highIn Minerals the aims were similar in terms of 0.45.
77% of our key businesses are accredited performance culture, we appreciate the generating global employee engagement, being to both OSHAS 18001 and ISO14001 with plans importance of offering our people the creative about developing the safety culture, to ensure we make the transition to ISO45001 opportunity to fulfil their potential and identifying opportunities to eliminate risk and by late 2020.
One of the key contributors and provide a workplace that keeps them using the Shield management system to track enablers of 2018s excellent performance safe, engaged and inspired to do the outputs from the stand down.
is the cumulative effect of our emphasis on best work of their lives.
engagement at all levels and our insistence that Perhaps the most positive outcome was the To achieve that, we invest in safety everyone can be a SHE leader amount of feedback stating that we should do programmes, learning and development this more often indicating that people want to Strategic developments in SHE opportunities and leadership.
We are engage with safety more.
We already have plans 2018 saw the introduction of the Groups Life also committed to developing a new to programme similar events across the whole Saving Behaviours.
These are a series of 12 sustainable engagement score to Group in 2019. critical behaviours that have the potential to save measure our progress in developing an life and avoid serious injury.
They are underpinned Oil & Gas sent leaders to all their service centres even more effective organisation.
by the overarching life saving behaviour to stop to hold safety sessions and highlight the right of any task or activity which any person working every Weir employee to stop any process they In addition to developing our employees, for or on behalf of Weir considers might be feel is unsafe and talk to their colleagues about the Group takes its responsibility to unsafe.
This stop work authority comes straight how they can ensure everyone returns home to developing the next generation of from the CEO and applies to Weir employees their families safely.
This includes wherever they are working.
The remaining 11 supporting programmes that encourage Life Saving Behaviours focus on our highest more young people to consider risk activities.
As part of the drive towards engineering as a career.
developing our behavioural safety culture the Read more safety conversations have become a common See pages 8-9 feature of everyday life in Weir as employees are Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 59 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 A copy of the full Gender Pay report can be found onour website Promoting Inclusion and Diversity visit: www.
weir Weir gender pay gap report 2018 Achieving growth In our second year of reporting, we have made consolidated data for our four UK companies as by encouraging and progress towards closing our pay gap, with the this is more representative of our UK organisation.
embracing diversity mean pay gap reducing from 8% to 6%, and our ESCOs UK operation is not included as it was not median pay gap reducing from 10% to 8%.
part of the Weir Group in April 2018.
As a global company, we recognise As forecast in last years report our bonus Mean and median pay and bonus gap the value that a truly inclusive culture gap increased, from 22% to 40% due to the Mean Median can bring to our individual and increased number of long term incentive awards collective success.
Gender Pay Gap 6% 8% vesting in 2018.
Only leadership roles participate Gender Bonus Gap 40% 22.1 % At Weir, we aim to be the most in these plans and most of the individuals in admired engineering business in these roles are male.
We do not anticipate Proportion of males and females our markets and we seek to recruit, this gap to close soon, as awards held by receiving a bonus develop and promote people our Executive Directors and UK based Group Male 12% regardless of their background and Executive team will start to pay out.
The median Female 17% personal circumstances.
bonus gap swung in favour of females, as their median bonus was 22% more than the male Proportion of males and females in each The diversity of our people, backgrounds, median bonus.
pay quartile band skills and experience reflects our customers and makes us stronger, more Pay Quartile Male Female Although we are encouraged by our progress effective and better placed to deliver longUpper 86% 14% in closing the pay gap, we recognise that this is term and sustainable value.
Upper Middle 89% 11% only a small shift and we need to continue with Lower Middle 90% 10% our efforts to bring in and retain more women at Weir and to deliver opportunities to develop Lower 76% 24% their careers.
Current Performance Gender Pay and Equal Pay The requirements and our outcomes The gender pay gap is different from equal pay, The UK Governments Gender Pay Gap Male Female which relates to men and women being paid Regulation requires legal employing entities with the same for similar roles or work of equal value.
Total employees 250 or more employees to publish details of their Our pay policies are designed to ensure equal pay gender pay and bonus gap.
In Weir, there are two for equal jobs and we have processes in place to employing entities required to publish this data, 14,865 2,650 ensure pay levels are reviewed consistently.
but we have taken the opportunity to publish the Closing the female talent gap Board Learning and development diversity in our succession plans, and we In common with other companies in our worked closely with our recruitment partners 7 3 sector, many of our employees are male, to ensure diverse shortlists.
This has resulted and we know that more needs to be done to in a slight improvement in the number of attract females.
We are proud to be involved females being promoted and recruited into in several initiatives to encourage females to senior roles within our leadership group.
consider STEM as a career: Mentoring Group Executive excl CEO and CFO Weir Wise We are a long-standing supporter of The Primary Engineer Mentoring Foundation, which owns and Take a Girl Child to Work 5 2 operates the FTSE100 Cross-Company Mentoring Executive Programme and the Next Identifying and building capability to deliver the Generation Women Leaders Programme.
customer proposition Jon Stanton has acted as a mentor and we In 2018 we exceeded our target of increasing have placed a mentee into the programme.
the percentage of females on our graduate Senior Management We are pleased to be able to make this programmes.
The percentage split as contribution and to offer our high-performing at 31 December 2018 was males 52% and aspirational women this opportunity to 203 41 females 48%.
Recruitment and Promotion Further details are provided in our Gender Pay During 2018 we continued working to ensure Report on our website.
our development programmes enabled greater The Weir Group PLC 60 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Sustainability Review continued Doing Business the Right Way 3.
Our businesses make use of legitimate tax incentives, exemptions and statutory alternatives offered by governments.
Tax planning is undertaken only where it is consistent with the substance of our business and with full regard to the aims of our stakeholders, our reputation and our broader commercial and economic goals: 4.
We adhere to the standards for the disclosure of tax information in our published financial statements, in accordance with industry and generally accepted practice: and FTSE4Good 5.
We ensure compliance with our tax obligations We have been a member of the by maintaining appropriate tax management FTSE4Good, index, series for eight years.
arrangements including the roles and FTSE4Good is designed to measure the responsibilities taken on by our people.
performance of companies demonstrating strong Introduction Environmental, Social and Governance ESG These five principles are reflected and more practices.
We are proud to have been able to information about our approach to tax are set At Weir, we are proud to be a business meet the rigorous requirements to be included out in our tax strategy which can be found on which strives to achieve the highest within this series and to have improved upon our website: https: www.
weir investors ethical standards and sound business our previous years score.
This year we have put corporate-governance .
This is firmly reflected in in place a mechanism to be able to obtain and board.
our corporate values and in our Code publish greater levels of data related to our ESG Transparency International of Conduct.
We understand our role actions and are committed to further improving We are a member of Transparency International in the communities where we work our performance in 2019.
UKs Business Integrity Forum, the UKs leading and beyond, and the influence we can Human Rights anti-corruption forum for businesses in all have to drive change.
We respect the human rights of all those sectors.
This membership enables us to support We also recognise the responsibilities working for or with us, and of the people in Transparency Internationals global movement of that we share with our suppliers and we the communities where we operate.
We will seeking a world free from corruption.
We have remain committed to establishing open not exploit anyone, wherever in the world we signed up to a set of principles and remain and transparent relationships with them.
We will not do business with committed to fight against corruption and ensure companies, organisations or individuals that we that we are honest and accountable in the We are committed to business believe are not working to comparable generally business that we do and that we strive to respect integrity and high ethical standards.
Our Human fundamental human rights and freedoms.
We operate under a Code of Conduct Rights Policy communicates to our customers, Code of Conduct which promotes honest and ethical suppliers, investors, employees and the Our Code of Conduct sets out the Weir values behaviour and our aim is to ensure that communities where we operate, the ethical and in a clear and concise manner.
It promotes our customers, suppliers, investors, social values we respect and our commitment to compliance with applicable laws, rules and employees, and the communities where uphold human rights.
regulations and provides details on how we we operate have the confidence to Tax Transparency expect our people to conduct themselves on a trust us.
Our approach to tax is governed by five key day-to-day basis, both internally and externally.
principles which are set and adopted by the Board The Code of Conduct provides a clear framework and are stated as follows: for decision-making in line with our values and behaviours.
It applies to all Weir employees, 1.
We are committed to compliance with agents and suppliers.
We not only stress the all applicable tax laws and regulations, importance of complying with the Code of including timely submission of tax returns and Conduct but also encourage our employees to tax payments: speak up and report any concerns or apparent 2.
We aim to develop and maintain effective, breaches that they may become aware of without collaborative and co-operative working fear of retribution.
Employees can also choose relationships with tax authorities in all territories to report concerns anonymously through our where we operate based on both openness, Ethics Hotline.
honesty and transparency, and by providing all relevant information in a timely manner with a view to resolving any disputes early: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 61 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Following our acquisition of ESCO Corporation Modern Slavery Act Weir is a member of the UK governmentin July 2018, we undertook a comparative We understand our role in eradicating slavery sponsored Prompt Payment Code PPC, assessment of Weirs policies and ESCOs or forced labour of any kind.
Following a review which sets standards designed to support policies.
As part of this assessment, we have of our existing policies and practices and in light on-time payment to small and medium sized updated our Code of Conduct and plan to of the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act in enterprises as well as wider payment procedures.
disseminate the updated Code of Conduct the UK, we published our first annual Modern Best practice is administered by the Chartered throughout the organisation during 2019.
We plan Slavery Statement in March 2017.
A copy of our Institute of Credit Management and compliance to translate the updated Code of Conduct into at current statement can be found on our website.
with the principles of the PPC is closely monitored least 10 local languages to facilitate understanding This statement details the steps we have taken and enforced by the PPC Compliance Board.
across our organization, and we plan to provide and are taking to ensure that slavery and human In addition, the Group is committed to working updated Code of Conduct training to Weir trafficking do not take place in any of our supply only with third parties, including customers, personnel to re-enforce the core messages set chains or in any part of our business.
sub-contractors, suppliers and joint venture and out in the Code of Conduct.
Any employee found strategic alliance partners, whose business ethics Conflict Minerals in breach of the Code of Conduct may be liable to and behaviours are consistent with our own Code The EU Conflict Minerals Regulation will come disciplinary action, up to and including termination of Conduct.
into full force on 1 January 2021, and lays of employment or cancellation of contract.
down supply chain due diligence obligations for Our Code of Conduct is issued to all of our key Conflicts of interest Union importers of 3TG.
Assessments are undertaken with Our Conflicts of Interest Policy places particular to amend its policies to help ensure that Weir regard to compliance with Group standards and emphasis on outlining what may constitute a does not use conflict minerals in the production Group policies as part of the vetting process for conflict and the correct process for disclosing any and manufacture of its products and that Weir new suppliers.
The policy complies with the due diligence requirements In addition, key suppliers are audited regularly to provides clear guidance to all of our employees to set out in the EU Conflict Minerals Regulation.
Wherever possible, assist them with understanding the mandatory Weir companies in the US, when requested by we work with our suppliers to support them to requirements for the identification, reporting customers which are subject to the US Doddaddress weaknesses identified.
and management of actual or potential conflicts Frank Act, complete Conflict Minerals reporting.
Data Privacy and General Data Protection Anti-bribery and corruption Regulation GDPR Our Code of Conduct sets out our expectations We are committed to ensuring we comply with all regarding compliance with anti-bribery and applicable laws relating to data privacy, including corruption laws.
In addition, our internal audit the GDPR.
department undertakes anti-bribery and In 2018 we undertook significant cross-functional corruption reviews as part of their standard work in order to ensure we were prepared for, internal audit programme.
and could comply with, our obligations under the Gifts and hospitality GDPR as the regulation took effect.
Our Gifts Policy and Hospitality Policy together Suppliers and third parties set out our expectations as to when gifts and We source raw materials, components and hospitality are appropriate to give or receive, and services across the globe.
Our suppliers play a the approvals and reporting required in connection critical role in our business and our relationships with any such giving or receiving.
In 2019, we with them are based on achieving the best plan to combine the two policies into one policy performance, product delivery, service and total as part of simplifying our processes.
cost in an ethical and sustainable manner.
We recognise that our responsibilities extend to our supply chain.
We have a Supply Chain Policy which sets out the minimum standards we expect our suppliers to abide by with respect to: business ethics: how they treat their workforce: legal and regulatory compliance: health and safety: and environmental standards.
Want to know more about our Modern Slavery Acttraining?
pdf The Weir Group PLC 62 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Sustainability Review continued Working with our communities Our core values include making sure that The Weir Group does not make any political we always do the right thing and we are donations or contributions, nor does it allow committed to leaving a legacy for future any of its operating companies to do so.
We always respect the traditions, This includes cash and non-cash items such as cultures and laws of the countries and the local services, materials, employee time and use of communities where we operate.
We aim to corporate facilities.
employ local people in our businesses wherever We make a positive contribution to the countries possible.
We listen to the concerns of the local in which we operate through our direct communities and try to act in a way that deals activity including through local employment, with their concerns where we can.
local payment of taxes and local purchasing.
During any engagement we ensure that Within these local economies we have created we respect the rights of the individuals in jobs, enhanced education and skills development, the local communities in which we operate.
and improve health care provisions for our staff, Our engagement is conducted in an open their families and wider communities.
and transparent manner as we want to build We support local communities who need and sustain productive relationships with our Introduction help through charitable contributions and by communities.
Each Weir company seeks to encouraging employees to donate their time to ensure that it acts as a good and responsible community and charitable initiatives.
The Weir Group has a global presence citizen in the communities in which it operates operating in many countries around We encourage learning and development at and adopts good practices aimed at minimising the world, the impact we have on all levels across the communities in which we the impact of its operations.
our local communities is therefore work.
In 2018 Weir sponsored TEDx Venlo, TEDx of paramount importance to us.
We respect the communities we operate in and we strive to make a positive impact by the responsible running of our operations and by investing in local initiatives in away which benefits the local community.
We believe that any investment in a community should create a meaningful and sustainable impact on that community.
It should be relevant to the local needs but at the same time aligned with our business and carried out in partnership with local organisations.
10 Years of Weir Cares India We aim to identify the possibilities for investment through contact with local Weir Cares a Weir Minerals India initiative sports, supporting local community groups people and organisations including established in January 2008 celebrated its and engaging with schools.
local non-Government bodies, charities 10th year in 2018.
The objective of this project and community groups.
We are One of the projects which had a meaningful is to contribute to the sustainable economic committed to focusing on projects impact on the local community is the development of the local community which in with strong educational, health and partnership with the Akshaya Patra turn will improve quality of life.
The foundation prepares and Weir Cares have worked with several delivers midday meals to school children.
Non-Governmental Organisations including Weir Cares donated the food distribution Integrated Project for Development, vehicles which ensure that hot and hygienic Association of People with Disability, Akshaya meals can be served to children.
In doing so Patra Foundation and the Lions Blood Bank.
it provides not only a health benefit to the The initiative focuses on Health, Education and children but allows the children to have a Economic Development Projects.
nutritious meal that will sustain and enable them to learn in school.
Projects in 2018 have included a plastic reduction innovation challenge, litter free campaign for an important tourist area, tree planting, sponsored fundraising through Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 63 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Pink in the Basin Health Case Study In October 2018, our Oil & Gas division attended The Permian Basin Oil Show in Odessa, Texas alongside our customers we had a pink pumping truck with our SPM pump on display to highlight Breast Cancer Awareness month.
The division has also committed to donating $5000 to a collective pool to support a local breast cancer charity Pinkin the Basin Read more visit: http: pinkthebasin.
com ESCO divisions take Your Child to Work Daywe create an engaging, hands-on experience for our employees children, introducing them to the foundry floor and our innovation centre, to learn what its like to work at a world-class engineering company, and the possibilities available from a STEM based career.
The Weir Advanced Research Centre partnership is a dedicated engineering research centre that delivers and coordinates fundamental and applied research around the world on behalf of Weirs businesses.
Partnership findings are applied within university courses, building understanding events are organized by curious individuals who Chilean Month of Mining of regulatory environments for new solutions.
seek to discover ideas and spark conversations in WARC experiences have helped shape teaching their own community.
As part of our partnership Community Case Study modules and similarly the partnership will help with TEDx Venlo, speakers from the event Our Minerals colleagues were asked to define new materials science educational presented at the Weir Inspiration Day 2018. take part in events for the month of mining programmes that will not only add value and Weir is a founding member of the Institute of organised by the Mining Ministry in Chile.
capabilities to the careers of students today, but Primary and Secondary Engineers, an institution will also enhance many others far into the future.
The objective of this public event was to which seeks to promote science, technology, bring the community closer to the mining Mechanical engineering students from across engineering and mathematics subjects to school industry, we shared details about our Asia Pacific battled it out for the chance of children across the UK products and processes to inform, educate winning the annual Warman Design and Build We understand that we are part of a wider and engage the public.
Organised by Engineers Australia community and in several of our facilities, we and sponsored solely by Weir Minerals, the hold family community days where we invite 2018 competition saw around 5,000 students our local community to come to our facilities participate, following in the footsteps of the and understand what we do.
This gives an 50,000 students who have participated since the opportunity for the members of the local competitions inception in 1988.
This year held community to tour the facility, creates an special significance as it is the 80th anniversary of understanding of the business, highlights the the iconic Warman Pump.
aspects of safe working we have implemented and allows greater engagement between Weir and the community it is a part of.
Through our The Weir Group PLC 64 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Sustainability Review continued Charitable donations Community 18% Education 61% Health 21% Charitable giving The Oregon Metals Initiative In 2018 the total amount of charitable donations made was 504,178.90.
In line with our We are Education Case Study For several years, our team at ESCO has Weir framework, we are committed to doing Our ESCO division works with the Oregon partnered with the Mechanical & Materials the right thing by caring for our colleagues, our Metal Initiative, which is a consortium of local Engineering department at Portland State neighbours and the environment and inspiring metal manufacturing companies and research University.
This gives PSU students the them to flourish, allowing us to leave a legacy for institutions that pursues research to improve opportunity to work on industrially relevant the next generation.
We know that undertaking the long-term competitiveness of the metals projects which helps relate the material charitable activities will help us grow and industry and the research infrastructure science taught in the classroom to the practical succeed.
We see the benefit that charitable in Oregon.
application and importance of heat treatment giving can have on our communities and in an industrial setting.
Each year, OMI partners member companies our employees.
with a local university to develop and complete Our businesses are given autonomy to operate a research project.
These projects help the their own charitable giving policies to ensure company gather fundamental information that the charitable work conducted is aligned on material properties and behaviours during with the local communitys needs.
This includes manufacturing processes and provide research direct donations, providing support or equipment opportunities to local engineering students.
Throughout 2018 several The member companies make financial charitable projects were undertaken and a small contributions to the research projects, which selection of these are included within this section.
are fully matched by the State of Oregon.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 65 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Respecting the environment Creating opportunities to improve the they plan to mitigate and be resilient in the face of environmental performance of our operations and climate change.
We submit annual CDP reports to share our risk Operational control management approach to climate change and our The Weir SHE Management Standards set greenhouse gas GHG emissions performance our expectations and provide a framework In 2018, we achieved a score of B improving for environmental risk management, on our score of C in in 2017, for changes incorporating key elements such as regulatory implemented relating to business strategy, risk compliance, risk assessment, self-audit, and disclosure, opportunity disclosure and emissions employee engagement.
Our continued commitment to robust 2018 CDP Climate Change Score environmental protection is well reflected in the performance of our facilities.
Based on the 31 sites which were audited this year, across the group, against the environmental compliance B Introduction criteria with our SHE standards including air emissions, energy and waste, we delivered an average score of 78% during 2018.
We are working to align our reporting with the We believe that acting in an TCFD recommendations related to Climate environmentally sustainable way Environmental protection Change Governance, Strategy, Risk and Metrics protects and creates long term value No significant environmental incidents, penalties and Targets to ensure effective disclosures not just for our shareholders but for or fines were reported at sites under the which, where commercially possible, will be most all our stakeholders and supports the operational control of the Group during the year relevant and useful to stakeholders.
long term future of our business.
Operational Resilience In a competitive world with finite Climate Change As a business with operations around the world resource, managing the environmental The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate we can be exposed to a wide range of extreme performance of our operations makes Change IPCC released a report in 2018 weather events.
In 2018, this has included: good business sense.
We aim to highlighting that urgent and unprecedented flooding in China, wild fires which have impacted minimise the impact of our operations changes are needed to reach the target to limit the local communities close to our sites in the and our products on the environment.
global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees.
USA California and Europe Sweden.
The report says there must be rapid and We are playing our part in a growing We were fortunate that none of our employees significant changes in four big global systems and changing world.
We actively invest have been harmed and very little disruption has including industry.
in research and development to allow occurred at our sites due to these incidents.
In the us to develop and exploit emerging We have a clear commitment to reduce the case of such an event occurring, we have put in technologies to enhance our products impact we and our customers have on the place measures to ensure operational resilience and create new solutions.
Within our environment through technology and innovation.
for ourselves and our customers.
We do technology strategy we are focusing Equally important is harnessing the substantial recognise that climate change will impact upon on supporting our customers to potential from all Weir employees worldwide our business.
In 2018 we commissioned a natural gain competitive advantage through thinking and acting sustainably.
catastrophe study for some of our key locations improved operational efficiency including We welcome and support efforts, such as those considering the likelihood and impact of different using water and energy more efficiently.
led by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial natural catastrophe events occurring.
Disclosures TCFD, to increase transparency Greenhouse Gas Emissions and to promote investors understanding of We have focused in 2018 on improving energy companies strategies to respond to the risks efficiency which will help to reduce GHG and opportunities presented by climate change.
emissions and improve our efficiency.
As an In 2018, Our Group Exec and Board teams energy and carbon intensive business operating, both participated in Carbon Economy risk and now with the addition of ESCO, 13 foundries opportunity workshops as part of our annual worldwide in 2018, the Group recognises strategic planning process.
the importance of measuring and minimising In 2018 through the process of completing the greenhouse gas GHG emissions from our CDP Climate Change Submission we operations over which it has control.
were able to assess the areas in which we We have not included within the total annual could improve, to meet the requirements of GHG emissions the GHG emissions from our the TCFD recommendations.
We believe that ESCO division acquired in 2018, as the processes companies should be transparent about how and procedures to be able to accurately record Excludes ESCO division The Weir Group PLC 66 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Sustainability Review continued and report this information are being developed.
Energy Efficiency We have advised that we consider the addition We are running energy efficiency pilots at some of this division to be material and the GHG of our largest sites this year.
We have been emissions indicative estimate based on available working in collaboration with the sites and an data is 38,212 tCO2e since the acquisition date of external partner to conduct detailed energy July 2018. and water audits, install new metering at each site and identify and deliver the biggest savings The Groups total annual GHG emissions in opportunities.
We anticipate that we will achieve Environmental tCO e for the year ended 31 December 2018 2 energy use reductions of circa 10%.
This comprises a reduction in total absolute GHG emissions for the Group This year we undertook a review of our systems when compared with 2017 figures.
During 2018, and process related to monitoring and managing Weir Minerals Africa won the Steel and total GHG emissions for our seven foundries our energy use.
We have a adopted a new Engineering Industries Federation of were 59,134 tCO e. Carbon intensity of the environmental sustainability system which will 2 Southern Africa SEIFSA Environment metals poured reduced with the use of lower enable more detailed analysis and opportunities Stewardship Award 2018 for going above carbon fuels.
for improved efficiency at our sites.
and beyond to invest in the environment and successfully implementing Resource Efficiency The Strategic Report covering pages 1 to 66 environmental initiatives in its core Over 17,400 tonnes of scrap metal was reused of the Annual Report and Financial Statements business operations.
within our foundry operations during 2018, 2018, has been approved by the Board of comprising 46% of all metal poured in the The team have implemented initiatives Directors in accordance with The Companies foundries 2017: 42% In 2018 we launched the including rain water harvesting and water Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors No time to waste open innovation challenge to all use optimisation, energy use reduction and Report Regulations 2013. employees worldwide focused on where can we efficiency, air emission reduction initiatives, redesign our products and processes, or those of On behalf of the Board of Directors refurbished oil usage and reduction of our customers, to meaningfully reduce our waste diesel powered vehicles.
We received over 7,000 votes on the investment of over 1m 19,319,663 South ideas submitted.
African Rand has improved efficiency and reduced the environmental impact of Graham Vanhegan the business.
Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary 27 February 2019 Total annual GHG emissions Global annual GHG emissions GHG emissions intensity tCO2e tCO2e per m revenue Baseline: Baseline: 2018 2017 2013 2018 2017 2013 Scope 1 emissions: fuel combustion and operation of facilities 38,586 36,728 53,316 15.2 15.6 21.9 Scope 2 emissions: purchased electricity and heat 103,493 107,869 107,581 40.7 45.8 44.3 Total 142,080 144,597 160,897 55.9 61.4 66.2 Annual GHG emissions from foundries Annual GHG emissions Proportion of global annual emissions GHG emissions intensity tCO2e % tCO2e per tonne of metal poured Baseline: Baseline: Baseline: 2018 2017 2013 2018 2017 2013 2018 2017 2013 Scope 1 emissions: fuel combustion and operation of facilities 10,569 10,893 16,738 7.4 7.5 10.4 0.3 0.3 0.5 Scope 2 emissions: purchased electricity and heat 48,565 52,515 48,705 34.2 36.3 30.3 1.3 1.5 1.4 Total 59,134 63,408 65,443 41.6 43.9 40.7 1.6 1.8 1.9 Scope 1 emissions: fuel combustion and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions: purchased electricity and heat.
We report on all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statement.
We do not have responsibility for emission sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
We have not included within the total annual GHG emissions the GHG emissions from our ESCO division acquired in 2018, as the processes and procedures to be able to accurately record and report this information are being developed.
We have advised that we consider the addition of this division to be material and the GHG emissions indicative estimate based on available data is 38212 tCO2e since the acquisition date of July 2018.
Annual emissions figures for 2017 have been restated to reflect the collation of more accurate consumption data and the correction of emissions factors, which had resulted in an understatement.
The need to restate was identified during our standard review process We have referred to the GHG Protocol: Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and used emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2018 and other region-specific emissions factors where available.
Excludes ESCO division Numbers do not sum due to rounding
