Strategic report Other disclosures continued Diversity and inclusion Social and community matters WHSmith recognises that talented people are core to the As a leading bookseller and stationer we focus our community success of our business, whatever their age, race, religion, investment on supporting education and life-long learning.
gender, sexual orientation or physical ability.
We are committed Over the year we invested over 1.5 million into local to promoting a culture of equality and diversity through our communities, including cash donations, staff time and gifts policies, procedures and working practices.
The full extent of our community investment activity, that all our employees receive equal and fair treatment, measured according to the London Benchmarking Group model, and thisapplies to recruitment and selection, terms and is outlined in the Groups CR report.
conditions of employment, promotion, training and development This year, we have continued to partner with the three charities opportunities and employment benefits.
We believe in we selected as part of our 225th anniversary celebrations, creating aculture throughout the Company that is free from and have now raised over 1.7 million for Cancer Research discrimination and harassment and will not permit or tolerate UK, Mindand the National Literacy Trust from customer and discrimination in any form.
Once again, we sold pin During the year, we have continued to implement a number badges, wristbands, Christmas cards and books to raise money of initiatives to promote more women into senior positions.
for the three charities, and customers and employees across We continue to develop our succession pipeline, to ensure we the UK have been generous with fundraising support.
We have have a number of women ready for promotion.
Mentoring plays held special events to celebrate World Book Day for the National a critical role in the development of our talent pipeline at all Literacy Trust, to mark Mental Health Awareness Week for Mind levels, providing targeted one-to-one support from a more and to publicise Cancer Researchs Stand up to Cancer event senior role model.
All of our senior female executives act as a in October.
mentor to support women with their development requirements.
The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust is an independent We continue to work with Everywoman who provide a host of registered charity, which works in partnership with the Group personal development tools aimed at women, including monthly to support literacy projects and actively supports WHSmith webinars, workbooks and relevant career development articles.
employees involved with charitable organisations in their The partnership also provides our employees with links to an local communities.
This year, it has continued its support of external network of professional women in other organisations the National Literacy Trusts Young Readers Programme, so that contact, connections and relationships can be made incorporating live literature events to bring children into easily.
Both external research and our own employee surveys direct contact with authors, storytellers and illustrators, highlight that role models are critical in encouraging women helping to bring books to life and inspiring children to discover todevelop their careers.
Over the year, the project has worked We monitor our diversity profile versus our peers and the with 1,500 children in 24 primary schools across the UK, national average to ensure that our employee profile and that allowing them tochoose more than 4,500 free new books to of our management team reflect our commitment to diversity.
Further details of the WHSmith Trust can be found at: In terms of gender diversity, we measure our performance www.
co. uk corporate responsibility whsmith trust.
across the Group, looking at Board level, our senior management and store management populations.
To promote Employees gender diversity, we understand the importance of work-life The Group employs approximately 14,000 people, primarily balance and promoting agile working.
Our line managers are in the UK, and is proud of its long history of being regarded encouraged to consider requests for flexible working hours as a responsible and respected employer.
Information on our andhome working.
Employee policies is available at www.
co. uk docs Training and development Employee Policies.
Our learning and development programmes are designed Equal opportunities to support our employees to reach their potential within the The Board believes in creating throughout the Company business and their careers.
We focus on supporting and a culture that is free from discrimination and harassment developing talented individuals within our business, with and will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
the objective of continuing to achieve a 90 per cent internal The Company gives full and fair consideration to applications succession rate across the business.
Our Retail Academy for employment when these are received from disabled people supports store staff in developing their skills and moving on and employs disabled people whenever suitable vacancies arise.
to new roles, and targeted development programmes in head Should an employee become disabled when working for the office help to create a pipeline of talent to fill future vacancies.
Company, we will endeavour to adapt the work environment Our current wave of apprenticeship qualifications for 37 of and provide retraining if necessary so that they may continue our team leaders in our Travel business is due to complete their employment.
in November 2018, resulting in a nationally recognised Level 3 Retail Qualification for those taking part.
In our High Street business, where we are transforming a number of our highest volume stores, we have provided extra training and development to store managers.
WH Smith PLC 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Employee involvement Health, safety and wellbeing Employee engagement is supported through clear We are committed to maintaining high standards of health communication of the Groups performance and objectives.
The management team, supported by professional This information is cascaded through team briefings, employee safety advisers, monitors key safety performance indicators events, intranet sites and e-newsletters.
We conduct annual and an annual report detailing trends, performance and employee engagement surveys and the results are shared with recommendations is presented to the Board.
The business also all staff and actions agreed to respond to specific points of has a Health and Safety Committee that comprises employee feedback, with employee focus groups used to help understand representatives and professional health and safety advisers.
the staff feedback in more depth.
We provide an ongoing training programme for staff in stores, consisting of modular courses focusing on key issues such Employee share ownership as fire safety, manual handling and slips, trips and falls.
The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs Approved We continue to see a reduction in the number of reportable Save-As-you-Earn share option scheme Sharesave Scheme accidents, which have more than halved over the last six years.
which provides employees with the opportunity to acquire shares A copy of our Health and Safety at Work Policy is available at in the Company.
Approximately 780 employees participate in www.
co. uk docs Health and Safety at Work.
We believe that it is just as important to support our colleagues Our employees: key information mental wellbeing as it is to look after their physical wellbeing.
The table below shows a breakdown of the composition of the Our strategy is led from the top, with CEO Stephen Clarke Board as at year end.
signing the Time to Change pledge in February 2017.
During the year, we have continued with our work with the organisation Tenure Male Female Time to Change to raise awareness of mental health issues and 01 year 0% Male 4 67% the associated stigma among employees, and our work with 13 years 0% Female 2 33% Mental Health First Aid MHFA England to train our employees on how to support mental health in the workplace.
Training for 36 years 33% line and store managers is well progressed with over 90 per cent 69 years 50% Executive non-executive of office line managers trained as well as the vast majority of 10 years 17% Executive 2 33% store managers.
Non-executive 4 67% Anti-bribery and anti-corruption The tables below show the number and percentage of women WHSmith prides itself on its values and commitment to acting and men in the senior management team, the management with integrity throughout the organisation and we will not team and the mix of employees across the Group as at year end.
tolerate bribery or corruption in any form in our business or 1 from others working on our behalf.
Our Code of Conduct sets Senior Management team out in detail how our colleagues should behave and what they Women 5 25% should do if they are confronted with corruption.
We expect Men 15 75% that all of them will embrace the Code and use it in all aspects 1 This group comprises employees who are members of the executive committees of their day-to-day work.
In turn, we expect our suppliers and who are not also members of the Board.
other business partners to act at all times in a professional and 2 ethical manner, complying with all relevant laws including the Management team UK Bribery Act.
Our Code of Conduct states that employees or Women 312 43% others working on our behalf must never offer or accept any Men 407 57% kind of bribe, and that our subcontractors, consultants, agents 2 This wider group includes store managers and senior head office staff who are not also and others we work with must have similar anti-corruption members of the senior management team.
All employees are required to confirm that they have re-read and accept our Code of Conduct on an annual Employee mix across the Group basis and are encouraged to report any suspected breaches Women 8,141 65% using our confidential Speak Up helpline.
Further details of Men 4,416 35% our policy on anti-bribery and anti-corruption are provided at: www.
co. uk docs Bribery Ethics Statement2.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29
