Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 HIGHLIGHTS Over 11m Customer transactions per week on average 40,000 Customers connected with each month Our four stakeholder ambitions OUR CUSTOMERS Listening and responding to our customers Customers continue to rate us highly on our food maker credentials, recognising the skill and expertise of our in-store crafts people and With over 11 million transactions per week on average, it is important our unique Market Street offer.
Customers have told us they appreciate that we listen to our customers and respond quickly wherever possible.
the fact that our in-store experts make and provide more fresh food We continue to increase the breadth and depth of our customer listening from scratch than anyone else in Britain.
The Morrisons Makes It activities across the business and more colleagues now spend more of campaign, which showcases unique products made by our specialists, their time listening to customers.
has been well received by customers.
Customers continue to associate Improving the customer shopping trip by listening hard and responding us strongly with buying from British suppliers and working closely quickly remains fundamental to our plan.
Our colleagues are doing an with farmers and growers.
We are working hard to build this national outstanding job of serving customers better and we are listening to association at a regional and local level through The Nations Local customers in more ways than ever.
Every month, we connect with Foodmakers programme.
around 40,000 customers through a combination of our large online Our brand continues to play an important role at Morrisons.
panel of customers, our regular in-store listening programme and monthly Understanding our customers and focusing on the things that matter customer surveys.
most, such as price, quality and range, help us ensure that our brand The My View online customer panel is an important way for customers remains relevant and attractive.
to give us immediate feedback so that we can respond quickly.
We have improved the quality of our products within both the Savers Through this programme of listening, customers have told us that and Morrisons ranges, and removed unnecessary packaging making the healthy eating, price, increased convenience and simplicity in stores product more visible.
We have doubled the size of our Best range to are all becoming more important in their lives.
This customer feedback over 1,000 products and we are continuing to see strong growth.
We have has helped us to make significant improvements.
also extended our range of Free From and made it easier for customers who want to buy these specific products to find them in our stores.
Our customer service contact centre connected with over 1.7 million customers during the year by telephone, email, letter or social media.
In 2017, we won over 300 awards for the quality of our own brand Our contact centre colleagues put the customer at the heart of products, with some highlights being Own-label Range of the Year for everything they do.
Best at the Grocer Gold Awards: Supply Chain Innovation of the Year for our automated ordering system at the IGD Awards: Innovator of the Improving the customer shopping trip Year at the International Wine and Spirits Competition: and Multiple Beer As food makers and shopkeepers we are committed to improving the Retailer of the Year and Multiple Cider Retailer of the Year at the 2018 customer shopping trip.
More customers than ever are highly satisfied Drinks Retailing Awards.
Demonstrating the opportunity to extend our with the service they receive in our stores, and they have told us that Nutmeg brand beyond clothing, we also won Best Disposable Nappy we have improved in a number of important areas.
For example, for our Nutmeg Ultra Dry Nappy at the Mumii Awards.
customers told us they continue to see improvements in reduced queues.
We also focused on improving shop floor service, and customers told us that we have made significant improvements in staff friendliness, store cleanliness and ease of navigation.
Customers also tell us that we have made improvements in the availability of products on our shelves.
12 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information UK grocery market size bn 2017 Composition of UK grocery market size Supermarkets 86.0bn 184.5 179.0 178.0 Convenience 40.0bn 177.0 175.0 Discounters 20.1bn Hypermarkets 16.2bn Other Retailers 11.8bn 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Online 10.4bn Source Source Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD Being more competitive The Market In September 2017, we introduced Way Down Price Crunch which During the year, the UK grocery market continued to be competitive.
communicates our great value prices, and prices which have been held The backdrop is still one of some uncertainty for UK consumers, with down lower for longer.
With more prices being Crunched for customers, the longer term outlook for the UK economy and the wider implications and a higher average discount, Crunch sales have achieved record levels.
Customers have responded positively, telling us that Way Down Price Input inflation, as we had expected, was a factor during the year Crunch provides a clearer and more confident communication that we as a result of weaker sterling pushing up import prices.
In these times are lowering prices across the store, and that they can expect to make of uncertainty value is even more critical to customers, as their budgets more noticeable savings.
do not expand if prices are higher, so we continue to work hard to manage the impacts of retail price inflation.
More Card However, we believe these challenges can continue to bring the best The Morrisons More Card continues to grow in popularity.
More and out of Morrisons.
We are listening hard to customers and colleagues, more of our customers are regularly collecting points and receiving which is helping us better respond to these changes as they occur.
rewards, which they can use to make savings when they shop with us.
We are improving every day and our team of food makers and We continue to innovate, and have recently introduced a student specific shopkeepers continue to find ways to be more competitive and programme for the More Card which encourages students to join when serve customers better.
Our vertically integrated supply chain means we are less reliant on The More Card continues to be a very important way to listen to our imported products.
As a British manufacturer sourcing home-grown customers allowing us to better tailor our offer to meet our customers products wherever possible, and as British farmings biggest single needs.
We are using what we learn about our customers in a number of supermarket customer, we are well placed to mitigate some of the different ways and responding accordingly, from providing personalised wider economic pressures.
We continue to work hard with growers, rewards that are based around customers actual shopping behaviour, farmers and other suppliers to save customers every penny we can.
to developing our pricing strategy and making sure the range in each Whilst much of our continued turnaround is in our own hands, we are individual store is relevant to the customers who shop in it.
aware of, and respond to, changes in customer sentiment and trends in the market.
We expect the trends towards digital shopping, more frequent shopping and convenience to continue, and these are real opportunities for a broader, stronger Morrisons.
Wholesale, online and popular and useful services provide opportunities for Morrisons in these significant and growing channels, and help increase the size of the market in which we operate.
We are serving more customers online in new areas through a new store-pick delivery service launched with our partner Ocado.
We will be extending that further into more new areas in the coming year, as well as taking some capacity in Ocados new customer fulfilment centre at Erith.
New wholesale partnerships with McColls and Sandpiper, together with existing partners Amazon and Rontec, and our own Morrisons Daily stores, make Morrisons more accessible to more customers, through new channels.
However, supermarkets continue to represent around half of the UK grocery market and it is forecast this sub-sector will represent the majority of the market for many years.
Therefore, our focus on the core supermarkets is a key priority in our turnaround.
The Fresh Look programme, guided by listening and incorporating local solutions, continues to be rolled out and improvements in growing areas such as Clothing and Food to Go are important to strengthening the offer in our core supermarkets.
We cannot predict the future but, as long as we continue to do what is right for our customers, we expect to emerge from this period of uncertainty a broader, stronger business.
13 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 HIGHLIGHTS 78% Colleague Engagement Index Score 2016 17: 76% Over 7,000 Number of colleagues involved in Your Say forums Our four stakeholder ambitions OUR COLLEAGUES Listening hard and responding each store.
We will be investing in more colleague roles across stores to serve our customers better.
This will mean that we reduce the number of Listening to colleagues at all levels and across the organisation is critical management roles by c. 1,500, whilst simultaneously creating c. 1,700 more to the business and its turnaround.
Through our annual Your Say survey colleague roles in stores.
We will continue to look to mitigate the impact and ongoing forums, we have listened more than ever to the views of as much as possible.
All those impacted will be given the opportunity to our colleagues.
apply for alternative roles in stores or elsewhere in the business.
Three-quarters of colleagues completed the 2017 Your Say survey.
Feedback included over 80,000 comments on how we can make Tools and training to do the job Morrisons a better place to work and shop.
For the second consecutive During the year, we introduced our MyMorri digital platform which gives year, our colleague engagement score increased across the business and all colleagues online access to their payslip, colleague handbook and a overall we have achieved an engagement score of 78%, with every single dedicated news channel to keep up-to-date with all relevant company business function in positive growth.
We have introduced My Perks on this platform giving Our Your Say forums have been up and running for over a year, and colleagues access to discounts across many high street retailers.
Since over 7,000 colleagues have been involved in identifying ways of making the launch, we have seen over 95% of our colleagues use MyMorri.
Morrisons a better place to work and shop.
Our national forum saw We also introduced a new online learning management system, colleagues from all areas of our business join members of the Executive My Learning.
This provides a single platform to access relevant training Committee to discuss and agree ways to continue to improve Morrisons.
materials and an electronic employee record regarding legal training.
Our My Job programmes continue to be delivered across the business Fair days pay and colleague bonus to develop technical and leadership skills.
This year we delivered It is important that colleagues feel valued and that they share in the a programme to 2,500 colleagues.
We listen closely to the feedback in this area through our Your Say survey.
Positive responses to the question I receive An opportunity to develop, progress and grow a fair days pay for the work I do has increased again.
We also continue To give our colleagues the opportunity to develop, progress and grow, to invest in colleagues, with pay increasing from 8.20 per hour to 8.50 we introduced the internal Pathways programme which give a clear, during the year, and again to 8.70 from April 2018, for our front-line visible route to progression.
We had over 500 successful applications store colleagues.
starting on the first of the team manager, senior manager and store We have introduced an improved bonus scheme for junior managers manager programmes.
and the average colleague bonus payout in March 2017 was over We have also introduced 21 designated training stores aligned to 25% higher this year than the previous year.
During the year, we also geographic regions, where we now train both technical and behavioural introduced a new pension scheme which provides colleagues with skills consistently across the business.
a more affordable way to save, enabling them to make contributions Over 850 colleagues completed our Leading with Purpose programme starting at 1% of salary, which are matched by the Group.
This programme, which is delivered by Leadership Store management structures Team members, enables colleagues to understand their role in the turnaround of Morrisons and in delivering our core purpose.
We have continued to listen to our colleagues and customers and review our structures to make sure we are in a strong position to serve our Our graduate programmes continue to increase in size with customers better.
Over the past two years, we have introduced a number 76 graduates starting their careers on one of our eight schemes.
Over of new ways of working and invested in stores by improving some of our 50 colleagues have started our new look degree apprentice programme, technology and systems, as well as offering new products and services.
and our apprenticeship programmes continue to grow with over 300 colleagues starting an apprenticeship in areas including Butchery, Bakery, During the year, we have carried out a full review of our store structure Fishmongers, Engineering and Floristry.
We held our annual in-house and announced that we are proposing to introduce a new management Mastercraft competition in November 2017 to celebrate the talent of our structure which is simpler, with clearer management accountabilities that very best food makers and shopkeepers from across the business and establishes an improved balance of colleague and management roles in once again it was a huge success.
For more details, see page 11.
14 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information HIGHLIGHTS 18% Percentage of store managers who are female 2016 17: 7% Over 95% Colleagues who have accessed MyMorri Five ways of working Diversity Our five ways of working underpin everything we do and how Morrisons We pride ourselves on being a diverse and inclusive business.
They provide a clear and consistent way of doing things All colleagues and people in the communities in which we work are and apply to every colleague in Morrisons across our stores, sites welcomed and treated with respect, regardless of their background.
We remain committed to maintaining an environment that enables colleagues to be at their best more of the time, offering equal opportunities for colleagues to develop, progress and grow.
Customers first During the year, Morrisons employed over 58,000 female colleagues Our customers are at the heart of everything colleagues do.
We care about our customers and do everything we can to always put them first.
We remain committed to improving representation of females in senior leadership roles.
The Board comprises seven men and two women, while 73% of the Leadership Team are male and 27% female.
We continue Teamwork to make progress with our ambition to increase the number of female Through teamwork, colleagues can help each other to get things store managers and have moved from 34 7% in 2016 to 86 18% as of done, knowing that we can do more together.
We introduced Women in Leadership workshops across their part in the team, respecting and enjoying working with others the business to give colleagues the opportunity to discuss the barriers and to get better results.
To ensure we serve our customers better, concerns that our female colleagues face and to share details on personal especially at the times of the year that mean the most to them, such development and opportunities in Morrisons.
as Christmas, all colleagues working in central roles help out in stores.
Gender continues to be a key area of focus for Morrisons.
Since September 2017, over 400 colleagues have joined a new Freedom in the framework LGBT network.
Freedom in the framework means colleagues have the freedom Looking forward to 2018, the recently established diversity and inclusion and are trusted to make decisions to help achieve our priorities.
working group will define the future plans based around such things as gender, culture, LGBT and disability.
Listening and responding Listening and responding quickly wherever we can is at the heart of our turnaround.
Taking the time to listen to all of our stakeholders is embedded in the way we work across the business.
Selling, controlling costs, growing profits and removing waste All colleagues are food makers and shopkeepers and are encouraged to do everything they can to help sell more, manage our costs more effectively, and identify opportunities to improve how we do things.
15 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 HIGHLIGHTS Percentage of Morrisons branded fresh meat, milk and eggs sourced in Britain 100% Our four stakeholder ambitions OUR SUPPLIERS Strong supplier relationships informed by listening The Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP Our aim is to develop mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers, GSCOP applies to designated grocery retailers in the UK, adding specific based on responsible and fair trading terms and practices in line with the regulations into the trading relationships between retailers and their Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP.
We actively engage with the relevant regulatory bodies, the with suppliers ultimately helps us serve our customers better.
We are GCA and the Competition and Markets Authority CMA, to build best pleased with the progress we have made in simplifying the way we buy practice.
We meet regularly with the GCA and provide updates on our and sell.
This has helped us work with our suppliers in a transparent and activity and details on specific areas of interest to the GCA.
We are encouraged that our progress in this area is being The 2017 GCA supplier survey reported Morrisons as the second most recognised in our own listening surveys with suppliers and in industry improved retailer.
We continue to work hard to listen and respond surveys, including the Groceries Code Adjudicators GCA annual to our suppliers, so we can improve processes and build better, supplier survey.
During the year, we undertook our own surveys to listen to our suppliers We encourage and welcome feedback from suppliers and conduct our and buyers to help us improve our relationships and develop long-term own regular surveys that provide valuable insight on further improvements partnerships with our suppliers.
We have been working with a number we can make to continually improve relationships.
Our Code Compliance of partner suppliers from across all categories, where there is a joint focus Officer CCO spoke to suppliers in every category at supplier conferences on driving the quality of our offer.
Long-term planning and collaboration throughout the year.
has allowed us to lower end-to-end costs in the supply chain and improve Matters raised by suppliers or the GCA have been focus areas for the our quality proposition, so we can serve our customers better.
business during the year and we have worked hard to understand and We have also simplified the way we work with suppliers throughout the address them.
Key developments during the year have included: buying process.
For example, our dedicated supplier helpdesk provides Investing in improved systems, including introducing a Supplier Portal, a single point of contact, and we continue to improve the speed with which is provided free of charge for all suppliers: which we resolve queries.
Establishing a Good Faith Receiving process for suppliers delivering Our supply chain into our fresh warehouses: and We continue to invest in our vertically integrated business model to Enhancing the dedicated supplier helpdesk, which is committed have greater control over the supply chain in order to become more to resolving supplier queries within five working days.
competitive and improve our quality position.
We continue to provide training, guidance and support to all colleagues in As food makers and shopkeepers we are the single biggest supermarket our Trading teams together with bespoke training for relevant colleagues customer for British farmers, and we are proud to support the British in our Supply Chain and Finance teams.
100% Morrisons branded fresh meat, milk and eggs are sourced Governance in this area includes a group comprising senior Leadership Team in Britain.
We continue to have direct relationships with British farmers, members from all relevant functions.
Routine updates are provided to our which both strengthens the agricultural industry and supports rural Executive Committee and to our Corporate Compliance and Responsibility communities.
Our customers support the farming community through Committee, including developments regarding the operation of the Code.
purchasing products in the For Farmers range milk, cheese, butter, We formally report details of activity over the year and specific concerns cream and bacon, where a clear element of the selling price goes back raised with our CCO to the GCA and to the CMA at the financial year end.
GSCOP related enquiries are dealt with in accordance with the regulations.
We also take pride in working with smaller, local suppliers to create a range Any matter not resolved directly with a buyer is escalated to the relevant that is locally relevant for our customers and reflects the demographics Category Director and, if requested, to our CCO.
During the year, our CCO of individual stores.
During the year, we launched our nationwide search received a small number of supplier enquires, none of which remained for the next generation oflocal food makers through The Nations Local outstanding at the year end.
For more details on these events, see page 11.
Contact details and further information can be found at www.
co. uk gscop 16 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Our four stakeholder ambitions OUR SHAREHOLDERS Another strong year where we made progress against the key financial measures Trevor Strain, Chief Financial Officer Introduction 2017 18 was another strong year, where we made good progress Our focus on free cash flow continues, and we are committed to against the key financial measures fundamental to becoming a broader, being capital disciplined spending capital to maintain assets, reduce stronger business.
Net debt is below 1bn and we have a strong, and strengthening balance sheet, with significant freehold property We are now in our third year of positive like-for-like LFL sales growth ownership and a net pension surplus.
These are firm foundations on and are pleased to have made good progress with wholesale, an important which to rebuild and grow.
part of Morrisons meaningful and sustainable future growth opportunity.
Delivering 11% underlying profit growth is a strong performance in any year, A final ordinary dividend of 4.43p per share is proposed.
Reflecting but is especially so in the context of 2017 18 where the market conditions continued adherence to the principles of our capital allocation framework, were challenging.
and our expectations for sustained future growth and strong free cash flow generation, the Board has also proposed a special dividend of 4.00p per share.
We are managing the business for all our stakeholders for the long term, and are prioritising improved competitiveness, customer satisfaction and colleague engagement.
There were cost pressures in the year, but we successfully absorbed these and were able to reinvest the benefits of higher sales volumes back into improving the shopping trip for our customers.
17 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Group LFL sales exc.
See the Glossary on page 128 for a definition.
Our four stakeholder ambitions continued Summary income statement Operating profit 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 m m m m Revenue 17,262 16,317 Operating profit 458 468 Operating profit 458 468 Underlying adjustments: Net finance costs 80 145 Impairment and provision for onerous contracts 6 6 Share of profit of joint ventures 2 2 Profit loss on disposal and exit of properties and sale of investments 19 32 Profit before tax 380 325 Pension scheme set-up credit 13 Underlying profit before tax 374 337 Other exceptional costs 25 2 Underlying earnings per share 12.19p 10.86p Underlying operating profit 445 432 Basic earnings per share 13.30p 13.11p Operating profit was 458m 2016 17: 468m.
Before the exceptional items Revenue described below, underlying operating profit was 445m 2016 17: 432m.
Total revenue during the period was 17.3bn, up 5.8% year-on-year.
Following the annual impairment and onerous contract review, a net Revenue excluding fuel was 13.5bn, up 4.4%.
2017 18 was a 53 week credit of 6m has been recognised.
In the second half of the year, as year.
On an equivalent 53 week basis, total revenue including fuel planned, we launched a new defined contribution pension scheme.
was up 3.8% and revenue excluding fuel up 2.5%.
The actual cost of back-dated contributions was lower than expected, Group LFL sales excluding fuel were up 2.8% over the year, comprising primarily due to participation rates.
This resulted in a credit of 13m.
supermarket growth of 1.9%, online growth through central fulfilment Property profits were 19m in the year, and there was a charge of 25m of 0.4% and a contribution from wholesale of 0.5%.
All of these items were reported outside of underlying profit before tax.
The year had some challenges, especially inflationary pressures on imported food prices caused by weaker sterling, but we continued Underlying profit to become more competitive for our customers.
We were pleased 2017 18 2016 17 that quarter four was the ninth consecutive period of positive LFL m m sales growth.
Reported profit before tax 380 325 Fuel continued to trade well, and we were very competitive throughout Underlying adjustments: the period with sales up 11% to 3.7bn.
Impairment and provision for onerous contracts 6 6 Profit loss on disposal and exit of properties and sale of investments 19 32 Costs associated with the repayment of borrowings 16 56 Pension scheme set-up credit 13 Net pension interest income 9 8 Other exceptional costs 25 2 Underlying profit before tax 374 337 Underlying profit margin 2.2% 2.1% Reported profit before tax was 380m 2016 17: 325m including a benefit of 5m from the 53rd week.
Underlying profit before tax, which excludes exceptional items, was 374m 2016 17: 337m.
Basic earnings per share increased to 13.30p 2016 17: 13.11p, and underlying earnings per share increased to 12.19p 2016 17: 10.86p.
18 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Capital expenditure m Return on Capital Employed ROCE HIGHLIGHTS Operating working capital inflow over 520 7.7% 500 7.3% four years 419 5.8% 5.6% 365 949m 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 Total payments in tax Definition Definition Measured as additions to property, plant and equipment, See the Glossary on page 128 for a definition.
1,114m investment properties, intangible assets, assets held-for-sale and investments as per the cash flow statement.
Debt, cash flow and working capital Summary balance sheet 2017 18 2016 17 Summary cash flow m m 2017 18 2016 17 Fixed assets and investments 7,761 7,761 m m Cash generated from operations before onerous Working capital 2,045 2,009 capital payments 926 1,207 Provisions and tax 792 767 Onerous capital payments 42 94 Net pension asset 594 272 Cash generated from operations 884 1,113 Net debt 973 1,194 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment Net assets 4,545 4,063 and sale of investments 108 123 Capital expenditure 500 419 Pensions Dividends paid 129 118 The net pension asset on the balance sheet is 594m, an increase of Dividends received 8 8 322m since last year.
During the year, one of the schemes entered Purchase of own shares 4 5 into a transaction to insure part of the schemes liabilities a buy in.
Tax and interest 136 129 We continue to work with the pension trustees to identify further opportunities to fide-risk the schemes.
We also amended our approach Costs incurred on repayment of borrowings 17 42 for setting discount rate assumptions.
We believe this new approach Proceeds on settlement of share options 26 better reflects the profile of the schemes liabilities.
Other non-cash movements 19 21 We launched our new defined contribution scheme in September 2017.
Movement in net debt 221 552 This provides another option for colleagues to save for their retirement, Opening net debt 1,194 1,746 with colleague contribution rates starting at 1% of salary, matched by Closing net debt 973 1,194 the Group.
We made further progress on cash in the year, with net debt falling Capital expenditure by 221m to 973m.
Operating working capital inflow was 35m, taking Capital expenditure was 500m, 2016 17: 419m.
In the year we completed the total over four years to 949m.
80 Fresh Look refits, meaning we have now refitted around half of the Cash capital expenditure was 500m, and cash outflow on previously estate.
We also invested in maintenance and productivity in areas such provided onerous commitments was 42m.
Proceeds from disposals were as Morrisons ordering and new self-scan checkouts.
108m taking total proceeds since the start of the programme, to 1bn.
Borrowings Interest We continue to apply our policy of maintaining a conservative debt Net finance costs were 80m 2016 17: 145m.
During the year, we maturity profile and continue to reduce the level of debt.
In the year, completed tender offers of 241m across two sterling bond and one we completed a tender offer across three of our bonds repaying 241m.
There was an exceptional cost of 16m incurred relating to Liquidity remains strong and we have not drawn down on our 1.35bn these early repayments.
Before this exceptional cost and impact of IAS 19 revolving credit facility since October 2015. pension income, underlying net finance costs were 73m 2016 17: 97m.
Tax We understand the importance of the tax contribution we make, and we take our responsibility towards the communities in which we operate and towards our colleagues, customers, investors and suppliers seriously.
We have a tax management framework which ensures the needs of all of our stakeholders are considered.
The Group is committed to paying all of its taxes in full and on time.
The Group consistently ranks as one of the largest contributors across a range of UK taxes.
In 2017 18, Morrisons made net payments of 1,114m to the UK government of which 596m was borne by Morrisons and the remaining 518m was collected on behalf of our colleagues, customers and suppliers.
Corporation tax payments made during the year were 74m which was in line with the current tax charge of 73m in the income statement.
19 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Our four stakeholder ambitions continued Return on capital employed ROCE Shareholder returns Return on capital employed increased to 7.7%.
The growth opportunities Our policy is for the ordinary annual dividend to be sustainable and we are focused on require relatively low capital expenditure and are covered around two times by underlying earnings per share.
The final accretive to profit and returns.
ordinary dividend will be 4.43p, bringing the ordinary dividend for the full year to 6.09p.
Key balance sheet metrics In addition to the final ordinary dividend, the Board is proposing a special 2017 18 2016 17 dividend of 4.00p per share, taking the total dividend for the year to Interest cover 6.1 times 4.6 times 10.09p, an increase of 85.8%.
Net debt EBITDA 1.1 1.4 The principles of our capital allocation framework guide us to reinvest Gearing 21% 29% to deliver profitable growth and return surplus capital to shareholders.
In recent years, we have made strong progress with the turnaround and ROCE 7.7% 7.3% our Fix, Rebuild and Grow strategy.
While there is still much we plan to do, a new Morrisons is now emerging.
We are growing sales and profit, and Financial strategy expect that growth to continue to be meaningful and sustainable in the future.
We are generating significant levels of free cash flow, which we Capital allocation framework also expect to sustain.
The special dividend reflects our good progress so far and our expectations for continued growth.
1 Invest in maintaining the estate and reducing cost 2 Maintain debt ratios to support investment grade rating Looking forward, we will retain a strong and flexible balance sheet.
We will be guided each year by the principles of our capital allocation framework 3 Invest for profitable growth in assessing the uses of free cash flow.
4 Pay dividends in line with stated policy The components of our financial plan remain unchanged.
We will 5 Return surplus capital to shareholders continue to focus on improving the total return for our shareholders.
Trevor Strain Our capital allocation framework is set out above and remains unchanged.
Chief Financial Officer Our first priority is to invest in our stores and infrastructure, and to reduce costs.
Second, we will seek to maintain debt ratios that support our target of an investment grade credit rating.
Third, we will invest in profitable growth opportunities.
Fourth, we will pay dividends in line with our stated policy, and then any surplus capital will be returned to shareholders.
