Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information HIGHLIGHTS 9m Raised for British farmers through the For Farmers range Over 3m unsold food products donated to charity Corporate responsibility RESPONSIBLE RETAILING Our corporate responsibility programme ensures we operate in a way Our focus areas this year: that is right for our customers, colleagues, suppliers and shareholders, Help British farmers to be competitive, profitable and sustainable while making a positive contribution to society and taking good care We buy animals and whole crops direct from British farmers.
By owning of the environment.
our own abattoirs, manufacturing and packing facilities, we can utilise This section showcases some of the highlights during the year as well the whole animal and all of the crop, meaning farmers get a fair price as our future plans.
During the year, we reinforced our commitment to British products This report should be read in conjunction with our annual Corporate by announcing our intention to sell only 100% fresh British Morrisons Responsibility Report which can be found at branded meat.
com cr Our Milk for Farmers range comes from a dedicated pool of British The Corporate Responsibility Report details the disclosure farmers, who produce to a higher welfare standard.
The extra 10p per requirements for the new NonFinancial Reporting requirements litre paid by customers is shared among all the farmers in the Morrisons of the Companies Act 2006.
Since the For Farmers range launched, we have raised over 9m for farmers.
environmental information on the actual and potential impacts of our operations on the environment, and on how current and Ensure the authenticity, provenance and safety of our products foreseeable environmental matters may affect our development, The high standards we set for our own brand suppliers, manufacturing performance or position: sites and stores ensure that we provide safe and legal products that social and employee matters information including diversity issues, meet the demands of our customers.
employment issues, health and safety in the workplace, consumer We have been working hard with our suppliers to reduce campylobacter relations, impacts on vulnerable consumers, responsible marketing and community relations: levels in fresh Morrisons branded chicken and we have developed an independent monitoring programme.
respect for human rights what we expect from our management, colleagues and business partners in relation to human rights, Our Culture o f E xcellence programme ran for the second year in our manufacturing business.
This programme continues to p lay includingcore labour standards: and a key role in improving our food safety and quality w ays of working.
antibribery and corruption how we manage antibribery All 18 manufacturing sites have been audited and each has robust and anticorruption matters and occurrences.
Ourantibribery plans in place to further improve our culture of excellence targets and anticorruption policy is available online at for the coming year.
com Reduce food waste Smarter supply chains help us reduce avoidable food waste.
Working towards a global agenda Thisreduces environmental risk, creates efficiencies and it The UN Sustainable Development Goals officially came into force in 2015. is important for our stakeholders.
They apply to all and aim to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and Through our unsold food programme our stores partner with local tackle climate change on a global scale.
These goals can only be realised community groups to donate any unsold food that is safe to eat.
with participation of all sectors including business.
We at Morrisons During the year, we donated over three million unsold food products, recognise the importance of the goals and the true value of collaboration working with over 420 community groups.
in order to create change.
We launched our Wonky Veg range in 2015, and now sell 18 varieties At Morrisons, we want to address these global challenges in a meaningful and over 500 tonnes per week of Wonky Veg.
way that is relevant and aligned to our business strategy.
As a result, we have ensured we are aligned to at least one goal where possible.
21 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Corporate responsibility continued Look after our colleagues Reduce general operational waste and carbon emissions It is important that our colleagues reflect the communities in which we Reducing operational waste and carbon throughout our supply chain operate, and feel supported and engaged to enable us to deliver great is part of what we do everyday.
This has environmental benefits and customer service and achieve our six priorities.
ensures efficiency throughout our operations.
Please see page 14 for further details on our ambitions and progress 95% of our store waste is diverted from landfill and all of our for our colleagues.
manufacturing sites are zero waste direct to landfill.
We are signatories to Courtauld 2025, which is a collaborative Source responsibly industrywide commitment to cut the waste and greenhouse gas We must ensure that our supply chains remain sustainable and that emissions associated with UK food and drink by 20% before 2025. we conserve the natural resources that we depend on.
As a result of our efforts to reduce energy use across our estate, since 2005 our operational carbon emissions fell by 34% against our target During the year, 87% of wood and wood derived products were Forest of a 30% reduction by 2020.
Stewardship Council FSC certified, approved alternatives or recycled for own brand household and beauty products and 72% FSC, approved We are committed to reducing unnecessary packaging, using recyclable alternative or recycled in own brand Home & Leisure products.
or recycled material wherever possible we work with suppliers on packaging innovation to ensure our packaging is only there to protect For the third year running we published details on the wild capture fisheries we source from, ensuring greater transparency.
More and preserve the product it contains, preventing food waste.
To help customers, we use On Pack Recycling Label to clearly identify the information can be found at www.
org products that can be recycled.
Ensure fair working conditions for our suppliers We have prohibited the use of plastic microbeads ahead of legislation Our Ethical Trading Code sets out rights for workers, including as well as plastic stem cotton buds in our own brand cosmetic and guidance on wages, working hours, safe and hygienic conditions and personal care products.
In 2018, we will be removing the sale of single discrimination.
Compliance with the Ethical Trading Code is part use plastic bags, phasing out plastic drinking straws as well as offering of our standard terms of supply.
customers the option to refill their water bottles for free in our cafs.
We are members of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, and share Group greenhouse gas emissions for year ending 31 December common ethical information.
2005 06 2016 17 2017 18 Change vs Emission source Baseline year Prior year Current year baseline We are a founder sponsor of the antislavery initiative Stronger Together.
During the year, 587 colleagues at a manager level attended Combustion of fuel Stronger Together training on identifying and tackling modern slavery.
and operation of facilities Natural gas 99,039 165,306 165,684 67% Make it easier for our customers to live healthier lives Haulage 144,497 119,611 107,473 26% We have introduced a range of measures to help our customers Business miles 41,656 33,209 31,984 23% make healthier choices, including product reformulation, clear Fugitive emissions nutritional information, healthier ranges, and strong promotions Refrigerant 502,358 235,934 196,624 61% on fruit and vegetables.
Energy purchased for We are rolling out colour coded nutrition labels across our own own use brand prepacked food and drink.
Electricity 767,786 587,954 503,585 34% We display calorie information on our customer caf menus.
Other During the year, we launched a range of value vegetable boxes including Staff travel 1,680 983 1,300 23% organic, British and Wonky Veg.
The boxes are designed to make eating Waste 66,000 29,932 47,553 28% fresh food more affordable and contain enough fresh vegetables to Online deliveries 15,155 17,046 feed a family of four for five days.
Total 1,623,016 1,188,084 1,071,249 34% Make a positive difference to the communities we serve Intensity ratio: kg CO e 2 per sq ft gross internal We are committed to supporting good causes that matter to our area 53.9 32.0 29.1 46% customers, colleagues and the communities we serve.
1 The information above is taken from our Group Carbon Footprint, prepared internally Each of our stores work with local communities on a number and independently verified by Jacobs.
We have reported for the calendar year 1 January ofinitiatives, and support a range of other important charity campaigns to 31 December in order to remain consistent with our historical footprint reports.
We have used the Governments Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013 to prepare these numbers, including Marie Curie Great Daffodil Appeal, the Poppy Appeal and and the emissions factors from the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Children in Need.
These guidelines state the baseline year should be recalculated if there have been structural changes that would significantly impact on the organisations base year figures.
Last year the Morrisons Foundation donated 10m to 400 charities For this year, we have revised our historical emissions figures given the acquisition and disposal including 0.6m in colleague match funding.
of a number of sites and revisions to carbon conversions factors.
Our three year national charity partnership with CLIC Sargent began T he Group Carbon Footprint includes all major sources of carbon emissions from the operation of the Groups supermarkets, manufacturing and distribution sites and operation of its haulage in February 2017 and we have raised over 3m so far to support young fleet.
Some minor exemptions include our Hong Kong office which deals with energy locally, a cancer patients and their families.
number of distribution sites operated by third parties who are responsible for the energy and carbon, and five sites which have fuel oil less than 0.1% of the total footprint.
