GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Strong corporate culture supporting our growth Wizz Airs culture is something of which we are very proud.
At its very heart is a common understanding of Wizz Airs mission: We believe that travel provides opportunities that can make life and the world around us better.
Thats why, at WIZZ, were committed to making sure that everyone, everywhere can benefit from travel at the lowest prices possible, and to setting high benchmarks in safety and reliability.
This mission reflects the engagement of every colleague in the Wizz Air team and the pride everyone feels at working at Wizz Air.
It is a mission that everyone is working towards every day and is supported by Wizz Airs four corporate values: } Inclusivity: we collaborate together to achieve our goals } Positivity: we are an optimistic, happy, inspired and inspiring team } Dedication: we have an entrepreneurial can do attitude: we take individual and collective ownership and are accountable for everything we do. }
Integrity: we hold ourselves to the highest possible standards of business ethics in everything we do These values underpin Wizz Airs identity and ambition, as well as those of the WIZZ team.
We strive to embed them into every layer of our organization.
Wizz Air is different, Wizz Air is special and, now more than ever, as we continue to grow at an exceptional rate, maintaining our unique culture is something that we all want to see continue.
Our Approach As one of the fastest growing airlines in Europe and the largest low-cost airline in Central and Eastern Europe, Wizz Airs ultra low cost business model means that we are able to offer the lowest fares to our customers and that, in turn, makes flying affordable for more people than ever before and offers the opportunity to travel to as many people as possible.
However, we are also conscious of the many economic, social and environmental developments impacting our communities and have a number of.
Our initiatives can be summed up in four pillars: Safety, the Environment, Society and Economy.
WIZZ cares for your safety Since its first flight in 2004, Wizz Airs number one priority has been the safety and security of its operations.
We have has devoted time and resources to ensure that our safety culture and safety procedures are worldclass and we continuously develop our processes, training programmes and monitoring systems to ensure that they remain so.
Managing safety Our Safety and Security teams are embedded in our business to ensure the robust management of Wizz Airs safety management system and to maintain constant and open dialogue with our regulatory authorities.
Wizz Air has been registered under the International Air Transport Association IATA, Operational Safety Audit IOSA, the global benchmark in airline safety recognition since May 2016.
The IOSA program is an internationally recognized and accepted evaluation system which assesses the operational management and control systems of an airline, using over 900 standard criteria.
The 15-month IOSA certification period includes training sessions, internal gap analyses and rectifications and an independent audit by an IATA-certified organization.
Reducing fatigue risks Wizz Air continuously monitors and assesses the risk of fatigue to guarantee safe flight operations.
Its Crew Management system incorporates fatigue-related information into its decision-making to improve the identification of fatigue risk.
It also generates continuous reports allowing Wizz Air to track and control fatigue in its operations.
Fatigue reports are evaluated on a monthly basis by the Safety Action Group and Fatigue Team.
Fatigue Ambassadors] Dealing with unruly passengers Wizz Air has a very strict policy against disruptive behaviour on board.
Its Unruly Passenger Policy is included in the Cabin Attendant Manuel and all crew members are trained to monitor passenger behaviour in order to detect and prevent possible unruly behaviour and ensure a safe flight.
They also receive extensive conflict management and self-defence training.
Partnering airport handlers are educated on the relevant parts of the policy and are encouraged to filter people displaying potentially disruptive behaviour in the check-in or at the gate.
Passengers who were involved in disruptive behaviour are put on a no-fly list.
Wizz Airs Unruly Passenger Policy is regularly revised based on evaluation of the most common issues.
In an effort to further discourage unruly behaviour, in particular smoking on board, Wizz Air has started a customer communications campaign, both in airports and aircraft, as well as on our online channels.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 61 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED WIZZ cares for the environment WIZZ knows that the aviation industry has a responsibility to take steps to minimise its effects on the environment.
Our business model, which continuously assesses and implements innovative technologies, decreases our environmental footprint and, with our order for 256 ultra-efficient Airbus A320neo Family aircraft starting deliveries in 2019, our environmental footprint will continue to decrease.
Maintaining a young and efficient fleet Since its very first flight in 2004, Wizz Air has always operated the Airbus A320 family of aircraft and currently 2 owns one of the youngest fleets in Europe with an average age of 4.4 years.
WIZZ has not only one of the youngest fleets, but also one of the most efficient.
The Airbus A321ceo, which WIZZ introduced in November 2015, is the most efficient single aisle aircraft with the lowest fuel consumption per seat in its category.
The A321ceo is 15% more fuel-efficient compared to other single aisle aircraft currently in service.
It also delivers lower CO emissions and lower noise levels.
2 Most of Wizz Airs fleet of Airbus A320 family aircraft is powered by the V2500 engine offered through IAE International Aero Engines AG.
The V2500 engine is the most environmentally friendly engine in its class offering the lowest total emissions resulting from the lowest fuel burn, and it is also the quietest engine in this sector.
3 In 2017, Wizz Air started to implement a modification of the engine computer, which helps us reduce the idle thrust during taxi, thus reducing the environmental impact in the airport perimeter.
Our policy of operating the newest, most efficient aircraft will remain as we continue to grow fuel efficiency is good for our business, good for the environment and good for our customers, as it means we can continue to offer our lowest fares.
Wizz Air ordered 110 latest-technology Airbus A321neo aircraft in 2015 and a further 146 Airbus A320neo family aircraft in 2017.
The first of these ultra-efficient new aircraft is scheduled for delivery in early 2019, with these new, latest-technology aircraft expected to deliver a fuel burn advantage of 16% per seat compared to even the A321ceo, translating to a cut in carbon emissions by over 5,700 metric tonnes per aircraft per year, and will also cut our aircraft noise footprint by up to 75%.
Implementing fuel saving initiatives Wizz Airs fleet is not only one of youngest fleets flying in Europe today, it is also highly efficient.
Efficiency means lower unit operating costs and this ensures customers are offered the lowest fares.
One of the ways that we can reduce each customers environmental footprint is to ensure that, by offering the lowest prices, our aircraft fly with as many passengers on board as possible.
This is referred to as the load factor and we have seen our load factor continuously improving over the past few years.
The average load factor of Wizz Air in the 2018 financial year was 91.3%, increasing from 90.1% in 2017.
We aim to increase this by 1% during the 2019 financial year.
WIZZ is currently implementing over 60 fuel saving initiatives to make sure that we minimise our fuel consumption.
While undeniably good for business, it also means that we operate in as environmentally friendly a way as possible.
Since 2012 we implemented several projects and initiatives, including the improvement of economic flying speed, descent optimization and zonal drying, which add up nearly 100,000 tons reduction of CO2 emissions per year, or over 3% per aircraft per year.
A major initiative is the use of sharklets a type of Airbus blended winglet devices, intended to improve the efficiency of an aircraft and reduce interference drag at the wing.
On average, sharklets can reduce the fuel burn by up to 4% when compared to wingtip fences, which may correspond to an annual saving of 900 tonnes 4 of CO per aircraft according to Airbus.
At the end of FY18, over 60% of Wizz Airs fleet was equipped with 2 sharklets.
This number will grow as we phase out older aircraft and, as all of our brand-new Airbus A321ceo and A320neo Family aircraft will be delivered with sharklets, 100% of our fleet will be equipped with sharklets by 2014.
Furthermore, as the saving potential of sharklets is higher on longer routes, Wizz Air always deploys aircraft equipped with sharklets for long distances.
As a result of the numerous fuel-saving initiatives, Wizz Air is proud to have one of the lowest emission rates in European airline industry.
In the 2018 Financial Year, our carbon emissions per passenger kilometre were 59.9 grams, down from 61.5 grams in the prior financial year.
2 Data of 31 March 2018 3 http: i-a-e. com environment.
html Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 62 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED WIZZ cares for the environment continued Implementing fuel saving initiatives continued CO emission g RPK 2 70 65 60 55 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Limiting our paper use The Wizz Air Electronic Flight Bag EFB project aims to minimize the amount of paper-based documents and increase efficiency in the cockpits of our aircraft.
Before we started using EFB, every flight deck of every aircraft in our fleet contained over 25.000 pages of documentation, of which several pages needed to be updated on a regular basis.
Now, they are now equipped with 2 Panasonic FZ-G1 Touchpad tablets, containing all mandatory manuals, as well as some informational materials and company-issued documents.
The long-term EFB project also includes the development of an e-loadsheet, as well as connectivity between aircraft avionics and the tablets, which will further reduce paper useWizz Air also plans to introduce an electronic quick reference handbook and checklists and to replace the hard copy operational flight plan and operational logs and forms with electronic versions as well.
WIZZ cares for the people around us Wizz Airs operations can affect many peoples lives those of our colleagues, our passengers and residents of the communities we serve.
We are continuously developing our services to enhance our customer experience and to support the communities where we operate, but we also work hard to offer new and outstanding career development support and opportunities for both current and potential WIZZ employees.
We believe that our diverse team is the companys greatest asset, therefore, we are committed engaging with our colleagues and increase our already high employee satisfaction rate.
Engaging our employees We want Wizz Air to be not just a great airline, but a great airline to work for.
As at 31 March 2018, Wizz Air employs over 4000 employees across its network, consisting of approximately 2600 cabin crew, 1200 pilots and 300 office employees.
In order to measure the satisfaction level of our employees, we conduct a regular employee engagement survey, asking for their feedback on major employment topics.
The Employee Feedback Survey carried out in January 2018 had a participation rate of over 70%, and showed that our employees are highly engaged and that Wizz Air is their employer of choice.
The general satisfaction within the WIZZ Team was 79%, which is 21% higher than the average engagement rate measured in Europe and 18% higher compared 5 to global results.
Overall, 89% of the WIZZ Team is optimistic about the future of our company.
Wizz Air offers a competitive salary and rewards the exceptional performance of a number of employees with its annual Leadership Awards.
The winners of the awards receive a number of zero-cost share options which can be exercised after a three year vesting period.
From time to time, employees may receive free tickets for use throughout Wizz Airs network, to celebrate exceptional company performance or milestones.
As the company continues to grow and the number of operational bases and countries increases, so the importance of internal communication increases.
A regular bi-weekly electronic newsletter is distributed to all employees, containing business updates as well as news about local team events and individual accomplishments of our team members.
As people are Wizz Airs most important asset, we are continuously looking to implemented new initiatives to further engage our team and better their work experience.
Over the course of the past years, the company introduced a bigger variety in roster patterns for the Flight Crew, a WIZZ Star Crew recognition program for Cabin Crew and more transparency on open vacancies within the company, amongst many other improvement projects.
We are keen that the talented people who make up the WIZZ Team are able to develop their careers at Wizz Air and it is gratifying to see a number of colleagues developing their careers by moving between the operations department and office and vice versa.
5 Based on the 2017 TRENDS IN GLOBAL EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT report by Aon: www.
com engagement17 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 63 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED WIZZ cares for the people around us continued Recruiting and developing talents Wizz Air is continuously recruiting people who are passionate about the aviation industry.
The company recruited 1,125 new employees in the 2018 financial year an impressive 3.1 new colleagues joining the company daily.
We strongly invest in the recruitment of talented pilots, via the Wizz Air Cadet Program, a partnership with BAA Training, which offers young, passionate candidates the required training and a letter of engagement after successful completion.
During the 2018 financial year, Wizz Air took things a stage further with the launch of the Wizz Air Pilot Academy in Poland and later in Romania, which provides financial support, including partial sponsorship, to motivated cadets during their initial training.
Pilot Academy cadets who successfully graduate from the program can begin their employment at Wizz Air as Pilot Trainees.
The programme will be rolled out across other Wizz Air base countries in the coming months.
Wizz Air recently implemented a new standardized Training & Development program and Talent Management process for its office employees, allowing for an improved formal, systematic evaluation based on agreed performance goals and a greater focus on each employees potential to develop their career with Wizz Air.
In the past 12 months, there have been several examples of internal career progression at both an employee and management level.
These promotions reflect Wizz Airs principle that talent, commitment and results should result in career progression.
Committing to diversity and equal opportunities Since Wizz Airs foundation in 2003, the company has treated existing and potential employees fairly, regardless of anything not related to their professional abilities and irrespective of their race, gender or age.
During the recruitment and selection process, we evaluate professional factors including experience and qualifications in the light of the relevant job requirements and this principle remains throughout employment with Wizz Air.
We expect all of our colleagues to adhere to these same principles, which are set out in The Wizz Way, our Code of Ethics, along with the expected standards of behaviour for every member of the WIZZ team.
We value diversity: our international team of over 4000 colleagues brings together more than 45 different nationalities.
At Board level, the nine current Directors are from six different countries and the Companys Leadership Team of nine Officers are also from six different countries.
Within Wizz Air, the overall male to female ratio is balanced, with 55% women working at Wizz Air.
Gender Diversity Total Office employees Men Flight Crew Women Cabin Crew 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Wizz Airs continues to strive for equal and non-discriminatory opportunities for all, and is committed to recruiting both women and men to key positions within its organization.
In this past financial year, in a total of 72 office hires, 48.6% were women.
Additionally, more than a quarter 28% of all newly appointed Department Heads were female and recruitment advisers are instructed to ensure that there is always at least one female candidate in the short list for senior management positions.
While we currently have no female Officers within the Leadership Team, one of our nine current Directors is female and, as the Board searches for additional Directors, it pays particular attention to ensuring its increased gender diversity.
WIZZ Foundation During the 2018 financial year, Wizz Air decided to implement the WIZZ Foundation, an official funding entity set up in Hungary, with the aim of supporting Wizz Airs employees, their family members and the broader community in four different areas: Health, Education, Child Care and Emergency Aid.
The board of trustees consists of 3 members drawn from Cabin Crew, Flight Crew and Office.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 64 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED WIZZ cares for the people around us continued Supporting our communities Wizz Air understands that affordable air travel is not enough to change the world.
That is why we support our colleagues efforts to work with a variety of charitable activities to help local communities in the WIZZ network.
These activities range from collecting donations to help families in Poland, supporting childrens medical services or donating blood in Hungary, creating better education conditions in Romania or giving presents to orphans in Macedonia.
Wizz Air also aims to support the personal development of young graduates via its annual Wizz Youth Challenge, organised for the first time in May 2017.
This case study competition offers an interesting challenge to young graduates all over Europe, giving them a chance to develop a project or idea in a real business environment, and present their cases in front of a jury of industry professionals, gaining useful feedback and valuable experiences for their further development.
The second WIZZ Youth Challenge will be held in May 2018.
Each member of the winning team receives unlimited travel on the Wizz Air network for a year.
As a company, we keep ourselves lean and efficient and we strive to give people across our network the chance to do the same.
Because we believe that, just like affordable travel, a healthy and active lifestyle should be available to everyone.
We are proud to sponsor several Central and Eastern European running events, including the Budapest Half Marathon, our flagship event, and races in Debrecen, Cluj-Napoca, Sofia, Skopje, Kyiv and Katowice.
We also actively promote this healthy lifestyle amongst our employees, by offering them the chance to join these events to represent Team WIZZ across Central and Eastern Europe.
WIZZ cares for the economy WIZZ knows affordable air travel can improve the lives of many travellers.
But its easy to forget how it can change a destination too.
Few things are as good for an economy as direct air links particularly when those air links are at Wizz Airs lowest fares.
And as more and more people have access to affordable air travel, these travellers boost the economy of the places they visit.
Creating job opportunities Wizz Air not only provide job opportunities to over 4000 aviation professionals inside its organisation, but, through our ever-growing network and operations, we also create numerous new jobs at more than 140 destinations.
ACI guidelines suggest that 750 on-site jobs need to be created for every 1 million passengers carried per year.
Based on this, WIZZ supported the creation of over 22.000 local jobs in financial year 2018, carrying 29.6 million passengers on its low-fare routes.
Furthermore, in accordance to its ULCC model, Wizz Air chooses to outsource many supporting tasks in all levels of the organisation to local, external partners, working in close collaboration with over 5000 contracted service providers across its network.
Boosting traffic and tourism Across Wizz Airs network, there are several locations where there were no regular air services before Wizz Air, or where Wizz Air made a significant difference in traffic numbers.
After Wizz Air opened its base in Varna, Bulgaria in 2017, the airport saw a double-digit rise in passengers traffic, reaching almost 2 million passengers.
In Macedonia, largely thanks to Wizz Airs continued investments, passenger numbers have tripled in the last ten years and flying interest has boosted.
Another example is the Kutaisi International Airport in Georgia, where in 2017 more than 75% of all passengers were served by Wizz Air.
Since the company opened its base in Kutaisi in September 2016, the airports traffic numbers have more than doubled, from 182,000 passengers in 2015 to 405,000 in 2017.
Protecting honest and fair business Wizz Air has implemented internal procedures and measures designed to ensure compliance with all relevant anti-corruption regulations.
The Companys Anti-Corruption Policy sets out the companys principles, prohibitions and practical guidelines relating to bribery or corrupt practices, in order to avoid any corrupt or improper business practice, for which there is policy of zero tolerance, as well as the avoidance of conflicts of interest for employees.
These policies are part of the mandatory annual training for all WIZZ employees, ensuring that all employees are up-to-date.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 65
