STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY At WPP we build better futures for our people, ourclients and our widercommunities.
WHY SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS 2018 has seen record heatwaves on four continents, and perilous water shortages in South Africa, Australia and India.
It has seen women the world over say #MeToo, and consumers take a stand on plastic packagingat supermarket checkouts.
From technological disruption, climate change and resource scarcity to skills shortages, demographic shifts and political uncertainty, our clients, across every sector, face a complex set of interconnected social, WE HAVE A STRONG economic and environmental pressures.
TRACK RECORD OF BUILDING BRANDS The potential upside to tackling sustainability WITH PURPOSE THAT challenges is significant it is estimated that sustainable business modelinnovation HELP OUR CLIENTS couldopen economic opportunities worth ACHIEVE THEIR 1 $12 trillion and create 380 million jobs.
BUT WE CAN Consumer expectations are changing.
Todays consumers want more from their AND MUST DO MORE.
favourite brands than just a great product Andrea Harris they expect transparency across the supply Group Chief Counsel chain and want brands to have a point of and Head of Sustainability view and to play an active role in society.
Yetthere is often cynicism and a lack of trust about corporate motivations andactions.
1 Better Business, Better World, Business & Sustainable Development Commission, January 2017.
60 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC REPORT FRIENDLY ARMS AGENCY AKQA SO PAULO CLIENT AACD, ORTHOPAEDIC HOSPITAL To learn more see wpp.
com friendlyarms 61 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY As the importance of sustainability grows for our clients, so does its impact on WPP.
OUR RESPONSE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE Our clients look to us to provide the insight, DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDGs expertise and creative solutions they need We support the UN SDGs which provide a tonavigate this changing landscape and framework for government agencies, civil communicate their purpose effectively and society, the private sector and citizens to authentically.
Our own sustainability strategy work together to create a more sustainable helps us to do this with credibility, meeting future.
Good communications are essential changing client expectations while reducing tobring about the shift in attitudes and risks and creating a more resilient business behaviour needed to tackle extreme for the long term.
poverty, inequality and climate change by 2030.
We aim to play our part through the SUSTAINABILITY ANDOURSTRATEGY improvements we are making in our business, Our sustainability strategy aligns with all five our pro bono work and our work for clients elements of our new corporate strategy, on social and environmental themes.
which we introduced in late 2018.
The table opposite sets out the most material ways in We have analysed the 17 Global Goals and which sustainability supports our strategy.
the 169 targets which sit behind them to identify those which are most relevant for our business.
To learn more about the Goals we believe wecan make the most significant contribution towards, seepage 8 ofour fullSustainability Report 2018, available asaPDF download.
For our full review of our sustainability activities and outcomes, download our Sustainability Report 2018. wpp.
com sustainability 62 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ELEMENT SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY VISION A STRONGER OFFER FOR OUR CLIENTS A stronger offer for &OFFER A growing number of clients are grappling with sustainable business practices helps us to ourclients, see sustainability challenges and looking to articulate broadenand deepen these partnerships, pages66 and 67 the purpose of their brands.
They look for partners andtomeet the growing expectations who share their sustainability values and andsustainability requirements in client Transparency and aspirations.
Our commitment to responsible and procurementprocesses.
trust, see pages 74 and 75 CREATIVITY SOCIAL INVESTMENT Social investment, Our pro bono work can make a significant Probono work benefits our business too, seepages 68 and 69 difference to charities and NGOs, enabling our providingrewarding creative opportunities for partners to raise awareness and funds, recruit ourpeople that often result in award-winning members, and achieve campaign objectives.
campaigns that raise the profile of our companies.
DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE TEAMS Attracting and Creativity thrives on diversity of background and success.
We want all of our people to feel retaining talent, thought.
This makes having a diverse and inclusive valuedand able to fulfil their potential, seepages 70 and 71 workplace essential to our long-term business regardlessof gender, ethnicity, age or disability.
DATA & PRIVACY AND DATA ETHICS Privacy and data TECHNOLOGY Data including consumer data can play an responsibility to look after this data carefully, ethics, see page 76 essential role in our work for clients.
Data security tocollect data only when needed and with and privacy are increasingly high-profile topics for consentwhere required, and to store and regulators, consumers and our clients.
SIMPLER GREENER OFFICE SPACE Environment, STRUCTURE Our work to simplify our structure and consolidate locations that use green building standards seepage 72 our office space is driving a positive impact on our andreduce our impact, help us to use energy use and carbon footprint.
We are reducing spacemoreefficiently and encourage the overall number of offices we occupy, moving to collaboration between our companies.
CULTURE SHARED VALUES ACROSS OUR BUSINESS Attracting and AND SUPPLY CHAIN retaining talent, Strong employment policies, investment in skills Selecting suppliers and partners who seepages 70 and 71 and inclusive working practices help us recruit, adoptstandards consistent with our own motivate and develop the talented people we canreducecosts, improveefficiency and Supply chain, need to serve our clients in all disciplines across protectourreputation.
63 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY A NEW KIND OF ACTIVISM SHAPED BY PEOPLE FROM AROUND THE WORLD THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA.
Sir David Attenborough 64 64 W WP PP A P AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC REPORT HOW GOOD MARKETING MAKES FOR BETTER DEMOCRACY AGENCY MULTI-AGENCY TEAM LED BY GREY LONDON CLIENT UNITED NATIONS DPI AND UNFCCC In an age of growing grassroots activism, many people feel that action happens on thestreet, not behind the closed doors of the United Nations.
We brought together amulti-agency team, led by Grey London, tohelp the UN reconnect with the worlds people and put them back at the centre oftheir work.
The team put a new Peoples Seat in the UN plenary, right among world leaders.
It was the first seat in UN history not representing anation or specific interest.
Instead it was there to give the world a voice on climate change.
The campaign asked people around the world to express their thoughts, fears and experiences of climate change.
These testimonials were crafted into a UN address delivered by Sir David Attenborough to key leaders poised to negotiate one of the mostimportant decisions in the history ofour planet.
The speech dominated the global news agenda, reaching some 1.3 billion people andensuring the climate talks made headlines in countries including the UK, US and China.
RESULT 1.3bn people reached within the first month of The Peoples Seat launch December 2018 To learn more see wpp.
com peopleseat 65 65 W WP PP A P AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY A STRONGER OFFER FOR OUR CLIENTS Our biggest sustainability impact is through the work we do for clients, which reaches billions of people each year.
We partner with a growing number of Given our clients growing focus on clientson  briefs.
sustainability, during 2019 we will explore 2.07bn Ourblend of expertise means we can how we can further build our sustainability revenues generated through offerclients cutting-edge technology capabilities and facilitate collaboration clients who engaged with alongside the creativity needed to inspire between WPP agencies on  consumers and help to make behavioural related briefs.
COMPLIANCE WITH Marketing is a powerful tool with the potential MARKETINGSTANDARDS to change peoples attitudes and behaviour.
We expect our companies to comply with 13% So it is important that we apply high ethical allrelevant legal requirements and codes equivalent to approximately standards to our work.
We continue to ofpractice for marketing standards in the 13% of our total revenue maintain high standards and compliance work they produce for clients.
A small procedures in areas such as business ethics, number of the campaigns we produce human rights and data security and privacy.
giverise to complaints, some of which are upheld by marketing standards authorities.
WORK WITH PURPOSE Our companies take action where needed Increasingly, our clients aspire to create toprevent a recurrence.
brands with purpose and look to us to help them to integrate sustainability into brand ETHICAL DECISIONS IN OUR WORK strategy, communications and marketing.
Our work for clients can sometimes raise This work is of growing importance to WPP.
ethical issues, for example work for A survey of our top client team leaders in government clients, work relating to 2018 found that over 80% had recently sensitive products or marketing to children.
discussed sustainability with their clients, We have a review and referral process for with almost half of these discussions relating work that may present an ethical risk.
to the development of a brand campaign.
Before accepting potentially sensitive Our work in this area can include: work, our people are required to elevate Brand and strategy consulting: thedecision to the most senior person in integrating social and environmental therelevant office and then to the most values into brand and business strategy.
senior WPP executive in the country Technology and research: using concerned, who will decide iffurther technology and data to understand referralto a global WPP executive is consumer attitudes and behaviour in required.
Thisreferral process is covered relation to sustainability.
inour HowWe Behave online training.
Communications: helping clients communicate credibly on social and Companies also have copy-checking environmental issues with all audiences andclearance processes through which To find more examples of our client from consumers, employees and citizens campaigns are reviewed by the legal and pro bono work to address social to investors, regulators, the media and teambefore publication.
Requirements and environmental issues download NGOs.
This can include social marketing areparticularly comprehensive in our Sustainability Report 2018. campaigns that raise awareness or drive sectorssuchas pharmaceutical behaviour change on issues of public marketingwhich arehighlyregulated.
com sustainability interest, often for government and NGOsaswell as corporate clients.
66 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC REPORT IM FINE AGENCIES OGILVY & MINDSHARE CLIENT DOVE UNILEVER This campaign by Ogilvy for Dove, with Mindshare handling media, saw the creation of four animations, each telling the real story of a girls struggles with self-esteem.
The films were launched in social, digital and cinema in markets across the world, giving parents the tools to help their kids build body-confidence.
com imfine 67 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL INVESTMENT Charities and NGOs have a vital role to play SOCIAL IMPACT TOTAL SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION m in tackling issues such as health, education, Our support helps NGOs and charities to human rights and the environment, often carry out important work in areas such Charitable donations Pro bono work with very limited resources.
We can help asimproving health and education, and Free media space them increase their impact by providing protecting human rights.
With pro bono communications and creative services on a work this can often be worth more than 49.4 46.9 pro bono basis for little or no fee.
anequivalent cash donation because it 42.3 41.3 40.2 enables charities to raise awareness, This can have a significant positive impact on increasedonations, recruit members, the organisations we support, enabling them impactbehaviour and achieve campaign to raise awareness and funds, recruit goals.
Wehave conducted research to members, and achieve campaign objectives.
It benefits our business too, providing 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 rewarding creative opportunities for our Our most recent analysis shows that our people that often result in award-winning probono work in 2018 created wider campaigns and raise the creative profile of socialbenefits worth 91 million to our companies.
Our agencies also negotiate society 2017: 103 million.
This includes, PRO BONO WORK BY SECTOR % free media space for charity campaigns, forexample, the impact of charities being enabling them to reach a wide audience.
able to improvehealth and wellbeing in communities.
The wider social benefits Arts 4% Education 30% Alongside our pro bono work, our social created by our probono work, charitable Environment 5% investment is one of the main ways we can donations and free media space is worth an Health 15% contribute to progress on the UN Sustainable estimated 331million 2017: 397 million.
We established our Local Community 39% Charity Committee of senior executives in COMMON GROUND 2018 to oversee our approach and help us to We launched Common Ground in 2016 as target our support effectively.
acollaboration between the worlds six biggest advertising and marketing We encourage our people to get involved servicesgroups and the United Nations asvolunteers.
41% of our companies have a touse the power of communication to formal volunteering policy and 56% accelerate progress towards achieving the 11.3m 23.8m organised volunteering activities for their 17Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. in pro bono work free media space people during 2018. negotiated by WPP At WPP our focus is gender equality Goal5, companies WHAT WE GAVE IN 2018 with an emphasis on tackling gender-biased Our pro bono work was worth 11.3 million in stereotypes in the media and on promoting 2018 2017: 12.7 million.
We also made cash equal opportunities for women and girls.
1.20% 331m donations to charities of 6.2 million 2017: social investment wider social 7.7 million, resulting in a social investment During 2018, GroupM and other WPP asa percentage benefits ofpro bono worth 17.5million 2017: 20.4 million.
This agencies launched Creativity for Equality, ofreported work, charitable is equivalent to 1.20% of reported profit astrategic partnership with UN Women profitbefore tax donations and beforetax 2017: 0.97%.
tohelp positively impact the lives of girls freemedia space andwomen.
The partnership began with WPP media agencies negotiated free a 16-daycampaign against gender-based mediaspace worth 23.8 million on behalf violence across six countries.
ofpro bono clients 2017: 29 million, makinga total social contribution of 41.3million 2017: 49.4 million.
For more examples of our pro bono work download our Sustainability Report 2018. wpp.
com sustainability 68 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC REPORT OCEAN OF THE FUTURE AGENCY OGILVY UK CLIENT GREENPEACE This film follows children visiting an aquarium, where they see some of the 800,000 tonnes of plastic packaging generated by UK supermarkets every year, and encourages people to sign a petition calling on retailers to reduce plastic waste.
RESULT 970,000 people signed the petition since April 2018 Watch the video: wpp.
com oceanofthefuture BLINK AND THEY ARE GONE AGENCY WUNDERMAN THOMPSON MUMBAI AND AMSTERDAM CLIENT JIMMY NELSON This film uses over 1,500 images to document the lives of the worlds last remaining indigenous communities, warningus that we are losing our globalcultural heritage.
RESULT $1m in free media December 2018-February 2019 Watch the video: wpp.
com blink 69 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT Our clients choose WPP on the strength of our peoples insights, creativity and original ideas.
To attract and retain the best, most forwardviews on  topics GENDER DIVERSITY thinking talent, we are focusing on: wasused in surveys covering 75% of our Board and Executive Embedding a culture based on our new employees.
During 2019, we plan to launch 36% 1,796 64% 3,189 2018 values of being open, optimistic and doing aCompany-wide employee survey.
extraordinary work: 35% 1,820 65% 3,436 2017 Improving diversity and inclusion: LABOUR RELATIONS Senior Managers Investing in skills and creativity: and We support the right of our people to join Offering attractive compensation, flexible trade unions and to bargain collectively, 49% 9,949 51% 10,407 2018 working practices and opportunities for although trade union membership is relatively 49% 9,754 51% 10,017 2017 collaboration and growth.
In 2018, around 7% of our employees were either members of a trade All other employees SKILLS, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT union or covered by a collective bargaining 56% 60,601 44% 47,216 2018 We invest in training and development to agreement 2017: 8%.
There were 1,267 build the creative, technical and leadership consultations with works councils, of which 56% 60,456 44% 47,555 2017 skills our business needs.
Training and the majority were in Europe 2017: 4,116.
Total employees opportunities for professional and personal development contribute to employee As part of our transformation programme we 54% 72,346 46% 60,812 2018 engagement and retention.
announced we will be making around 3,500 54% 72,030 46% 61,008 2017 redundancies in our business, as we merge Overall, we spent 45.5 million on training in and restructure some of our agencies and 2018 2017: 44.9 million with 65% of our asa result of changes in our client base.
Female Male people taking part in formal training Weaimto support employees affected by programmes, averaging 5.7 hours per person.
redundancy including through our employee AGE DIVERSITY assistance programmes.
We follow up with training participants to 19 or under 1% 2029 35% understand the impact of our courses and DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 3039 37% identify opportunities for improvement.
Creativity thrives on diversity of background 4049 18% and thought.
This makes having a diverse 5059 8% During 2018, 76% 2017: 80% of our people and inclusive workplace essential to our 60 and over 2% participated in a formal appraisal process, long-term business success.
We want all of and 69% 2017: 70% of executive leaders and our people to feel valued and able to fulfil 66% 2017: 68% of senior managers had a their potential, regardless of gender, 360-degree appraisal.
DAYS LOST DUE TO SICKNESS ENGAGEMENT AND FEEDBACK WPP does not tolerate harassment, sexual Days lost due to sickness In 2018, we began the process to set up our harassment, discrimination or offensive Days lost per person first employee forum in the UK.
We will roll behaviour of any kind.
We select and promote 3.4 this out to more markets starting with India, our people on the basis of their qualifications 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.0 China and Turkey.
The views and ideas raised and merit, without discrimination or concern 455,680 through these forums will be shared with for factors such as race, religion, national 423,428 416,638 395,234 365,586 thetwo Non-Executive Board Directors origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender responsible for workforce engagement.
identity or expression, age or disability.
These commitments are set out in our Code of We use employee surveys to assess employee Business Conduct, which applies to all our engagement and satisfaction.
In 2018, a set of people and is available on the WPP website, consistent questions to assess employee in our Policy Book and on our intranet.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 70 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC REPORT Employees are trained on our commitments HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING through our online ethics training, How We We aim to support our people to look Behave, which includes training on diversity aftertheir physical and mental health and and unconscious bias.
The main health and safety risks inour business are work-related stress and GENDER BALANCE ergonomic injuries.
76% of our companies Our workforce is gender-balanced overall have appointed someone with specific andthe proportion of women in executive responsibility for health and safety leadership roles increased this year.
There were no work-related Board level the appointment of Cindy Rose deaths in 2018. raises the proportion of women on the Board THE BEST MEN to 33%.
Achievinggender balance at We offer a range of programmes to address CAN BE leadership levelsremains a priority.
health and safety risks which can include: AGENCY fitness facilities or subsidised gym GREY NEW YORK In 2018, we signed up to the Womens memberships: health and nutrition services: Empowerment Principles, established by UN health insurance and medical assessments: CLIENT Women and UN Global Compact as a guide counselling and employee assistance GILLETTE for businesses on how to empower women in services: and ergonomic risk assessments the workplace, marketplace and community.
Gillette took a fresh look at what it and specialist equipment.
means to be the best in todays world, celebrating stories of men Our WPP Stella network, now active in India, We estimate around 25% of our workforce who challenge the culture of Italy, Mexico, South Africa, Taiwan and the have flexible working arrangements which toxicmasculinity.
UK, aims to tackle barriers that may prevent include part-time working, flexible start and women progressing to the most senior roles.
finish times and home working, as well as RESULTS It runs events, networking opportunities, career breaks and sabbaticals.
coaching and training as well as a speaker 110m 15bn database to raise the internal and external video views impressions profile of our senior women.
A series of January 2019- January 2019- podcasts was launched in 2018 featuring February 2019 February 2019 some of our female leaders.
The network will be rolled out to further markets during 2019.
com bestmencanbe To learn more about our programmes, including informationabout Recognition for WPP Training programmes Development programmes Industry supporting career progressionfor oursenior andmid-level women Leader download our Sustainability Report 2018. in the Bloomberg GenderEquality Index wpp.
com sustainability 71 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENT We recognise the major threat that climate PERFORMANCE SUMMARY and environmental change poses to global social and economic development.
We SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS 2006-2018 CERTIFIED FLOORSPACE Tonnes CO2e head market-based % support urgent action to tackle climate 21 change through the Paris Agreement.
As a 2.0 30 20 Headcount intensity 18 result, we have environmental management 25 Revenue intensity 16 1.5 programmes in place to reduce our carbon Target headcount intensity 20 13 emissions and environmental impact and 1.0 15 identify and mitigate climate-related risk 0.74 10 inour operations.
0.5 6.40 5 0.41 KEY TARGETS AND COMMITMENTS 0.41 tonnes of CO2e per employee 06 10 14 18 22 26 30 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 by2030, a 50% reduction from 2017 50% of electricity from renewable Our scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions for 2018 In 2018 21% of our floorspace was certified were 0.74tCO2e head, a 9% reduction from 2017. to advanced sustainability standards like sourcesby 2030 Our carbon intensity per 1 million revenue was LEED and BREEAM.
25% of global floor space certified to 6.40 tCO2e head, an 8% reduction since 2017. advanced green building standards by2020 100% of emissions from air travel offset through the purchase of high-quality PROPORTION OF ELECTRICITY FROM CARBON OFFSETS PURCHASED fCO2e carbon credits RENEWABLE SOURCES % TASKFORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED 30 98,885 96,577 92,445 89,518 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES TCFD 26 85,459 22 We support the Taskforce on Climate-related 21 Financial Disclosures and aim to develop our 14 disclosures in line with its recommendations.
This voluntary framework seeks to encourage businesses to disclose climaterelated risks and opportunities and isstructured around four themes: 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 governance, strategy, risk management, andmetrics and targets.
We increased the percentage of electricity Since 2007 we have purchased and permanently purchased from renewable sources to 30% retired almost 1.5 million carbon credits to offset For our TCFD disclosure, see page 173 2017: 26%, making substantial progress our carbon emissions from air travel.
We offset towards our 50% target.
100% of our air travel emissions in 2018.
30% 0.74 21% Aelectricity purchased tonnes of CO2e per floor space certified rating for our climate fromrenewable person target: toadvancedgreen change strategy and sources target: building standards reporting in the CDP 0.41 tCO2e by 2030 50% by 2030 target: 25% by 2020 climate change programme To learn more about our approach toenvironmental management, our full performance and our approach tocarbon emissions accounting,  Report2018.
com sustainability 72 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN We work with over 130,000 companies Our Human Rights Policy Statement across our supply chain, and aim to select summarises our approach.
It reflects suppliers who meet high standards in areas international standards and principles, such as human rights and the environment.
including the International Bill of Human Where we can, we work with our suppliers Rights, the UNs Guiding Principles on to positively influence standards in the wider Business and Human Rights, the supply chain.
This reduces risks to our InternationalLabour Organizations business and our clients and enables us to Declaration on Fundamental Principles and respond to the growing number of client Rights at Work and the Childrens Rights tender processes that include supply chain andBusiness Principles.
FIGHT SLAVERY We are a member of the United Nations We take a risk-based approach to supplier Global Compact and report progress against AGENCY HILL KNOWLTON STRATEGIES, engagement focusing on suppliers in its 10 principles annually.
SO PAOLO high-risk countries or sectors, those with whomwe have a direct commercial Our most direct impact on human rights CLIENT relationship and those with centrally isasa major employer.
We recognise the BRAZIL MINISTRY negotiated contracts managed by our rightsof our people including those relating OF PUBLIC LABOR procurement team.
to freedom of association and collective Slavery is a reality in Brazil, despite bargaining and we do not tolerate being illegal.
#SomosLivres invites SOURCING STANDARDS harassment or any form of forced, Brazilians to fight to protect this law.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct includes compulsory or child labour.
Leading fashion journalists and requirements relating to labour practices, See attracting and retaining talent, pages 70 and 71 trendsetters received branded human rights, social impacts as well as other t-shirts during Fashion Week.
Our Code requires We work with clients to manage any human suppliers to apply similar standards to rights risks from marketing campaigns, for RESULTS companies in their own supply chain.
example by protecting childrens rights in relation to marketing.
WPP companies will 17m 140,000 SUPPLIER SELECTION not undertake work designed to mislead people reached mentions We evaluate potential new suppliers on onhuman rights issues.
via print and November 2018- factors such as assurance of supply, quality, digital media January 2019 November 2018- service, cost, innovation and sustainability.
MODERN SLAVERY January 2019 We launched two additional sustainability We do not tolerate any form of modern questionnaires in 2018 to strengthen our due slavery, forced labour or human trafficking in diligence processes for supplier selection.
In any part of our business or supply chain.
Our 2019 we plan to roll out new training for our risk assessment shows that almost 90% of procurement teams on conducting due our spend with preferred supplier partners is diligence for supply chain sustainability risks.
in mediumor low-risk categories for modern slavery such as HR and professional services.
HUMAN RIGHTS Higher-risk categories include facilities and Respect for human rights is a fundamental promotional goods suppliers.
We aim to prevent, identify and address any negative impacts SUPPLIER DIVERSITY on human rights associated with our We work with many small and diverse business activities.
In the US, around 2.1% of our spend is with certified diverse suppliers including womenand minority-owned businesses.
To learn more about ourSupplier Code of Conduct, Human Rights Policy, and Modern SlaveryAct Transparency Statement see: wpp.
com sustainability policiesandresources 73 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY TRANSPARENCY AND TRUST By establishing clear policies and procedures Breaches or alleged breaches of our Code in areas such as data security, ethical are investigated by the WPP legal and 115,000 conduct, supply chain management and internal audit teams.
Our people can report people completed refreshed human rights, and reporting transparently concerns or suspected cases of misconduct ethics training in 2018 onour progress, we can reduce risks to our in confidence through our third partybusiness and to our clients.
managed Right to Speak facility, overseen byour legal and compliance departments.
OUR CODE OF CONDUCT We relaunched Right to Speak following the We set clear ethical standards for our people appointment of the new CEO in 2018 to and companies through our policy ensure all our people are aware of how they framework and training.
There were 200 reports 2017: 106 made via Right to Speak during The WPP Code of Business Conduct 2018, all of which were followed up, summarises our principles and key points investigated where appropriate and ofpolicy that apply to everyone at WPP.
reported to the Audit Committee.
Itissupported by more detailed policies inareassuch as anti-bribery and corruption, ASSOCIATES, AFFILIATES AND hospitality and gifts, facilitation payments ACQUISITIONS and the use of third-party advisors as well We expect associate companies those in asour Human Rights Policy Statement and which we hold a minority stake and affiliate Sustainability Policy.
companies preferred partners to whom we may refer business to adopt ethical Our online ethics training, How We Behave, standards that are consistent with our own.
isupdated every two to three years.
Our people are required to take the training on Our due diligence process for acquisitions joining and on a regular basis, and repeat and expansion into new markets includes a thetrainingfollowing each update.
Topics review of ethical risks including those relating covered include diversity, human rights, to bribery and corruption, human rights or conflicts of interest and avoiding misleading ethical issues associated with client work.
In 2018, we added unconscious bias training, and updated our ethics and We identify any specific human rights risks anti-bribery and corruption training.
Over associated with different countries of 115,000 employees have completed the operation, using sources such as the training since this update.
Transparency International Corruption Index, Human Rights Watch country reports and Our online training on anti-bribery and government guidance.
corruption covers the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act on Acquired businesses must adopt our policies issuessuch as hospitality and gifts, and their people must undertake our ethics facilitation payments and the use of training within a month of joining the third-party advisors.
This is included in the integration plan agreed before the acquisition is finalised MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE and we monitor progress after acquisition.
Our Group Chief Counsel and Head of Sustainability oversees our approach to PUBLIC POLICY ethics and compliance.
Senior managers We are involved in public policy activity inall our companies and our business and intwo ways.
Our public affairs businesses supplier partners are asked to sign a copy carry out work for clients, including direct ofthe WPP Code of Business Conduct lobbying of public officials and influencing eachyear to confirm they will comply public opinion.
On occasion, we also engage withits principles.
in the public policy process on issues that affect WPP and our companies.
74 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC REPORT We believe that business can make a We will not undertake work that is LOBBYING AND POLITICAL ADVOCACY valuable contribution to the debate on intendedor designed to mislead.
We do We occasionally contribute to the debate on regulation and government policy.
However, notknowingly represent front groups public policy issues relevant to our business, to protect the public interest, it is important organisations which purport to be sometimes operating through our public that business lobbying is conducted with independent NGOs but are controlled by affairs companies.
another organisation for the purpose of misleading and seek to ensure we are We engage in partnerships and advocacy on The majority of our work takes place in the awareof who the underlying client is sustainability issues, for example through the US and the EU, although many clients are beforetaking on work.
Common Ground initiative in support of the multinational businesses.
Karen Blackett OBE, WPP Our Group Chief Counsel and Head of UK Country Manager and Chairwoman of OUR STANDARDS Sustainability has responsibility for MediaCom UK & Ireland, is serving as the Our political activities are governed by our development and implementation of our UKGovernments Race at Work Champion, Code of Business Conduct and our Political political activity policy and public reporting supporting the Race at Work Charter.
Activities and Engagement Policy, both procedures.
Our Chief Talent Officer had available on our website.
These commit overall responsibility for implementation Our companies also contribute to public ustoacting ethically in all aspects of our ofthis policy within our public affairs debate in areas where they have expertise business and to maintaining the highest companies.
The CEO and CFO in each and a special interest our digitaland standards of honesty and integrity.
country or region are responsible for research companies, for example, are involved Politicalactivities should be conducted implementing this policy at the local level.
on privacy and dataprotection issues.
All communication should be honest, factual Any third parties conducting political WPP companies must implement clear and accurate.
Our policies apply to all activities on behalf of WPP or its procedures for the employment of serving employees, Directors and entities.
companiesmust comply with our orformer politicians.
This includes, for PoliticalActivities and Engagement Policy.
example, a six-month cooling-off period Many of our companies are members of Third parties should complete the WPP forpeople joining WPP from public office professional organisations and abide by ethics training or equivalent training within orthe public sector.
Examples include their own organisation.
theUKs Association of Professional Political MEMBERSHIP OF TRADE ASSOCIATIONS Consultants APPC, the self-regulatory body POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS We are members of trade associations, for UK public affairs practitioners, and the WPP companies are not permitted to make industry groups and membership European Public Affairs Consultancies direct cash donations.
Other political organisations which undertake lobbying Association EPACA, the representative donations can only be made with the prior activity on behalf of their members.
It is trade body for public affairs consultancies written approval of a WPP Executive important that we select organisations working with EU institutions.
Donations must be reported to whose priorities and values are aligned with WPP legal before they are made to confirm our own and which have robust governance WPP companies comply with all applicable they comply with this policy and to obtain processes.
WPP companies must nominate laws and regulations governing the the necessary approvals.
asenior manager with responsibility for disclosure of public affairs activities.
In the managing and overseeing trade association US, this includes the Lobby Disclosure Act POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES relationships.
Memberships are listed in our and the Foreign Agent Registration Act, In countries where it is consistent with full Sustainability Report 2018. which are designed to achieve transparency applicable law, individuals working at WPP on client representation and require lobby companies may make personal voluntary firms to register the names of clients on political contributions directly to candidates whose behalf they contact legislators or for office.
Several of our businesses, executive branch personnel.
A number of our including Burson Cohn & Wolfe Prime Policy, companies are listed on the voluntary EU Glover Park Group and Hill Knowlton Transparency Register of lobbying activities.
Strategies, also maintain political action committees PACs which accept voluntary It is WPPs practice that those of its US donations from their people to support companies whose sole or primary business is political candidates.
In 2017 and 2018, these lobbying have representatives of both major PACs made disbursements worth$307,948.
political parties among senior management.
75 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY PRIVACY AND DATA ETHICS Data including consumer data can play an Privacy leads in our companies oversee the We have developed a range of materials essential role in our work for clients.
We have implementation of our policies at a local tohelp our companies communicate our a responsibility to look after this data level.
They report progress to the Company approach to clients including during pitches carefully, to collect data only when needed via our Group Chief Counsel and Group and contract negotiations.
Our Chief Privacy and with consent where required, and to ChiefPrivacy Officer.
Each of our networks Officer also meets with clients to explain our store and transfer data securely.
has appointed privacy leads to oversee approach and share insights and privacy datapractices.
Data security and privacy are increasingly high-profile topics for regulators, consumers AUDIT AND DUE DILIGENCE We partner with clients, industry and our clients.
Our Group Chief Privacy Officer and Data organisations and peer companies on Protection Officer are working with our privacyissues.
For example, we are We focus on building our peoples awareness internal audit team to review privacy risks workingwith the Internet Advertising and knowledge so everyone understands and practices as part of our Company-wide Bureau IAB in Europe, contributing to and takes responsibility for data privacy and audit programme.
workon their Transparency and Consent security.
We have robust standards and Framework which aims to help all parties governance processes in place to reduce Any supplier who collects, manages or inthe digital advertising chain comply risks and comply with regulation.
We partner stores employee, consumer or client withthe increased consent requirements with clients, peers and industry organisations dataonbehalf of WPP, our companies ofthe GDPR.
andour clients must have the right data securityand privacy standards in place.
DATA HEALTH CHECKER We reviewed, and where necessary Weconduct due diligence on data We use our Data Health Checker to review updated, all our policies, processes and suppliersand embedprivacy requirements privacy risks and data security practices in training to respond to the EUs General Data in our suppliercontracts.
This provides us with insight Protection Regulation GDPR, which came into how data is used, stored and transferred into force in 2018, and we are reviewing on TRAINING ANDENGAGEMENT and helps to identify any parts of the an ongoing basis pending global privacy Our Safer Data platform provides business that need further support on data laws such as those which will come into information, guidance and resources to practices.
The results showed that the forcein Brazil andCalifornia.
helpour people understand privacy risks majority of our companies have mitigation andto apply our policies to their work.
measures that match or exceed their level of POLICIES AND GOVERNANCE Wehave expanded its scope to include privacy risk, with the average risk score In 2018, we launched WPPs Data Privacy and additionalresources on data privacy and being 2.16 out of 5, where 5 is the Security Charter to help us communicate our securityincluding guidance on: recognising maximumscore possible indicating approach to data to our people and our phishingand similar techniques: looking maximum risk.
Of those companies surveyed, clients.
This brings together our Data Code after data valuables: and communicating 80% have a dedicatedprivacy lead.
of Conduct, which sets out core principles with clients on WPPs data security and for responsible data management, with our privacy practices.
IT security, privacy and social media policies, and our security standards which are based The platform also includes our GDPR toolkit, on ISO 27001.
It also includes our acceptable which contains guidance notes, model data use, data handling and retention, business protection contract clauses, template continuity, incident response and subject privacy impact assessment tools, policy access policies.
Many of the policies have templates and other resources, and we will been rewritten to make them clearer and be including additional resources to deal more accessible to a wide audience.
with privacy laws coming into force globally.
Our Group Chief Privacy Officer leads our We updated our mandatory global online work on privacy and partners with our Privacy and Data Security Awareness companies and security and audit teams to trainingin 2018.
The updated training has promote privacy best practices.
We been completed by 111,747 employees.
111,747 appointed a Data Protection Officer in 2018 Ourteam also ran face-to-face trainingfor people completed updated whose role is: to provide practical guidance around 50 of our operating companies online Privacy and Data Security and support to our agencies on data ethics: covering GDPR compliance andprivacy Awareness training in 2018 ensure that privacy risks are well understood bestpractices.
across the business: help us prepare for new data and privacy regulation: and promote best practices.
76 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC REPORT OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE INVESTOR ENGAGEMENT NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATIONSTATEMENT Paul Richardson, WPPs Group Finance We engaged with investors, rating This section pages 60-77 provides Director, was the Board Director responsible agenciesand benchmarking organisations information required by regulation in for sustainability in 2018.
Andrea Harris, onsustainability during 2018 including: relationto: Group Chief Counsel and Head of Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index: CDP: Environmental matters Sustainability, has operational responsibility Ecovadis: Ethibel: Euronext Vigeo Europe: Our people for sustainability.
FTSE Russell: Human Rights Campaign Social matters Foundations 2018 Corporate Equality Human rights At Board level, the Nomination and Index:ISS Data Verification: MSCI Corruption and bribery Governance Committee has responsibility ResearchInc: Sustainalytics: Thomson In addition, other related information forsustainability.
We have established a Reuters D&I index: Trucost: and Workforce can be found as follows: Charity Committee to oversee our donations Disclosure Initiative WDI.
Business model page 40 and pro bono work see page 68.
Principal risks and how they are We are included in the FTSE4Good Index and managed pages 78-83 Environmental, social and governance ESG participate in the CDP climate benchmark, Non-financial key performance risks are integrated into the Companys receiving a rating of Ain 2018 2017: B. indicators page 6 assessment of principal risks which are set out in detail from page 78.
OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS Our first formal materiality assessment in EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR 2014 included interviews with clients, COMPANIES investors, NGOs and sustainable business WPP sets sustainability policy, with every experts as well as senior executives in the company responsible for implementation.
centre and our operating companies.
The Company has a clear policy framework Furtherreviews were conducted in 2016 through our Code of Business Conduct, and2017, and we plan to update our Sustainability Policy, Supplier Code of materiality assessment in light of our new Conduct, Data Code of Conduct and Human corporate strategy.
Our reporting focuses Rights Policy Statement and other policies onthe issues identified as being of high or included in the WPP Policy Book.
progress using our social and environmental key performance indicators.
ABOUT OUR REPORTING Data included in this review is for the Our internal sustainability advisors are calendar year 2018 and covers all subsidiaries working to ensure consistent implementation of the Company.
Some key environmental of our standards and ESG risks are included and people data is verified by Bureau Veritas, in our programme of internal audits.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Dialogue with our stakeholders, including our people, clients and investors, providesvaluable feedback and insight intosustainability risks and opportunities, forour Company and our clients.
Most stakeholder engagement takes place inthe course of doing business.
We also carry out more formal research as part of ourmateriality process.
We work with clientson sustainability issues see page 66.
Information on employee engagement is To find further details, data, onpage 70. our materiality analysis and case studies download our full Sustainability Report 2018. wpp.
com sustainability 77 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018
