MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered A material in relation to the Group Basis of preparation s financial statements.
B Basis A Basis of preparation of consolidation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards C Foreign adopted for use in the European Union IFRS.
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting currency Standards has been applied.
D Derivative financial instruments The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS resulted in changes to the accounting E Hedging policies as compared with the 2004 annual financial statements prepared under UK GAAP.
With the exception of accounting policies in respect of financial instruments, the accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently F to all periods presented in these consolidated Property, plant, equipment and depreciation financial statements.
They also have been applied in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 for the purposes of the transition to IFRS, as required by IFRS 1.
The impact of the G Leases transition from previous UK GAAP to IFRS is explained in Note 33.
H Impairment The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except investment property and, from 1 January 2005, derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading and financial instruments classi ed as available-for I Investmentsale, are stated at their fair value.
Hotel properties are stated at cost or deemed cost.
Deemed cost is properties calculated based on the hotels cost or valuation as at 1 January 2004.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
J Inventories The Group has adopted the transitional rules of IAS 32: Financial Instruments Disclosures and Presentation and IAS 39: K Development properties Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement.
The Group has therefore adopted these standards, and the related accounting policies D and E, only with effect for the current year from 1 January 2005 and not within the comparative L Cash and cash equivalents financial year.
A reconciliation showing the impact on the adoption of these standards from 1 January 2005 is set out in Note 33.
Further details are set out in V. M Borrowings The Group has adopted IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations with effect from 1 N Income tax January 2004.
O Employee bene ts Areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, and areas where assumptions and estimates are signi cant to the consolidated P Provisions financial statements, are disclosed in Note 32.
Q Revenue recognition R Dividend distribution S Segmental reporting 38 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 ACCOUNTING POLICIES B Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain bene ts from their activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has signi cant in uence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the recognised income and expense of joint ventures and associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that joint control or signi cant in uence respectively commences until the date that it ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in a joint venture or associate, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
C Foreign currency i Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of related hedges are taken to the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
39 MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc ACCOUNTING POLICIES D Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, nancing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
E Hedges i Cash ow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
When the forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or nonfinancial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the nonfinancial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassi ed to the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
For cash ow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two policy statements, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the Group revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction still is expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities When a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, hedge accounting is not applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operation The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
accounting policies D and E have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2005, as set out in parts A and V. 40 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 ACCOUNTING POLICIES F Property, plant, equipment and depreciation Land and buildings are stated at cost, or deemed cost, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other xed assets are stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Any impairment of such properties below depreciated historical cost is charged to the income statement.
Under the transition provisions of IFRS 1, land and buildings which were previously revalued under UK GAAP are stated at deemed cost, being their UK GAAP carrying value, including revaluations, as at 1 January 2004.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Building core 50 years or lease term if shorter Building surface, nishes and services 30 years or lease term if shorter Plant and machinery 15-20 years Furniture and equipment 10 years Soft furnishings 5-7 years Computer equipment 5 years Motor vehicles 4 years No residual values are ascribed to building surface, nishes and services.
Residual values ascribed to building core depend on the nature, location and tenure of each property and are reassessed annually.
Capital expenditure on major projects is recorded separately within property, plant and equipment as capital work in progress.
Once the project is complete, the balance is transferred to the appropriate xed asset categories.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
Interest attributable to funds used to finance the construction or acquisition of new hotels or major extensions to existing hotels is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of the hotel core.
Operating supplies, which include china, linen, glass and silverware are treated as base stock upon initial hotel opening.
Subsequent renewals and replacements of such stocks are written off as incurred to the income statement.
G Leases Assets nanced by way of finance leases, which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group, are initially recorded at the lower of fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The equivalent liability, categorised as appropriate, is included within creditors.
Assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce constant rates of return on the outstanding balance.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
On occasion, the Group makes initial payments on entering into long leases of land and buildings.
As leases of land are normally classi ed as operating leases if title is not expected to pass, the element of the payment attributable to land is recorded in the balance sheet as prepaid rentals and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Where the lease is for substantially all of the economic life of the building, the building is recognised on balance sheet as property, plant and equipment and accounted for in accordance with Note F above.
H Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment property, inventories, employee bene t assets and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speci c to the asset.
41 MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc ACCOUNTING POLICIES H Impairment Continued An impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairments are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment had been recognised.
I Investment properties Investment properties are properties which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
External, independent valuation companies, having appropriate recognised professional quali cations and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued, value the portfolio annually.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
J Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
K Development properties Development properties are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of development properties includes interest and other related expenditure incurred in order to get the asset ready for its intended use.
L Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash ows.
M Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
N Income tax Income tax on pro t or loss comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable pro t, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they are not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner or realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro ts will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the bene t will be realised.
42 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 ACCOUNTING POLICIES N Income tax Continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only to the extent that: the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities: the Group intends to settle net: and the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
O Employee bene ts i fide ned contribution plans Obligations for contributions to fide ned contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
ii fide ned bene t plans The Groups net obligation in respect of fide ned bene t post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future bene t that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That bene t is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a quali ed actuary using the projected unit method.
When the bene ts of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased bene t relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the bene ts become vested.
To the extent that the bene ts vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
All actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, were recognised.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses that arise subsequent to 1 January 2004 within the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in the period in which they occur.
iii Long-term service bene ts The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service bene ts, other than post-employment plans, is the amount of future bene t that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
iv Share based payment transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a stochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to re ect the actual number of share options that vest.
P Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an out ow of economic bene ts will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks speci c to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected bene ts to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the avoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
43 MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc ACCOUNTING POLICIES Q Revenue and its recognition Revenue comprises: Income from the ownership, management and operation of hotels: recognised as the related goods and services that are provided: Income from property rental: recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term: lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income: and Land, development property and property sales: recognised when legal title transfers provided the related signi cant risk and rewards of ownership have passed by that date.
R Dividend distribution Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved for payment.
S Segmental reporting The Groups primary reporting format shows two business segments, hotel and property operations, with each segment representing a business unit that offers different products or serves different markets.
The hotel operations comprise income from the ownership and management of hotels.
Property operations comprise the development and the sale of land and development properties and investment property rental income.
The Groups secondary reporting format is geographic location.
The hotel and property operations are managed on a worldwide basis and operate in six principal geographical areas: New York, Regional US, London, Rest of Europe, Asia and Australasia.
T Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets are classi ed as held for sale when their disposal is considered highly probable.
Immediately before classi cation as held for sale, the measurement of the assets and all assets and liabilities in a disposal group is brought up to date in accordance with applicable IFRS.
Then on initial classi cation as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying value amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairments on initial classi cation as held for sale are included in the income statement, even for assets measured at fair value, as are gains and losses on subsequent re-measurement.
U Other financial assets and liabilities Trade investments are classi ed as available for sale assets and are included under non-current assets within other financial assets.
They are recorded at market value with movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less impairments.
Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material.
V Effect of first time adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 The Group has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1 not to restate corresponding amounts in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Instead the following policies were applied in respect of financial instruments issued by the Group, investments in debt and equity securities, derivative financial instruments and hedging.
In the comparative year, other than investment properties, all financial assets and financial liabilities were carried at cost or deemed cost amortised as appropriate less, in the case of financial assets, provision for impairment.
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts treated as hedging instruments were not recognised in the income statement.
On recognition of the hedged transaction the unrecognised gains and losses arising on the instrument were recognised, either in the income statement or combined into the carrying value of the associated asset or liability.
Interest differentials arising from interest rate swaps were recognised by adjusting net interest payable or receivable over the period of the contract.
44 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 ACCOUNTING POLICIES V Effect of first time adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 Continued Adjustments have been made to implement the revised policies in D and E as at 1 January 2005.
The principal effect on the primary statements, had IAS 32 and IAS 39 been adopted, would have been to recognise the fair value of hedging derivatives on the balance sheet with fair value movements being recorded through the statement of recognised income and expense.
IAS 32 disclosure information is only presented for the current year.
Comparative financial instrument disclosures, presented in Note 19, have not been restated and are presented in accordance with FRS 13.
W IFRS not yet adopted The following IFRS adopted for use in the European Union were available for early application but have not been applied by the Group in these consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments disclosures must be applied for years commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The application of IFRS 7 in the current year would not have affected the balance sheet or income statement as the standard is concerned only with disclosure.
The Group does not currently intend early adoption.
Similarly, the Group has not adopted amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 in relation to financial guarantee contracts which will apply for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006.
Where a company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
The Group does not expect the amendments to have any impact on the financial statements for the period commencing 1 January 2006.
X Related parties For the purpose of these consolidated financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise signi cant in uence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common signi cant in uence.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
45 MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS 1.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS, BONDS AND BORROWINGS 2.
INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 28.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS 46
