MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS Continued Effective Group Country of Principal interest incorporation activity Joint ventures New Unity Holdings Limited 50% British Virgin Islands Investment holding company Fena Estate Company Limited 50% Thailand Property development Due to minority interest shareholdings held within intermediary parent undertakings, the Groups effective shareholding in certain subsidiary undertakings in which it has control is less than 50%.
These investments have been fully consolidated with effect from 1 January 2005 as the Group considers it has the power to govern the financial and operating policies at this date.
TOSCAP Limited is incorporated in Singapore and operates in the United Kingdom.
A full listing of subsidiaries will be included in the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual Return.
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS Management discussed with the audit committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets, and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the year.
The Group evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
Such estimates and judgments are based upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Certain critical accounting policies, among others, affect the Groups more signi cant estimates and assumptions used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Actual results could differ from the Groups estimates and assumptions.
Asset carrying values Land and buildings are stated at cost or deemed cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
The assessment for possible revaluation and impairment requires the Group to make certain judgments, including property valuations and future cash ow from the respective properties and investments.
A review of recoverability of property and investment carrying values is made whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable.
fide ned bene t pension plans The Group operates a number of fide ned bene t pension plans.
As set out in Note 20, the calculation of the present value of the Groups fide ned bene t obligations at each period is subject to signi cant estimation.
An appropriately quali ed, independent actuary is used to undertake this calculation.
The assumptions made by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The valuation of scheme assets is based on their fair value at the balance sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short term, their values may be subject to signi cant change before they are realised.
Taxation The Group has, from time to time, contingent tax liabilities arising from trading and corporate transactions.
After taking appropriate external professional advice, the Group makes provision for these liabilities based on the probable level of economic loss that may be incurred and which is reliably measurable.
