MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 2006 Annual General Meeting of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc will be held at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair, Grosvenor Square, London W1K 2HP on 4 May 2006 at 10.00am for the transaction of the following business: ORDINARY BUSINESS To consider and, if thought t, pass resolutions 1 to 8 inclusive below as ordinary resolutions: 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2005.
2 To receive and adopt the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 together with the auditors report on those Accounts.
3 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 5.62p per share to be paid on 19 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 24 March 2006.
4 To re-appoint Tony Potter retiring by rotation as a director in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
5 To re-appoint The Viscount Thurso retiring by rotation as a director in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
6 To re-appoint Charles Kirkwood retiring by rotation as a director in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
7 To re-appoint Christopher Sneath retiring by rotation as a director in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association, shareholders are noti ed that Mr Sneath is 72 years of age at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
8 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company to hold of ce from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, and to authorise the directors to x its remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider and, if thought t, pass resolutions 9 to 14 as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 15 and 16 as special resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS 9 THAT the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2005, as set out on pages 22 to 28 of the Accounts, be approved.
10 THAT the provisions of the Co-operation Agreement dated 18 April 1996, as amended - by which the Company agrees that it shall use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that any issue of voting securities other than pursuant to an employee or executive share option scheme for cash which takes place is carried out in a manner that provides City Developments Limited with an opportunity to acquire additional ordinary shares at the time of such proposed issue for cash in such amounts as are necessary to enable it to maintain its voting rights in the Company at the same level as is held immediately prior to such issue - be renewed for the period expiring at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2007.
11 THAT the Company be authorised for the purposes of Companies Act 1985 Part XA to make donations to EU political organisations and or to incur EU political expenditure as such terms are fide ned in Companies Act 1985 Section 347A provided that: a the maximum amount which may be donated to EU political organisations shall not exceed 100,000, the maximum amount which may be incurred in respect of EU political expenditure shall not exceed 100,000 and the maximum amount which may be so donated or incurred shall not in aggregate exceed 100,000 in the period expiring at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2007.
110 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING b the maximum amount referred to in sub-paragraph a may comprise sums in different currencies which shall be converted at such rate as the Company is able to acquire such currency at the relevant time.
c this authority expires at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2007 after the date of the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting: and d the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract or undertaking which would or might require donations to be made to EU political organisations and or EU political expenditure to be incurred subject always to the maximum amount in sub-paragraph a above not thereby being exceeded wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, and the Company may make donations to EU political organisations and or incur EU political expenditure in pursuance of any such contract or undertaking subject always to the maximum amount in sub-paragraph a above not thereby being exceeded as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
12 THAT the authority conferred on the directors by article 4 B of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for the period expiring 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution and for that period the section 80 1 amount is 28,817,609 approximately 96,058,696 ordinary shares being 33 3% of the ordinary share capital of 30p each in issue on 20 February 2006.
13 THAT a the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels 2006 Sharesave Plan the Sharesave Plan, the main features of which are summarised in Appendix 1 of the shareholders circular a copy of which is produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for identi cation, be approved and the directors are hereby authorised to take any action as they consider necessary to implement the Sharesave Plan: b the directors be authorised to take any action they consider appropriate to enable bene ts under the Sharesave Plan to be provided to employees resident outside the UK, either by adding schedules to the Sharesave Plan or establishing separate plans based on the Sharesave Plan, having regard to local tax and securities laws and exchange controls provided that any awards granted under those plans shall be treated as granted under the Sharesave Plan for the purpose of the individual and overall limits on participation : and c the directors be authorised to vote, and be counted in the quorum, on any matter connected with the Sharesave Plan, even though they may be interested in the Sharesave Plan except that no director may be counted in a quorum or vote in respect of his own participation, and any prohibition on voting by interested directors contained in the Articles of Association of the Company be relaxed accordingly.
14 THAT a the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP, the main features of which are summarised in Appendix 2 of the shareholders circular a copy of which is produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for identi cation, be approved and the directors are hereby authorised to take any action as they consider necessary to implement the LTIP: b the directors be authorised to take any action they consider appropriate to enable bene ts under the LTIP to be provided to employees resident outside the UK, either by adding schedules to the LTIP or establishing separate plans based on the LTIP, having regard to local tax and securities laws and exchange controls provided that any awards granted under those plans shall be treated as granted under the LTIP for the purpose of the individual and overall limits on participation : and c the directors be authorised to vote, and be counted in the quorum, on any matter connected with the LTIP, even though they may be interested in the LTIP except that no director may be counted in a quorum or vote in respect of his own participation, and any prohibition on voting by interested directors contained in the Articles of Association of the Company be relaxed accordingly.
111 MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS 15 Disapplication of pre-emption rights Subject to the passing of resolution 12 above THAT the power conferred on the directors by article 4 C of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for the period expiring 15 months after the passing of the resolution and for that period the section 89 amount is 4,322,641 approximately 14,408,804 ordinary shares being 5% of the ordinary share capital in issue on 20 February 2006.
16 Purchase of the Companys own shares THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of s163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 30p in the capital of the Company provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 28,817,608 representing 10% of the ordinary share capital in issue on 20 February 2006 : b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 30p, which amount shall be exclusive of expenses: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Of cial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased: d this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007 or within 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution whichever is earlier: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of the authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of the authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board Registered Of ce Victoria House Victoria Road Horley Surrey RH6 7AF Adrian Bushnell UK Company Secretary 17 March 2006 112 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTES 1 Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the above Notice may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use, if desired.
Completion of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person.
2 To be valid, forms of proxy must be lodged with the Companys Registrars, Lloyds Bank Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
3 Information regarding Electronic and CREST voting is shown below.
4 Any power of attorney or other written authority pursuant to which a proxy appointment is executed or an of ce or notarially certi ed copy thereof or a copy thereof certi ed in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act 1971 should also be deposited at the of ce of the Registrar by the latest time and date speci ed in note 2 above, provided that, in the case of a proxy executed through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service by a voting service provider or CREST sponsor on behalf of a CREST member, any such written authority may instead be delivered to a place of business of the relevant voting service provider or CREST sponsor itself in the United Kingdom.
5 There are available for inspection at the registered of ce of the Company, Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey, RH6 7AF, during normal business hours on each business day, copies of all service contracts between the directors and the Company or its subsidiaries.
These documents will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
6 The register of directors interests kept by the Company under section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 will be produced at the commencement of the meeting and remain open and accessible during the continuance of the meeting to any person attending the meeting.
7 The directors have no current intention to exercise the right to allot shares given by resolution 12 set out above or to acquire shares pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 16.
Authority to allot shares is sought to enable the directors to respond to opportunities as and when they arise.
Share purchases would only be made where the directors believed that they are in the best interests of the Company, taking into account other available investment opportunities and the overall financial position of the Group.
8 The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerti ed Securities Regulations 2001, speci es that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 2 May 2006, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6.00pm on 2 May 2006 or after any suitable dates upon adjournment shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Electronic Proxy Voting You may, if you wish, register the appointment of a proxy or voting instructions for the meeting electronically by logging on to www.
You will need your Reference Number this is the 24-digit number printed to the right of your name and address on the accompanying Form of Proxy.
Full details of the procedure are given on the website.
The proxy appointment and or voting instructions must be received by Lloyds TSB Registrars not later than 10.00am on 2 May 2006.
Please note that any electronic communication sent to the Company or the Registrars that is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
The use of the internet service in connection with the Annual General Meeting is governed by Lloyds TSB Registrars conditions of use set out on the website, www.
co. uk, and may be read by logging on to that site.
If you are not planning to come to the meeting and wish to vote on any of the resolutions the Form of Proxy Voting Instruction Form must be returned to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL to arrive no later than 10.00am on 2 May 2006.
If the card is posted in the UK, IOM or Channel Islands there is no postage to pay.
CREST Voting CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 May 2006 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos speci cations and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments speci ed in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerti ed Securities Regulations 2001.
