Misys plc Accounting policies ACCOUNTING CONVENTION Within Sesame, commission revenue received from insurers The financial statements are prepared under the historical based on gross premiums written is presented gross of cost convention, in accordance with applicable Accounting commission payable to Independent Financial Advisers IFAs Standards, the Companies Act 1985 and the accounting policies and is recognised when earned.
Annual fees received from set out below.
certain IFAs for industry training, compliance support and access to the Misys networks listing of insurance providers and products BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION are recognised over the relevant subscription period.
The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Misys plc and its subsidiary undertakings and RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT include the Groups share of net assets and results of associated Research and development expenditure, including the cost of undertakings.
software products developed in-house, is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
No profit and loss account is presented for Misys plc as permitted by section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985.
SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year have been The intrinsic value of the award under the Groups Share Plans included in the financial statements using the acquisition is charged as an operating cost over the period of performance method of accounting from the date of acquisition.
Subsidiary of the employee in respect of which the rights to acquire undertakings disposed of are included in the financial shares are granted.
The effect of uncertainty as to whether statements up to the date of disposal.
Accordingly, the profit any performance criteria will be met is dealt with by estimating and loss account, statement of total recognised gains and losses the probability of shares vesting.
and statement of cash flows include the results and cash flows The Group operates Inland Revenue approved SAYE schemes for the period of ownership.
Associated undertakings are together with equivalent schemes for overseas employees that accounted for using the equity method.
allow the grant of share options at a discount to the market price at the date of invitation.
The Group and Company do REVENUE RECOGNITION not recognise a compensation charge in respect of these Turnover represents amounts invoiced to customers for goods options because they are outside the scope of UITF Abstract 17 and services, net of sales taxes.
Revenue on certain larger composite contracts is recognised on 48 a percentage of completion basis over the period from delivery PENSIONS of the product to customer acceptance.
The degree of The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension completion of a contract is measured using the costs incurred schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The costs of to date or milestones reached, depending upon the nature these pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss of the individual contract and the most appropriate measure of account as incurred.
In addition, the Group has a closed funded the percentage of completion.
Losses on contracts are recognised defined benefit pension scheme in the United Kingdom, as well as soon as a loss is foreseen by reference to the estimated costs as a number of other smaller defined benefit arrangements of completion.
The remaining active members of the closed UK defined benefit scheme now contribute to a For all other contracts, revenue from system sales is recognised defined contribution section of the scheme.
Full independent when a signed contract exists, delivery to a customer has actuarial valuations are carried out on at least a triennial basis occurred with no significant vendor obligations remaining and and updated to each balance sheet date.
The assets of the where the collection of the resulting receivable is considered schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
In instances where a significant vendor obligation exists, revenue recognition is delayed until the obligation has Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
No revenue is recognised for multiple deliveries Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit or multiple element products if an element of the contract method and discounted at the current rate of return on a highremains undelivered and is essential to the functionality of quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the the elements already delivered.
The pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or deficit is recognised in full on the balance sheet Maintenance fees are recognised rateably over the period of net of deferred tax.
Any current or past service cost is the contract.
EDI and remote processing services transaction recognised within operating profit.
The net of the expected processing are recognised as the services are performed.
increase in the present value of the schemes liabilities, and the Revenue from professional services, such as implementation, Groups long term expected return on its schemes assets, are training and consultancy, is recognised as the services included in the profit and loss account as other finance income are performed.
Any difference arising from experience or assumption changes and differences between the expected return on assets and those actually achieved are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
com LEASES DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fixed assets held under finance leases are capitalised in the Derivative instruments are used by the Group solely to reduce or balance sheet and are depreciated over their useful lives.
The eliminate exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
capital elements of future obligations under leases are included Derivative instruments used include forward currency contracts, as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the currency swaps and interest rate caps.
Derivative instruments are lease obligations are charged to the profit and loss account over considered to be hedges because they are used to reduce the the period of the lease.
Rentals paid under operating leases are risk profile of an existing underlying exposure in accordance charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis with the Groups risk management policies.
When instruments over the lease term.
are used for hedging purposes, the Group defers the instruments impact on profit until it recognises the underlying ONEROUS PROPERTY CONTRACTS hedged item in the profit and loss account.
Premiums or Provision for onerous property lease commitments is made discounts arising on the purchase of derivative instruments are based on the Directors best estimate of the net unavoidable amortised over the shorter of the life of the instrument or the lease payments on these properties, being the difference underlying exposure.
between the rental due and any income expected to be derived Where forward currency contracts are used to hedge a balance from the properties being sublet.
The provisions are discounted sheet item, the item is translated at the rate of exchange at an appropriate rate to take into account the effect of the contained within the hedge.
Where the instrument is used to time value of money.
hedge against future transactions, gains and losses are deferred until the transaction occurs.
DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences Where an instrument ceases to be a hedge, either as a result of that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date the underlying exposure which it was hedging being extinguished, where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will or because a future transaction is no longer likely to occur, the result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in instrument is cancelled either by termination of the instrument the future.
Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised only to or by matching it against a new exposure.
The cost of termination the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there is recognised in the profit and loss account in the period of will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing termination.
Where the instrument is matched by a new differences can be deducted, or where there are deferred tax instrument, both are valued at the appropriate market rate and any liabilities against which the assets can be recovered.
resultant gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account.
49 Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax INTANGIBLE ASSETS GOODWILL rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing Goodwill on acquisitions comprises the excess of the fair value differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted at the of the purchase consideration over the fair value of identifiable balance sheet date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 June 1998 is recognised within fixed assets in the year of FOREIGN CURRENCIES acquisition.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis so The results and cash flows of overseas undertakings are as to write off the goodwill over its economic life, depending on translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange ruling the nature of the acquisition, for a period not normally exceeding throughout the period.
The balance sheets of overseas 10 years.
Goodwill is denominated in the functional currency of undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the operating business to which it relates and is retranslated as the balance sheet dates.
Exchange differences arising on part of the retranslation of the balance sheets of overseas consolidation are taken directly to reserves.
Assets and liabilities subsidiaries, with exchange differences taken to reserves.
denominated in foreign currencies are converted at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or at rates specified Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 June 1998 has been in related derivative instruments.
set off against reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of accounting policy.
Merger relief offered by section 131 of the Transactions in foreign currencies are converted at the rate Companies Act 1985, representing the excess of fair value over ruling at the date of each transaction or at rates specified in the nominal value of the shares issued in connection with the related derivative instruments.
Exchange differences are included acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, was credited to a merger in the profit and loss account where they relate to trading reserve.
The merger reserve so created was used to write off transactions.
Exchange differences arising on foreign currency goodwill up to the level of the reserve.
On disposal of a borrowings, to the extent that they are used to provide a hedge previously acquired subsidiary undertaking any attributable against foreign equity investments, are taken directly to reserves, goodwill previously set off against reserves is written back to together with the exchange differences on the carrying amount reserves brought forward and charged through the profit and of the related investments.
Misys plc Accounting policies continued CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the cost of acquisition initially recorded is a reasonable estimate of the fair value of amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments continuing to be made to goodwill until the ultimate outcome is known.
These liabilities are reported under provisions for liabilities and charges in the balance sheet.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of each asset, over its expected useful life.
The rates applied from the date of purchase are: Freehold and long leasehold property 2% pa Short leasehold property over lease term Computer and other equipment 10%-25% pa Fixtures and fittings 10%-25% pa INVESTMENTS Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision considered necessary for any impairment.
IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLE AND TANGIBLE ASSETS The need for any tangible fixed asset, goodwill or investment 50 impairment write down is assessed by a comparison of the carrying value of the asset with the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
The value in use is determined from estimated discounted future cash flows.
Discount rates used are based on the circumstances of the relevant individual businesses.
STOCKS Stocks and contract work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In respect of contracts where revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis, work in progress represents the costs associated with the ongoing contract plus attributable profits net of amounts invoiced to date, to the extent they are recoverable.
BORROWINGS Borrowings are initially stated as the net proceeds, being the principal loan element, net of issue and finance costs.
Issue costs together with finance costs are allocated to the profit and loss account over the term of the facility at a constant rate on the carrying value of net debt.
Accrued finance costs attributable to borrowings where the maturity at the date of issue is less than 12 months are included in accrued charges within creditors due within one year.
For all other borrowings, accrued finance charges and issue costs are included in the carrying value of those borrowings.
