Remuneration report continued Members of the Plan have the option to pay Additional Voluntary 2.
Early retirement rights Contributions, subject to Inland Revenue limits, but members of After leaving the service of the Company, the member currently MABETUS are unlikely to benefit by doing so: neither any such has the right to draw his accrued pension at any time after his contributions, nor the resulting benets, are included in the 50th birthday, subject to a discount for early payment.
Pension increases Transfer values have been calculated in a manner consistent All pensions in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions are with the Retirement Benets Schemes Transfer Values GN11 subject to contractual annual increases in line with the annual published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
rise in the RPI, subject to a maximum of 5% per annum.
In addition, it is the Companys present aim to pay additional Additional pension information increases based on two-thirds of any rise in the RPI above 5% The following is additional information relating to Directors per annum.
pensions under the Plan and MABETUS.
Dependants pensions Other than the discretionary pension increases mentioned in 3, On the death of a Director before his normal pension age, there are no discretionary practices which are taken into account a widows pension equal to one-third of his own pension is in calculating transfer values on leaving service.
payable: a childs pension of one-sixth of his pension is payable for each of a maximum of two eligible children.
Approved by the Board On the death of a Director after payment of his pension Sara Weller commences, a widows pension of two-thirds of the Directors Chairman of the Remuneration Committee full pension entitlement is payable: in addition, a childs pension 29 November 2005 of one-sixth of his full pension entitlement is payable for each of a maximum of two eligible children.
Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The following statement, which should be read in conjunction The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company with the report of the independent auditors set out on page 29, is keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective accuracy the financial position of the Company and which enable responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the the financial statements.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
Following discussions with the auditors, the Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 30 to 60 inclusive, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, applied in a consistent manner and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Page 28 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
