Four year review continued Balance sheet information 2005 2004 2003 2002 restated restated restated m m m m Intangible xed assets 10 10 11 11 Tangible xed assets 3,516 3,509 3,522 3,526 Total xed assets 3,526 3,519 3,533 3,537 Stocks 39 43 43 49 Operating debtors 76 82 84 82 Operating creditors 214 197 176 167 Net current operating liabilities 99 72 49 36 Total operating assets less current operating liabilities 3,427 3,447 3,484 3,501 Provisions for liabilities and charges 4 2 4 14 Net operating assets 3,423 3,445 3,480 3,487 External net debt cash 1,625 1,632 1,228 14 Balances owed to Six Continents group 831 Corporate taxation 60 59 50 59 Deferred taxation 185 182 174 179 Net pension liabilities 99 114 170 139 Proposed dividend 37 34 29 Balances relating to exceptional items 1 4 Net assets 1,417 1,423 1,825 2,293 Restated on the full adoption of FRS 17 Retirement Benets.
Cash ow information Pro forma Pro forma 2005 2004 2003 2002 2003 2002 restated restated restated restated restated m m m m m m Operating profit before exceptional items 297 273 266 278 266 278 Depreciation and amortisation 116 108 99 87 99 87 Other non-cash items 1 1 EBITDA 413 381 365 364 365 364 Working capital movement 16 28 7 13 7 13 Additional pension contributions 30 40 27 10 27 Other non-cash items 5 14 1 6 1 6 Net cash inow from operating activities 404 383 344 361 344 371 Purchase of tangible xed assets 167 150 151 256 151 256 Sale of tangible xed assets 57 51 48 30 48 30 Net capital expenditure 110 99 103 226 103 226 Operating cash ow after capital expenditure 294 284 241 135 241 145 Net interest paid 102 98 49 43 Tax paid 43 34 44 82 Normal dividends paid 50 44 Issue of ordinary share capital 284 Purchase of own shares 101 12 Proceeds on release of own shares held 14 1 Special dividends paid 501 Operating exceptional expenditure 4 4 2 Separation costs paid 1 36 Issue costs paid in respect of securitised debt 22 1 Facility fees paid 15 Net cash ow 10 423 98 20 Restated on the full adoption of FRS 17 Retirement Benets.
Page 62 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Forward-looking statements Both the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 licences: consumer and business spending: changes in consumer and the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 contain tastes and preferences: levels of marketing and promotional certain forward-looking statements as dened under US legislation expenditure by Mitchells & Butlers and its competitors: changes Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect in the cost and availability of supplies, key personnel and changes to the financial condition, results of operations and business of in supplier dynamics: significant uctuations in exchange rates, Mitchells & Butlers and certain plans and objectives of the Board of interest rates and tax rates: the availability and effects of future Directors of Mitchells & Butlers with respect thereto.
Such statements business combinations, acquisitions or dispositions: the impact include, but are not limited to, statements made in the Chairmans of legal and regulatory actions or developments: the impact Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Finance Directors of the European Economic and Monetary Union: the ability of Report.
These forward-looking statements can be identied by Mitchells & Butlers to maintain appropriate levels of insurance: the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
the maintenance of Mitchells & Butlers IT structure: competition Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, in markets in which Mitchells & Butlers operates: political and target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, or economic developments and currency exchange uctuations: other words of similar meaning.
These statements are based economic recession: management of Mitchells & Butlers on assumptions and assessments made by Mitchells & Butlers indebtedness and capital resource requirements: material management in light of their experience and their perception of litigation against Mitchells & Butlers: substantial trading activity in historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments Mitchells & Butlers shares: the reputation of Mitchells & Butlers and other factors they believe to be appropriate.
brands: the level of costs associated with leased properties: and the weather.
By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty.
There are a Other factors that could affect the business and financial results number of factors that could cause actual results and developments are described in Item 3 Risk Factors in the Mitchells & Butlers to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, such Form 20-F filed, on 24 February 2005 or in any subsequent forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to: the future year, with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The balance between supply and demand for the Groups sites, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise effect of economic conditions and unforeseen external events on the any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new Groups business, the availability of suitable properties and necessary information, future events or otherwise.
Operating and financial review OFR Pursuant to The Companies Act 1985 Operating and Financial Review and Directors Report etc.
Regulations 2005 the Regulations Mitchells & Butlers is required to produce an operating and financial review which complies with the Regulations and the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Standard 1: Operating and Financial Review RS1 for inclusion in the Companys next annual report and accounts for the year ending 30 September 2006.
It appears at the date of this annual report, however, that the relevant requirements in the Regulations may be repealed.
In accordance with past practice, the Directors of Mitchells & Butlers have included an operating and financial review in this annual report.
However, this operating and financial review has not been audited or otherwise independently veried and has not necessarily been prepared in compliance with the Regulations or RS1.
Page 63 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Glossary Amenity Gross profit Design, dcor, furniture and facilities that contribute to the Sales less cost of goods sold, expressed in monetary terms s. environment and atmosphere of a pub.
Incremental returns AWT Average weekly take Growth in annual pre-tax operating profit expressed as a percentage The average sales per pub per week, calculated as total sales of the associated capital investment.
For sites which do not have divided by the average number of pubs trading during the year 12 months post-investment trading, incremental return is estimated divided by the number of weeks in the financial year.
based on an annualisation of actual post-investment trading.
Brands Off-trade Outlets which trade under a common name, or their own Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell alcohol for individual names under an externally recognised group name, consumption off the premises e. g. supermarkets, off licences.
with a consistent design, drinks range, menu, service style and promotional programme.
On-trade Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell alcohol for consumption Business franchise on the premises e. g. pubs, restaurants, nightclubs, clubs.
An agreement where an entrepreneur gains access to high quality pubs and a sophisticated business support infrastructure whilst Operating cash flow the Company retains its scale purchasing and overhead advantages The cash generated from the operations of the Company generally and shares in the trading upside through a franchise fee.
The dened as revenues less all operating expenses.
Company receives a commercial rent for the property and retains the property ownership.
Post-tax cash return EBITDA less tax divided by average net operating assets less Capacity management revaluation reserve plus accumulated depreciation plus goodwill The process that seeks to ensure that a pub can service maximum written off.
volumes at peak trading times whilst maintaining customer satisfaction levels.
Productivity Sales less hourly paid wages divided by the number of hours worked.
Central support costs All costs associated with the central support infrastructure of the Refinancing Company e. g. finance, supply chain, IT, marketing, property, HR.
The repayment of an existing loan with the proceeds from a new loan.
Cover volumes Same outlet like-for-like sales growth The number of main meals sold.
The sales performance of all managed pubs that were trading for the two periods being compared expressed as a percentage.
EBIT Earnings before interest, tax and exceptional items.
Securitisation A means of raising finance secured on identiable and predictable EBITDA cash ows derived from a particular set of assets.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
Share buy-back The purchase in the open market by a listed company of its Formats own shares.
Outlets where to the customers eye the business trades without any overt branding or badging but the customer offer and Uninvested like-for-like sales growth operating template are managed to dened standards.
The sales performance of those managed pubs that have not received expansionary investment of more than 30,000 in either Gross margin year being compared expressed as a percentage.
Gross profit divided by sales, expressed as a percentage.
Page 64 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Contacts Registered ofce 27 Fleet Street Birmingham B3 1JP Telephone 44 0 870 609 3000 Fax 44 0 121 233 2246 Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway, Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 44 0 870 241 3930 UK callers 44 121 415 7088 non-UK callers Fax 44 0 1903 702424 Low cost share dealing service and ISAs 0870 242 4244 www.
co. uk For those with hearing difficulties, a text phone is available on 0870 600 3950 for callers with compatible equipment.
Stockbrokers JPMorgan Cazenove Merrill Lynch International Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Investment bankers Citigroup Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP Design and production Sheppard Day Print Royle Corporate Print Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Mitchells & Butlers plc 27 Fleet Street, Birmingham B3 1JP Tel: 44 0 870 609 3000 Fax: 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
com Review 05 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Financial highlights Turnover of 1,662m, up 4.6% Turnover m 1,560m 2004 1700 1,662 Operating profit of 297m, up 6.6% 1550 1,560 273m 2004 1,504 1400 1150 Operating cash ow after net capex of 294m 284m 2004 1000 2003 2004 2005 850 profit before tax of 195m, up 10.4% 173m 2004 Operating profit m Earnings per share of 26.0p, up 21.5% 300 20.9p 2004 297 273 240 266 Final dividend 7.55p, up 13.5% on 2004 final 180 6.65p 2004 120 60 2003 2004 2005 0 Earnings per share p 27 26.0 22 20.9 17 17.3 12 Notes: 7 1 All results are before exceptional items 2003 2004 2005 2 Comparatives restated for FRS 17 2 Growth rate based on a comparable 52 week period Cover image: The Barnt Green Inn, Birmingham About us Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator of managed pubs and pub restaurants in the UK.
We have around 2,000 businesses offering food, drink, entertainment and accommodation in prime locations across the country.
All Bar One, Chiswell Street, London Contents 2 Chairmans statement 23 Finance directors report 28 Board of directors 4 Chief executives review 24 Summary financial statement 29 Members of the executive committee 6 At a glance 25 profit and loss 30 Summary remuneration report 8 Pubs & bars 25 Cash ow 34 Investor information 12 Restaurants 25 Balance sheet 35 Financial calendar 16 Our guests 25 Auditors statement 36 Glossary 18 Our people 26 Summary directors report 20 Social responsibility 27 Corporate governance Page 1 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Chairmans statement individual essential role in the delivery of that strategy.
I am consistently impressed by the quality of the people I meet throughout the business and would like to thank all of them for their diligence, tenacity and focus which has made this performance possible.
We take our responsibilities to our pensioners very seriously.
At the start of the 2005 financial year we injected an additional 30m into the pension scheme, and intend to add a further 30m over the next two years.
We remain committed to the ongoing use of cash ows to deliver value to shareholders.
As a consequence of our strong trading performance, the high cash generation and the strength of the balance sheet the Board has recommended a final dividend for 2005 of 7.55p per share, up 13.5% on 2004 making a total for the year of 10.75p per share.
Furthermore we have instigated a further share buy-back programme designed to repurchase 100m of the Roger Carr, Companys shares during the course of the 2006 financial year.
This Chairman is in addition to the 100m programme that was completed in 2005.
Corporate social responsibility The business is highly cash generative There have been two major issues of corporate social responsibility and we remain committed to the ongoing which have been the subject of both public policy development use of cash ows to deliver value to and management review and action.
These are smoking in public places and the socially responsible retailing of alcohol in the shareholders, through reinvestment for context of the new Licensing Act.
high returns, the pursuit of value creative acquisitions, or return by way of dividends The Government published the Health Bill on 27 October 2005 announcing its proposal to prohibit smoking in pubs where food and share buy-backs.
is prepared and sold as from the summer of 2007 in England and Wales.
We regard this proposal as a temporary step away from I am delighted to report that Mitchells & Butlers has delivered a probable full ban in due course, which risks the unintended a strong trading performance this year, with further sales and consequence, in the meantime, of incentivising large numbers profits growth, achieved in spite of a weakening in consumer spending of pubs to remove food and revert to smoking and drinking only and significant external cost pressures.
Our strategy of offering establishments.
We continue to favour the pub industrys voluntary good value to our customers through a widening product range, offer of a progressive move to a presumption of no smoking by good service and high quality amenity at fair prices has increased the end of the decade, with clear interim targets.
These would our market share.
These gains have driven attractive growth in be supported by segregated rooms for smokers as a transitional profits, earnings and cash ows.
The Board is confident that we measure.
It is unclear at the time of writing whether the legislation can continue to build on this progress for the future.
will be materially amended from the current food based proposals during its Parliamentary passage, given the severe criticism from The estate is constantly being developed to meet our customers the medical authorities and many MPs concerned at the potential changing needs.
It is well invested and we continue to evolve our health consequences.
brands and formats to build further on their consumer appeal.
We have been consistently focused on the opportunity for our In the event that the Government proposal does pass in its current pubs to capture a growing share of the rising demand for informal form, we intend to continue to move towards food based, eating out across the population of this country.
More customers non-smoking offers in the great majority of the estate.
Regrettably, coming to eat reinforces our strong drinks sales.
This sales growth there is a minority of the estate with a lower food sales mix, where helps, in turn, to underpin further efficiency gains in productivity the continued provision of food would need to be reviewed.
This is why we regard the current proposal as a retrograde step, forcing pubs to make invidious choices, which may prove to be Without the ability to execute however, even the best strategy will fail.
From a commercial point of view it is sub-optimal These results are testament both to the operational excellence that but manageable after the initial disruption, because of the wide exists in the Company and to our employees understanding of their spread of the food mix in our estate.
Page 2 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Our approach will be to adapt our response to such legislation to suit The residential sectors of the market continue to drive our growth the different parts of our estate as and when the details become with encouraging volume gains, led by food sales in our pub clear.
However, because the political process could well default to restaurants and residential pubs, with same outlet like-for-likes a full ban sooner or later, it would be preferable to see that position up 4.7%.
The High Street, where same outlet like-for-likes were implemented in one clear and decisive step.
up 2.2%, remains competitive, particularly in the late night segments.
Trading in our central London estate has shown some The new Licensing Act took effect on 24 November 2005 and recovery from the levels recorded after the terrorist attacks.
90% of our 1,831 applications for variation of hours have been granted.
We have been concerned to maintain a responsible In the first seven weeks, uninvested like-for-like sales have grown balance between enhanced commercial opportunities and by 2.0% with food and drinks prices broadly unchanged.
our obligations to the neighbourhoods in which we trade.
On average, our pubs will have an extension of just over an hour Outlook in the evening.
We will also be taking up new daytime opportunities, Mitchells & Butlers business is increasingly focused on the with our pub restaurants opening one hour earlier on Sunday long-term growth of the informal, value for money, eating and lunchtimes, their busiest trading session.
drinking out markets in residential areas where our pubs are capturing a disproportionate share of the growth.
Food is now Mitchells & Butlers is concerned about alcohol related anti-social our biggest selling product.
behaviour and is supportive of the Governments objectives of reducing alcohol-related crime and disorder.
Despite the prospect of subdued consumer spending and an expected increase in regulatory and energy costs in the region of 25m, the We have continued to tighten our operating rules and guidelines Board is confident that our marketing activity, our cost efficiency on the responsible operation of our pubs.
To stop underage initiatives and our continuing investment in the estate will secure drinking, if a person appears to be under 21, they need to prove further growth and cash returns for shareholders in the year ahead.
Our managers and staff receive considerable training on how to refuse drinks to customers who have had The Board will continue to use the cash ows generated to deliver enough, and in the resolution of problem situations.
value to shareholders, through investment in the business for high returns, pursuit of value creative acquisitions, or return Current trading to shareholders by way of dividends and share buy-backs.
In the first seven weeks of the current year, same outlet like-for-like sales have grown by 3.8%.
This growth is lower than the previous strong trend, reflecting the general pressures on consumer spending and in particular the weakness of the on-trade beer market.
In absolute terms, this remains a good performance and our market share gains continue to be significant.
Roger Carr Chairman Mike Bridge It is with great regret that I note the untimely passing of Mike Bridge, Head of Secretariat, during the course of the preparation of this Annual Report.
Mike worked for the Company for over 13 years, having joined the Secretariat of Bass in September 1992.
His absolute professionalism in leading the Secretariat team and his support to all his colleagues were hugely valued.
Page 3 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Chief executives review Widening the inclusive appeal of our pubs to new users.
Through high levels of amenity and the strong consumer appeal of our well positioned offers, we are attracting disproportionate numbers of new users, such as dual working couples, families, females and over-50s, whose frequency of pub visiting is growing.
Leading the growth of the informal, good value eating-out market.
The growth in pub usage is being driven by the quality and value of pub food offers.
We are at the forefront of these trends with like-for-like meal volumes growing 9% last year.
We served over 75 million main meals last year, at an average price of 6.
Total food sales grew to over 500m for the first time, accounting for 31% of retail sales, compared with 11% in the mid-nineties.
Alongside growing food sales we are capturing strong growth in wine and soft drinks with sales volumes up 8%.
In the Tim Clarke, beer market we have grown sales volumes by 1.5% against Chief Executive an on-trade market down by 3.6%.
The 2005 financial year comprises 53 weeks and therefore, Productivity and purchasing efficiency.
where necessary, the trading results have been restated on The combination of high individual outlet sales levels and over a 52 week basis for a more appropriate comparison.
Unless 1.6bn of sales group-wide enables us to generate strong otherwise stated, all sales, profit and like-for-like trading efficiencies in retail staff productivity, purchasing and support costs.
statistics relate to a 52 week basis: all cash flow results are for 53 weeks.
The figures for 2004 have been restated in line Estate development.
with pensions accounting under FRS 17 which was adopted Investment in the development of the estate through the by the Group in 2005. expansion of our proven brands and formats continued to add significant value.
EBIT returns on this years and last years 2005 2005 2004 52 week expansionary investment are currently running at over 20%.
53 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks basis Total sales 1,662m 1,631m 1,560m 4.6% Value creative use of cash generated.
Operating profit 297m 291m 273m 6.6% The success of our strategy has generated operating cash ow Restated for FRS 17. after net capex of 294m, before exceptional items.
As pub Before exceptional items.
assets are typically valued as a multiple of their cash flows, the improving performance in profits and returns drives asset In the face of a difficult consumer spending environment, appreciation.
We are committed to applying the benefits Mitchells & Butlers has delivered strong like-for-like sales growth of that cash generation and gain in asset values to the benefit in 2005 of 4.8% 3.0% on an uninvested basis.
performance, combined with tight cost management, has increased operating profit in the 53 weeks to 297m with net Profitable sales growth operating margins increasing by 0.4 percentage points.
Together Our marketing actions have delivered some of the strongest like-for-like with the 100m share buy-back completed in the year this has sales growth in the industry.
However whilst driving turnover is critical, resulted in an increase in adjusted earnings per share of 24.4% our overriding sales objective is to grow volumes to maximise profits.
Our growth has been 4.8% like-for-like sales growth was achieved with unchanged retail achieved by a clear focus on the key elements of our pub prices and a percentage gross margin broadly in line with last year.
retailing strategy, generating value for shareholders through: As a result, our value based sales strategy has delivered further growth in uninvested like-for-like gross profits.
Owning and operating approximately 2,000 of the highest taking pubs in the industry.
Improving product range and quality Our managed pubs generate average weekly sales of 16.4k, Improved product range, customer choice and value, generated up a further 8% for the second year in succession, and over both better mix, with further trading up to new premium products, three times the industry average.
We have outperformed in the beer market by enhancing the range of premium imported beers and Page 4 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Growth of pubs share of eating-out Strong like-for-like sales growth FY 2005 Source: Mintel excluding institutional catering and other expenditures 52 week basis on food outside the home NB.
All amounts include VAT 10% 27.6bn 9% Eating-out market 25% 8 22.0bn 6 4.8% 4% 4 3% 2 6.4bn 4.9bn Pub food market 31% 0 2000 2005 Uninvested total Same outlet total Same outlet drink Same outlet food typically stock in our larger pubs three products in each of the Investment in the estate mainstream product categories.
In wine, volume growth has been Over the past year, we invested a total of 167m in the led by our own-label wines, while soft drinks growth has been the maintenance and development of the estate.
The majority of the result of the expansion of the range of carbonates and our own investment has been focused on the residential estate and the fresh fruit juices.
In food, our Innovation Centre is successfully development of the key food orientated pub and pub restaurant developing new menu choices of lighter bites, dishes with a wider brands.
To maximise individual site profits, we have also continued range of spicier and ethnic tastes and new premium offerings.
to develop our Innkeepers Lodges alongside our pubs.
These now represent some 60% of the total 4,000 bedrooms across the estate.
Volume driven efficiencies Extracting maximum benefit from growing volumes has been A focused business critical given a 17m increase in regulatory and energy costs.
Mitchells & Butlers is profitably gaining significant market share In purchasing, we have progressively taken advantage of the and has delivered a second year of 21% eps growth.
This is due increasing commercial freedom over our beer and soft drinks to our single-minded focus on building our competitive advantage contracts to negotiate better terms.
As a result we have been able in the operation of large pubs.
to bring forward to this year some beer purchasing and range benets in advance of the end of a major beer contract in August Our commitment to customer value and quality should leave 2005.
We also generated further gains from food purchasing.
us well placed to withstand any further weakening in consumer spending.
We expect to continue our market share gains in the Volume growth, combined with our investment behind training, year ahead.
scheduling and incentives, enabled a further 3% productivity improvement in staff contribution per hour.
As a result, despite I would like to pay tribute to two members of senior management, the increase in the minimum wage, we maintained employment Bob Jones and Bill Scobie, who retired after 37 and 32 years costs at 24% of retail sales.
respectively of outstanding service to the Company.
Operational expertise I would also like to thank all of our 37,000 staff for their Operating large scale pubs is key to our ability to provide the commitment, skill and hard work in delivering real service and quality of amenity and service and the range of products at good real value to our customers, which has been reected in a year value prices that todays customers demand.
We are constantly of strong progress for the Company.
developing our operating skills in the capacity management of kitchens, bars and serve times to deliver high service standards at peak trading periods.
For instance, in our pub restaurants, average cover turns have risen over 10% to almost 15 times a week.
Strong brand and format performance The development and evolution of some of the strongest consumer Tim Clarke Chief Executive brands and formats in the industry is a core part of our strategy.
Same outlet like-for-like sales were up 5.7% in the 70% of our pubs in the residential areas.
This growth reects the strength of our main brands and formats in this sector: Harvester, Toby and Vintage Inns in pub restaurants: Ember Inns and Sizzling Pub Co. high quality locals with significant food sales: and our Metro Professionals format in afuent areas of London.
We have also been developing two highly successful new formats to capture a wider share of the eating-out market: Premium Country Dining pubs and value for money Pub Carveries on urban housing estates.
In the 30% of the estate in the High Street, same outlet like-for-like sales were up 3.3%.
This growth reected a strong performance in our central London business, led by All Bar One and Nicholsons, prior to the July terrorist attacks: rapid growth by our traditional Town Pubs in the major provincial city centres: and resilient trading in difficult market conditions by our circuit venue brands such as Flares and ONeills.
Page 5 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 At a glance Our estate Pubs & bars Comprising 58% of sales across the Company, with a higher proportion of drinks sales to food sales Residential 70% of our estate The Court Oak, Ember Inns, Birmingham a typical large interwar Mitchells & Butlers pub High Street 30% of our estate The Old Wellington Inn, Classics, Manchester a 450 year old pub close to Manchester Cathedral Geographical spread Retail sales mix 2005 Percentage of sales 2005 Machines 5% 5% Accommodation & Other 6% 33% Beer & Cider 4% 2005 7% Soft Drinks, Wine and Spirits 25% Retail Sales 10% 1.65bn 5% 16% 1% 31% Food 5% 20% 21% 6% Page 6 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Our sales strategy 4 principal levers Restaurants Comprising 42% of sales across the Company, with a higher proportion of food sales to drink sales Amenity offering a high quality, well-maintained environment The Golden Retriever, Vintage Inns, Bracknell a new-build full of traditional character Value consistently driving value across all products Range improving the range All Bar One, Leicester Square, London a prime location in the heart of London of drinks and food that we sell Our properties Average weekly take per pub 83% freehold and long leasehold 70% in residential areas 2005 16,400 1995 7,200 Our food growth Over 75 million main meals sold this year More than doubled since 1995 Growth of 23% in main meals sold per 3 times industry average pub over the last 2 years Up 8% on last year Service motivating our staff to offer great service and work productively Page 7 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Driving sales growth in food & drink The Barley Mow, Sizzling Pub Co. Banbury Page 8 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Pubs & bars Total sales of 957m up 2.8% 913m 2004 Same outlet sales up 3.4% like-for-like Operating profit 180m up 1.7% 173m 2004 based on a comparable 52 week period We have also made a step change in the effectiveness with which we Mike Bramley, communicate to our customers the choices available to them and the Managing Director, Pubs & Bars division power of our retail offers.
We have done this in a variety of ways, for example through better, more prominent signage on pub perimeters, In the Pubs & Bars division, we have focused constantly on or through advertising by way of local newspaper wraps or direct offering our customers ever better choice, service, quality, amenity door drops.
and value through each of our brands and formats.
We are being well rewarded, as more and more customers are motivated to visit We have extended our range of drinks very our pubs, bars and venues, on more occasions, than ever before.
The result is that we are driving sustainable, volume-led, profitable successfully so that each brand or format sales growth and gaining market share.
offers a portfolio tuned to its customers Choice through range preferences, with a wide choice of products We have extended our range of drinks very successfully so that each and prices.
brand or format offers a portfolio tuned to its customers preferences, with a wide choice of products and prices.
In every case we have Delivering great service sought to offer real value.
We have done this with all of our drinks Great service starts with motivated, well-trained people.
As we categories, including draught lager, cask ale, soft drinks, spirits and have driven our key business initiatives throughout the year, we wine.
For example: our own-label wine has helped drive sparkling have increased further our focus on staff training, ensuring that it growth in sales of bottles of wine for sharing in many local and has become a core part of delivery.
This has been demonstrated town city centre pubs: our range of draught premium imported beers by our focus on food service, our drinks quality programme and in our Metro Professionals format has met with huge success: and our selling skills initiatives.
we now feature popular, local and regional ales alongside nationally supported ales in our Locals estate.
Great service also means ensuring that we staff our pubs correctly, with the right people in the right place at the right time, so that we We are driving sustainable, volume-led, deliver efficient and effective service at all trading times.
Through a consistent and structured approach, we continue to be able to profitable sales growth and gaining improve the way in which we deploy our staff and improve both market share.
Our food sales growth has accelerated as customers recognise the Investing in our brands and formats superb quality and value of our menus.
We have concentrated on We have continued to invest in the evolution of our brands and developing further still the guest appeal of our dishes and our menus formats and the maintenance of our buildings, to ensure the and we have implemented a number of carefully researched menu longevity of our businesses.
We have also invested in our gardens changes.
We have continued to invest in our kitchens, our equipment and terraces, effectively extending our trading areas.
and training in order to increase our capacity to deliver more meals at peak times and to ensure we meet consistently the high standards of service and quality we expect from each of our pubs.
Page 9 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Pubs & bars continued In the Residential Pubs market, Ember has continued to perform strongly and we are achieving excellent results from our conversions to Sizzling Pub Co.
In the High Street, our Town Pubs and Classics businesses have shown strong growth as has Nicholsons in London.
Our High Street Bars & Venues businesses have continued to out-perform the market.
Conversions to our Metro Professionals format continue to be successful and we are trialling the format outside of London.
Our food sales growth has accelerated as customers recognise the superb quality and value of our menus.
Franchise Our Franchise business is performing well, having recently opened its hundredth pub, and provides us with an opportunity to unlock value in particular individual circumstances.
It offers a unique way in which the franchisee can benefit from the Companys infrastructure, systems and purchasing scale, whilst the Company shares in the success of the business through the franchise fee.
Summary We have made excellent progress during the year.
We have a first rate team of trained and motivated people who are committed to delivering excellent service to our guests.
Our brands and formats are performing strongly and we continue to evolve them in line with changing consumer tastes and needs.
We have continued to drive productivity and efficiency improvements in order to mitigate external cost pressures.
In each of our markets, we offer superb value in terms of service, standards, amenity, choice of products and prices, and this is reected in more and more customers choosing to visit our pubs, bars and venues on more occasions than ever before.
Page 10 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 The Crown and Sceptre, London As we have driven our key business initiatives throughout the year, we have increased further our focus on staff training, ensuring that it has become a core part of delivery.
Page 11 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Leading the informal value eating out market Toby Carvery, Harlow, Essex Page 12 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Restaurants Total sales 697m up 6.7% 641m 2004 Same outlet sales up 6.9% like-for-like Operating profit 116m up 15.2% 99m 2004 based on a comparable 52 week period sufficiently focused to ensure guest satisfaction in choice Tony Hughes, and presentation and there has been a continued emphasis Managing Director, Restaurants division on providing choice of a range of healthy options on menus.
The division specialises in fresh produce, most notably the The Restaurants divisions success is rooted in the skill and roast meats and fresh vegetables in Toby Carvery, Pub Carveries expertise of our people, the strength of our brands and the quality and Vintage Inns: and grilled meats and unlimited visits to of our locations.
This powerful combination allows us to pursue the salad cart in Harvester.
In tandem has been a widening a virtuous circle in which great value drives sales volume growth, range of spicier, tastier dishes, reflecting the consumer strengthening buying power, which in turn is delivered back as trend towards ethnic and Mediterranean tastes.
We have value to our guests.
introduced these newer dishes alongside the traditional pub food favourites, ensuring ever greater choice, quality and Gaining market share value on the plate.
This value and volume strategy has driven an increase in the numbers of meals sold across the division on a like-for-like basis Menu innovation remains central and has resulted in market share gains.
The key to this success has been our ability to capture additional sales at peak periods to the rapid volume growth of our pub without compromising service or quality.
Service is an important restaurant brands.
element of driving sales: however, value remains a fundamental factor and is essential to retaining repeat customers.
Offering real value to our guests delivers long-term growth in the number of Great strides have been made in increasing the range, quality main meals sold, which increased by 14% on the previous year and presentation of drinks and in ensuring they are served at the in the division.
optimum temperature, all at a price that suits the needs of our guests.
The division has launched five more northern European The range of brands in the division, from high volume speciality beers into All Bar One, Browns and our Premium suburban residential to rural destination locations, provides Country Dining format, as well as introducing fresh soft drinks a balanced estate and stable platform for capitalising upon sales such as crushed apple juice and apple & mango juice across growth opportunities.
Furthermore, own-label wine has continued its success experienced in the previous year, representing 28% of the divisions wine sales.
This value and volume strategy has driven an increase in the numbers of meals sold Development of people Development of the people who work in the division continues to across the division on a like-for-like basis be a principal priority, as has instilling the importance and humility and has resulted in market share gains.
Cost control, efficient management of the business during peak periods and the ability to lead and inspire are core Innovation competencies developed over the last decade which have created Menu innovation remains central to the rapid volume growth of a culture throughout the division focused upon delivering value our pub restaurant brands.
A top priority is for each menu to be and achieving volume growth.
Page 13 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Restaurants continued Recognition plays an important role in motivating employees, as well as driving the business strategy.
Every outlet is targeted by shift, day and week on its number of meals sold: this is the unifying focus for all of our employees and creates the positive morale and team spirit necessary to operate a successful, high volume business.
Recognition plays an important role in motivating employees, as well as driving the business strategy.
Growth brands Volume growth has been achieved across the spectrum of the Restaurants division, from capturing market share in the suburban inexpensive dining out market to premium country dining.
The reputation of Toby Carvery has continued to grow, underpinned by the breadth of choice of three roasts and eight freshly steamed or roasted vegetables at superb value, making it a welcome choice for time-pressed families.
The Pub Carvery brand, a multi-room offer with a lower price point than Toby Carvery, has also had a successful year with average meals per week reaching over 2,000.
Harvester continues to thrive on the success of its Early Bird offer but, more importantly, through the solid operation and pride of the teams in the business.
At the other end of the spectrum, the new Premium Country Dining format has grown in number to 17 at the end of the financial year.
Its quality, innovative menu in an upmarket environment has clear resonance with its surrounding communities.
Summary As a division, we have a continued focus on high volume service delivery and gains in staff productivity.
Achieving these objectives, combined with providing excellent consumer choice through an ever-widening range of products and a consistent drive towards service excellence, has been the foundation for our success over the year.
Page 14 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 The Saxon Mill, Warwick Great strides have been made in increasing the range, quality and presentation of drinks and in ensuring they are served at the optimum temperature, all at a price that suits the needs of our guests.
Page 15 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Attracting a wider customer base The Golden Retriever, Vintage Inns, Bracknell Page 16 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Our guests Same outlet food volume up 9% like-for-like Same outlet drink volume up 4% like-for-like based on a comparable 52 week period Innovation in food has been considerable.
We have invested in Adam Martin, kitchen equipment to improve service speed and quality.
We have Marketing Director also introduced a number of keenly priced offers to attract guests.
These offers are focused on growing cash gross profits and, Our strategy for generating higher sales is based on attracting combined with new menus and improved service practices, this new or infrequent guests and retaining their loyalty.
To that end action resulted in same outlet like-for-like food volume growth of 9%.
marketing activity for all our brands and formats is focused on: Given our emphasis on offering range and value, we have reduced Growth opportunities in food and associated sales of wine and the level of promotional activity in the past year, preferring to soft drinks, where demand is greatest: clearly communicate to our customers the strength of our range and everyday, good prices.
Share gains in the declining on-trade beer market: and Maintaining format appeal.
Format development has continued apace, targeting the faster growing customer segments.
The successful trial of our Over the past year, our agenda has been dominated by rolling out Metro Professionals format outside of London has given further our range and value strategy and improving quality.
We have us the confidence to accelerate this activity.
Premium Country completed a major programme of extending the draught beer range Dining pubs have been successful in the Home Counties and the in the majority of our pubs.
Most pubs now offer seven lagers as Midlands and are now being tested in the North.
Sizzling Pub Co. well as draught stout, cider and cask, or keg ales.
This is one of has benefited from a revised external design and communication the largest ranges of draught beers offered outside of city centres.
Our Pub Carveries have been developed further and This was reected in rapid growth in sales of premium, imported the estate expanded.
lagers and a good uplift in sales of cask ales.
We also commenced a programme of installing state-of-the-art chilling and dispense Format development and innovation technology which means that we can offer all our lager and other appropriate beers chilled, thus ensuring all our drinks are served continues to be a key capability and at the optimum temperature.
We anticipate this programme source of competitive advantage for accelerating next year.
Our soft drinks choice has also improved with a wider range of fresh juices being offered in many of our Mitchells & Butlers.
pubs, in addition to an improved range in the Restaurants division.
We have also started to sell draught Coca-Cola in over one quarter We have work underway to evolve a number of formats to of the estate in addition to Pepsi-Cola, offering further choice and maintain their appeal.
We are evolving a number of our city value.
Our greatest drinks growth has come from wine, where our centre formats given the changing demand patterns we see widening range of both branded and proprietary wines is keeping taking place in this competitive market.
Format development pace with changing consumer demand.
We have increased our and innovation continues to be a key capability and source portfolio of own-label wines to include a Pinot Grigio and an of competitive advantage for Mitchells & Butlers.
Tastes change Australian Chardonnay and Shiraz.
The growth of ros wine, rapidly in the pub market and we will ensure that all our offers in particular, has been noteworthy.
Activity in drinks innovation retain their relevance and market leading appeal in the resulted in same outlet like-for-like drinks volume growth of 4%.
segments of the market in which we operate.
Page 17 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Highly motivated and capable staff Food Innovation Centre, Hemel Hempstead Retail Business Managers receive training for an upcoming menu change Page 18 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Our people Career development Many of our senior management started their career with us on the pub oor as a waitress, barman or chef.
We are proud of the fact that we can genuinely offer a career to all, based on merit.
We require that every employee has a twice yearly performance review which enables us to create a development plan for them to develop their skills and competencies and gives us an opportunity to show recognition for their successes.
Rising Stars, an initiative in All Bar One and Vintage Inns, identies future managers within the ranks of staff members and provides them with a development plan comprised of training, assessment and mentoring.
The past year has seen the expansion of our Progress Graduate Scheme to include a 48-week industrial placement available to students wishing to pursue a career in the Hospitality and Licensed Bronagh Kennedy, Retail industry.
The scheme won Best Student Placement Award HR Director at the annual Springboard Awards which celebrate working in the leisure industry.
Mitchells & Butlers recognises that to continue to sustain our business success through a growing and ever widening customer base we must Flexibility have well-trained, highly capable and motivated employees delivering Part-time working is a central feature of our business, and this real service to our guests each and every time they choose to visit us.
enables us to offer exible employment to many people who would We therefore focus our efforts on ensuring that we recruit and retain not otherwise be able to nd work, such as parents and students.
the best people and develop their potential to enable them to perform Indeed some 80% of our retail staff work part-time.
We continue to to the best of their ability, whatever their role.
make available exible start and nish times, together with a exible holiday benefit, to enable our corporate employees to integrate work Our structured on and off job training to all employees concentrates with other commitments.
on one or more of technical, service, legal, financial and leadership skills.
Technical skills might include drinks service or food safety.
Our student brand, Scream, has continued to make available the Legal and regulatory training includes hygiene safety and education opportunity for salaried retail managers to take sabbaticals during about our alcohol and social responsibility policy.
Training in the summer academic holiday whilst ensuring they retain their leadership skills is important to drive forward the recruitment, pension, share and continuous employment rights.
retention and motivation of staff who can deliver outstanding service.
Mitchells & Butlers recognises that to Service training A number of innovative training and development programmes continue to sustain our business success, have been established this financial year, primarily focusing upon we must have well-trained, highly capable enhancing service and product knowledge.
For example, in the Pubs & Bars division, Ember Inns launched a staff training and motivated employees.
programme called Service that Sells, an enhancement of their Service that Smiles programme.
The star of the video, known as Employee Satisfaction Survey the Ember Idol, was chosen through a series of staff member We welcome feedback from our employees at all levels about what auditions, thus ensuring the video created a bigger impact and they think about us as an employer.
We are delighted that employee resonated more effectively with the pub team members.
morale in Mitchells & Butlers is high.
The overall aggregate score improved for the second year in a row on our Corporate Employee In the Restaurants division, Toby Carvery created a Master Carver Satisfaction survey.
The response rate was 82%, and we are pleased training programme enhancing chefs skills to maximise meat yield that job satisfaction and motivation continued to improve and and quality, and providing additional expertise through product increased on last year.
92% of employees surveyed would knowledge in order to strengthen their confidence in guest recommend Mitchells & Butlers as a good place to work.
One employee commented that we should continue to create a very positive energetic work environment with plenty of opportunity for people to develop their career paths.
Page 19 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Challenge 21 Fair Cities Birmingham If a guest appears to be under 21, then we require proof A training initiative to increase the employment of people that he or she is 18 or over.
living in local ethnic minority communities.
Heart of the Community No smoking at the bar Winning manager, Craig Wigley of The Bryncoch Inn, A policy of no smoking at the bar will be in effect across the Sizzling Pub Co. with 10,000 prize recipient Wales Air Ambulance.
Page 20 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Social responsibility Alcohol and social responsibility very similar to those for which we applied.
In this context, it is Since 2000, Mitchells & Butlers has had in place a comprehensive important to note that the Company will not necessarily choose policy for the responsible retailing of alcohol.
Our Alcohol and Social to open all pubs for all hours permitted.
This will very much be Responsibility Policy includes clear guidelines on the responsible driven by customer demand.
operation of our outlets: the sale and promotion of alcohol: and our under 18s policy.
The policy is supplemented by our staff training As part of our preparation for the implementation of the Act, and development programmes.
We also operate a responsible pricing we invested considerable resource in staff training.
We are and promotions policy, have increased our range of non-alcoholic committed to ensuring that more of our duty managers and drinks and provide tap water at no cost to all our guests.
supervisors become personal licence holders, and a key step in this regard was a major training programme to deliver the Challenge 21 policy new British Institute of Innkeeping BII National Certicate for The Challenge 21 policy is an initiative launched by Personal Licence Holders NCPLH qualication.
Furthermore, Mitchells & Butlers to support and educate our staff in to ensure that all of our operational staff were trained in the identifying underage customers.
It is not an over 21s only changes, issues and implications of the new Licensing Act, entrance policy, but instead, if a customer appears to be under 21, in addition to ensuring that key operational management we require our staff to ask for ID.
understood the impact of the reforms, a series of workshops was organised.
A prominent poster has been issued for display in the The Challenge 21 policy has proved a great success not only back of house area of every pub detailing staff responsibilities in helping our staff to identify potential underage customers in with regard to serving alcohol under the new Act, including a busy pub environment but also in educating customers as to the the new prime licensing objectives, the need to serve during need to carry a form of ID.
We have received welcome support stipulated licence hours only, and the fact that it is contrary to from both police and licensing officers on the initiative and licensing law to serve minors or anybody who has had too much have also made available Challenge 21 posters to members to drink.
We are pleased to have received positive feedback from of Pubwatch schemes.
In addition, a number of police authorities several police forces for the leading edge steps that we have have launched similar campaigns resulting in many taken to ensure proper implementation of the Licensing Act.
non-Mitchells & Butlers outlets using the initiative as a way of tackling the underage issue.
Partnerships with local police and communities Mitchells & Butlers is a corporate member of the National Pubwatch Responsible Drinks Retailing Award Scheme which we view as essential to building our relationships with In recognition of our achievements in responsible retailing, local authorities and the communities in which we trade.
We also Mitchells & Butlers was awarded the title of Most Responsible encourage our licensed house managers to become active members On-Trade Retailer of Alcohol by a leading trade journal, the of their local Pubwatch Scheme.
Some examples of partnerships Morning Advertiser, in November 2004. with local communities include working with West Yorkshire Police to raise the publics awareness of drink spiking and to educate Licensing Act the public as to how to prevent incidents from arising.
We have The variations to opening hours as a result of the Licensing Act also been involved in Shrewsburys NightSafe Scheme where 2003 came into effect on 24 November 2005.
From this date Pubwatch licensees, West Midlands Police and Shrewsbury Council licensed premises have been able to make use of any variations act in concert to ensure that customers have an enjoyable and safe to previous opening hours granted by the relevant local authority.
Mitchells & Butlers successfully applied to local authorities Smoking to convert existing licences by the due date in August 2005, In 2004 we commenced a programme of progressively reducing and at the same time applied to extend our hours of operation.
the oor space in which smoking is allowed in all of our pubs.
Within such applications there were no requests for 24 hour By the end of 2005 a policy of no smoking at the bar will be opening.
We have sought to balance the opportunity to offer our in effect across the estate.
customers more exible opening times with respect for our local communities.
Typically this has meant seeking an additional hour In October 2005 the Government presented a Bill to Parliament at the beginning of the day and an additional hour at the end of that proposes a ban on smoking in pubs and bars that prepare the day.
In some instances we applied for a further trading hour and serve food in England & Wales.
However, the definition for weekend evenings.
of food under these provisions has not yet been determined.
Pubs and bars that do not serve food and private clubs will be free Where legitimate concerns have been expressed by the to decide whether or not to permit smoking.
The new arrangements authorities or local residents we have tried to accommodate them.
are due to come into effect in the summer of 2007, and be subject In general the additional hours that we have been granted are to review after three years.
Page 21 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Social responsibility We are currently continuing with trials of non-smoking in several Mitchells & Butlers introduced the Heart of the Community pubs in order to learn more about consumer reaction and the Awards in 2004 to celebrate and recognise the positive community practical issues associated with withdrawing smoking facilities.
This impact achieved by our pub managers.
These awards recognise will assist us in deciding in which pubs we will continue to allow the fundraising and community activities which help forge good smoking if the new legislation comes into effect in its current form.
relations with the communities in which we participate.
A full ban on smoking in pubs comes into effect in Scotland We encourage the managers and staff of all our pubs to support in March 2006. local causes and to bring local communities together.
We operate an Employee Community Award Scheme, which enables employees Healthy eating who actively support a charity through fundraising or voluntary work We aim to provide a broad choice of menu items in our establishments to apply for a Company donation.
In addition to local initiatives, we so that guests seeking healthier options are well catered for.
use our countrywide reach to work with selected charities seeking to make a real difference at a national level.
We are working closely with the Food Standards Agency FSA to improve the nutritional content of our menus.
This has led to In April 2005, Mitchells & Butlers announced that Barnardos would offering grilled chicken fillets instead of breaded chicken fillets be its new charity partner.
Barnardos works with vulnerable children in Harvester, reducing fat content signicantly.
Other initiatives and young people, helping them transform their lives and full their with regard to reducing salt content, and in pursuit of FSA potential.
As the UKs leading childrens charity, supporting 100,000 targets, are in hand.
We have worked with the FSA to publish children and their families, Barnardos has an excellent network our salt reduction programme on their website which provides of local projects enabling Mitchells & Butlers to increase its information from a range of food industry organisations across commitment directly to the communities in which it operates.
In addition to an initial Company donation of 50,000, Environment Mitchells & Butlers supports Barnardos by encouraging employeeWe take our environmental responsibilities seriously, believing based fundraising through events.
Over 7,000 had been raised that responsible environmental activity is in the interests of by corporate staff for Barnardos in the six months to the end of the both our business and the communities in which we operate.
We also operate a payroll giving scheme.
As a national retailing organisation with pubs and pub restaurants throughout the country, our business has an effect on many local Mitchells & Butlers is actively involved in Fair Cities Birmingham, communities.
Our overall policy is to seek continuous improvement a government initiative led by a board of local employers with the aim in environmental matters, and detailed below are examples of our to increase the employment of people living in Birminghams diverse commitment to minimise our impact on the environment.
In partnership with the Birmingham College of Food, Mitchells & Butlers has put in place a four-week We have established an initiative with our waste collection training programme comprising of bar catering, service and life skills.
contractor for collecting and recycling glass and cardboard On successful completion of the programme, the candidates will in our businesses.
Following a successful trial in 100 businesses have earned industry-recognised qualications and are guaranteed in the Midlands to test the infrastructure and monitor volume, an interview for a job in one of the Companys local businesses.
the initiative has been rolled out in further businesses across the UK.
Depending on the outcome of this extension of the trial, We are proud to be one of the longest serving patrons of the City we would intend to consider applying this scheme to all our of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra CBSO, now in our 25th year businesses where practicable.
We believe that the CBSO considerably enhances the cultural vibrancy and standing of the city within which our head ofce We are continuing to make progress in energy saving.
In 2004, we extended our successful partnership with the A programme to install electricity meters in businesses which CBSO by continuing to sponsor the CBSO on the Road programme.
capture electricity consumption data every half hour is near This is a series of specically devised community concerts which completion.
The metering programme provides information enables the CBSO to offer concerts to charities, community groups, for retail management to help reduce electricity consumption.
schools, arts organisations and music clubs across the Midlands By October 2005, there were approximately 1,800 meters region, bringing music to local communities and into venues which in place, each generating a weekly electricity consumption report.
do not have the facilities to accommodate a full orchestra.
To coincide with our silver anniversary sponsorship year, a total Community of 25 On the Road concerts will be held during 2005 06.
Mitchells & Butlers recognises that each of our businesses has an important role to play in its local community, and we also pursue Mitchells & Butlers is now in its third year as a Major Corporate national initiatives to support this local role.
Patron of the Birmingham Repertory Theatre.
Page 22 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Finance directors report 2.
Investing for high returns We continue to pursue attractive opportunities to reinvest in the profitable development of the estate.
We allocate expansionary capital to individual projects to acquire new sites, or to upgrade the potential of existing pubs, based on a rigorous review of the returns they can offer.
Our track record in this area has improved further during the year, with returns of over 20% before tax being achieved on the investments made in the last two years.
Making value creative disposals We regularly challenge the ongoing trading value of our assets against the option of disposal.
With property market conditions remaining buoyant during the year, we realised 57m of cash proceeds from disposals, the majority being for an alternative use of the site.
Maintaining an efficient financing structure Karim Naffah, Two years ago, we refinanced the Group and returned 0.5bn Finance Director of cash to shareholders.
The success of our organic strategy since that time has driven a 40m increase in EBITDA and generated The consistent execution of our sales-led strategy and the active substantial cash flow, which has enabled us to invest 118m management of our asset base have continued to deliver strong of expansionary capital in the estate earning excellent returns: trading results and cash ows.
On a comparable 52 week basis, to repay 63m of debt: to fund 70m of additional pensions sales grew by 4.6% in the year: net margins were ahead: post-tax contributions: to pay 94m of ordinary dividends: and last year cash returns were 10.6%: and earnings per share grew by to complete a 100m share buy-back.
The business produced a net cash inow of 10m, after net debt of 1.625bn at the year end, equivalent to 4x EBITDA, completing a share buy-back of 100m and after making an and the Board has decided to initiate a new buy-back programme additional contribution of 30m to the pension scheme in the year.
designed to repurchase a further 100m of shares by the end of September 2006.
The growth in earnings reects the quality of our licensed properties, being predominantly large freehold assets in prime residential The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2005 of 7.55p, locations.
It also reects the strong portfolio of differentiated brands up 13.5% on the final dividend for 2004.
Together with the interim and formats, which we continue to evolve towards the growth dividend of 3.20p paid on 30 June 2005, this gives a total dividend segments of the market and to apply to each site on a pragmatic for the year of 10.75p per share, up 13.2% on the prior year.
basis, in order to maximise the trading potential of the estate.
This increase is consistent with the underlying earnings growth of As pubs are typically valued on a multiple of their cash ows, the business and reects the Boards commitment to a progressive improving the trading performance also adds to the value of the policy for dividend growth, consistent with the medium-term property and the longer-term prospect for asset appreciation for prospects of the Company.
shareholders, in addition to the annual cash returns.
Next year, we will report our 2006 financial results under Our main financial objective remains that of increasing shareholder International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Having adopted value by maximising the spread of our cash returns above our cost FRS 17 for pensions accounting in 2005, the implementation of IFRS of capital.
We continue to focus our management actions on four is expected to leave 2005 restated earnings broadly unchanged but key levers of financial performance and we have made further it will reduce net assets by up to 250m, predominantly due to progress on all fronts during the year: higher deferred tax provisions.
None of the changes will impact on the cash ows or the debt covenants of the Group, although the new 1.
Driving the profitable sales performance of our pubs regime could in the future lead to some increased volatility in our We achieved 4.8% like-for-like sales growth overall and 3% like-for-like reported numbers, in particular net assets.
sales growth in those pubs that have not received investment beyond their normal maintenance cycle.
We held the gross margin broadly in In a more challenging consumer and cost environment for the line with last year, despite the faster growth of the lower-margin food business, Mitchells & Butlers focus remains on driving profitable and wine categories.
With further labour productivity improvements sales growth and further market share gains.
This, together with and cost efficiencies, we offset additional regulatory and energy costs continued management of the asset base, will help us to deliver to achieve an improvement in net margins.
further growth and cash returns to shareholders.
Page 23 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Summary financial statement The 2005 financial year comprises 53 weeks and therefore, where food volumes with the average pub restaurant now selling over necessary, the trading results have been restated on a 52 week 1,800 main meals per week.
The positive combination of strong basis for a more appropriate comparison.
Unless otherwise stated, volume performance, productivity improvements and good cost all sales, profit and like-for-like trading statistics relate to a 52 control, produced an operating profit up 15.2% on the comparable week basis: all cash ow results are for 53 weeks.
The gures for 52 week basis, and a corresponding increase in the net operating 2004 have been restated in line with pensions accounting under margin from 15.4% to 16.7%.
FRS 17 which was adopted by the Group in 2005.
SCPD aims to maximise the value of the Groups surplus properties Total sales for the year of 1,662m were up 4.6% on last year which are suitable for development.
Operating profit of 1m was on a comparable 52 week basis, 6.5% on a 53 week basis.
generated during the year through the sale of two developments.
Like-for-like sales were strong in both the Residential and High Street businesses, reflecting continued market share gains.
During the year, the Group incurred exceptional operating costs of With the success of ongoing sales and marketing activities, food and 4m relating to the one-off costs of obtaining new licences for its drink volumes were up 9% and 4% respectively, on a same outlet pubs and pub restaurants as required by the Licensing Act 2003.
52 week basis, with average retail prices unchanged.
Despite the A non-operating exceptional profit of 1m also arose on the much faster growth of the lower-margin food and wine categories, disposal of xed assets.
the overall percentage gross margin was broadly maintained, with additional purchasing gains being achieved.
With strong volume The net interest charge was 102m in line with last year.
The tax performance and further cost efficiencies, the net retail operating charge of 59m, including the effect of exceptional items, represents margin was 0.4 percentage points higher than last year, after an effective tax rate of 30.6%.
Excluding exceptional items, the having absorbed 17m of regulatory and energy cost increases.
effective tax rate was 32.0% compared with 32.4% last year.
The sales growth in the estate was supported by an investment Reported earnings per share based on 53 weeks and calculated programme of 167m in the year.
106m was invested to maintain before exceptional items were 26.0p, up 24.4%.
On a comparable the high levels of amenity in the pubs and the continuing evolution 52 week basis the increase was 21.5%.
In addition to the growth of our brands and formats.
The balance of 61m was spent on in operating profit, earnings per share have benefited from expansionary capital projects.
During the year, 6 new pubs were the share consolidation accompanying the return of funds to opened and 80 existing pubs were converted to one of our brands shareholders in 2003 and the share buy-back programme during or formats to uplift their sales and profits.
In addition, 13 Innkeepers the current year.
Basic earnings per share for the year were 26.0p Lodges were developed on land adjacent to existing pubs.
Overall, compared with 21.1p last year.
we are achieving an average incremental return on investment of over 20% before tax on the expansionary projects of the last two The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2005 of 7.55p, years.
Net capital investment during the year was 110m as disposal up 13.5% on the final dividend last year.
Together with the interim proceeds of 57m were achieved from the opportunistic sale dividend of 3.20p paid on 30 June 2005, this gives a total dividend of individual pubs or surplus pieces of land, taking advantage of the for the year of 10.75p, up 13.2% on last year.
During the year, the continued buoyancy in the property market.
Company repurchased 29.8m shares for a total consideration of 101m.
Of these shares, 24.2m were cancelled and 5.6m were Operating profit before exceptional items was 297m, up 6.6% placed in Treasury or Employee Share Trusts to satisfy the exercise on a 52 week comparable basis, representing an increased net of share options and other share awards.
During the prior year operating margin from 17.5% to 17.9%.
in December 2003, the Company returned 501m to shareholders by way of a special dividend that was accompanied by a 12 for 17 Sales in the Pubs & Bars division were 2.8% ahead of last year share consolidation.
Drinks sales showed good growth despite a further 3.6% volume decline in the on-trade beer The Groups operations continued to generate strong cash ow with market over the last year and ongoing price competition from EBITDA of 413m before exceptional items, compared to 381m supermarkets.
The emphasis has been on continuing to develop last year.
Operating cash flow after net capital expenditure of the range of products and price points that we offer, particularly 110m was 294m, compared with 284m last year.
The net cash in draught lager and speciality beers.
The branded local pubs inow for the year was 10m, after expenditure of 101m on share in residential areas with strong food offers performed very well, repurchases and cash receipts of 14m in connection with the as did the pubs in Central London overall, although their sales exercise of share options.
This compared with a net cash outow suffered since July, as a consequence of the terrorist attacks.
of 423m in 2004, which was after the payment of the special By contrast, the unbranded local pubs with a lower food sales dividend of 501m.
Net debt was 1,625m at 1 October 2005. mix were more exposed to the beer market declines and our High Street circuit bars continued to face intense competitive conditions.
On an FRS 17 basis, the Groups pensions schemes showed a deficit Despite continuing pressure on employment and energy costs, the of 148m at 1 October 2005 compared with 173m at 25 September net margin was 18.7% compared with 18.9% last year and profits 2004.
The reduction in the deficit reflects the benefit of 30m were up 1.7% on a comparable 52 week basis.
of additional pension contributions paid in the year and improved investment returns, offset by an increase in liabilities following The Restaurants division produced excellent results, driven by the a reduction in the corporate bond rate used for discounting purposes.
strength of our brands, our value offers and our operating skills.
By increasing the variety of dishes and extending the range of Fixed assets of 3,526m represent primarily the pubs owned tastes being catered for, we have been improving choice and and operated by the Company, most of which are freehold attracting a wider customer base.
This, combined with drinks or long leasehold.
Net assets were 1,417m at the year end.
value and range enhancements, has stimulated higher footfall and Page 24 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 profit and loss 2005 2004 Statement of the independent auditors 53 weeks 52 weeks We have examined the Groups Summary Financial Statement m m for the 53 weeks ended 1 October 2005 which comprise the Summary profit and loss account, Summary cash flow, and Turnover 1,662 1,560 Summary balance sheet.
Operating profit Pubs & Bars 180 173 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Restaurants 116 99 in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Retail 296 272 To the fullest extent required by the law, we do not accept or SCPD 1 1 assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Operating profit before exceptional items 297 273 Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Operating exceptional items 4 2 or for the opinions we have formed.
Total operating profit 293 271 profit on disposal of xed assets 1 2 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors profit before interest 294 273 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Net interest payable 102 102 Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
profit before taxation 192 171 Taxation 59 53 Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency profit for the financial year 133 118 of the Summary Financial Statement within the Annual Review and Dividends 53 550 Summary Financial Statement with the full annual accounts, Retained profit loss 80 432 Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report, and its Earnings per share compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Basic 26.0p 21.1p Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We Adjusted 26.0p 20.9p also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Dividends per share 10.75p 9.5p Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our Restated on the full adoption of FRS 17. report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Cash ow 2005 2004 m m Basis of opinion We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin Operating profit 297 273 Depreciation and amortisation 116 108 1999 6 The auditors statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the EBITDA 413 381 United Kingdom.
Working capital movement 16 28 Additional pension contributions 30 40 Other non-cash items 5 14 Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent Net cash inow from operating activities 404 383 Purchase of tangible xed assets 167 150 with the full annual accounts, Directors Report and Directors Sale of tangible xed assets 57 51 Remuneration Report of Mitchells & Butlers plc for the 53 weeks ended 1 October 2005 and complies with the applicable Operating cash ow after net capital expenditure 294 284 Net interest paid 102 98 requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, Tax paid 43 34 and regulations made thereunder.
Normal dividends paid 50 44 Special dividends paid 501 Ernst & Young LLP Issue of ordinary share capital 2 8 Registered Auditor Purchase of own shares 101 12 London Proceeds on release of own shares held 14 1 29 November 2005 Issue costs paid in respect of securitised debt 22 Other 4 5 Net cash ow 10 423 Before exceptional items.
Net debt at 1 October 2005 was 1,625m 2004 1,632m, net of 20m This Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Board FRS 4 issue costs capitalised and after accrued interest of 4m.
on 29 November 2005 and signed on its behalf by Tim Clarke and Karim Naffah.
It does not contain sufficient information to provide as Balance Sheet 2005 2004 full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Group m m as that contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements Fixed assets 3,526 3,519 2005.
That report may be obtained, free of charge, by completing Current assets 315 350 the relevant section of the enclosed proxy card and returning it to Creditors due within one year 350 326 Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Net current liabilities assets 35 24 The auditors have issued an unqualied report on the financial Total assets less current liabilities 3,491 3,543 statements containing no statement under Section 237 2 or Creditors due after one year 1,786 1,822 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
Provisions for liabilities and charges 189 184 Net pension liabilities 99 114 Information concerning Directors emoluments is shown on page 31.
Net assets shareholders funds 1,417 1,423 Restated on the full adoption of FRS 17.
Page 25 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Summary directors report Principal activities ways in which it may effect deregistration in due course.
In order Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator of managed pubs and to deregister, it is necessary for the Company to demonstrate that pub restaurants with an estate of 1,973 sites at 1 October 2005, its shares are beneficially held by fewer than 300 US residents.
In principally located in the UK.
A review of the Groups performance order to achieve this, the Company is proposing, at its 2006 AGM, is contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives a Special Resolution to amend its Articles of Association to permit Review, the business reviews and the Finance Directors Report the compulsory transfer of certain US beneficial holders interests.
and in the Summary Financial Statement.
This summary report is for the 53 week period to 1 October 2005.
Donations The Company supports community initiatives and charitable Dividends causes and in 2005 donated 143,170 2004 103,300.
The Board recommends a final dividend for the year ended Full details are given in the Operating and Financial Review in the 1 October 2005 of 7.55p per share to be paid on 6 February 2006 Annual Report.
The Company made no payments for political to shareholders on the register at the close of business on purposes and intends to maintain its policy of not making such 9 December 2005.
This makes a total dividend for the year payments.
It will, however, as a precautionary measure to avoid of 10.75p per share 2004 9.5p per share.
inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder authority at its 2006 AGM to make limited donations or incur limited political Directors expenditure, although it has no intention of using the authority.
Details of the current members of the Board are shown on pages 28 and 29.
Tim Clarke, George Fairweather and Tony Hughes Annual general meeting will retire and offer themselves for reappointment at the Annual Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11am on General Meeting on 2 February 2006.
The four Executive Thursday, 2 February 2006, is contained in a circular, which Directors, Messrs Bramley, Clarke, Hughes and Naffah, have is sent to shareholders with this Review.
service contracts with the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment.
Employees The Group employed an average of 37,411 people in 2005 2004 37,207.
Details of the Groups employment policies are included in the Operating and Financial Review in the Annual Report.
Share capital During the year the Company completed a share buy-back programme, repurchasing approximately 100m of the Companys shares.
The effect on the issued share capital was to reduce it from 524m shares as at 26 September 2004 to 500m shares, including shares held in Treasury at the year end.
1m shares were bought for the Companys Employee Benefit Trust which, on 1 October 2005, held 1.3m shares.
Additionally the Company held 2.1m shares in Treasury at the year end.
American depositary receipts ADRs The Company terminated its ADR programme and delisted from the New York Stock Exchange during the year.
ADR holdings outstanding on 19 September 2005 were cancelled and holders became entitled to the cash value of the ordinary shares underlying their ADRs.
Notwithstanding the delisting, the Companys registration under the US Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 remains in effect and the Company continues to comply with its obligations under this Act, including the ling of Annual Reports on Form 20-F. As the Company does not conduct any business in the US, and in view of the increasing costs of maintaining a US registration resulting from the implementation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Company is examining Page 26 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Corporate governance The Board is committed to compliance with the principles The terms of reference of these committees are available on the of corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code Companys website, www.
on Corporate Governance the Code and considers that the Company has complied throughout the year ended The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good 1 October 2005 with all the provisions of the Code.
information flows to the Board and its committees and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors, and for assisting A statement outlining the differences between the Companys the Directors with their professional development.
corporate governance practices and those followed by US companies may be found on the Companys website at Going concern www.
com investors as required by the US Securities The Companys financial statements for the year to 1 October 2005 and Exchange Commission.
have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Internal control that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control existence for the foreseeable future.
and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to discharge that responsibility, the Board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
These procedures have been in place since the Company was listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
During the year, the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost, and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
The Group additionally maintains Directors and ofcers insurance cover.
Board and committee structure To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board, the members of which are shown on pages 28 and 29, is responsible to the shareholders for the good standing of the Company, the management of its assets for optimum performance and the strategy for its future development.
There are nine regular Board meetings a year and further meetings as needed.
The following main committees of the Board have been established: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Executive Committee Page 27 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Board of directors 123 456 789 10 Members of the executive committee 11 12 13 14 15 16 Page 28 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 1 Roger Carr 58 Non-Executive Chairman 8 Sir Tim Lankester 63 Non-Executive Director Became Chairman of the Company on its separation from Appointed a Non-Executive Director in May 2003, he is Six Continents PLC.
He is Chairman of Centrica plc and Deputy President of Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
From 1973 to Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes plc and a senior adviser 1995 he was a member of the Civil Service rising to be Deputy to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. Ltd.
He has previously held Secretary of H. M. Treasury, Permanent Secretary, Overseas a number of senior appointments including Chief Executive Development Administration, Foreign and Commonwealth Ofce of Williams plc, Chairman of Chubb plc and Chairman and Permanent Secretary, Department for Education.
He served of Thames Water plc.
as Private Secretary at 10 Downing Street and represented the UK on the Boards of the World Bank and the IMF.
He has held 2 Tim Clarke 48 Chief Executive non-executive directorships of CU CGU and Smith & Nephew Became Chief Executive of the Company on its separation from and currently is a non-executive director of ACTIS Capital.
Six Continents PLC, having previously been Chief Executive of Six Continents PLC.
Between 1995 and 2000 he was Chief 9 Sara Weller 44 Non-Executive Director Executive of Bass Retail, which now constitutes the business Appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2003, she chairs the of Mitchells & Butlers plc.
He chairs the Executive Committee.
Remuneration Committee and is the Senior Independent Director.
He is a director of the British Beer & Pub Association, having She is Managing Director of Argos Ltd having previously been Chairman for 2002.
He is a non-executive director been Deputy Managing Director of J Sainsbury plc.
Earlier of Associated British Foods plc.
appointments were with Abbey National and Mars Confectionery.
3 Karim Naffah 42 Finance Director A Non-Executive Director Became Finance Director of the Company on its separation A member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees from Six Continents PLC.
In 1991, he joined Bass, becoming A member of the Executive Committee its Director of Strategic Planning in 1992.
In 2000, he became Strategy Director for that group and a member of the Strategic Business Committee and the executive committees of the Hotels and Retail divisions.
He also held responsibility for the Members of the property development and IT functions.
executive committee 4 Mike Bramley 54 Managing Director, Pubs & Bars Became a Director of the Company on its demerger from Six Continents PLC.
He has been Managing Director, Pubs & Bars 10 Bronagh Kennedy HR Director and General Counsel since September 2002.
In over 20 years with Bass Six Continents, he worked in a variety of roles in the pubs and 11 John Buttereld Strategy Director brewing businesses.
In 1995, he became Commercial Director of Bass Taverns and in 1998, was appointed 12 Adam Fowle Business Development Director HR and Commercial Director of Bass Leisure Retail.
He is a director of the British Beer & Pub Association.
13 Adam Martin Marketing Director 5 Tony Hughes 57 Managing Director, Restaurants 14 Richard Pratt Commercial Director Became a Director of the Company on its demerger from Six Continents PLC.
He has been Managing Director, Restaurants 15 Jeremy Townsend Deputy Finance Director since 2000.
In 1995, he joined Bass following senior management roles at B&Q, J.
16 Alison Wheaton Property and IT Director In 2001 he received the Hotel and Caterer Catey for the Pub Industry Award and in 2002, he was voted Retailers Retailer Individual of the Year by the pub and restaurant industry.
6 George Fairweather 48 Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2003, he chairs the Audit Committee.
He is Group Finance Director of Alliance UniChem Plc having previously held the same role with Elementis plc.
Earlier appointments were with Dawson International, Dixons Group and Procter & Gamble.
7 Drummond Hall 56 Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in July 2004, he is Chief Executive of Dairy Crest Group plc.
Prior to that, he had held marketing positions in Procter & Gamble, Mars and Pepsi Cola, before moving to HP Bulmer plc where he became Managing Director of the Cider and Beer Division and a member of the Group Executive.
Page 29 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Summary remuneration report This summary is an extract of information from the full notice.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts, Remuneration Report contained in the Annual Report and Financial but operate under letters of appointment.
Statements 2005, a copy of which is available on request and can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
The main components of remuneration are: The Remuneration Report will be put to the vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Throughout this report, references Basic salary to the year are to the 53 week period ended 1 October 2005.
The policy is to set salary broadly in line with median market levels.
Comparatives are for the 52 week period to 25 September 2004.
Annual performance bonus Review of Executive Directors remuneration Challenging performance goals are set which must be achieved During the year, the Remuneration Committee commissioned an before a bonus becomes payable.
For Executive Directors, these in-depth review of the Executive Directors remuneration which was targets are linked to the Groups performance in achieving strategic carried out by Watson Wyatt.
The Committee proposes to simplify the business objectives and delivering corporate financial targets and to remuneration package to make it less reliant on deferred remuneration each Directors achievement of personal business objectives.
The and to align it more closely with market practice.
Subject to the maximum bonus opportunity is currently equivalent to 80% of salary.
approval of certain changes to the Companys share plans by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the Committee proposes to discontinue Annual bonuses may be paid in cash but, at the discretion of the the use of executive share options and to increase the level of award Committee, the Executive Directors may receive all or part of the under the Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP.
It also intends bonus in the Companys shares under the STDIP.
A bonus award to introduce Dividend Accrued Shares as described below, under both in respect of 2004 05 for Mike Bramley and Tony Hughes will the PRSP and the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP.
be wholly deferred into shares.
For Tim Clarke and Karim Naffah, the amount deferred will be 50%.
Bonuses awarded in shares in Remuneration policy for Executive Directors 2004 05 will be deferred for three years and, if the Director is in the The following policy has applied throughout the year notwithstanding Companys employment at the end of that period, matching shares the review of Executive Directors remuneration.
It will apply for may be awarded of up to one times the deferred shares, subject to the financial year 2006, thereafter the Remuneration Committee the satisfaction of a performance condition.
the Committee will recommend changes as appropriate.
Subject to the approval of shareholders, the Committee proposes The Committee determines on behalf of the Board, with the benefit of increasing the maximum annual performance bonus to 100% of advice from external consultants and the Human Resources function, salary and awarding Dividend Accrued Shares, equal to the gross the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors, the other dividend applicable over the performance period for vested bonus members of the Executive Committee and certain other senior and matching shares.
The Committee aims to ensure that the packages are designed to attract, retain and motivate Directors and executives Executive share options of the highest calibre.
It has regard to levels of remuneration in the The maximum value of shares over which options may be granted Group and in the specic industries and businesses with which in any year is twice salary for Executive Directors.
Options are Group companies compete and is also sensitive to levels in the wider exercisable three to ten years from grant subject to the achievement community.
The Company operates performance-related policies of a performance condition set by the Committee.
designed to provide the appropriate balance between fixed remuneration and variable risk reward.
Using target or projected Subject to approval at the AGM of the proposals for the STDIP and value calculations, performance-related incentives for Executive PRSP, it is intended that no further grants are made under this plan.
Directors will equate to approximately 60% of total remuneration.
Performance restricted share plan Share and cash based incentives are designed so as to align the This plan aims to encourage continuing improvement in the interests of executives with those of shareholders.
Executive Directors Groups performance over the longer term.
are currently required to build and maintain significant shareholdings, equivalent in value to at least twice their basic salary, but three times Generally a three-year performance cycle will commence each salary for the Chief Executive.
It is proposed to reduce this to one year and at the end of the cycle two aspects of the Companys times salary for any future Executive Director appointments, subject performance will be measured: to this continuing to be reective of market practice at the time.
total shareholder return TSR against a comparator group Directors contracts of competitor companies: and In accordance with the Companys normal policy, the Executive the Companys cash return on capital employed CROCE Directors have rolling contracts which are subject to 12 months against its weighted average cost of capital WACC.
Page 30 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Awards will be graded according to the level of performance on each of these measures.
Subject to the approval of shareholders, the Committee proposes granting Dividend Accrued Shares, equal to the gross dividend applicable over the performance period for vested shares.
Pension arrangements Executive Directors participate with other members in the relevant Group pension schemes.
Directors emoluments 2005 Total emoluments Basic Annual excluding pensions salaries performance and fees bonus Benets 2005 2004 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Mike Bramley 356 177 16 549 550 Tim Clarke 528 289 25 842 913 Tony Hughes 356 194 25 575 606 Karim Naffah 376 205 14 595 641 Non-Executive Directors Roger Carr 203 203 207 George Fairweather 50 50 49 Drummond Hall 43 43 7 Sir Tim Lankester 43 43 42 Sara Weller 50 50 49 Total 2005 2,005 865 80 2,950 Total 2004 1,882 1,105 76 3,064 Appointed 30 July 2004, Drummond Halls fees are paid to Dairy Crest Group plc, his employer.
The prior year is restated to remove the value of shares awarded under the Share Incentive Plan.
The gures above represent emoluments earned during the periods shown.
There were no payments for loss of ofce.
Benets incorporate the value of all benets arising from employment with the Company, which relate in the main to the provision of a company car and healthcare cover.
Pensions Share plans The four Executive Directors are accruing benets under the The values awarded in the year in respect of shares receivable Companys Executive Pension Plan and three of them under the through the matching facility under the STDIP are as shown in the unfunded Executive Top-Up Scheme.
Their accrued pensions, table below.
These awards relate to bonuses earned for 2003 04 which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on which were rolled over under the terms of the plan.
service to 1 October 2005, are shown in the table below.
These awards are valued at 322.25p per share, the share price Pensions on 7 December 2004, the date of award.
Release is in three equal Accrued annual tranches.
As agreed at the 2005 AGM, future awards of Years of pension pa matching shares will be released after three years, subject to the pensionable at 01.10.05 satisfaction of a performance condition.
Director Age service 000 Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan Mike Bramley 54 25 217 Ordinary Value Tim Clarke 48 15 257 Director shares 000 Tony Hughes 57 10 109 Karim Naffah 42 14 142 Mike Bramley 31,463 101 Tim Clarke 59,874 193 Tony Hughes 39,329 127 Karim Naffah 42,264 136 Page 31 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Summary remuneration report continued A cycle of the PRSP ended on 30 September 2005.
The performance measures related to the Companys TSR performance against a group of comparator companies, and to the excess of CROCE over WACC.
The combined award, which vests on 1 December 2005, from the two measures is equivalent to 37.8% of basic salary at the date of award.
The maximum potential awards to Executive Directors are shown in the table below: Performance Restricted Share Plan Maximum Maximum potential potential Maximum award as at Lapsed Granted award as at potential 26.09.04 in year in year 01.10.05 award as at Earliest shares shares shares shares 01.10.05 vesting Director 000 000 000 000 000 date Mike Bramley 356 89 99 366 1,337 01.12.05 Tim Clarke 545 136 147 556 2,030 01.12.05 Tony Hughes 356 89 99 366 1,337 01.12.05 Karim Naffah 383 95 104 392 1,432 01.12.05 Share options Under the terms of the demerger from Six Continents PLC, Directors and other employees were permitted to roll over their options granted under the Six Continents Executive Share Option Schemes into options over Mitchells & Butlers shares.
Grants of options subsequently have been made under the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Share Option Plan EXSOP and the Sharesave Plan and Directors share options at 1 October 2005 are summarised in the table below.
Subject to approval of the changes to the STDIP and PRSP at the 2006 AGM, the EXSOP will be discontinued.
Share options Shares Shares Weighted under Exercise under average option 2005 price Exercised option at option Director 26.09.04 grant per share in year 01.10.05 price Mike Bramley 1,006,127 214,658 326.1p 97,704 1,123,081 264.0p Tim Clarke 1,847,322 318,920 326.1p 250,245 1,915,997 267.1p Tony Hughes 1,120,935 214,658 326.1p 144,189 1,191,404 266.5p Karim Naffah 1,328,566 226,924 326.1p 324,567 1,230,923 260.0p All-employee share schemes Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
No grant of options under the Sharesave plan was made to any Director during the year.
Under the Share Incentive Plan SIP award in 2005, Executive Directors became conditionally entitled to the following shares: Mike Bramley 872 Tim Clarke 909 Tony Hughes 872 Karim Naffah 909 Directors interests under all-employee share schemes at 1 October 2005 are shown in the table below.
All-employee share schemes Sharesave Shares held Shares under Director through SIP options Option price Mike Bramley 2,608 Tim Clarke 2,922 9,423 169p Tony Hughes 2,672 5,473 169p Karim Naffah 2,846 4,509 209p Page 32 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Directors shareholdings 1 Ordinary shares of 7 12p 01.10.05 25.09.04 Executive Directors Mike Bramley 47,926 18,176 Tim Clarke 427,978 352,960 Tony Hughes 62,793 24,164 Karim Naffah 144,380 48,627 Non-Executive Directors Roger Carr 11,067 1,067 George Fairweather Drummond Hall 2,500 Sir Tim Lankester Sara Weller 2,200 2,200 The above shares are all beneficial interests and include shares held on behalf of the Executive Directors by the Trustees of the Companys SIP which are detailed on page 32.
Total shareholder return TSR From its listing on 15 April 2003 until 21 December 2003, the Company was a constituent of the FTSE 100 index: since then it has been included in the FTSE 250 index.
The graph below therefore measures the Companys TSR performance against both indices.
Mitchells & Butlers TSR v FTSE 100 & 250 15.04.03 30.09.05 FTSE 250 200 180 Mitchells & Butlers 160 FTSE 100 140 120 100 Source: DATASTREAM 15 Apr 2003 Jul 2003 Oct 2003 Jan 2004 Apr 2004 Jul 2004 Oct 2004 Jan 2005 Apr 2005 Jul 2005 30 Sep 2005 Page 33 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Investor information Registrar ShareGift The Companys Registrar is Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Enquiries The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share concerning holdings of the Companys ordinary shares and donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, notication of a holders change of address should be referred whose value makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can be to the Registrar at the address shown on the inside back cover.
obtained from the Registrar or the ShareGift website www.
org or by calling ShareGift on 020 7337 0501.
Electronic communication The Company has given e-mail notification, to those Six Continents demerger shareholders who have requested it, of the availability of this The entitlements received by former shareholders of Six Continents Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, the Annual PLC on the separation in 2003 of the Retail Mitchells & Butlers Report and Financial Statements and the Notice of Annual and Hotels InterContinental Hotels Group businesses, together General Meeting on the Companys website, with a summary of the UK Capital Gains Tax treatment of those www.
entitlements, are set out on the Companys website at www.
The website also contains information The website contains a link to enable shareholders to register for to assist in calculating the base cost of Six Continents ordinary future electronic communication, view details of their own shares to demerger.
Alternatively this may be obtained through shareholding or appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their the Company Secretarys ofce at the Registered Ofce shown behalf on any poll that may be held at the forthcoming Annual on the inside back cover.
Special dividend and share consolidation Shareholders who hold their Mitchells & Butlers shares through The Company paid, on 8 December 2003, a special dividend CREST may appoint proxies, through the CREST electronic proxy of 68p per share to shareholders on the Register at the close appointment service, for the Companys forthcoming AGM, by using of business on 1 December 2003. the procedures described in the CREST manual.
As approved by shareholders on 1 December 2003, the special Amalgamating your share accounts dividend was accompanied by a consolidation of the Companys If you received more than one copy of this report, it may be share capital, effective from 2 December 2003, whereby because the Registrar has more than one record of shareholdings shareholders received 12 new ordinary shares for every in your name.
To ensure that you do not receive duplicate mailings 17 existing ordinary shares held on 1 December 2003. in future, you can have all your shares amalgamated into one account by contacting the Registrar at the address overleaf.
Form 20-F The Company is registered with the Securities and Exchange Dividend mandates Commission SEC in the US and, as such, les with the SEC Shareholders, who wish dividends to be paid directly into an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
Copies of the Form 20-F may a bank building society account, should contact the Registrar for be obtained on the Companys website, www.
com investors a dividend mandate form.
This method of payment removes the or from the Companys Registered Office.
risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your account is credited on the due date.
Low cost share dealing service A postal facility, which provides a simple, low cost method of buying and selling Mitchells & Butlers plc ordinary shares, is available through the Companys Registrar.
Individual savings accounts ISAs ISAs in Mitchells & Butlers plc ordinary shares are available through the Registrar and information may be obtained from the address on the inside back cover.
Share price information The latest Mitchells & Butlers plc share price is available in the financial press or on Ceefax and Teletext and also on the Financial Times Cityline Service, telephone 0906 003 1366 calls charged at 60p per minute.
Page 34 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Financial calendar 2005 Preliminary announcement of annual results to 1 October 2005 30 November Final dividend ordinary shares Ex-dividend date 7 December Record date 9 December 2006 Annual General Meeting 2 February Final dividend ordinary shares Payment date 6 February Announcement of interim results May Interim dividend ordinary shares Payment date July Preliminary announcement of annual results to 30 September 2006 November December Final dividend Payment date February 2007 For further information visit www.
com This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement contains certain forward-looking statements as dened under US legislation Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
By their nature, such statements involve uncertainty: as a consequence, actual results and developments may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements.
A more detailed explanation of the risks and uncertainties related to forward-looking statements is set out on page 63 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005, copies of which are available from the Registered Ofce of the Company.
Page 35 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Glossary Amenity Gross profit Design, dcor, furniture and facilities that contribute to the Sales less cost of goods sold, expressed in monetary terms s. environment and atmosphere of a pub.
Page 36 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Review 2005 Contacts Registered ofce 27 Fleet Street Birmingham B3 1JP Telephone 44 0 870 609 3000 Fax 44 0 121 233 2246 Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway, Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 44 0 870 241 3930 UK callers 44 121 415 7088 non-UK callers Fax 44 0 1903 702424 Low cost share dealing service and ISAs 0870 242 4244 www.
Stockbrokers JPMorgan Cazenove Merrill Lynch International Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Investment bankers Citigroup Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP Design and production Sheppard Day Print Royle Corporate Print Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Mitchells & Butlers plc 27 Fleet Street, Birmingham B3 1JP Tel: 44 0 870 609 3000 Fax: 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
