Report of the independent auditors Auditors report to the shareholders of Mitchells & Butlers plc Directors Remuneration Report, Corporate Governance statement, We have audited the Groups financial statements for the 53 weeks Audit Committee Report and the Four Year Review.
We consider ended 1 October 2005 which comprise the Group profit and loss the implications for our report if we become aware of any account, Statement of total recognised group gains and losses, apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Note of historical cost group profits and losses, Reconciliation of financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any movement in group shareholders funds, Balance sheets, Group other information.
cash ow statement and the related notes 1 to 34.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting Basis of audit opinion policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and Companys members those matters we are required to state to of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we information and explanations which we considered necessary have formed.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material The Directors are solely responsible for preparing the Annual Report, misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
including the financial statements which are required to be prepared In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting the presentation of information in the financial statements and the standards as set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with at 1 October 2005 and of the profit of the Group for the 53 weeks relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing then ended, and the financial statements and the part of the Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Ernst & Young LLP be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Registered Auditor Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the London Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, 29 November 2005 if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Operating and Financial Review, Directors Report, unaudited part of the Page 29 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
