Employee benefits Under IAS 19 Pensions are charged to the Profit and Loss Account using a different basis of accounting from SSAP 24.
IAS 19 uses a balance sheet approach similar to FRS 17, the impact of which is provided in Note 26 to the accounts for pensions cost accounting rather than a determination based on long-term actuarial assumptions.
The profit and loss expense is determined using annually derived assumptions as to salary inflation, investment returns and discount rates, past service costs, net actuarial gain loss recognised in year based on prevailing conditions at the start of the year.
Any surplus or deficit on defined benefit schemes at the Balance Sheet date is recognised in the Balance Sheet.
Where actual experience differs from the assumptions made, actuarial gains and losses will be recognised through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The adoption of IAS 19 is not anticipated to result in a significant change to operating profit compared to SSAP 24 for 2005 or 2006.
At 1 April 2005, the gross value of the deficit that will now be recognised as a liability in the Balance Sheet will be 7.6 million with a corresponding entry to reduce Shareholders equity.
Deferred tax IAS 12 Income Taxes requires deferred tax to be recognised in full.
The principal adjustments are in respect of deferred tax on pension liabilities point 3 above and share based payments point 1 above.
The deferred tax arising partially offsets the adjustments above and will be reflected as above e. g. deferred tax arising on pension deficit at 1 April 2005 will be reflected as an increase in Shareholders equity.
Leases IAS 17 establishes a new methodology to determine whether leases are to be treated as operating or finance leases.
This particularly affects leases over land and buildings which must be split into their constituent parts and assessed separately.
A review of the Groups portfolio of operating leases is being undertaken to determine whether the current operating lease treatment remains appropriate under IAS 17.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 61
