Work in progress and stocks Profit is recognised on long-term contracts, if the Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net final outcome can be assessed with reasonable realisable value.
certainty, by including in the Profit and Loss Account turnover and related costs as contract Costs represent materials, direct labour and overactivity progresses.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be Turnover from bundled contracts consists of variincurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is ous components which operate independently of made for obsolete, slow moving or defective each other and for which reliable fair values can items where appropriate.
Accordingly, each component is accounted for separately as if it were an individual Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts, contractual arrangement.
which are included in debtors, are stated at the net sales value of the work done, less amounts Pensions received as progress payments on account.
The Group operates two defined benefit pension Excess progress payments are included in credischemes.
The contributions charged to operating tors as payments on account.
Cumulative costs profit are calculated by a qualified actuary incurred net of amounts transferred to cost of so as to spread the cost of the pensions over sales, less provision for contingencies and anticithe employees working lives with the Group.
The pated future losses on contracts, are included as Group also operates a fully insured defined contrilong-term contract balances in stock.
bution pension scheme, the assets of which are held in independently administered funds.
In All bid costs are expensed as incurred until the respect of this scheme, the pension cost charge stage is reached where it is virtually certain that represents contributions payable by the Group in the contract has been awarded.
Tax The Group has continued to account for pensions Current tax is provided at amounts expected to in accordance with SSAP 24 as stated above.
In be paid or recovered using the tax rates and November 2000 the Accounting Standards Board laws that have been enacted or substantially ASB issued FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, replacenacted at the Balance Sheet date.
ing SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
In November 2002 an amendment to FRS 17 was Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences published, which allowed an extension to the that result in an obligation at the Balance Sheet transitional arrangements of FRS 17.
The Group is date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a continuing to follow the transitional arrangements future date, at rates expected to apply when they under FRS 17. crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items Provisions of income and expenditure in tax computations in Provision is made for outstanding insurance claims periods different from those in which they are incurred at the Balance Sheet date.
Provision is included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax made for contingent consideration based on the is not provided on timing differences arising from best estimate of what the Directors believe will the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no become payable in the future.
commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Turnover Turnover represents the total amount, excluding sales taxes, receivable in respect of goods and services supplied and contract work completed in the year.
All turnover arose within the United Kingdom.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 43
