Accounts for the Year Ended 31 March 2005 Accounting Policies 31 March 2005 Accounting convention Financial instruments The financial statements have been prepared The Group uses derivative financial instruments to under the historical cost convention as modified reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The by the revaluation of certain freehold and long Group does not hold or issue derivative financial leasehold properties.
The financial statements instruments for speculative purposes.
have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge, the instrument must be relatBasis of consolidation ed to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities The consolidated Profit and Loss Account and or to a probable commitment.
It must involve Balance Sheet include the financial statements of the same currency or similar currencies as the MITIE Group PLC and all its subsidiary undertakings.
hedged item and must also reduce the risk of forThe results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired eign currency exchange movements on the or sold are included from or up to the effective Groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on date of acquisition or sale.
these contracts are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as adjustments to Accounting developments the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when the There have been no new UK accounting standards hedged transaction has itself been reflected in adopted during the year ended 31 March 2005. the Groups financial statements.
Goodwill and intangible fixed assets If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as Goodwill is calculated as the surplus of fair value a hedge, for example because the underlying of purchase consideration over fair value attribhedged position is eliminated, the instrument is uted to the net assets of subsidiary undertakings marked to market and any resulting profit or loss acquired.
Following the introduction of FRS 10, recognised at that time.
goodwill in respect of acquisitions made after the financial year ended 31 March 1998 has been Foreign currency capitalised and amortised over its estimated Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at useful economic life of up to 20 years.
the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
For acquisitions made before 1 April 1998, goodMonetary assets and liabilities denominated in will was written off directly to reserves.
In the event foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date are of a disposal of the businesses concerned, this reported at the rates of exchange prevailing goodwill will be included in determining the gain at that date or, if appropriate, at the forward or loss on disposal in the Profit and Loss Account.
Tangible fixed assets Investments Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuaShares in Group companies are stated at cost less tion, less depreciation and any provision for impairprovision for impairment in value.
Depreciation is provided on tangible fixed investments are stated at the lower of cost and assets on a straight-line basis over the expected net realisable value.
No depreciation is provided on land.
Leased assets The expected useful lives are as follows: Assets acquired under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets and depreciated in accordance with the above policy.
Outstanding Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years future lease obligations are shown in creditors.
Plant 3-14 years The finance element of the rental payments is Vehicles 4 years charged to the Profit and Loss Account over the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and Loss Account in equal instalments over the lease term.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 41
