qxd 6 1 05 8:01 PM Page 94 Denitions The following denitions apply throughout this document unless the context requires otherwise: OAreference to our trade name or brand.
2 Airwave A secure TETRA communications system for the emergency services and other O2 Group O2 plc and its subsidiary undertakings from time to time.
O2 Airwave Airwave O2 Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales with a analogue The first generation of mobile telecommunications technology in which radio registered number 3985643. signals are modulated proportionally by the strength and frequency of audio O2 Germany O2 Germany GmbH & Co. OHG, a company incorporated in Germany.
O2 Ireland O2 Communications Ireland Limited, a company incorporated in Ireland.
ARPU Average Revenue Per User.
O2 Netherlands O2 Netherlands B. V. a company incorporated in the Netherlands.
O2 UK O2 UK Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered GPRS General Packet Radio Service.
A technology, sometimes referred to as 2.5G, that number 1743099. allows customers to remain connected to the network between calls for the PDA Personal Digital Assistant.
receipt and transmission of data.
Public Safety Users Any organisation, as determined by Ofcom, which has broadly fullled the GSM The Global System for Mobile communications.
Originally dened as a panor PSU following criteria: a responds to emergencies: b is involved in emergency European standard for digital cellular telephone networks to support roaming, situations reasonably frequently: c is civilian, or is required to respond to it is now one of the worlds main digital mobile standards.
civilian emergencies: and d requires interaction with those who respond HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access, widely regarded as the next enhancement to emergencies.
to 3G, also referred to as superfast 3G.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
SMS A service sometimes known as text messaging, which enables mobile telephone Manx Telecom Manx Telecom Limited, a company incorporated in the Isle of Man with users to send and receive written messages on their handsets.
Radio technology used in networks that require a high mmO2 mmO2 plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered level of security and availability.
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System.
An international standard of third MMS Multimedia Messaging Services.
MVNO Mobile Virtual Network Operators.
Mobile operators that do not own spectrum WAP Wireless Application Protocol.
A global, open standard for accessing online and usually do not have their own network infrastructure.
O2 Ordinary Shares we or us or our O2 and or, if the context so requires, one or more members of the O2 Group.
or ordinary shares Ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each in the capital of O2.
O2 O2 plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 5310128 or, where the context requires, a reference to its subsidiaries or associated undertakings.
qxd 2 6 05 10:34 Page FC1 The paper used to produce this review is made from Elemental Chlorine Free Pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
Designed and produced by Paufey Ltd Printed in England by St Ives Financial Limited.
com O2 plc Wellington Street Slough Berkshire SL1 1YP Registered No.
5310128 O2 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 C12020 ARev outer.
qxd 6 1 05 6:22 PM Page IFC Surprisingly for a mobile communications company, were not about technology.
How we can continue to make peoples lives easier, to engage their imaginations and deliver even greater experiences, through our products, services and know-how.
This report is based on our commitment to listen to peoples wants and needs, to respond to them, and to bring the resulting benets to all our customers, employees and shareholders.
qxd 6 1 05 6:23 PM Page 1 benefit Contents 2 Introduction by the Chairman and Chief Executive officer 4 Listen 6 Business review 8 Respond 10 Business review continued 12 benefit 14 Board of Directors 15 Summary Directors report 17 Summary Directors remuneration report 19 Summary financial statement 20 Independent auditors statement 20 Additional information for shareholders Please see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 21. o2.
qxd 6 1 05 6:23 PM Page 2 Introduction by the Chairman and Chief Executive officer An operationally efficient, agile and innovative We are rolling out the 3G network across all our Strong revenue and profit growth organisation We will be driving our businesses to territories, matching capacity to known mobile data realise efficiency gains, using our growing insight demand.
We have also invested in training and First dividend earlier than planned into our customers needs and behaviour to align billing systems, and developed highly specified, our costs more closely to what customers value well-functioning devices.
Focus on enhanced customer experience most.
We have innovative joint ventures with Tchibo in Germany and Tesco in the UK, and other, multiMobile internet To complete the picture, we Accelerated investment in Germany territory, partnerships.
signed a long-term agreement with NTT DoCoMo Inc, Japan's largest mobile communications provider, Building a sustainable business Mobile data services that our customers really to launch a mobile internet service branded i-mode value Texting has become a way of life whether in the UK and Ireland in Autumn 2005.
A similar Revenue and profit growth superior to our in person-to-person messages, texting questions service will be available in Germany from Spring Welcome to our fourth annual review, and our first competitors Despite the competitive landscape, to the Prime Minister or voting off Big Brother 2006.
This service, which will complement O as O2 plc.
One of our first acts as O2 will be to pay 2 O2 UK continues to focus on winning and retaining contestants.
We carried a record 50 million texts on Active, has a proven track record in Western Europe a dividend to our shareholders.
more high-value customers in order to drive further Christmas Day 2004 and texting continues to grow of lifting uptake, usage and revenue from data revenue improvement.
In Germany, there is in all markets.
Driven by O Active, our awardservices, due to its ease of use and huge breadth As a shareholder in mmO2, you have exchanged 2 significant room for growth and our accelerated winning mobile internet portal, we are also starting and depth of tailored internet content.
your existing shares for shares in O2 plc.
We are network investment programme will provide a to see significant growth in non-text data usage, delighted that you have joined us and are confident springboard to achieve this.
In addition, O2 Airwave revenues from which have increased by 50 per cent Corporate responsibility about our Companys future prospects.
will make a strong financial contribution in its first over the past 12 months.
We have a responsibility to the communities in full year of operation.
We believe that companies who As part of our reorganisation, mmO2 was delisted With a powerful new relationship now in place respond to the needs of those communities, and of from the New York Stock Exchange.
There is no Best customer experience to express the iconic with NTT DoCoMo, we are poised for even more the wider world, are more likely to maintain longintention to seek a US listing for O2 shares.
O brand Quality, value and innovation are the keys dramatic growth, as we develop new mobile data term success.
We produce a separate report 2 to maintaining the strength of the O brand, and products and value-added services.
detailing our CR strategy and activities: here are Strategy 2 differentiating us from our competitors.
To maintain some highlights from 2004 05.
Our strategic framework for the coming year is the loyalty and trust of our customers, we must Leading technology driven by the same high aspirations that have give them the service that they want and products 3G A high-speed network, as provided by 3G, is Industry recognition O2 was the top-scoring delivered such strong momentum to our business that work which is why we have been cautious in the key to future mobile data services, enabling mobile operator in the Dow Jones Sustainability since demerger.
To continue to meet those the timing of our 3G launch.
We do not necessarily customers to migrate to advanced, content-rich Indexes, which track the financial performance of aspirations, we will be addressing some key want to be the first to market but we do want to applications.
During 2004 05, we launched 3G the leading  companies worldpriorities in 2005 06. be the best.
Our aim is keep the O brand fresh, consumer and business services in Germany and wide.
In addition, we were included in the 2 with fewer, better services, all designed to enhance the UK, with Ireland to follow later this year.
FTSE4Good Index, the Business in the Community the customer experience.
We are investing in the Corporate Responsibility CR Index and the Top 100 systems and people to achieve this.
qxd 6 1 05 6:23 PM Page 3 1 1 Group turnover m Group EBITDA m Board changes David Arculus joined the Board as a nonexecutive Director in April 2003 and became Chairman of mmO2 plc at the conclusion of its Annual General Meeting in July 2004, when David Varney stood down to take up a new position as Executive Chairman of HM Revenue & Customs.
We aim to grow our dividend towards There have been other important changes over the past year.
David McGlade, Chief Executive officer of O2 UK, stepped down from the 50 per cent of underlying earnings, reecting Board and left the Company at the end of the 02 03 04 05 02 03 04 05 financial year to take up a new opportunity in 4,076 4,611 5,646 6,683 484 858 1,367 1,768 our confidence in the Company.
David led the turnaround in 1 Continuing operations.
O2 UKs performance since demerger, and the successful establishment of the O brand in 2 the UK.
He has been succeeded as CEO of O2 UK by the former UK Chief Financial officer, Matthew Key, who has also been appointed to the Executive Committee of O2.
Community activities Our activities are focused on internet grooming.
These are available in our retail We aim to grow the dividend towards our mediumprogrammes that aim to improve the conditions outlets and online.
term target pay-out ratio of 50 per cent of We are delighted to welcome Patrick Lupo, and prospects for children and young people underlying earnings, reecting our confidence in Kathleen ODonovan and Rudolf Lamprecht to around the world.
Looking ahead the Companys ability to continue to increase the Board as non-executive Directors.
All have We are nancially strong and have built a powerful, revenue, earnings and cash-ow, and our held senior executive and non-executive A number of community projects and programmes iconic O brand.
Revenue is growing fast, the commitment to deliver attractive returns to 2 positions for a number of major international that support employee fund raising and giving have Company has modest debt and, led by a strong shareholders.
companies, and bring to the Board a wealth been successfully developed under our Can Do in management team, we have so far outperformed of financial and business management the Community programme.
Across the Group, most City expectations.
They will make a major we contributed 1.7 million in charitable donations, contribution to our strategy.
over 600,000 of which came from UK-based Taking the Company forward and further companies, and 500,000 to the Tsunami appeal.
strengthening its position in the United Kingdom, Three non-executive Directors, Paul Myners, Our employees continue to give their time and Germany and Ireland will be challenging but David Arculus Neelie Kroes and Ian Meakins, stepped down imagination to a wide range of fundraising schemes.
We will: Chairman from the Board.
Paul Myners decided to continue to focus on gaining a closer become Chairman of Marks & Spencer, Health and safety issues We are sensitive to understanding of our customers needs and Neelie Kroes left following her nomination public concerns over health issues such as the siting behaviour, in order to further improve their by the Dutch government as their new EU of masts, and issues concerning mobile phone use, satisfaction and loyalty: Commissioner and Ian Meakins is devoting including the protection of the vulnerable.
To help work even harder to differentiate our business by himself to his role as CEO of Alliance UniChem.
parents and others make informed choices, we delivering intuitive, easy-to-use and fairly priced Paul, Neelie and Ian have all contributed to the have introduced measures such as age verication, products and services particularly in the data Peter Erskine successful establishment of O2 as a FTSE 100 parental controls, lters and barring.
In addition, we eld that our customers value highly, and that Chief Executive officer company with a strong balance sheet and a help fund on-going research and are committed to are based on proven technology: powerful brand.
effective, responsible communications, producing continue to ensure that we work to make a leaets on subjects ranging from health issues to difference to the communities in which we operate, advice to parents on personal safety, bullying and building a sustainable business for the future.
com 3 C12020 ARev 04-11. qxd 6 1 05 6:24 PM Page 4 Listen Consulting the experts What business wouldnt say that it listens to its customers?
But at O2, we believe its vital that we know exactly what our customers are thinking, and understand their needs, likes and dislikes.
What may be a barely-formed wish or niggle in a customers mind now can have a huge impact in an industry as competitive as ours in a surprisingly short time.
O2s advantage is that were structured to be agile: to monitor and respond quickly to emerging trends from a solid base.
We have a range of mechanisms for listening to customers around the Group.
O2 Germany has scouts opinion leaders who help us test and develop new products and services such as O Active.
In the UK, we worked extensively 2 with customers to ne-tune our 3G services ahead of launch, and O2 Ireland redesigned the online shop in line with feedback from customer focus groups.
com 4 C12020 ARev 04-11. qxd 6 1 05 6:24 PM Page 5 Most of our consumer insights come from ongoing research.
Overwhelmingly, this is what people tell us they want: Simplicity not confusing, myriad offers, or technology I have to jump through hoops for.
Value for money I dont necessarily want the cheapest deal, but I do want to know and appreciate what Im paying for.
Network quality so I can make a call whenever, wherever, and always get through.
And mistakes put right quickly, without fuss.
A company that acts like it values my custom rewarding my loyalty and treating me as an individual.
A company I can trust to behave well in the wider world.
Further on, well show how weve responded to what our customers are telling us.
com 5 C12020 ARev 04-11. qxd 6 1 05 6:24 PM Page 6 Business review feedback and drove higher usage.
As at 31 March All our businesses performed well in 2004 05.
2005, O Active was available on 100 different 2 handsets.
Here we report on their activities in the past Increasing our own retail sales The percentage of total sales delivered through year, and look at their challenges for the future.
O2s own channels O2 stores, O2 Online store and O X4, built for 3G and equipped with the new-improved O Active 2 2 direct sales continued to increase and we expect portal offers greater access to compelling content and services.
this trend to be maintained in 2005 06.
We believe O2 UK business customers in October 2004 and consumers this will enable us to deliver a better customer our investment in a single billing and Customer in February 2005.
Our approach to 3G is an relationship.
The number of O2 retail stores grew Relationship Management CRM system in the UK.
Our performance evolution of our successful data services strategy.
by 26 to reach 257 by the year end.
Increasing profitability In a highly competitive Because it offers faster speeds, 3G allows customers Now roughly two-thirds towards completion, the market, O2 UK delivered a strong operating and to enjoy richer entertainment content and new Strengthening business customer relationships programme will enable us to predict and meet financial performance.
Customer numbers, service interactive services.
As 3G is a new technology, In the business market, we grew our direct sales customer needs in a more consistent manner by revenue, average revenue per user ARPU and we believe services will initially appeal to early force and introduced new pricing and service better aligning our billing, customer service and EBITDA all showed continued growth.
Success was adopters, building towards mass-market adoption propositions for our customers.
These initiatives CRM activities to an individual customers driven by innovative new services and customer over the next year.
helped us acquire many new corporate customers behaviour.
Work already completed has enabled propositions, a series of successful marketing such as DHL as well as growing business with online customers to view their bills online.
In campaigns and further improvements in network Building on text success customers including Superdrug and West addition, a new web-based tool in retail stores quality.
We retained our focus on mobile data i. e. nonYorkshire Police.
allows new customers mobile phones to be voice services.
The volume of text messages carried activated on the spot.
Finally, we are recruiting Total customer numbers grew by 1.1 million to on our network hit 1 billion texts per month by the In October 2004, we launched O Connection 2 2,000 additional retail and customer service staff 14.4 million, helping to drive a 14 per cent growth end of 2004 05.
This continued focus on text and Manager, the UKs first integrated mobile and opening a fourth major UK call centre to in net service revenue to 3,627 million.
The quality other messaging services such as e-mail and picture connection software to incorporate 3G, Wireless further improve our response levels.
of our customer base also continued to improve, messages, as well as non-voice services like music, LAN WLAN and GPRS.
This provides a simple with blended ARPU reaching 281 at year end, an content downloads and information services, interface that automatically connects business Differentiating our brand The distinctive appeal increase of 9 over the previous year.
This occurred helped data services revenue reach 24.2 per cent users to the fastest available network.
Following of our brand and market propositions aided by despite the impact of a significant regulatory of O2 UK service revenue, an increase of 3.8 per agreements signed with WLAN operators, O2 now our sponsorship of the World Cup winning England price cut in September 2004.
Overall EBITDA, cent over last year.
offers WLAN access in over 6,700 UK locations rugby team, the 2004 Football Association Premiership one of our key indicators of profitability, reached including hotels, airports, coffee shops, bars champions Arsenal, Capital Radios drive-time 1,183 million, a 14 per cent year-on-year increase.
O Active better than ever and pubs.
2 programme and a host of music events continued Further developments of O Active, the simple-to- 2 to help us differentiate against our competitors.
Leading technology use portal for news, information and downloads, Improving customer service As part of our on-going investment in service helped drive this success.
A revamped, more Providing our customers with a superior quality of capability, we rolled out the first phase of our 3G intuitive homepage, including a scrolling ticker of service is one way that we aim to differentiate the network in the UK, launching initial services to news headlines, received positive customer O brand.
This commitment is demonstrated by 2 o2.
com 6 C12020 ARev 04-11. qxd 6 1 05 6:24 PM Page 7 After an extremely strong first half, growth Improving our offer Data services now generate revenues continued over the rest of the year.
Service revenue to business was up by 28 per cent to 2,474 million and customers Our of over 1.4 billion per year.
This was Business Unit team has driven by a rapid increase in the customer base been winning major O2 Germany has a very attractive range of products new business and services and markets them aggressively.
customers and forging We added 890,000 new post-pay customers, new partnerships with accounting for 45 per cent of net new customers sales channels and in Germany.
O2 Germany has market-leading software suppliers.
We blended ARPU of 363, driven largely by our also extended our unique O Genion Homezone service.
range of tariffs and 2 services, offering Recognising the impact of the O brand on our customers as mobile penetration exceeds 100 per Attracting high-value customers By attracting a packages tailored to 2 business performance, O2 UK won the Institute cent.
A key priority will be customer retention significant proportion of high-value customers and the specic needs of of Practitioners in Advertisings IPA prestigious including through marketing initiatives aimed at tightly controlling operating costs, O2 Germany business customers.
We also won The increasing customer loyalty.
We will nonetheless has translated rapid growth in subscribers into a We acquired a number Mobile Data Associations Best Network of the continue to focus on improving profitability.
Over the of new high-prole O surf@home enabling customers 2 Decade award for being the most innovative in next five years, we will step up investment in our customers, including to connect to the internet from encouraging the uptake of mobile data over Taking care of customers The cornerstone of our their homes at xed line rates.
network to reduce national roaming costs, enhance MTU Aero Engines, the past ten years.
strategy going forward is simple to attract and customer experience and secure population Tchibo and Christian retain high-value customers by giving them the best coverage to rival that of the market leaders.
Dior, and strengthened relationships with longExtending our reach Tesco Mobile, our 50 50 joint possible experience.
This will be achieved through, standing customers such as BMW.
venture with Tesco, has shown sustained growth.
among other things, further improvements in Improving the customer experience Our Tesco Mobile addresses sections of the family market service quality, the launch of innovative new customers personal experience of the O brand is Mobile data goes from strength to strength 2 not currently targeted by O2 through Tescos services and loyalty programmes, significant central to our growth strategy.
Our O2 Online shop Revenues from mobile data products grew strongly, nationwide network of supermarkets and smaller investment in customer service and CRM, and has continued to show a strong performance, with the volume of text messages sent during the Metro shops.
In December 2004, 14 months after continued development of the O brand.
bringing us new customers with good ARPU at low year increasing by a third.
At the same time, non- 2 its launch, it had attracted over half a million cost.
Customers also value the opportunity for facetext data usage made an increasingly important customers.
i-mode As reported in the Chairman and CEOs to-face interaction and the first agship O2 store contribution, with nearly a quarter of our customers statement, we plan to launch a mobile internet was opened in Munich in December 2004. now using these services.
Market dynamics service based on i-mode capability later this year, Our strong in an exclusive agreement for the UK.
This will give In October 2004, O2 Germany launched a 50 50 The launch of high-speed 3G services last year performance was users access to the most comprehensive and exible joint venture, Tchibo Mobilfunk, with Tchibo a should raise mobile data revenues further.
We achieved against a internet service available on mobile phones, and well-established consumer brand known for its launched our 3G service in April 2004, offering a backdrop of stiff has proven to generate higher revenues than any value-for-money offers.
This additional and exclusive laptop card to business users, following this with and increasing other competing technology or platform.
sales channel complements O2s target segments laptop and 3G handset surng for consumers.
In competition, with and by the year-end had added more than 250,000 addition to fast mobile internet access, our 3G ten operators now new pre-pay customers.
customers can make video calls and use a broad active in a highly O2 Germany range of video streaming.
Our unique O Genion service continues to attract 2 Our performance new customers.
O Genions advanced technology The appeal and impact of our O Active portal 2 2 Looking ahead An exciting year O2 Germany has established offers reduced tariffs in the customers chosen service has already won external recognition.
We expect itself as the most dynamic and innovative operator geographical area usually near the home or Europes best-selling telecom magazine Connect competition to in the German market the largest in Europe.
With its higher revenues and gave O Active two awards from both readers and 2 intensify in 2005 06, 2004 05, both revenues and customer numbers considerably lower churn rate compared to other experts as the best mobile portal in Germany.
An coinciding with accelerated throughout the year, outstripping both mobile products, O Genion is key to our focus on advanced version of the O Active portal was 2 2 Happy Hour offered O2 customers slowing overall our expectations and our competitors, and leading more profitable customers.
launched in November 2004. free texts and picture messages growth in new to further growth in market share.
com 7 C12020 ARev 04-11. qxd 6 1 05 6:24 PM Page 8 Doing fewer things, better Having a really clear idea of what our customers want has transformed our business.
Here are the key ways in which weve responded to what theyve told us.
Simplicity When it comes to technology, were focusing on products that give the customer better, not just more choice.
And we only launch a new product when were absolutely sure it works.
Were not rushing to be first to market.
Instead, were focusing our coverage on areas of greatest demand: and were working with customers to ensure we get 3G-capable phones right first time.
We will continue to hone our tariffs and promotions to make them the clearest on the market, with no hidden charges or reams of small print.
Value for money With our tailored price plans, such as O Bolt- 2 Ons in the UK, customers can talk and text in the way that suits them best so no nasty surprises when the bill comes.
We'five also teamed up with the best retailers Tesco in the UK and Tchibo in Germany to launch simple, value-for-money mobile services.
Network quality With an almost 100 per cent call success rate, were the network choice for millions of customers: and as a founder of the Starmap Mobile Alliance, were delivering a homeaway-from-home experience across Europe too.
com 8 C12020 ARev 04-11. qxd 6 1 05 6:25 PM Page 9 Clear, accurate bills: mistakes quickly put right Our Customer Relationship Management CRM systems are streamlining the billing process.
Were also expanding the number of our UK call centres, so that customers are served promptly and effectively.
A company that values my custom When it comes to rewarding loyalty, O2 UK leads the way.
Since Spring 2005, pre-pay customers get 10 per cent of their O Top Ups 2 back every three months, while post-pay customers get 50 per cent extra minutes and texts on renewing their contract.
These and future loyalty initiatives are backed by a major advertising campaign delivering the key message: the longer you stay with O2, the better it gets.
Across all our businesses, CRM is bringing us closer to our customers giving us information about their usage and preferences that will help us meet their needs even more precisely.
Face-to-face contact really matters to customers, and we are going to expand our high-street presence.
In Ireland, three O Experience Stores, which encourage 2 customers to try out the latest technology and chat to advisors, were launched with great success in the past 12 months.
A company I can trust We are committed to behaving responsibly as a business.
We respond to public concerns in a number of areas affecting our industry particularly in health, education and child protection.
For example: O2 Germany runs a number of programmes with educational organisations.
Its Polly and Fred information pack promotes responsible mobile phone use by young people.
O2 UK produces a wide range of literature on mobile-related topics for children, parents, teachers and drivers, and on general health issues all of which is available in stores and online.
O2 Ireland launched the O2 Ability Awards, to recognise organisations that see disability and diversity as part of their success.
com 9 C12020 ARev 04-11. qxd 6 1 05 6:25 PM Page 10 Business review continued Send and receive messages while on the TM move with the new BlackBerry 7100x.
Competitive services and tariffs are driving growth Commerce sponsoring E-Week and continued Our aim is to keep the O brand fresh, with 2 in customers in this mature market.
Mobile phone to support regional Chambers of Commerce.
usage in Ireland is over 50 per cent higher than in our other territories resulting in continued strong Another important development was the opening fewer, better services, all designed to enhance blended ARPU of 565.
142,000 new customers of three O Experience Stores.
With its exciting 2 joined the O2 network during the year representing styling, friendly service and try before you buy the customer experience.
a 10 per cent increase in the customer base over offer, this new retail concept has proved highly the previous year.
This growth led to another year effective in bringing us closer to customers.
of robust financial performance, with service revenues up by 13 per cent to 816 million and Exciting new products and services that make EBITDA 9 per cent higher at 327 million.
life easier Business customers can save time and money with the Fujitsu-Siemens Work Everywhere Market dynamics on the one hand, and those demanding advanced We have focused on offering customers the best Package, O Instant and the O Connection 2 2 The German mobile phone market grew by 9 per data services on the other.
We will continue to possible experience, with products that work first Manager all of which have been well received cent and market penetration rose to 83 per cent in attract and retain high-value customers, supporting time, superior service and an efficient, customerin the business and corporate markets.
As a result, the market has become this with superior quality of service at the point of friendly, high-street presence.
customers benefited from the introduction of increasingly competitive.
reduced tariffs in 2004, and an appealing range Customer Care satisfaction scores improved of handsets and devices including the new Looking ahead Investing for growth Building on our success to throughout 2004 05, and O2 Retail excelled among BlackBerry.
Extending sales channels In the coming year, date, we are stepping up capital expenditure with its peers.
It has been a particularly successful year we will focus on our target of profitable growth.
the aim of becoming a full network operator, for acquiring customers, but we also succeeded in Maintaining network quality Our success is We will extend our sales channels, including service extending and accelerating the roll-out of our 3G retaining them despite a range of competitive underpinned by our networks, which are rated providers and Tchibo.
We have launched an network and reducing national roaming.
This will tariffs in the market, and the ease with which users among the best in the world.
We continue to build innovative, high-speed 3G data service, enhance the customer experience by delivering can change networks in Ireland.
our network in a cost-efficient and environmentally O surf@home, that directly complements higher coverage and faster services, while reducing friendly way and, where possible, to share existing 2 O Genion.
This will enable O2 customers to our operating costs.
We will also seek more Raising brand awareness O brand recognition sites with other mobile operators and utilities 2 2 connect to the internet from their homes at xed aggressive growth with new products.
continues apace, bolstered by a groundbreaking providers.
The combination of O Genion and advertising campaign.
Network Powered Ireland 2 O surf@home will enable complete xed-line was named Best Integrated Campaign by Marketing Our 3G network now extends to over 35 per cent 2 substitution and increase customer value and loyalty.
Limited trials of the service Innovative tariff models such as bundles and prebegan in mid-2004, and we plan to bring paid top-up vouchers will give customers greater Our performance Brand awareness was further supported by highcommercial 3G services to Ireland in mid-2005.
control of costs, while driving revenues for O2.
Its all about the customer Throughout 2004 05, level sponsorships and associations.
These included O2 Ireland has continued to improve its business O2 in the Park, the Smurt European Open golf Market dynamics Keeping our customers satisfied We aim to performance, maintain current market share and tournament and our association with golf and The Irish mobile market continues to be highly increase customer satisfaction by meeting the build on the strength of the O brand.
In the business arena, we challenging, with close to 100 per cent of the 2 expectations of those wanting more simplicity undertook joint initiatives with Dublin Chamber of o2.
com 10 C12020 ARev 04-11. qxd 6 1 05 6:25 PM Page 11 been delivered to all police forces in England, O2 Airwave, the invisible lifeline designed Scotland and Wales.
The network, under the terms of a 2.9 billion, to make communities safer by enabling the 19-year contract with the Home Ofce signed in 2000, has been built in less than five years.
Over emergency services to communicate freely 99 per cent of mainland Great Britain is covered by the service, with 100 per cent population coverage.
The service has won more than 75 new public safety customers outside the Home Ofce contract, including the British Transport Police, MoD and The Network Powered campaign was rated as the Best Integrated The growth opportunities in mobile data reducing Manx Telecom has continued its major investment the Highways Agency.
O2 Airwave has been Campaign in Ireland.
Marketing Magazine Media Awards in January 2005 paperwork for ofcers and thus increasing the time programme to make broadband available to as many shortlisted for similar contracts to provide available for policing are considerable.
Airwave customers on the Isle of Man as possible, increasing nationwide communications for the ambulance represents a secure, nationwide and resilient coverage to around 99 per cent of homes and and re services.
network solution for these requirements.
population now owning a mobile phone.
O2 Ireland holds the second largest share of the market, with The invisible lifeline Airwave is a fully encrypted Looking ahead Work is well under way on a major contract, around 40 per cent.
Last year, Meteor made further digital radio system.
It will enable police forces to The government is increasingly investing in new announced last year, to build a new island-wide gains in market share, while 3 entered the market communicate with each other and with other technology to improve crime prevention and network infrastructure for the Isle of Man in January 2004 and began to roll out its 3G emergency services, even from radio cold spots, detection and public safety measures, giving Government.
Potential competitors have also expressed for the first time in their history.
In addition, O2 Airwave a significant opportunity to help an interest in the mobile market, following Airwave delivers major benets to the health service safety organisations develop their services.
Looking ahead proposed measures by ComReg the Irish allowing ambulance crews to transmit patient We look forward to offering our customers the communications regulator to encourage and allow vital signs directly to hospital staff, so they can chance to experience the exciting video-based MVNOs Mobile Virtual Network Operators to authorise the administration of life-saving drugs.
Manx Telecom applications and services that super-fast 3G can access the networks of existing operators.
And we will continue to support the Isle Growth opportunities Trialling future technology of Man Governments e-business strategy of Looking ahead The continued threat of terrorism, the incidence of Manx Telecom is a wholly owned subsidiary of O2 developing a world-class telecommunications O2 Ireland will concentrate on maintaining its edge major accidents and heightened awareness of the on the Isle of Man, licensed to run xed and mobile infrastructure to attract companies and investment in a highly competitive and increasingly regulated impact of natural disasters all demonstrate the telephony and internet services.
An Internet Service to the island.
We will continue to put our increasing importance of secure, joined-up Provider in its own right, Manx Telecom has a customers first and to build on the growing communications in both urban and remote areas.
portfolio of quality internet access and hosting demand for data services.
Going underground Although Airwave was not We will be the first and only mobile operator in originally specified to operate in the London Because of its successful track record as the first Ireland to offer a mobile internet service based on Underground, we have tested interim solutions with company in Europe to launch a live 3G service in i-mode capability a completely new experience the Police Information Technology Organisation December 2001, Manx Telecom was chosen by for Irish consumers from Autumn 2005.
PITO and London Underground: and are exploring O2 to run Europes first super-fast 3G trial, in ways in which we can improve underground partnership with Lucent Technologies.
This will offer We aim to build on last years success by meeting communications for the emergency services.
the possibility of communication speeds up to three our growth targets for revenue, EBITDA and times faster than current commercial 3G services.
Mobile data on the beat In December 2004, O2 Airwave and the Lancashire Constabulary Extending our service With the installation of a embarked on the largest ever mobile data trial with pre-pay Intelligent Network platform in November O2 Airwave the police in the UK.
This gave Lancashire police 2004, we can offer a range of new services to our ofcers secure, continuous access to databases pre-pay customers.
Picture messaging was launched Our performance while on the move.
Now many police forces can in December 2004, and mobile web access became Promising results for a unique service The access the Police National Computer from their available in March 2005.
We plan to launch Airwave network was completed, on time and handsets, allowing them to check names and outbound pre-pay roaming early in 2005 06. on budget, at the end of March 2005.
The O2 vehicle registrations in seconds.
Airwave service designed to make communities O Xda IIi more advanced, more powerful with high-speed 2 safer by enabling the emergency services to internet and e-mail on the move and built in wicapability.
communicate freely with each other has now o2.
com 11 C12020 ARev 12-18. qxd 6 1 05 6:25 PM Page 12 benefit Making a difference The commercial benets of listening to our customers are evident in our performance gures and business growth.
By listening to what people tell us and acting upon it, we will: provide products and services that customers really want: deliver increased revenues for the business, producing a strong company able to sustain dividends for shareholders: play an active role in the communities in which we operate: create a rewarding environment for employees.
These commitments will drive our evolution as an innovative, sustainable business.
Here are just some examples of its benets in practice.
Technology for our times In developing Airwave our secure, reliable communication network for the police, re and ambulance services were setting performance standards in line with our customers Key Performance Indicators, giving them tangible benets.
com 12 C12020 ARev 12-18. qxd 6 1 05 6:26 PM Page 13 Hereford & Worcester Ambulance Trust crews have saved more than 150 lives since Airwave was introduced in May 2002.
The timely use of clot-removing drugs by paramedics dramatically improves the chances of survival and recovery after a heart attack.
The Airwave response to incidents caused by bad weather such as Boscastle, Cornwall, in August 2004 and Carlisle in Cumbria in January 2005 proved the networks resilience.
It kept going when other communications networks failed, and was used by all the emergency services dealing with these major incidents.
Research by the Police Information Technology Organisation PITO shows the benets Airwave has brought to police forces.
Respondents report huge improvements on the previous, analogue service, in every aspect from security to voice quality and interference levels.
An agent for change In 2004 05, O2 Ireland, in conjunction with The Aisling Foundation, launched The O2 Ability Awards.
This is the first awards programme to recognise Irish businesses that demonstrate best practice in the employment of people with disabilities an issue currently high on the Irish social agenda.
Rewarding employees In 2004 05, we introduced a new package of benets following feedback from the Reect employee survey.
Meanwhile, our Balance programme is helping our people maintain a healthy work-life balance.
We were also voted Best Large Company to Work For in Ireland, and listed among the top 15 medium-sized employers in Germany.
Andrew Sukawaty 49 David Arculus was appointed to the Board in 2003 and Rudolf Grger was appointed to the Board in 2003.
He joined Rudolf Lamprecht was appointed to the Board on 30 March Andrew Sukawaty was appointed to the Board in 2001. became Chairman on 28 July 2004 at the conclusion of the Company in October 2001 as Chief Executive officer of O2 2005.
He is presently a member of the Management Mr Sukawaty was the non-executive Deputy Chairman of the mmO2s 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Prior to this, he was Managing Director of T-Systems Committee of Siemens with responsibility for Osram lighting, Company and senior independent Director until 31 December Chairman of the Better Regulation Task Force and a non-executive International GmbH, a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, from the Fujitsu joint venture and household appliances.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Inmarsat Director of Barclays.
He has also served as Chairman of Severn 1999 to 2001.
He played a key role in the acquisition of Debis previously a Board member at Siemens and held a number Group.
He is President of Cable Partners Europe LLC, which Trent.
Mr Arculus was previously Chairman of IPC Group Systemhaus GmbH and its integration into Deutsche Telekom.
of senior positions, including President of information and invests in and operates cable television services in Europe.
He is Limited and, before that, Group Managing Director of EMAP.
He has also worked for Siemens and was head of its German communications products.
He is highly experienced in complex Chairman of Xyratex Group Limited.
He is a former Chairman information and communication product operations.
business-to-business technology, sales cycles and multiple of Telenet.
He has considerable experience in the mobile EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS channels to market.
telephone industry and telecommunications industries in the b, c 2.
Peter Erskine 53 Chief Executive officer NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS United States and Europe, having at different times in those a, d, e e Peter Erskine was appointed to the Board in 2001 as Chief 5.
Patrick Lupo 54 periods held the ofces of Chief Executive and President of Executive officer.
He joined the Company from BT where, since Stephen Hodge was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Hodge Patrick Lupo was appointed to the Board on 10 August 2004.
Sprint PCS, Chief Executive officer of NTL, and Chief Operating March 1993, he held a number of senior positions including was Director of Finance of the Royal Dutch Shell Group, prior to Mr Lupo was previously Chief Executive and then Executive officer of Mercury One2One.
He has also been a former Director of BT Mobile, President and Chief Executive of his retirement in September 2001, where he had responsibility Chairman of DHL Worldwide Express.
He is currently a nonChairman of the Cellular Telephone and Internet Association Concert, and, from 1998, Managing Director of BT Cellnet.
for all financial and investor relations issues for the Shell Group executive Director of Hilton Group and was also, until March CTIA in the United States.
Prior to joining BT, he was European Vice President of Sales and its parent companies.
He has extensive knowledge of the 2004, a non-executive Director of WH Smith.
Patrick Lupo and Customer Service for Mars and Senior Vice President Sales financial management of international companies, having held a number of senior positions at DHL Airways Inc and DHL COMPANY SECRETARY AND GENERAL COUNSEL and Marketing for UNITEL.
Mr Erskine is also a member of the worked throughout the world including Australia, the Worldwide Express between 1984 and 2001, where he was 11.
Philip Bramwell 48 Advisory Board of the University of Reading Business School.
Netherlands, Venezuela and Argentina in a variety of financial instrumental in establishing it as the global market leaders in Philip Bramwell joined the Company from BT, where he was positions.
He is Chairman of Shell Pensions Trust Limited and international express and logistics.
employed since 1998, initially as Legal Manager, Group Strategy b, c 3.
David Finch 49 Chief Financial officer Deputy Chairman of the Franchise Board of Lloyds of London.
and Development and then as Chief Counsel, Corporate a David Finch was initially appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Hodge was appointed as non-executive Deputy Chairman 9.
Before joining BT, he was a partner in DDV, a Mr Finch is the Companys Chief Financial officer and and senior independent Director on 1 January 2005.
Kathleen ODonovan was appointed to the Board on 30 March European specialist telecommunications consultancy rm.
has extensive experience in financial management, having 2005.
She currently chairs both the audit committee of the Prior to this, he held the position of Vice President and a, d previously held senior finance positions at Exel, Novar formerly 6.
David Chance 48 Court of the Bank of England and the pension fund of General Counsel at BellSouth Europe and Legal Advisor at Caradon and Grand Metropolitan.
In addition to Group David Chance was appointed to the Board in 2003.
Mr Chance Invensys, the engineering group where she was previously SmithKlineBeecham Pharmaceuticals international division.
Finance, he has direct responsibility for the Group Treasury was Deputy Managing Director of BSkyB until June 1998 and Chief Financial officer.
She is also Deputy Chairman and senior He was called to the Bar in 1983. and Investor Relations functions.
is Chairman of Modern Times Group and Top Up TV Limited, non-executive Director of Great Portland Estates, and holds Key to membership of Board Committees: and is a non-executive Director of ITV and Sunderland AFC.
non-executive directorships at Prudential and EMI Group.
a Audit Committee He previously held senior marketing and business development b Chairmans Committee c Executive Committee roles at US telecoms companies, scientific Atlanta and Grass d Nomination and Governance Committee Valley Group, and European satellite broadcaster, SES.
e Remuneration Committee All of the non-executive Directors are considered independent of the management of the Company.
com 14 C12020 ARev 12-18. qxd 6 1 05 6:27 PM Page 15 Summary Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their summary Directors report and financial statement for the All the Directors of mmO2 plc who held ofce on 4 January 2005 were appointed to the Board of O2 plc by year ended 31 March 2005. shareholders resolution on 4 January 2005.
Rudolf Lamprecht and Kathleen ODonovan were additionally appointed on 30 March 2005 and Ian Meakins and David McGlade resigned on 30 March 2005 and This financial statement is a summary of the information in the Groups full annual report and financial 31 March 2005 respectively.
Peter King and Adrian Knight were Directors of O2 plc from incorporation statements Annual Report.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding until their resignations on 5 January 2005. of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or the Group as the Annual Report.
Members can view the Annual Report on the Companys website www.
com or obtain a copy, free During the year, David Varney retired as a Director and Chairman of mmO2 plc on 28 July 2004 at the of charge, by contacting the registrar as detailed on page 20.
In addition, members can elect to receive the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting and David Arculus became Chairman from that time.
Annual Report in future years by writing to the registrar.
Paul Myners and Neelie Kroes resigned from the Board on 10 August 2004 and 31 August 2004 respectively and Patrick Lupo, who was appointed to the Board on 10 August 2004, was elected a New holding company O2 plc was incorporated on 10 December 2004 and it became the holding Director of the Company by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting of mmO2 plc held on company of mmO2 plc and the mmO2 group of companies on 14 March 2005 pursuant to a scheme 14 February 2005. of arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985 the Scheme.
In addition, Stephen Hodge replaced Andrew Sukawaty as Deputy Chairman and senior independent Scheme of Arrangement The Scheme was overwhelmingly approved by shareholders at a Court Meeting Director.
The Deputy Chairman is recognised as the senior independent Director to whom concerns can and Extraordinary General Meeting of mmO2 plc held on 14 February 2005.
Under the Scheme, shares in be conveyed independently of the Chairman, Chief Executive officer or Chief Financial officer by other mmO2 plc were exchanged for shares in O2 plc on a one-for-one basis.
Shareholders also had the option Directors or by shareholders.
of electing to receive, in exchange for their existing shares in mmO2, either new shares in O2 plc or cash consideration under the Cash Alternative.
Shareholders who took no action were deemed to have elected The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors are required to retire by rotation every three for the Cash Alternative.
The O2 plc shares of holders who successfully elected for the Cash Alternative years.
It is the Boards intention that shareholders will be given the opportunity to re-elect Directors within were placed in the market.
This was limited to 300,000,000 O2 plc shares.
David Chance and Rudolf Grger will retire by rotation this year and are proposed for re-election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting together with David Arculus who changed his role during References to the Company and the Board throughout this Annual Review refer to O2 plc from 14 March the year.
In addition, any Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by 2005 onwards and prior to that to mmO2 plc.
References to the Group refer to O2 plc and its subsidiaries shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Rudolf Lamprecht and Kathleen ODonovan will seek from 14 March 2005 onwards and, prior to that, to mmO2 plc and its subsidiaries.
election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As part of the Scheme, mmO2 ADRs were delisted from the New York Stock Exchange on 11 March 2005 Substantial shareholdings At 10 May 2005, the following notications had been received by the and neither an ADR programme nor a US listing has been established for the shares in O2 plc.
Company in respect of holdings of three per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital: Number of Percentage of The Board is currently pursuing deregistration of O2 plc shares from the Securities and Exchange Commission.
O2 plc issued ordinary In order to facilitate this deregistration process, the O2 Articles of Association include temporary provisions Shareholder ordinary shares share capital to limit ownership of O2 plc shares by US resident shareholders.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 649,424,088 7.46 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 308,947,551 3.54 Activity The Group is a leading provider of mobile communications services in Europe and has traded through its wholly owned subsidiaries in the UK, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man throughout the year.
Corporate governance The Board supports high standards in corporate governance.
The application The Group also provides a nationwide mobile radio service designed to serve the needs of the police and during the financial year of the principles in Section 1 of the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate other emergency services in England, Wales and Scotland through O2 Airwave.
O2 UK has a 50 per cent Governance the Combined Code is described in the report on corporate governance in the Annual interest in a joint venture, Tesco Mobile, to sell exclusively Tesco branded mobile services in Tesco stores Report.
The Directors consider that the Company has fully complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 across the UK, using O2s technology and network.
In addition, O2 Germany has a 50 per cent interest of the Combined Code, except in the following respects.
David Arculus was also Chairman of Severn Trent in Tchibo Mobilfunk, a joint venture with Tchibo GmbH, which is selling an O2 pre-pay mobile service in at the time of his appointment on 28 July 2004.
Mr Arculus confirmed before his appointment that he Germany.
It is also a founding member of the Starmap Mobile Alliance, a group of independent mobile would relinquish his chairmanship of Severn Trent by 31 December 2004 and has done so.
The service phone operators who have joined forces in readiness for the international roll-out of 3G services.
contract in respect of Rudolf Grger is now terminable on 12 months notice.
However, in the event of termination of Mr Grgers employment within 12 months of a change of control of O2 plc or its German Dividend The Directors are pleased to recommend an inaugural final dividend of 2.25 pence per share business, the employer is obliged to make a cash payment equal to two times his base salary and a for the year ended 31 March 2005.
This dividend will be paid on 26 August 2005 to shareholders on the payment equal to the bonus expected for an on-target performance.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current Directors of O2 plc are given on page 14. o2.
com 15 C12020 ARev 12-18. qxd 6 1 05 6:27 PM Page 16 Summary Directors report continued The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and provides The Executive Committee, chaired by Peter Erskine, and comprising the other executive Directors and his entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which senior executive team, is responsible for the executive day-to-day running of the Company, the preparation enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets out the Companys values and standards and ensures that and maintenance of strategic plans for the Group, and monitoring day-to-day performance of the Group its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met.
Board Committees The Board has delegated authority to the Committees described below on specic US corporate governance compliance The Company is required to comply with those provisions of the matters.
The Committees have formal terms of reference.
Minutes of meetings are formally recorded.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission as applicable to foreign issuers during the period it remains registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Governance, and Remuneration Committees are posted on the Companys website and are available, on request, from the Company Secretary and Internal control The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the Groups system of internal control General Counsel.
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It has established an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing key risks.
There is a formal six-monthly review of key risks by the Executive Committee, Audit The membership of the Committees is shown alongside the biographical details of the Directors on page 14.
The Audit Committee undertakes a six-monthly review of reports submitted by Details of the attendance by Directors at Board and principal Board Committee meetings held during the senior executives on internal controls, risk management and reports from Internal Audit.
These procedures year ended 31 March 2005 are contained in the report on corporate governance in the Annual Report.
The are designed to identify and manage those risks that could adversely impact the achievement of the Board reviews the membership of the Committees on an annual basis at the start of each financial year or Groups objectives.
Whilst they do not provide total assurance against material mis-statement or loss, the more frequently as circumstances require.
Directors, following a review of the systems described, are of the opinion that a proper system of internal control is in place within the Group.
The Chairmans Committee, chaired by David Arculus since he became Chairman on 28 July 2004, advises and assists the Chairman in the preparation for Board meetings.
It also acts on behalf of the Board The Company has a Disclosure Committee which considers the materiality of information and the between scheduled Board meetings, in exceptional circumstances, where it is not possible or practicable to respective disclosure obligations in releases made to regulatory bodies.
convene a meeting of the Board.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Stephen Hodge, reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, matters raised by the internal and external auditors in their regular reports to the Committee and the full and halfyear financial statements prior to their release.
The Committee reviews the programme and effectiveness of risk management within the Group as well as ensuring that an appropriate relationship between O2 plc and the external auditors is maintained.
The Committee also approves the appointment or dismissal of the Head of Internal Audit and reviews the procedures for handling complaints from whistleblowers.
A full report of the activities of the Committee during the year is contained in the report on corporate governance in the Annual Report.
The Nomination and Governance Committee, chaired by David Arculus since he became Chairman on 28 July 2004 and previously by David Varney, is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and for recommending candidates for Board membership for the approval of the Board.
The process leading to the selection of the new Chairman in 2004 was conducted by an ad-hoc committee of independent Directors headed by the Deputy Chairman and advised by an independent executive search agency.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Patrick Lupo since 11 November 2004 and previously by Andrew Sukawaty, is responsible for determining the framework and broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, all executive Directors, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, and members of the Executive Committee, and for determining within agreed terms of reference, specic remuneration packages for each of these, including any pension rights, any compensation payments and the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
A summary report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 17 and 18.
The full report on directors remuneration is published in the Annual Report.
O2 Germanys first O2 agship store was opened in Munich in December 2004. o2.
com 16 C12020 ARev 12-18. qxd 6 1 05 6:27 PM Page 17 Summary Directors remuneration report This summary of the report on directors remuneration has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee The performance share awards made to the CEO of O2 Germany and a small number of senior the Committee.
Further details on all aspects of this summary are provided in the full report, found in the O2 Germany employees will be based on controllable EBIT margin and net service revenue growth of O2 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005.
Remuneration policy O2 has a sufciently exible remuneration approach to support the changing needs Share ownership The Committee has introduced guidelines that require the executive Directors to build a of the business.
The Committee considers it vital to align the interests of the leadership team with those of shareholding of one times base salary.
shareholders, by linking a significant proportion of the package to the creation of shareholder value.
Pensions Peter Erskine and Rudolf Grger accrue retirement benets under Dened benefit Schemes.
The Committee has adopted the following principles: David Finch accrues benets under both a Dened benefit and a Dened Contribution scheme.
For the year ended 31 March 2005, 89,250 was paid to a dened contribution Funded Unapproved Retirement the Committee sets base salaries which reect contribution, criticality to the business and general wage Scheme and 48,875 was paid as a cash supplement in respect of David Finch.
During the year, 16,482 levels elsewhere in the Group.
Decisions are made with reference to a range around the median of the was paid to David Arculuss personal pension arrangements.
David Varney retired on 28 July 2004 and did relevant market for the individual although the Company may pay more to recruit a high-calibre executive: not participate in any of the Companys pension plans.
David McGlade received a cash allowance of emphasis is placed on rewarding business performance, and therefore we seek to position the total 117,833 in lieu of pension benets for the year under review.
compensation packages at upper quartile for superior performance: and performance-related incentives with stretching business performance targets to drive and reward superior Contracts and notice periods The notice period required by the Company to terminate executive Directors performance from our executives whilst at the same time aligning the interests of the leadership team with service agreements is 12 months.
The Company may in its discretion terminate without notice and make a those of our shareholders.
payment in lieu of notice equal to the sum of 12 months pay including the value of employers pension contributions, benets, and a bonus payment of not less than the previous years bonus.
Specic provisions Base salary Reects position within the Company, performance and contribution to the success of the apply following a change of control of the Company.
Base salaries are reviewed but not necessarily increased annually by the Committee.
Performance graph The performance graph below illustrates the Companys TSR performance versus the Annual incentives The annual incentive arrangements are based on a balance of key performance FTSE 100 Index and the FTSEurorst 300 Telecommunications Index over the period from 19 November indicators that the Committee considers to be the main drivers of shareholder value, including EBITDA and 2001 when the Company was first listed following its demerger from BT to 31 March 2005.
EBIT indicators of strong financial performance : net service revenue, data ARPU and customer satisfaction targets crucial to future growth and profitability.
Total shareholder return against the FTSE 100 Index and FTSEurofirst 300 Telecommunications Index Source: Thomson Financial During the year, the Committee reviewed bonus opportunity for executive Directors and senior executives.
Value Following dialogue with shareholders, the Committee concluded that bonus opportunity will increase by 160 half and the resulting bonus will be delivered two-thirds in cash, and one-third in deferred O2 plc shares 140 the shares will be deferred for three years and subject to continued employment.
For the year ended 31 March 2005 and the year ending 31 March 2006, the bonus opportunity as a percentage of base salary 120 including the deferred shares element payable to the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer is 100 100 per cent of salary for on-target performance and 150 per cent of salary for maximum performance.
The CEOs of Operating Businesses each have an on-target and maximum bonus opportunity of 120 per 80 cent of salary and 180 per cent of salary.
60 Long-term incentives The Committee believes it is important to adapt the incentive arrangements offered 40 in future years to support the Groups fast-changing business requirements.
It achieves this through an 20 appropriate and exible portfolio of long-term incentives.
The portfolio comprises performance shares, 0 share options, restricted shares, and deferred equity shares.
Other than under exceptional circumstances, 19 Nov 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar executives will only be made an award under one plan in any year.
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 mmO2 O2 FTSE 100 Index FTSEurofirst 300 Telecommunications Index Following consultation with shareholders, the Committee has recommended that the Performance Share Plan will be the primary form of long-term incentive for the year ending 31 March 2006.
Performance share awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to continued employment with the Company and the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance of the Company compared to the TSR performance of the constituent companies of the FTSEurorst 300 Telecommunications Index formerly known as the FTSE E300 Telecoms Service Index over a xed three-year period.
Non-executive Directors fees are reviewed in April each year.
Appointed as a non-executive Director on 30 March 2005.
2 12 Benets include car provision or cash allowance, healthcare, financial planning, dental care, home security and life cover.
Appointed as a non-executive Director on 10 August 2004.
3 13 Certain Directors received pension supplements for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Details of these payments can be found on page 17.
Andrew Sukawaty stepped down as Deputy Chairman of the Company on 31 December 2004 but remains on the Board.
4 14 Total aggregate remuneration for 2004 excludes long-term incentive gains which were included in the Summary Directors remuneration Retired at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 28 July 2004.
No compensation for loss of ofce was paid.
15 report for the year ended 31 March 2004.
In addition to the benets listed in Note 2 David Varney received a payment for outstanding holiday entitlement.
5 16 Includes aggregate fees earned as a non-executive Director and Chairman designate for the period 1 April 2004 to 28 July 2004.
Resigned from the Board as a non-executive Director on 31 August 2004.
Resigned from the Board as a non-executive Director on 30 March 2005.
7 18 Excludes 146,717 gains from long-term incentives which were included in the Summary Directors remuneration report for the year Resigned from the Board as a non-executive Director on 10 August 2004. ended 31 March 2004.
8 Rudolf Grgers remuneration has been converted from Euro to Sterling at an exchange rate of 1 1.45836.
10 Appointed as Deputy Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2005.
Non-executive Directors remuneration The remuneration of non-executive Directors is reviewed annually by the Chairman and executive Directors.
Each non-executive Director has a letter of appointment with O2 plc covering, amongst other items, their terms of appointment and expected time commitment together with a general statement of their role and duties.
Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for three years unless otherwise terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon one months written notice.
Following a review of the remuneration of non-executive Directors, it was agreed that, with effect from 1 April 2005, the annual fees payable to non-executive Directors would be a basic annual fee of 50,000, plus an additional fee of 7,500 for membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, 3,750 for the Nomination and Governance Committee, and an additional fee of 7,500 for chairmanship of a committee.
The annual fee of 100,000 payable to the Deputy Chairman of the Company remains unchanged.
O Connection Manager - the UK's first integrated mobile connection 2 software to incorporate 3G, Wireless LAN WLAN and GPRS.
qxd 6 1 05 6:27 PM Page 19 Summary group profit and loss account Summary group balance sheet Year ended 31 March 2005 As at 31 March 2005 2 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m Intangible assets 7,045 7,354 Group turnover 6,683 5,694 Tangible assets 4,449 3,996 1 EBITDA 1,768 1,367 Investments 2 5 Fixed assets 11,496 11,355 Group operating profit before exceptional items 386 233 Current assets 2,473 2,043 Exceptional items 45 75 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2,031 1,678 Group operating profit 341 158 Net current assets 442 365 Group share of operating result of joint ventures and associates 3 Total assets less current liabilities 11,938 11,720 Costs of capital reorganisation 20 Loss on sale of business discontinued operation 5 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 1,403 1,375 Net interest payable and similar charges 9 58 Provisions for liabilities and charges 254 251 profit on ordinary activities before taxation 309 95 Net assets 10,281 10,094 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8 71 Shareholders funds 10,281 10,094 profit for the financial year 301 166 3 Dividends 196 Retained profit for the year 105 166 Summary group net debt All results in the current year derive from continuing operations.
As at 31 March 2005 2005 2004 2005 2004 000 000 m m 4 Directors emoluments 4,758 5,318 Cash and current asset investments 1,326 1,016 Euro medium-term notes 1,056 1,012 2005 2004 Loan notes 7 8 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts and other borrowings 341 362 Basic earnings per share pence 3.5 1.9 Net debt 78 366 Diluted earnings per share pence 3.4 1.9 Dividend per share pence 2.25 This summary financial statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2005 and was signed 1 EBITDA is our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items, excluding our share of the operating result of on its behalf by: our joint ventures and associates.
2 O2 Netherlands was sold on 3 June 2003.
Included within the 2004 results is turnover of 48 million, EBITDA of nil and an operating loss of 1 million which are classied as a discontinued operation in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 3 Reporting financial performance.
3 The proposed final dividend of 2.25 per share will be paid on 26 August 2005 to shareholders on the register at 5 August 2005.
4 Includes payments to non-executive Directors.
Peter Erskine David Finch Basis of preparation Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer O2 plc was incorporated on 10 December 2004 as part of the capital reorganisation undertaken by the Group, and on 14 March 2005 was introduced as the new holding company of the mmO2 plc group pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement the Scheme under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985.
The purpose of the capital reorganisation was to create distributable reserves in O2 plc to allow the implementation of the Groups distribution policy.
The Directors consider that in substance the Scheme constituted two distinct transactions being rstly, the insertion of the new holding company, O2 plc, and secondly, a placing of shares on behalf of certain shareholders who elected to receive the consideration for their shares in mmO2 plc in cash.
The insertion of a new holding company constitutes a group reconstruction as dened by Financial Reporting Standard 6 Acquisitions and mergers and has been accounted for using merger accounting principles.
The premium paid to shareholders who elected to receive their consideration in cash has been recognised as a deduction from the Group profit and loss account reserve.
com 19 Independent auditors statement to the members of O2 plc Additional information for shareholders We have examined the summary financial statement of O2 plc.
Listings The ordinary shares of O2 plc were listed on the London Stock Exchange on 14 March 2005, pursuant to Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the Scheme of Arrangement of mmO2 plc.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within Financial calendar results announcements the Annual Review with the annual financial statements, the Directors report and the report on Directors Annual General Meeting 27 July 2005 remuneration, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Proposed dates Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Q1 Trading Statement and publication of July 2005 or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
IFRS financial information Proposed Inaugural Final Dividend 26 August 2005 This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a of 2.25 pence per share payable to shareholders body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, who are on the register on 5 August 2005 in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Interim Results November 2005 whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Interim Dividend January 2006 consent in writing.
Q3 Trading Statement February 2006 Preliminary Announcement May 2006 Basis of opinion Publication of the Annual Report and Financial Statements June 2006 We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation ShareGift operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders Opinion with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the annual financial statements, the available on the ShareGift internet site www.
Directors report and the report on Directors remuneration of O2 plc for the year ended 31 March 2005 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the Cassettes for visually impaired shareholders regulations made thereunder.
The Companys Annual Review is available on audio cassette.
Copies can be obtained, free of charge, from the Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, by calling Freefone 0808 100 4102.
Annual Report and Financial Statements  LLP Copies of our Annual Report and Financial Statements can be obtained by contacting our Registrar, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Lloyds TSB Registrars, on Freefone 0808 100 4102.
London 17 May 2005 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Hexagon, Queens Walk, Reading, Berkshire RG1 7UA on Wednesday, 27 July 2005, at 11.00 a. m. The financial information contained in the summary financial statement on page 19 does not constitute the Groups statutory accounts for the years ended 31 March 2005 or 31 March 2004.
The financial information is derived from the statutory accounts which were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2005.
The auditors have reported on those accounts: their report was unqualied and did not contain a statement under sections 237 2 or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The 2005 statutory accounts will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies following the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The maintenance and integrity of the O2 plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the summary financial statement since it was initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kindom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may O Xda IIs the ofce in the palm of your hand 2 differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
qxd 2 6 05 10:19 Page 21 Duplicate mailings General enquiries You may have received separate sets of documents as it may not have been possible to combine your General enquiries should be addressed to the Company at: records.
Any shareholder who now wishes to stop the additional mailings by combining their records should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
O2 plc Wellington Street Dividend Slough To register your bank details and allow dividend payments to be sent directly to a bank account, please Berkshire SL1 1YP contact Lloyds TSB Registrars or complete and return the mandate form that will be attached to your e-mail: shareholders@o2.
com dividend cheque in August 2005.
Third party trade marks Shareview Third parties trade marks used in this document remain the property of the third party concerned.
Many shareholders prefer to receive their reports online rather than through the post.
You can do this by registering with Shareview, which is easy and free.
co. uk click on Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements register now, and complete the on-screen application form.
This document contains certain forward-looking statements.
We may also make written or oral forwardlooking statements in: Shareview, which is operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives O2 shareholders access to special services over the internet.
You will be able to check the details of your O2 shareholding at any time.
As a Shareview our periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, also known as the SEC, on Forms user, you will be able to view indicative prices of shares of other companies of which you are a shareholder 20-F and 6-K: and who use Lloyds TSB as their Registrar.
our Annual Report and Financial Statements and half-yearly reports: our press releases and other written materials: and An e-mail will be sent to you when there is an item for you to view on the shareholder pages on oral statements made by our ofcers, Directors or employees to third parties.
We have based these forward-looking statements on our current plans, expectations and projections about In future, when a dividend payment is made, it will be possible to download your tax voucher in respect of future events.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about dividend payments by logging on to Shareviews website at www.
co. uk with your access number us.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made.
Statements that are not historical and password, and click on e-Tax vouchers.
You can print or save the details if you need to enter them facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations are forward-looking statements.
Words like in self-assessment forms.
There will also be a useful summary showing the details of payments within a believe, anticipate, expect, intend, seek, will, plan, could, may, project, goal, given tax period.
target, and similar expressions often identify forward-looking statements but are not the only ways we identify these statements.
O2 plc offers its UK shareholders Shareview Dealing, an internet and telephone share sale and purchase service operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
co. uk dealing or call them on 0870 These statements may be found in this document generally.
Our actual results could differ materially from 850 0852 between 8.30 a. m. and 4.30 p. m. Monday to Friday, for more information about the service those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including all the risks and for details of their rates.
discussed in the above-mentioned reports, releases and statements.
Lloyds TSB Registrars is a division of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services If any one or more of the foregoing assumptions are ultimately incorrect, our actual results may differ from Authority and a signatory to the Banking Codes.
our expectations based on these assumptions.
Also, the sector and markets in which we operate may not grow over the next several years as expected, or at all.
The failure of these markets to grow as expected Contacts may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and the Shareholder enquiries market price of our ordinary shares.
Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain the Companys share register and provide a shareholder helpline service details below.
Shareholders should contact the Registrar if they have any enquiries about The information on our website, any website in this document or any website directly or indirectly linked to their shareholding.
our or any other website mentioned in this document is not incorporated by reference into this document and you should not rely on it.
The Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars 3501 O2 plc shareholder helpline: The Causeway Freefone 0808 100 4102 Worthing Fax: 01903 833371 West Sussex BN99 6DA From outside the UK: Tel: 44 121 415 7102 Fax: 44 1903 833371 o2.
qxd 6 1 05 6:22 PM Page BC2 The paper used to produce this review is made from Elemental Chlorine Free Pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
