Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of College Hill, the Conference Room, 78 Cannon Street, London, EC4N 6HH at 12.00pm on Tuesday 25 April 2006 to consider and, if thought fit, approve the following resolutions which are proposed, in the case of resolutions numbered 1 to 8, as ordinary resolutions and, in the case of resolutions numbered 9 and 10, as special resolutions.
To receive and adopt the financial statements and the reports of the directors and the independent auditors for the year ended 31 December 2005.
To declare a final dividend of 18.0p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2005.
To reelect Paul Smith as a director.
To reelect Jack Lovell as a director.
To approve the directors' remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2005.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent auditors.
To authorise the directors to fix the independent auditors' remuneration.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in substitution for any existing authority subsisting at the date of this resolution in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section of the Company up to an aggregate amount of 705,482 such authority unless previously revoked or varied to expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the Company's next annual general meeting and fifteen months from the date of the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That, subject to the passing of the previous resolution, the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given in the previous resolution as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment, provided that such power shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities which are offered to all the holders of equity securities of the Company at a date specified by the directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders are as nearly as practicable in proportion to the respective number of equity securities held by them, but subject to such exclusions and other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements and any legal or practical problems under any laws, or requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory or otherwise: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subparagraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 105,822 and provided that this power shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the Company's next annual general meeting and fifteen months from the date of the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
84 Notice of annual general meeting 10.
That the existing Article 146 of the Articles of Association be deleted and the following be substituted therefore: INDEMNITY 146.1 Subject to the provisions of and so far as may be consistent with the Act, every director, secretary or other officer of the Company shall be entitled to be indemnified by the Company against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by him in the execution and or discharge of his duties and or the exercise of his powers and or otherwise in relation to or in connection with his duties, powers or office provided that any such indemnity in relation to a director shall only be valid to the extent that it constitutes a qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined in section 309B of the Act.
146.2 For the purpose of this Article 146 a director shall be entitled to vote and to be counted in the quorum at any meeting of the Board or a committee of the Board at which any indemnity, arrangement or proposal falling within this Article 146 is to be considered and, for the purpose of Article 96, any interest which any director may have in such indemnity, arrangement or proposal shall not be a material interest unless the terms of such indemnity, arrangement or proposal confer upon such director a privilege or benefit not available to, or awarded to, any other director.
The decision of the chairman of the meeting as to whether the indemnity, arrangement or proposal to be considered at the meeting falls within this Article 146 or as to the materiality of any directors interest therein for the purposes of this Article and Article 96 shall be final and conclusive.
By order of the Board Mary Nettleship Registered office Company Secretary 77 Newman Street 22 February 2006 London W1T 3EW 81 85 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Notice of annual general meeting Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting AGM may appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the Company to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
In order to be valid, an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy in the form enclosed, by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, PO Box 25, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below and in each case must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Appointment of a proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending the AGM and voting in person.
Copies of the executive directors service contracts with the Company and copies of the nonexecutive directors terms and conditions of appointment and the register of interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours excluding weekends and English public holidays and will be available at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
Short biographical details of the directors seeking reelection are shown on page 18 of the accounts.
Explanatory notes to the items of special business to be proposed at the annual general meeting can be found in the report of the directors on page 23.
If no indication of how the proxy shall vote is given, the proxy will exercise discretion as to voting or abstention therefrom.
The Company, pursuant to regulation 41 of The Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those ordinary shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company 48 hours before the meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the meeting.
