Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Principal accounting policies For the year ended 31 December 2005 Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 30 on pages 69 to 70.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements IFRS 6 and 7 and IFRIC 4 to 8, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future years will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except where otherwise indicated.
The principal accounting polices adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the fair value of consideration given for the acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
In circumstances where the fair values of the identifiable net assets exceed the cost of acquisition the excess is immediately recognised in the income statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, goodwill is no longer amortised but stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for any impairment in its value or at such time that there is an indication that its value has been reduced.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition Revenue is defined as the value of goods and services rendered excluding VAT.
Revenue represents the value of work executed on construction contracts during the year and the sales value of properties where the ownership has been legally transferred to the purchaser.
The sales proceeds on properties taken in part exchange are not included in revenue.
Interests in joint ventures and investments A joint venture is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the venture.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of the results of joint ventures is reported in the income statement as part of the operating profit and the net investment disclosed in the balance sheet.
Revaluation gains are recognised in the income statement net of any relevant deferred tax.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
Where the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture.
Investments are carried in the balance sheet at cost less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of investments in excess of the Groups interest are not recognised.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold and leasehold properties are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets is charged to income.
Plant, machinery and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off cost or valuation of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Freehold property 2% per annum Leasehold property period of the lease Fixtures and equipment between 10% and 33% per annum Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed and updated annually.
44 Principal accounting policies For the year ended 31 December 2005 Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation, is stated at its fair value at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Interest incurred on borrowings to finance specific developments is capitalised.
Construction contracts Revenue is recognised on construction contracts as work progresses and includes a proportion of attributable profit once the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty and at a percentage rate not exceeding that forecast at completion.
Losses anticipated in bringing a contract to completion are provided in full once they are foreseen.
Attributable pre-contract costs, incurred prior to the time that there is virtual certainty of future recovery, are expensed.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred, except for amounts referred to under inventories above.
Tax The tax expense represents the current tax and deferred tax charges.
The current tax payable is based on the Groups taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from reported profit in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups current tax liability is calculated using tax rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be paid or recovered on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and the corresponding tax bases used in tax computations and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and laws.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Leasing Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The lease liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Pensions The expense of defined benefit pension schemes is determined using the projected unit method and charged to the income statement based on actuarial assumptions at the beginning of the financial year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which they occur.
Net pension obligations are included in the balance sheet at the present value of the scheme liabilities, less the fair value of the scheme assets.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to staff managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
Share based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share Based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity settled and cash settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity settled share based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a modified Black-Scholes model.
None of these awards when granted was subject to a share price related performance condition.
A liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for cash settled, share based payments.
45 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Principal accounting policies For the year ended 31 December 2005 Financial instruments Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are used in joint ventures to hedge long-term interest rate risks.
Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments, interest rate swaps are stated in the balance sheet at fair value.
Where financial instruments are designated as a cash flow hedge and are deemed to be effective, gains and losses on re-measurement are recognised in equity.
When the financial instrument is determined to be no longer effective as a hedge, gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
IAS 39 has been applied from 1 January 2005 as permitted under the transition arrangements in IFRS 1.
Financial receivables Certain joint ventures financial receivables are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
The fair value is determined by discounting the future cash flows directly associated with the financial receivables at a risk-adjusted discount rate.
The change in fair value is recognised in equity.
