Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Principal accounting policies For the year ended 31 December 2005 Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed asset properties, pension assets and liabilities and share based payments and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
Compliance with SSAP 19 Accounting for Investment Properties requires departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 relating to the depreciation and an explanation is given below.
The Company Balance Sheet at 31 December 2004 has been restated following implementation of the following: FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, which requires the pension deficit to be recognised on the balance sheet: FRS 20 Share Based Payment, which has no impact on the net assets as the profit and loss account charge is offset by an equivalent amount credited to the equity reserve: and FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, which only requires recognition of a dividend as a liability once there is an obligation to pay.
Turnover Turnover is defined as the value of goods and services rendered excluding VAT.
Turnover represents the sales value of properties where the ownership has been legally transferred to the purchaser and management charges made to subsidiary companies.
Fixed asset investments Except as stated below, investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Fixed assets and depreciation By adopting FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets, non investment properties are now held at cost.
Under the transitional rules of the standard, the Company has frozen the book amounts of certain revalued properties and the valuation has been updated.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
On other assets depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation of fixed assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold property 2% per annum Leasehold property period of the lease Plant, machinery, motor vehicles and equipment between 10% and 33% per annum No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties which are revalued annually and the aggregate surplus or deficit is transferred to the revaluation reserve.
The Companies Act 1985 requires all properties to be depreciated, however this requirement conflicts with the generally accepted accounting principle set out in SSAP 19.
The directors consider that as these properties are not held for consumption, but for their investment potential, to depreciate them would not give a true and fair view and that it is necessary to adopt SSAP 19 in order to give a true and fair view.
If this departure from the Act had not been made, the profit for the financial year would have been reduced by depreciation.
However, the amount of depreciation cannot reasonably be quantified because depreciation is only one of many factors reflected in the annual valuation.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and laws.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
74 Principle accounting policies For the year ended 31 December 2005 Pensions The Company operated a funded defined benefit scheme for permanent employees.
This scheme is now a closed scheme as referred to in note 8 on pages 79 to 81.
Where an actuarial valuation gave rise to a surplus or deficit it is dealt with in accordance with the advice of the actuary.
Prior to the date of closure, costs of the pension scheme were charged to the profit and loss account over the expected service lives of the participating employees.
The Company contributes to the Morgan Sindall Retirement Benefits Plan and to other employees personal pension arrangements which are of a defined contribution type.
Subject to the circumstances referred to in note 8 on pages 79 to 81, the annual costs are charged to the profit and loss account.
FRS 17 Retirement Benefits has been adopted during the year and as a result the defined benefit pension scheme liability is now recognised on the balance sheet.
Share based payments The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share Based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity settled and cash settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity settled share based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a modified Black-Scholes model.
None of these awards when granted was subject to a share price related performance condition.
A liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for cash settled, share based payments.
Dividends The Company has adopted FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date and accordingly only recognises a liability once there is an obligation to pay.
As a result the dividend will only be recognised once the shareholders approve it.
