Morgan Sindall plc Proxy Form For use at the annual general meeting of Morgan Sindall plc.
To be held at the offices of College Hill, the Conference Room, 78 Cannon Street, London EC4N 6HH at 12.00pm on Tuesday 25 April 2006 Name: Please print Address: Please print I We, the undersigned, being a member s of Morgan Sindall plc, hereby appoint the chairman of the meeting or Name of proxy see Note 4 Please print: Address of proxy: Please print as my our proxy to vote for me us and on my our behalf at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on Tuesday 25 April 2006 and at any adjournment thereof.
I We direct the proxy to vote in respect of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting as indicated below note 1.
Signed Dated 2006 Ordinary Resolutions For Against Abstention 1 To receive and adopt the financial statements and the reports of the directors and the independent auditors for the year ended 31 December 2005 2 To declare a final dividend of 18.0p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2005 3 To reelect Paul Smith as a director 4 To reelect Jack Lovell as a director 5 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2005 6 To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent auditors 7 To authorise the directors to fix the independent auditors remuneration Ordinary Resolution 8 To authorise the directors to allot shares pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 Special Resolutions 9 To disapply the statutory preemption provisions pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 10 To amend the articles of association of the Company Notes 1.
Please indicate how you wish your proxy to vote on the resolutions by 4.
If you wish to appoint a proxy other than the chairman of the meeting, inserting X in the appropriate space.
If no indication of how the proxy delete the words the chairman of the meeting and insert the name and shall vote is given, the proxy will exercise discretion as to voting or address of your proxy in the space provided.
A proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, must attend the meeting in person to represent you.
In the case of a corporation the proxy must be under its common seal if any or the hand of its duly authorised agent or officer.
Completion of a proxy form will not prevent the members from attending and individual the proxy must be signed by the appointor or his agent, duly voting at the meeting in person should they so wish.
In the case of joint holders the signature of only one of the joint holders 3.
This proxy form has been sent to you by post.
It may be returned by either is required but, if more than one holder votes, the vote of the first named of the following methods: in hard copy form, by post or courier or by hand on the register of members will be accepted to the exclusion of other to the Company's registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, PO Box joint holders.
25, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: or, in 7.
The Company, pursuant to regulation 41 of The Uncertificated Securities the case of CREST members, by using the CREST electronic proxy Regulations 2001, specifies that only those members registered in the appointment service.
CREST members should refer to note 1 to the notice register of members of the Company 48 hours before the meeting shall be of annual general meeting enclosed with this proxy form in relation to the entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares submission of a proxy appointment via CREST.
registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant In each case the proxy appointment must be received not less than 48 register of securities after that time will be disregarded in determining the hours before the time for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
together except in the case of appointments utilising the CREST electronic appointment service with any authority or a notorially certified copy of such authority under which it is signed.
87 FIRST FOLD SECOND FOLD BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
MB122 11 Capita Registrars Proxy Department P. O.
Box 25 The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU THIRD FOLD Corporate directory Directors Share prices FT Cityline John Morgan The Companys share price 15 minutes delay is displayed Paul Smith on the Companys website.
David Mulligan The EPIC code as used in the Topic and Datastream Share Paul Whitmore Morgan Sindall plc is a top ten United Kingdom construction group Price information service is MGNS.
Bernard Asher non-executive employing over 5,000 people.
Our businesses operate within four Gill Barr non-executive Telephone share dealing service specialist divisions: Fit Out, Construction, Infrastructure Services Jon Walden non-executive Jack Lovell non-executive Details of a low cost telephone dealing service with and Affordable Housing.
The strength of the Group is derived from Stocktrade are available on the Companys website under this balance of activity and the ability to provide integrated solutions Company Secretary Investor Relations.
Mary Nettleship Electronic communications Registered office Shareholders may now view their shareholdings on line through the website of our registrars, Capita Registrars.
If 77 Newman Street, London, W1T 3EW you wish to view your shareholding, please log on to Tel: 020 7307 9200 www.
com and click on the link 'shareholder Fax: 020 7307 9201 services' then follow the instructions.
Registered No: 521970 The Company would also like to take advantage of recent Solicitors Fit Out changes to the law, which allows us to communicate with Fit Out operates through four businesses.
Overbury is the leading office fit out and refurbishment Charles Russell shareholders in electronic form.
If you would like to receive specialist and Morgan Lovell provides a complete office transformation service.
Vivid Interiors 810 New Fetter Lane, London, EC4 1RS future communications in this way, please register your email refurbishes and fits out hotel, retail, leisure and entertainment facilities.
Backbone Furniture address on the registrar's website, following the instructions supplies, refurbishes and installs commercial office furniture.
This form of communication offers a cost benefit to the Company and provides for an environmentally friendly Deloitte & Touche LLP way of communicating.
The Company would therefore 3 Victoria Square, Victoria Street, St Albans, AL1 3TF encourage as many of you as possible to make use of Construction this service.
Clearing bankers Bluestone is a national construction business operating through a network of local offices.
The business core expertise is in building for education, healthcare, industrial and Lloyds TSB Bank plc To use the service, you will need to confirm your surname, commercial organisations where it undertakes new build, refurbishment, smaller scale PO Box 17328, 1115 Monument Street, UK Post Code and Investor Code.
The Investor Code may works and maintenance projects under a variety of procurement routes.
London, EC3V 9JA be found on a recent share certificate, in the bottom right hand corner, or on the tax voucher for the forthcoming Brokers dividend payment.
Hoare Govett Ltd Infrastructure Services 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA Morgan Est is a national business undertaking a broad spectrum of infrastructure and utility Financial calendar projects.
It provides civil engineering, utility, tunnelling and mechanical electrical services Registrars Annual general meeting 25 April 2006 through all phases of a project from design to operation and maintenance.
Capita Registrars Final dividend: The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Exdividend date 5 April 2006 Kent, BR3 4TU Record date 7 April 2006 Payment date 5 May 2006 Shareholder communication Affordable Housing Enquiries and information: Lovell is the countrys leading provider of affordable housing, specialising in mixed tenure Interim results announcement August 2006 Please contact the company secretary and major refurbishment schemes.
It works in partnership with social housing providers at Email: mary.
co. uk the cutting edge of urban regeneration to create sustainable communities.
co. uk Printed by Folium Financial & Security Printers, Birmingham 89 annual report & accounts 2005 report and accounts 2005 Morgan Sindall plc, 77 Newman Street, London W1T 3EW Tel: 020 7307 9200 Fax: 020 7307 9201 Visit our website at morgansindall.
