N Brown Group plc 40 Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies of the group are set out below and are consistent with the previous year as amended for the requirments of UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts referred to in note 13. a Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with United Kingdom applicable accounting standards.
b Accounting period Throughout the accounts, the notes to the accounts and the directors report and financial review, reference to 2005 means at 26 February 2005 or the 52 weeks then ended: reference to 2004 means at 28 February 2004 or the 52 weeks then ended.
c Basis of consolidation The group accounts consolidate the accounts of the company, all of its subsidiary undertakings, the Employee Share Ownership Trust and the No.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trust the employee trusts which are made up to a date co-terminous with the financial period of the parent company.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method.
All unrealised internal profits are eliminated on consolidation where material.
d Turnover Turnover represents the total amount receivable in the ordinary course of business for goods and services supplied and-excludes VAT and intra-group sales.
e Tangible fixed assets and finance leases Land and buildings are stated at original cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment as set out in note 15.
Other fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Computer software costs relating to major projects are capitalised.
Assets held under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets at a value equal to the original cost incurred by the lessor less depreciation, and obligations to the lessor are shown as part of creditors.
The interest element is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
f Depreciation No depreciation is charged on freehold land.
Depreciation of all other tangible fixed assets is calculated so as to write off the cost to their estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives.
In this respect the following annual depreciation rates apply: freehold buildings 2% of cost.
leasehold property and improvements equal annual amounts over the unexpired years of the lease.
computer equipment and software 20% of cost.
plant and machinery and rental assets between 5% and 20% of cost.
all other tangible fixed assets between 10% and 20% of cost.
g Capitalisation of interest Interest incurred on funding for major capital projects is capitalised as part of the cost of the assets up to the time that they come into use.
The interest rate applied is calculated by reference to the actual rate payable on borrowings utilised for the project.
h Web site development costs Design and content development costs are capitalised only to the extent that they lead to the creation of an enduring asset delivering benefits at least as great as the amount capitalised.
If there is insufficient evidence on which to base reasonable estimates of the economic benefits that will be generated in the period until the design and content are next updated, the costs of developing the design and content are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
N Brown Group plc 41 Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies continued i Goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, representing any excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period which the group expects to derive an economic benefit, which is currently twenty years.
Provision is made for impairment.
Purchased goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 March 1998 was charged against reserves in the year of acquisition in accordance with the accounting standard then in force.
As permitted by the current accounting standard the goodwill previously written off to reserves has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
Any goodwill previously charged against reserves will be written back through the profit and loss account in the year of disposal.
Other intangible fixed assets are capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period which the group expects to derive economic benefit, which can be up to five years.
j Investments In the company accounts, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
N Brown Group plc shares held by the employee trusts are stated at cost.
Other listed investments are included in the balance sheet at-their midmarket value on the relevant balance sheet date.
Surpluses or deficits arising on revaluations are reflected by a movement on the revaluation reserve, which is non-distributable.
k Operating lease rentals Assets leased from third parties under operating leases are accounted for by charging costs to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease.
l Stocks Stocks have been valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value means estimated selling price less all costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
m Taxation Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Groups taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
n Treasury and foreign currency The group uses financial instruments to hedge a portion of its interest and foreign currency exposure.
Profits and losses on financial instruments are recognised in the profit and loss account as they arise.
A more detailed description of the groups treasury policy is given in the financial review.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Other transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
All-resulting exchange differences are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and the results of overseas operations are reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account.
o Pension costs The group operates a number of pension schemes.
Money purchase scheme contributions are charged against profits as they accrue.
Contributions in respect of the defined benefits scheme are charged to the profit and loss account, based on the advice of an independent actuary, to spread the expected cost of providing pensions over the employees working lives within the scheme, and further details are given in note 33.
