N Brown Group plc 21 Report and Accounts 2005 Directors report Pension fund The group continues to ensure that the N Brown Group Pension Fund is managed in accordance with best practice and current legislation, including the Pensions Act 1995.
The funds assets are administered by a trustee company which is controlled by a board of directors, all of whom have a vested interest in the performance of the fund, representing the interests of pension fund members, pensioners and N Brown Group plc.
The funds investments are managed by Deutsche Asset Management Limited and Legal and General Assurance Pensions Management Limited and the actuarial and administration services are provided by William M Mercer Limited.
The last actuarial valuation of the fund was completed in 2003 and its results are disclosed in note 33 on page 53.
The N Brown Group Pension Fund was closed to new entrants with effect from 31 January 2002.
New employees joining the group after 31 January 2002 and existing employees who had not joined the N Brown Group Pension Fund as at that date, are entitled to join a stakeholder pension scheme providing a defined contribution pension arrangement, administered by Prudential Stakeholder Pensions.
Tax status The company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting on 21 July 2005.
By order of the board Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor Secretary 10 May 2005 Statement of directors responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and of the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
