N Brown Group plc 40 Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies of the group are set out below and are consistent with the previous year as amended for the requirments of UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts referred to in note 13. a Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with United Kingdom applicable accounting standards.
b Accounting period Throughout the accounts, the notes to the accounts and the directors report and financial review, reference to 2005 means at 26 February 2005 or the 52 weeks then ended: reference to 2004 means at 28 February 2004 or the 52 weeks then ended.
c Basis of consolidation The group accounts consolidate the accounts of the company, all of its subsidiary undertakings, the Employee Share Ownership Trust and the No.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trust the employee trusts which are made up to a date co-terminous with the financial period of the parent company.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method.
All unrealised internal profits are eliminated on consolidation where material.
d Turnover Turnover represents the total amount receivable in the ordinary course of business for goods and services supplied and-excludes VAT and intra-group sales.
e Tangible fixed assets and finance leases Land and buildings are stated at original cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment as set out in note 15.
Other fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Computer software costs relating to major projects are capitalised.
Assets held under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets at a value equal to the original cost incurred by the lessor less depreciation, and obligations to the lessor are shown as part of creditors.
The interest element is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
f Depreciation No depreciation is charged on freehold land.
Depreciation of all other tangible fixed assets is calculated so as to write off the cost to their estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives.
In this respect the following annual depreciation rates apply: freehold buildings 2% of cost.
leasehold property and improvements equal annual amounts over the unexpired years of the lease.
computer equipment and software 20% of cost.
plant and machinery and rental assets between 5% and 20% of cost.
all other tangible fixed assets between 10% and 20% of cost.
g Capitalisation of interest Interest incurred on funding for major capital projects is capitalised as part of the cost of the assets up to the time that they come into use.
The interest rate applied is calculated by reference to the actual rate payable on borrowings utilised for the project.
h Web site development costs Design and content development costs are capitalised only to the extent that they lead to the creation of an enduring asset delivering benefits at least as great as the amount capitalised.
If there is insufficient evidence on which to base reasonable estimates of the economic benefits that will be generated in the period until the design and content are next updated, the costs of developing the design and content are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
