Shareholder Information REGISTRAR For information about your shareholding or dividends and to report a change of address, you should contact the Registrar at: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Shareholder helpline number: 0870 601 5366 DIVIDENDS PAID DIRECT TO YOUR BANK ACCOUNT Having dividends paid direct to your bank account avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the post and saves you time in presenting the cheque for payment.
The dividend is credited to your account on the payment date and the tax voucher is sent to your registered address at the same time.
To set up a new dividend mandate please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars as above.
SHAREHOLDER ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Log on to www.
co. uk if you would like to: check the balance of your shareholding register your e-mail so that future shareholder information, including the annual report and accounts, are sent to you electronically: or submit your vote on-line prior to a general meeting.
To sign up for the first time you should click on Register now and follow the simple instructions you will need your shareholder reference number from your share certificate or dividend voucher.
COMPANY WEBSITE The company website at www.
com has information about the Group, press releases, share price data and copies of the interim and Annual Report and Accounts.
SHARE DEALING SERVICE A telephone and internet share dealing service, which provides a simple way to buy and sell shares, has been arranged through Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For further information log on to www.
SHAREGIFT ShareGift is an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which make it uneconomic to sell them, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from www.
UNCLAIMED ASSETS REGISTER The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register UAR which provides a search facility for shareholdings and other financial assets that may have been forgotten.
For further information contact UAR, Bain House, 16 Connaught Place, London W2 2ES Tel: 0870 241 1713 or visit www.
