How We Operate Our principles Delivering quality, accessible, value for money services to high safety standards Continuously improving standards of punctuality and reliability Establishing Quality Partnerships with local authorities Integrating different modes of transport Reinvesting profits for long-term growth Our markets In the UK, we provide bus and train services for key stakeholders such as the Department for Transport, Transport for London and passenger transport executives.
Most of our UK Bus and Coach operations are unregulated, allowing us the freedom to develop our own operations.
Our Trains division is regulated and we receive government funding to run these valued public services.
However, we believe we can generate further passenger growth by investing in these operations.
In North America, our main customers are school boards for whom we provide school bus services.
In Spain, our customers are local and regional transport agencies.
We provide national and regional bus and coach services.
Our values Our Vision is Joining up people and places.
We do this by creating the best possible connections thinking of the whole journey from the moment our customers decide to travel and book their ticket to when they arrive at their ultimate destination.
We have four values: Easy and simple to do business with We form partnerships to help us deliver joined-up and stress-free travel.
We make our fares simpler and easier to purchase by promoting a wide choice of booking channels.
Taking the lead We have invested in new trains and our services to make our customers journeys safer, more comfortable and enjoyable.
We have also invested in state-of-the-art accessible coaches and in buses which are fitted with the latest CCTV technology in order to improve security.
Open and honest We aim to be straightforward in our communications and encourage our employees to be approachable at all times.
We welcome feedback from our customers and stakeholders and regularly conduct customer and employee surveys.
Working together Ours is a people business.
People talk to us and we listen.
We recognise that new ideas are best produced by working together as partners.
