Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of the Company, National Express Group PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of National BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 20.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an audited.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, We have reported separately on the group financial statements of and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005. circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the for the opinions we have formed.
parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the OPINION Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial In our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Practice as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and 2005: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the parent company financial statements and the part of the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company Ernst & Young LLP financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Registered auditor to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the London Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the 9 March 2006 Directors Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Statement, the Finance Review, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Directors responsibilities for the accounts, the unaudited part of the Report on Directors remuneration and the Directors Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
