Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of NEXT plc will be held at One Great George Street, Westminster, London, SW1P 3AA on Wednesday 18 May 2005 at 11.00 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 10 as Ordinary Resolutions and 11 to 14 as Special Resolutions.
Ordinary business 1 To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for the period ended 29 January 2005.
2 To approve the remuneration report for the period ended 29 January 2005.
3 To declare a final dividend of 28p per share in respect of the period ended 29 January 2005.
4 To elect Jonathan Dawson as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
5 To elect Christine Cross as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
6 To re-elect Simon Wolfson as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
7 To re-elect Andrew Varley as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
8 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Biographies of directors seeking re-election are shown on page 9 of the Annual Report.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 9 and 10 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 11 to 14 as Special Resolutions.
9 Management share option plan excluding directors a That the Next Management Share Option Plan the Plan, the main features of which are summarised in Appendix 1 on pages 57 to 58 and a copy of which is produced to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for identification, be and is hereby approved and the directors are hereby authorised to take any action as they consider necessary to implement the Plan: b That the directors are hereby authorised to establish plans based on the Plan as they consider appropriate for employees resident outside the UK, having regard to local tax and securities laws and exchange controls provided that any awards granted under those plans shall be treated as granted under the Plan for the purpose of the individual and overall limits on participation.
10 Authority to allot shares under Section 80 Companies Act 1985 That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in the said Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,500,000 such authority to expire on 18 May 2010 but to be capable of previous revocation or variation by the Company in general meeting and of renewal from time to time by the Company in general meeting for a further period not exceeding five years provided that: a the Company may make any offer or agreement before the expiry of this authority that would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after this authority has expired: and b all previous authorities to allot securities conferred by resolution of the Company pursuant to Section 80 of the Act or otherwise be and they are hereby revoked to the extent that they have not been previously utilised.
54 Notice of Meeting 11 Authority to allot shares under Section 95 Companies Act 1985 That the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, in substitution for any existing authority to allot relevant securities, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 set out in the Notice of this Meeting for cash and sell relevant shares as defined in Section 94 of the Act held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in Section 162A of the Act for cash, as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem fit to deal with fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,300,000 being less than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at 21 March 2005 and shall expire on 18 May 2010 save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
12 On-market purchase of own shares That in accordance with Article 46 of the Articles of Association of the Company and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares provided that the authority conferred by this resolution shall: i be limited to the lesser of 39,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limit to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to the authority granted at resolution 13 below: ii the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p per ordinary share: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount not more than 5 per cent over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire on whichever is the earlier of: a 18 months after the date on which this resolution is passed, and b the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2006: v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
55 Notice of Meeting 13 Contingent contracts and off-market share purchases That, for the purposes of Sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the proposed programme agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG in the form produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification the Programme Agreements be and are hereby approved and the Company be and is hereby authorised to enter into the Programme Agreements and all and any contingent forward trades which may be effected or made from time to time under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the contingent off-market purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each for cancellation, as more fully described in Appendix 2 on pages 58 to 59 the authority conferred by this special resolution to expire on whichever is the earlier of 18 months after the date on which this resolution is passed and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2006, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under any contingent forward trade effected or made before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under the general authority granted under resolution 12 above.
14 Change in Articles of Association That the existing Article 141 of the Companys Articles of Association be deleted and replaced with the new Article 141 set out below: 141 Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may: a indemnify any person who is or was a director, directly or indirectly including by funding any expenditure incurred or to be incurred by the director, against any loss or liability, whether in connection with any proven or alleged negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust by him or otherwise, in relation to the Company or any associated company: and or b purchase and maintain insurance for any person who is or was a director against any loss or liability or any expenditure he may incur, whether in connection with any proven or alleged negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust by him or otherwise, in relation to the Company or any associated company.
For the purposes of this article, associated company has the same meaning as in Section 309A of the Act.
A J R McKinlay, Secretary Registered Office Desford Road, Enderby Leicester, LE19 4AT 13 April 2005 56 Notice of Meeting APPENDIX 1 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 9: NEXT MANAGEMENT SHARE OPTION PLAN The Companys management share option scheme, established in 1995 for a 10 year period, expires in May 2005.
Since 1997, NEXT has operated three share incentive schemes for its staff.
Executive directors and senior management participate in a shareholder approved long-term incentive plan LTIP, middle management and senior store staff are granted options under the current management share option scheme and a Sharesave scheme is open to all employees, including executive directors.
Management options are granted annually to employees at the discretion of the Board and are exercisable between three and ten years following grant.
The 2004 grant was typical in that options over approximately 1.85m shares were granted to 874 employees.
The scheme has proven to be a very effective incentive to NEXTs middle management and senior store employees, who have contributed significantly to the success of the Company over the last decade, and shareholder approval is now sought to replace the current scheme.
From the start of the LTIP in 1997, NEXTs policy has been that no management share options are granted in the same year to any individual who participates in its LTIP.
This policy is to be incorporated into the rules of the replacement plan and directors would also be excluded from participating whether or not they received LTIP awards.
Participation will continue to be focussed on middle and store management who have a significant role in the implementation of Company strategy.
This is believed to have been a major factor in the retention of key staff and one of the reasons underlying the success of NEXT in recent years.
In many respects, the new plan represents a continuation of the existing arrangements.
Since the current scheme was introduced, there have been changes in what is perceived to be best practice for senior executive incentives.
The Remuneration Committee has had regard to these changes in designing the new plan.
However, since the directors and senior management will not participate in the new plan, certain of these best practice provisions are not considered appropriate.
A summary of the proposed plan is given below and copies of the draft rules will be available for inspection up to and including the date of the Annual General Meeting, as noted in the Directors Report on page 12.
SUMMARY OF THE PROPOSED NEXT MANAGEMENT SHARE OPTION PLAN the Plan Eligibility Employees excluding main board directors and senior executives who participate in the LTIP who are not within 6 months of their contractual retirement age will be eligible to participate at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Grant of options Options may normally be granted within the 6 weeks after the announcement by the Company of its results for any period.
Options can either be Inland Revenue approved where the beneficiary may qualify for tax relief or unapproved.
No options may be granted later than 10 years after approval of the Plan by shareholders.
Grants of options will be supervised by the Remuneration Committee which consists solely of non-executive directors.
No payment will be required for the grant of an option.
The maximum total market value of shares i. e. the acquisition price of shares over which options may be granted to any person during any financial year of the Company is 3 times salary, excluding bonuses and benefits in kind.
This limit may be increased to 5 times salary in circumstances considered by the Remuneration Committee to be exceptional, for example, on the grant of options following recruitment.
Acquisition price The Remuneration Committee shall decide before an option is granted the price at which shares may be acquired by the exercise of that option, but the price shall not be less than the middle-market quotation for an ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange on the dealing day immediately preceding the grant of the option.
Method of satisfying options The current intention is that existing rather than new issue shares will continue to be used to satisfy options in order to prevent dilution of shareholders interests.
The Company has not issued any new shares to satisfy share options in the last 10 years.
A facility to use new issue treasury shares has been incorporated in the rules should it be considered appropriate to use such shares in the future.
Limits on the issue of shares No options may be granted which would cause the number of new issue treasury shares, which have been or may be issued pursuant to options granted under all the Companys share option schemes in a 10 year period, to exceed 10 per cent of its ordinary share capital in issue at that time.
Furthermore, of this 10 per cent, not more than half i. e. 5 per cent may relate to share options other than savings related options.
Exercise of options performance conditions An option may normally be exercised only following satisfaction of a performance condition set by the Remuneration Committee.
An option will normally be exercisable between 3 and 10 years following its grant provided the relevant performance condition is satisfied.
The Plan will continue past practice of having an earnings per share based performance condition that allows options to be exercised in full when the condition is met.
Earnings per share growth must exceed growth in the Retail Price Index by 3% per year over a period of at least 3 years.
As the objective is to provide retentive, as well as incentive, grants to middle and store management, it is considered inappropriate to set targets and scales that are so complex as to devalue the benefit.
The Plan does not allow for retesting.
57 Notice of Meeting Options may be exercised in full, irrespective of the period for which they have been held, following cessation of employment due to redundancy, retirement, death or permanent disability or at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Options may also be exercised on a change of control, takeover, compulsory acquisition, scheme of arrangement, winding up or demerger.
In all these circumstances the performance condition will not apply.
The maximum period allowed for exercise after cessation of employment is generally 6 months.
Those employees who resign will generally lose their option rights.
Adjustment of options In the event of any variation of the share capital of the Company or on the occurrence of any other event similarly affecting the Companys share price, the Remuneration Committee may generally adjust the number of shares subject to options and the price payable on their exercise.
Alterations The Remuneration Committee may alter the Plan or the terms of any option.
However, the prior approval of shareholders must be obtained for alterations made to the advantage of participants in respect of provisions relating to eligibility, individual and overall limits, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, shares provided under the Plan, the adjustment of options for variations in capital and the alteration of the Plan.
The requirement to obtain prior approval of shareholders will not apply to a minor alteration to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment.
An alteration to the performance condition may also be made by the Remuneration Committee without shareholder approval so long as an event has occurred which causes the Remuneration Committee to consider that the condition would not, without alteration, achieve its original purpose and the altered condition will be not materially less difficult to satisfy than the unaltered condition would have been.
APPENDIX 2 EXPLANATORY NOTE ON RESOLUTION 13: CONTINGENT PURCHASE CONTRACTS By virtue of special resolution number 9 passed at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 13 May 2004, shareholder authority was given to the Company make on-market purchases of ordinary shares for cancellation.
This authority is limited to a maximum of 39 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the next AGM held in 2005 or 13 November 2005.
At an extraordinary general meeting on 29 November 2004, authority was granted to the Company to make off-market purchases of shares for cancellation under contingent purchase contracts entered into with Goldman Sachs International.
This authority was limited to a maximum of 6 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the next AGM to be held in 2005 or 29 April 2006.
Since the granting of those authorities, the Company has bought back 4,717,421 shares for cancellation, representing 1.8% of its issued share capital at 31 January 2004, at a total cost 69.2 million.
Of these purchases, 1,200,000 shares were brought pursuant to contingent purchase contracts at a total cost of 19.0 million.
Under Sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company is not permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent purchases of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder approval to the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, under the rules of the UK Listing Authority the Listing Rules the Company may not purchase its shares at a time when any director is in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information about the Company.
Accordingly, no purchases of shares would normally be made in periods when the directors might be in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information Close Periods.
Typically, these include the periods from the Companys half year end up to the announcement of its interim results in September and the January year end up to the announcement of full year results in March each year.
These Close Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares the Company is able to purchase.
In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase activities, the Company has previously entered into irrevocable and nondiscretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during Close Periods.
Another method of providing flexibility in its share purchase activities is for the Company to enter into further contingent forward purchase contracts outside of Close Periods.
The Company proposes to enter into an agreement with each of three banks the Programme Agreements, under which it may although it is not obliged to effect contingent forward trades Contingent Forward Trades or CFT from time to time.
Under the terms of each CFT, the Company may purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period of between 20 to 30 weeks.
The maximum number of shares that can be purchased under each CFT is limited to 50,000 shares per week.
Details of each CFT will be announced to shareholders on the day it is entered into by the Company.
Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the Companys share price not reaching a level set at the time that contract is entered into the Suspension Level.
The Suspension Level is determined by the Company and must be between 104% and 110% of the Companys share price as at the start of the CFT.
The price at which the Company may purchase shares during the term of a Contingent Forward Trade the Forward Price shall also be fixed at the start of the CFT.
The Forward Price is subject to a maximum of 99% of the share price at the start of the contract and a minimum of 10 pence the par value of a share.
This structure would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price as at the time each CFT commences, for so long as the Suspension Level is not reached, without breaching the Listing Rules.
If the Suspension Level is reached, the CFT would terminate automatically at that time and no further shares would be purchased under that contract.
In such circumstances, a reduced number of shares would be purchased by the Company for cancellation under that contract.
Under the provisions of Sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward Trades are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares by the Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 13, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks shareholder approval to the terms of the Programme Agreements to be entered into between the Company 58 Notice of Meeting and each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG the Bank s. A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be available at the AGM.
Copies will also be available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester LE19 4AT or at the offices of the Companys legal advisers, Eversheds, Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4JL until the date of the AGM and at the AGM itself.
The Programme Agreements will have a duration of the shorter of the period to the date of the next AGM or one year and will incorporate the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT will be effected outside a Close Period but shares may be purchased during a Close Period by the Company.
The minimum and maximum amount of time between a CFT being effected and shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks respectively.
Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT may be effected with the Banks at any time, provided that: the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 6 million, representing 2.3% of its issued share capital at 21 March 2005: the total cost of shares that the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority may not exceed 100 million including costs : the Forward Price may not exceed 105% of the average middle market closing price of the Companys shares as derived from the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five days immediately preceding the day on which the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share price at the time the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 0.10: and only one Contingent Forward Trade will be effected on any particular day.
Subject to the limits set out above, the Company will select the Suspension Level and the duration of each CFT, and the Forward Price will be determined by the relevant Bank.
Shares purchased via the Programme Agreements will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under any authority granted at the AGM on 18 May 2005 for on-market purchases.
No shares will be purchased under that authority on the same day that a CFT is entered into.
The authority granted to the Company under this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2006 or on 18 November 2006, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of shares under any CFT effected before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase of shares under the Programme Agreements will always be physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company except in the case of certain events of default or termination events.
The total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 21 March 2005 was 9,600,768.
This represents 3.7% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company was to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this special resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 21 March 2005 would represent 3.8% of the reduced issued share capital.
The directors will use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate financial gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
The directors will only purchase shares after taking into account the effect on earnings per share and the benefit for shareholders generally.
APPENDIX 3 EXPLANATORY NOTE ON RESOLUTION 14: CHANGES TO ARTICLE 141: INDEMNITIES The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 the Companies Audit Act relaxes the prohibition contained in Section 310 of the Companies Act 1985 in respect of companies indemnifying their directors against certain liabilities.
These amendments to the law on directors indemnities came into force on 6 April 2005.
At present, under Section 310, provisions in the Articles of Association of a company or in any contract with a company are void subject to certain limited exceptions if they seek to exempt a director, the company secretary or its auditors from liability, or indemnify such an officer or auditor against any such liability, for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust.
The changes made by the Companies Audit Act mean that the existing Section 310 prohibition will no longer apply to directors and other officers and will only apply to a companys auditors.
NEXTs current Memorandum of Association gives it the power to grant indemnities and does not need to be amended to reflect any changes.
In order to make the Articles of Association consistent with the new provisions of the Companies Act 1985, the Company proposes at resolution 14 that a new Article 141 replaces the existing Article 141.
The new Article is a permissive power that allows the Company to indemnify its directors and former directors and those of its associated companies subject to those provisions.
Under the revised Article the Company would generally be able to grant indemnities and there would not be any limits on this power.
However the Company must comply with the new provisions in the Companies Act 1985, namely that: no indemnity may be given to a director of another group company if the indemnity would be unlawful if given by the group company of which the individual is a director: in the case of liabilities arising from actions brought by third parties, both the costs of the director and of the third party and any damages may, subject to certain exclusions, be paid by the Company even if the judgement goes against the director: 59 Notice of Meeting in the case of liabilities owing to the Company, the Company will not be able to indemnify a director against damages awarded to the Company itself but may pay directors defence costs as they are incurred although a director would be liable to repay his defence costs if his defence was to be unsuccessful : the Company will not be permitted to indemnify directors against criminal fines, fines by regulators or the legal costs of successful criminal proceedings against directors: indemnities permitted by the new provisions must be disclosed in the Directors Report in the annual accounts and made available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The new Article 141 will require an indemnity in favour of a director to be dealt with by a contractual arrangement between the Company and the relevant director.
The entry into of such an arrangement will be subject to review by the Board of Directors of the Company.
The Board does not currently intend to make use of the ability to enter into such an arrangement.
A copy of the proposed amended Articles of Association that reflect the above change is available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT up until the date of the AGM and at the meeting itself.
Attendance and voting All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Members who are entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him, and a proxy need not also be a member.
A proxy may vote on any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
If you do not intend being present at the meeting please sign and return it so as to reach the Companys registrar at least 48 hours before the meeting.
The return by a member of a fully completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 1am on 17 May 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 1am on 17 May 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
This year, all special business resolutions will be put to poll votes.
This means that the votes of all shareholders, including those who cannot attend the meeting but who submit a Proxy Form, are counted.
The procedures for the poll votes will be explained at the AGM.
In respect of resolution 13 on contingent share purchase contracts, the Companies Act 1985 provides that this resolution will not be effective if any member of the Company holding shares to which it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant to the Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights carried by any of those shares in voting on the special resolution and the resolution would not have been passed if he had not done so.
Therefore, NEXT intends to disregard the poll votes which have been cast in favour of resolution 13 attaching to 6 million shares being the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to the Programme Agreements from both the total number of votes cast in favour of this resolution and the total number of votes cast.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2005 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Directors service contracts Copies of directors contracts of service are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during the usual business hours and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Meeting.
