Investor information Shareholder services and helpline Dividend mandates Shareholders who change address, or who want to have their Shareholders may choose to have dividends paid electronically into dividends paid directly into their bank account should write to their UK bank or building society account, using the BACS system.
the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, at The Pavilions, This process ensures that the amount of the dividend is passed Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH.
If they require some other directly into their account, as cleared funds, on the date the payment information about their holding, shareholders can contact the is due.
Confirmation of payment is contained in a dividend tax voucher Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC on the dedicated which is posted to shareholders registered addresses at the time Northern Foods shareholder information telephone line: 0870 702 0134 of payment.
This voucher should be kept safely for future reference.
or email their enquiry, indicating that they are a Northern Foods shareholder, to web.
Any shareholder wishing to adopt this method of payment should complete a dividend mandate form, which can be found attached Shareholder information on the internet to the last dividend warrant.
Alternatively, a form can be downloaded The Northern Foods website: www.
com provides access from the Registrars website or requested by calling the above to shareholder information, including our annual and interim reports, telephone helpline on 0870 702 0134. share price and recent share price trends, financial highlights and results presentations to analysts, as well as a link to the Registrar, Capital gains tax Computershare Investor Services PLC at www.
The base cost of a Northern Foods ordinary share at 31 March 1982 for capital gains tax purposes is 75.8 pence.
This figure is the adjusted The link to our Registrar allows shareholders to access their individual price to reflect the effect of the rights issue in January 1992, the shareholder details.
These details are protected and shareholders will be one-for-one capitalisation issue in August of the same year, and required to pass an identity check to access their personal information.
the demerger of Express Dairies plc now Arla Foods UK plc on This link also allows shareholders to download stock transfer, dividend 30 March 1998. mandate and change of address forms.
Any gain arising on disposal may also need to be adjusted to take Electronic proxy voting account of indexation allowances and, since these adjustments will Shareholders wishing to appoint a proxy electronically via the internet depend on individual circumstances, shareholders are recommended should refer to the instructions contained in the circular sent to to consult their financial advisers.
70 Investor information Northern Foods plc
