Accounting policies Basis of accounting Goodwill The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention except Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of for the revaluation of properties which is incorporated in the accounts.
the separable net tangible assets at the date of acquisition of newly acquired businesses or subsidiary undertakings, is recorded as an The accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable UK intangible fixed asset under FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
In the absence of indications to the contrary, purchased goodwill is amortised over 20 years.
Prior to the implementation of FRS 10, the During the year ended 2 April 2005 the group has adopted UITF groups policy was to write off all goodwill directly to reserves.
On Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
This requires a companys disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, the attributable own shares in an ESOP trust to be shown as a deduction in shareholders amount of goodwill previously written off to reserves is included in funds rather than as an asset.
Prior year comparatives have been determining the profit or loss on disposal.
restated to comply with UITF Abstract 38 as explained in note 25.
Fixed assets A summary of the more important group accounting policies, applied Fixed assets are valued at cost or valuation, less any provision for consistently, is set out below: impairment, with subsequent additions at cost.
Surpluses arising from the revaluation of properties are taken directly to reserves.
Basis of consolidation Net revaluation surpluses realised in respect of properties sold Accounts of all subsidiary undertakings are consolidated for the are transferred from the revaluation reserve to retained earnings.
periods during which they were members of the group.
All principal companies in the group prepared accounts to 2 April 2005.
Associated The group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of undertakings are dealt with on an equity accounting basis.
FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets and retained the book amounts of certain freehold properties which were revalued prior to implementation Turnover of that standard.
The properties were last revalued in 1978 and the Turnover consists of sales to third parties net of trade discounts valuations have not subsequently been updated.
and excluding VAT and sales related taxes.
Sales are recognised as products are despatched.
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and the outstanding instalments, exclusive of interest, Foreign currencies are included in creditors.
Interest is charged to the profit and loss Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange account in proportion to the outstanding amount.
at the date of transaction, or if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are expressed Interest incurred on borrowings to finance construction of fixed in sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, assets is capitalised up to the date of commissioning.
or if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account Results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at an on a straight line basis over the lease term.
average rate for the year and the balance sheet translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences arising Depreciation on consolidation are taken directly to reserves.
Any other exchange Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other fixed assets are generally differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
written off in equal annual instalments over their expected useful lives as follows: Stocks These are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost Buildings 20-50 years includes an addition for production overheads where appropriate.
or over the remaining life of the lease if shorter Plant & equipment 5-15 years Motor vehicles 4-10 years Northern Foods plc Accounting policies 47 Accounting policies continued Government grants Pension benefits Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are credited The costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits to deferred income and are released to the profit and loss account are charged to the profit and loss account on a consistent basis over over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets by equal annual the service lives of employees.
Such costs are calculated by reference instalments.
Grants of a revenue nature are credited to the profit to actuarial valuations and variations from such regular costs are and loss account so as to match them with the expenditure to which spread over the remaining service lives of the current employees.
Associates Taxation In the group accounts, investments are accounted for using the equity Current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is provided method.
The consolidated profit and loss account includes the groups at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and share of associates profits less losses, while the groups share of net laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance assets of the associates is shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is accounted for in accordance with the policy set out above.
Any unamortised balance of Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that goodwill is included in the carrying value of investments in associates.
have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax Financial instruments in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options are used to at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between hedge foreign transactional cash flows and accordingly any gains and the groups taxable profits and its results as stated in the accounts losses on these contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments when the underlying transaction is settled.
in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the accounts.
To the extent that a forward foreign exchange contract is not a hedge, any resulting gain or loss is taken to the profit and loss Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued unless, account.
The company does not hedge against translation.
by the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to sell the revalued assets and the gain or loss expected to arise on sale has Amounts payable or receivable in respect of any interest rate swap been recognised in the accounts.
Neither is deferred tax recognised agreements used to manage interest rate exposures are recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a discounted basis to reflect the time value of money over the period between the balance sheet date and the dates on which it is estimated that the underlying timing differences will reverse.
The discount rates used reflect the post-tax yields to maturity that can be obtained on government bonds with similar maturity dates and currencies to those of the deferred tax liabilities.
48 Accounting policies Northern Foods plc
