53 Ordinary 10 pence shares required to fulfil LTIP awards that have vested will be provided by Northumbrian Water Group plc Employee Trust through Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited.
The Trustees are Sir Patrick Brown, Martin Ngre and Richard Allan a director of NWL.
The Trustees are regarded for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985 as being interested in the shares of the Trust, which at 31 March 2005 held a total of 681,296 ordinary 10 pence shares.
In line with ABI guidelines, dividends are waived on these shares, and the voting rights attached to these shares will not be exercised at the AGM.
The shares held in the Trust represent a percentage of the total number of shares awarded under the LTIP to hedge against its potential obligation to provide shares for awards which vest.
Directors interests in shares under the Share Incentive Plan audited information The directors who held office as at 31 March 2005 had the following interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, 1 purchased and held in accordance with the terms of the SIP.
Number of SIP shares held at the start of Number of Number of the year or SIP shares SIP shares subsequent held as at held as at date of 31 March 7 June 2 2 appointment 2005 2005 John Cuthbert 1,716 2,780 Chris Green 1,716 2,780 Notes: 1.
A summary of the SIP can be found in the directors report on page 42.
This figure includes the shares paid for by the participant and the free shares granted by the Company.
This directors remuneration report, which has been produced in accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 as introduced by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Company Secretary.
It will be put to the shareholders for approval at the Companys AGM.
Martin Parker Company Secretary 7 June 2005 Directors responsibilities Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of each accounting period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that accounting period.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to: select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: state whether applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05
