Notes to the Accounts On contracts involving a combination of products and services, revenue is 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES recognised separately on each deliverable in accordance with the above Accounting convention policy, unless all deliverables are considered to be interdependent when The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in revenue is recognised on final acceptance.
accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The Group has followed the transitional arrangements of FRS17 Retirement Benefits in these On major contracts extending over more than one accounting period, accounts.
revenue is taken based on the stage of completion when the outcome of the contract can be foreseen with reasonable certainty and after allowing Change in accounting policy for costs to completion.
The Group adopted, in 2005, the requirements of Urgent Issues Task Force UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
UITF Abstract 38 gives a Where equipment and software licences are sold on deferred payment prior year adjustment, details of which are given in note 24.
As required terms that include a financing element, the present value of the amounts by Financial Reporting Standard FRS 3 Reporting Financial Performance, receivable, after calculating a deduction for maintenance, is recognised in comparative figures for 2004 have been restated.
Interest income arising, which represents the turnover from this financing operation, is included in revenue.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company and Where equipment in an equipment lease or the interest in a software each of its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 30 April 2005. licence is sold to a finance company which then leases the equipment or Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been licences the software to a customer, revenue is taken on the sales value adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings after deferral of income for future maintenance, where applicable.
acquired or disposed of during the year are included from the date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
Under Section 230 4 of Provision for maintenance on equipment or software licences sold to the Companies Act 1985, the Company is exempt from the requirement to finance companies as described above is released to revenue over the present its own profit and loss account.
The related interest is charged to profit over the same period and represents a constant proportion of the balance Goodwill outstanding.
For acquisitions completed after 1 January 1998, purchased goodwill, representing the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration Stocks over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value included within intangible fixed assets and is amortised over the estimated after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
life for each separate acquisition.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 remains eliminated against reserves.
This goodwill is Depreciation and Amortisation recycled and charged or credited in the profit and loss account on the Depreciation amortisation is provided on all intangible and tangible fixed subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates.
assets, other than land, at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over its estimated useful life Investments in years as follows: In the Companys accounts, investments in subsidiary and associate undertakings are stated at cost unless, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment to their value in which case they are Goodwill 5-20 years immediately written down to their estimated recoverable amount.
Freehold buildings 50 years In the consolidated accounts, shares in associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition Fixtures and fittings 2-10 years of an associate is capitalised as part of the carrying amount in the consolidated balance sheet and amortised over its estimated useful life.
Purchased software 2-5 years Other fixed asset investments are shown at cost less any provision for Short leasehold improvements Life of the lease impairment.
Plant and office equipment 2-10 years Recognition of revenue Revenue on the outright sale of equipment and standard software, where Motor vehicles 4 years no significant vendor obligations exist, is recognised on despatch.
Revenue on non-standard software or where significant vendor obligations exist, is Equipment held for leasing 4 years recognised on customer acceptance.
Revenue from professional services project management, implementation and training is recognised as the services are performed.
Revenue from software support and hardware maintenance agreements is recognised rateably over the term of the agreement.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 37 Notes to the Accounts continued Financial instruments 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Derivative instruments utilised by the Group are interest rate collars.
The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
All such Foreign currencies instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of an Assets, liabilities, revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies are existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk recorded at the rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences thus arising are Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of reported as part of the result for the year.
exchange at the date of the transaction.
At the balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are On consolidation, the results of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the translated at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
average rates ruling during the year.
The assets and liabilities are translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and profits of overseas subsidiaries to the rates ruling at the balance sheet date are taken to reserves.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS19.
Research and development Expenditure on research and development is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Pensions The Group operates various defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The amounts charged to the profit and loss account represent the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
The Group also operates two defined benefit pension schemes.
Associated costs are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the employees' working lives within the Group.
The regular cost is attributed to individual years using the projected unit method.
Variations in pension cost which are identified as a result of actuarial valuations are amortised over the expected remaining working lives of employees.
Differences between the amounts charged to the profit and loss account and the amounts funded are treated as either provisions or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Under the revised terms of FRS17, the Company is required to adopt alternative accounting for its defined benefit scheme by the year ending 30 April 2006.
In accordance with the transitional arrangements under FRS17, note 28 includes additional balance sheet disclosures.
Leases Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and the outstanding future lease obligations are shown in creditors.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
