Notes to the Accounts continued c Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The carrying amounts of all financial assets and financial liabilities are not materially different from their estimated fair values.
d Hedging The effect of the Groups two interest collar arrangements is to limit the risk to the Group of fluctuating interest rates: i On 26 September 2003, the Group took out a collar arrangement in respect of the funding for the purchase of the freehold of the Groups headquarters.
The arrangement commenced with a notional principal sum of 12.0 million, reducing quarterly over a 10 year period.
Interest is payable on the notional sum at a rate equal to the three month LIBOR rate as at each quarterly reset date, and is capped at 6% with a floor of 4.37%.
The arrangement ceases in September 2013.
The effect of the arrangement is to limit interest payable on the part of the bank loans equal to the notional principal to a range between the cap rate and the floor rate.
ii On 3 February 2004, the Group took out a second collar arrangement in respect of borrowings to assist in funding the purchase of Rebus HR Group Limited and with the Groups working capital and other requirements.
The arrangement commenced with a notional principal sum of 20.0 million, reducing to 16.0 million on 3 February 2005 and 7.0 million on 3 February 2006.
Interest is payable on the notional sum at a rate equal to the three month LIBOR rate as at each quarterly reset date on the notional sum, and is capped at 5% with a floor of 4.25%.
The arrangement ceases in February 2007.
The effect of the arrangement is to limit interest payable on the part of the bank borrowings equal to the notional principal to a range between the cap rate and the floor rate.
e Foreign currency profile The Group has some transactional currency exposures.
Such exposures mainly arise from sales or purchases in currencies other than the Groups functional currencies.
These exposures represent less than 5% of the turnover of the Group.
Based on current levels of exposure, the Group believes that this risk is generally manageable without the need for hedging of these transactions.
The Group has the ability, where it is considered appropriate on a case-by-case basis, for significant individual transactions to enter into forward foreign currency contracts.
There were no forward foreign currency contracts undertaken in the year 2004: none.
The table below sets out monetary assets and liabilities held in the Groups non-functional currencies.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of these assets and liabilities are taken to the profit and loss account of the Group companies and the Group.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS During the year, the Group purchased goods and services in the ordinary course of business from Rave Technologies India Private Limited, an associated undertaking, at a cost of 549,000.
