NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16 Derivative financial instruments 2005 2005 All gures in millions Assets Liabilities Interest rate derivatives in a fair value hedging relationship 31 16 Interest rate derivatives not in a hedging relationship 18 6 Cross currency rate derivatives in a net investment hedging relationship 13 Cross currency rate derivatives not in a hedging relationship 21 83 22 Analysed as: Non-current 79 22 Current expiring in less than 1 year 4 83 22 The fair value of the above derivative financial instruments is the same as the carrying value.
The Groups portfolio of derivatives is diversied by maturity, counterparty and type.
Natural offsets between transactions within the portfolio and the designation of certain derivatives as hedges, signicantly reduces the risk of income statement volatility.
Counterparty exposure from derivatives is managed, together with that from deposits and bank account balances, within credit limits that reect published credit ratings to ensure that there is no significant risk to any one counterparty.
No single derivative transaction had a market value positive or negative at the balance sheet date that exceeded 3% of the Groups consolidated total equity.
At the year end the Group had received an amount of 43m equivalent as collateral under a mark-to-market agreement.
This reected the amount, at market rates prevailing at the end of October 2005, owed to the Group by the counterparty for a set of three related derivatives.
Under these the Group is due to exchange $209m for a204m in February 2007.
There are no restrictions on the Groups use of these funds, which have been recorded in borrowings as a current bank loan.
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the Group has reviewed all its material contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements, and has concluded that there are no material embedded derivatives.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005
