NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General information When preparing the Groups 2005 consolidated Pearson plc the Company and its subsidiaries financial statements, management has amended together the Group are involved in the provision of certain accounting, valuation and consolidation information for the educational sector, consumer methods applied in the UK GAAP financial statements publishing and business information.
The comparative gures in respect of 2004 and 2003 were restated to reect The Company is a limited liability company these adjustments.
incorporated and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered ofce is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
Note 34 describes how, in preparing these consolidated financial statements, the Directors have applied The Company has its primary listing on the London accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU Stock Exchange but is also listed on the New York under the first-time adoption provisions as set out Stock Exchange.
These consolidated financial statements were These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on prepared under the historical cost convention.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity 1 Accounting policies with IFRS requires the use of certain critical The principal accounting policies applied in the accounting estimates.
It also requires management to preparation of these consolidated financial statements exercise its judgement in the process of applying the are set out below.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas a.
Basis of preparation where assumptions and estimates are significant to the These consolidated financial statements have consolidated financial statements, are disclosed below been prepared in accordance with EU-adopted in Critical accounting assumptions and judgements.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Interpretations and amendments to published Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those standards effective in 2005 parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to The following amendments and interpretations to companies reporting under IFRS.
standards are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005: IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied in preparing IFRIC 2 Members Shares in Co-operative Entities these financial statements.
These consolidated financial and Similar Instruments: statements are the Groups first financial statements to SIC 12 Amendment Consolidation Special be prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Purpose Entities: and EU.
IAS 39 Amendment Transition and Recognition of The policies set out below have been consistently Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
applied to all the years presented, with the exception of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Management assessed the relevance of these Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: amendments and interpretations with respect to the Recognition and Measurement which have been Groups operations and concluded that they are not applied with effect from 1 January 2005. relevant to the Group.
Consolidated financial statements of Pearson plc until 31 December 2004 had been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
UK GAAP differs in certain respects from IFRS.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources effective from 1 January 2006 : Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective IFRIC 5 Rights of Interests arising from Certain new standards, amendments and Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental interpretations to existing standards have been Rehabilitation Funds effective from 1 January published that are mandatory for the Groups 2006 : and accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a 2006 or later periods but which the Group has not Specic Market Waste Electrical and Electronic early adopted.
These are as follows: Equipment effective from 1 December 2005.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective from 1 January 2007.
Consolidation disclosures of qualitative and quantitative information 1 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over about exposure to risks arising from financial which the Group has the power to govern the financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures and operating policies generally accompanying a about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date A complementary amendment to IAS 1 Presentation on which control is transferred to the Group and are of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures effective fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures about the level of an entitys The purchase method of accounting is used to account capital and how it manages capital.
Management is for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
currently assessing the impact of IFRS 7 and the Acquisitions made prior to the date of transition to complementary amendment to IAS 1 on the Groups IFRS were accounted for in accordance with UK GAAP financial statements: and see note 34.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date contains a Lease effective from 1 January 2006. of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the IFRIC 4 requires the determination whether an acquisition.
Identiable assets and contingent assets arrangement is or contains a lease to be based on acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities the substance of the arrangement.
Management is assumed in a business combination are measured currently assessing the impact of IFRIC 4 on the initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Groups operations, but does not expect it to The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value be significant.
of the Groups share of the identiable net assets In addition, management assessed the relevance acquired, after the identication of purchased of the following amendments and interpretations with intangible assets, is recorded as goodwill.
See note 1e 1 respect to the Groups operations and concluded that for the accounting policy on goodwill.
they are not relevant to the Group: 2 Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are IAS 39 Amendment Cash Flow Hedge Accounting entities in which the Group holds an interest on a of Forecast Intragroup Transactions effective from long-term basis and which are jointly controlled, with 1 January 2006 : one or more other ventures, under a contractual arrangement.
Associates are entities over which the IAS 39 Amendment The Fair Value Option Group has significant inuence but not the power effective from 1 January 2006 : to control, generally accompanying a shareholding IAS 39 Amendment and IFRS 4 Amendment of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Financial Guarantee Contracts effective from Investments in joint ventures and associates are 1 January 2006 : accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups IFRS 1 Amendment First-time Adoption of investment in associates includes related goodwill.
International Financial Reporting Standards effective from 1 January 2006 : PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued 3 Group companies The results and financial The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates position of all Group entities that have a functional post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the currency different from the presentation currency are income statement, and its share of post-acquisition translated into the presentation currency as follows: movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates at the date of the balance sheet: results is recognised as a component of operating profit as these operations form part of the core ii income and expenses are translated at average publishing business of the Group and an integral part exchange rates: of existing wholly owned businesses.
The cumulative iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the separate component of equity.
carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or On consolidation, exchange differences arising from exceeds its interest in the joint venture or associate, the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless the and of borrowings and other currency instruments Group has incurred obligations or made payments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
The Group treats specic intercompany loan balances, which are not intended to be c. Foreign currency translation repaid for the foreseeable future, as part of its net 1 Functional and presentation currency Items investment.
When a foreign entity is sold, such included in the financial statements of each of the exchange differences are recognised in the income Groups entities are measured using the currency of the statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
primary economic environment in which the entity At the date of transition to IFRS the cumulative operates the functional currency.
The consolidated translation differences for foreign operations have been financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is deemed to be zero.
Any gains and losses on disposals of the Companys functional and presentation currency.
foreign operations will exclude translation differences 2 Transactions and balances Foreign currency arising prior to the transition date.
transactions are translated into the functional currency The principal overseas currency for the Group is the using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the US Dollar.
The average rate for the year against Sterling transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses was $1.81 2004: $1.83: 2003: $1.63 and the year end resulting from the settlement of such transactions and rate was $1.72 2004: $1.92: 2003: $1.79.
from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign d. Property, plant and equipment currencies, are recognised in the income statement, Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical except when deferred in equity as qualifying net cost less depreciation.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the Translation differences on other non-monetary items straight-line method to allocate their cost to their such as equities held at fair value are reported as part residual values over their estimated useful lives as of the fair value gain or loss through the income follows: statement.
Fair value adjustments on non-monetary Buildings freehold 2050 years items such as equities classied as available for sale financial assets, are included in the fair value reserve Buildings leasehold 50 years or over the period of in equity as from 1 January 2005. the lease if shorter Plant and equipment 320 years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued f. Other financial assets Up to 31 December 2004 Other financial assets e. Intangible assets include investments in companies other than 1 Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the subsidiaries and associates and other securities.
cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups Financial xed assets are recorded at historical cost share of the net identiable assets of the acquired less provisions for diminution in value.
subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in From 1 January 2005 Other financial assets, intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates designated as available for sale investments, are is included in investments in associates.
Goodwill is non-derivative financial assets measured at estimated tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less fair value.
Changes in the fair value are recorded in accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on equity in the fair value reserve.
On the subsequent the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount disposal of the asset, the net fair value gains or losses of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
IFRS 3 Business are taken through the income statement.
Combinations has not been applied retrospectively to business combinations before the date of transition g. Inventories to IFRS.
Subject to the transition adjustments Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net to IFRS required by IFRS 1, the accounting for realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first in business combinations before the date of transition first out FIFO method.
The cost of nished goods has been grandfathered.
and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour and other direct costs and related production 2 Software development costs Costs directly overheads.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling associated with the production of identiable and price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated unique software products, where it is probable that costs necessary to make the sale.
Provision is made for they will generate economic benets exceeding costs, slow moving and obsolete stock.
are recognised as intangible assets and are amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding ten years h. Royalty advances from when the software is available for use.
Advances of royalties to authors are included within 3 Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible trade and other receivables when the advance is paid assets comprise publishing rights, customer lists and less any provision required to bring the amount down relationships, technology, trade names and trademarks.
to its net realisable value.
The royalty advance is These assets are capitalised on acquisition and included expensed at the contracted or effective royalty rate as in intangible assets and amortised over their estimated the related revenues are earned.
Royalty advances useful lives between two and 30 years.
which will be consumed within one year are held in current assets.
This represents the operating cycle 4 Pre-publication costs Pre-publication costs of consumer publishing titles.
Royalty advances represent direct costs incurred in the development which will be consumed after one year are held in of educational programmes and titles prior to their non-current assets.
These costs are carried forward in current intangible assets where the title will generate probable i.
Newspaper development costs future economic benets and costs can be measured Investment in the development of newspaper titles reliably.
These costs are amortised upon publication of consists of measures to increase the volume and the title over estimated economic lives of five years or geographical spread of circulation.
The measures less, being an estimate of the expected operating life include additional and enhanced editorial content, cycle of the title, with a higher proportion of the extended distribution and remote printing.
These extra amortisation taken in the earlier years.
The investment costs arising are expensed as incurred as they do not in pre-publication has been disclosed as part of the meet the criteria under IAS 38 to be capitalised as investing activities in the cash ow statement.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued m. Derivative financial instruments Up to 31 December 2004 Amounts payable or j.
Cash and cash equivalents receivable in respect of interest rate derivatives are Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash accrued within net interest payable over the period ows include cash in hand, deposits held at call with of the contract.
Where the derivative instrument is banks, other short term highly liquid investments terminated early, the gain or loss is spread over the with original maturities of three months or less, and remaining maturity of the original instrument.
Bank overdrafts are shown within Where the underlying exposure ceases to exist, any borrowings in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
termination gain or loss is taken to the income statement.
Foreign currency borrowings together with k. Share capital their related cross currency derivatives are carried in Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
the balance sheet at the relevant exchange rates at the Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue balance sheet date.
Gains or losses in respect of the of new shares or options are shown in equity as a hedging of overseas subsidiaries are taken to reserves.
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Gains or losses arising from foreign exchange contracts are taken to the income statement in line with the Where any Group company purchases the Companys transactions which they are hedging.
equity share capital Treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental From 1 January 2005 Derivatives are initially costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity recognised at fair value at the date of transition to attributable to the Companys equity holders until the IAS 39 or, if later, on the date a derivative is entered shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Derivatives are subsequently remeasured at such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any their fair value.
The fair value of derivatives has been consideration received, net of any directly attributable determined by using market data and the use of incremental transaction costs and the related income established estimation techniques such as discounted tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the cashow and option valuation models.
The Group Companys equity holders.
designates certain of the derivative instruments within its portfolio to be hedges of the fair value of its bonds l. Borrowings fair value hedges or hedges of net investments in Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which foreign operations net investment hedges.
is proceeds received net of transaction costs incurred.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded with any difference between the proceeds net of in the income statement, together with any changes in transaction costs and the redemption value being the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are recognised in the income statement over the period attributable to the hedged risk.
of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
From 1 January 2005, accrued interest is also included The effective portion of changes in the fair value of as part of the borrowing.
Where a debt instrument is derivatives that are designated and qualify as net in a fair value hedging relationship, an adjustment investment hedges are recognised in equity.
Gains and is made to the bond carrying value to reect the losses accumulated in equity are included in the hedged risk.
income statement when the corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in finance income or finance costs in the income statement.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences Certain derivatives do not qualify or are not designated between actual and expected returns on plan assets, as hedging instruments.
Such derivatives are classied experience adjustments on liabilities and changes in at fair value and any movement in their fair value is actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in recognised in finance income or finance costs in the the statement of recognised income and expense.
The service cost, representing benets accruing over the year, is included as an operating cost and the n. Taxation unwinding of the discount rate on the scheme Current tax is recognised on the amounts expected to liabilities and the expected return on scheme assets be paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that as a nancing charge or nancing income.
have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Obligations for contributions to dened contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability income statement as incurred.
method on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 2 Other post-retirement obligations The Group amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
provides certain healthcare and life assurance benets.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates The principal plans are unfunded.
The expected costs and laws that have been enacted or substantively of these benets are accrued over the period of enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to employment, using an accounting methodology which apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or is the same as that for dened benefit pension plans.
the deferred income tax liability is settled.
The liabilities and costs relating to other postretirement obligations are assessed annually by Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it independent qualied actuaries.
is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
3 Share-based compensation The Group has a number of employee option and performance share Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the schemes.
The fair value of options granted is undistributed earnings of subsidiaries other than recognised as an employee expense after taking into where it is intended that those undistributed earnings account the Companys best estimate of the number of will not be remitted in the foreseeable future.
Fair value is measured at the Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income date of grant and is spread over the vesting period of statement, except when the tax relates to items charged the instrument.
The fair value of the options granted or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is is measured using whichever of the Black-Scholes, also recognised in equity.
Binomial and Monte Carlo model is most appropriate to the award.
Any proceeds received are credited to o.
Employee benets share capital and share premium when the options are 1 Retirement benefit obligations The Group has exercised.
The Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based elected to early adopt the amendment to IAS 19 Payment retrospectively to all options granted but not Employee Benets with effect from the date of fully vested at the date of transition to IFRS.
The liability in respect of dened benefit pension plans is the present value of the p. Provisions dened benefit obligations at the balance sheet date Provisions are recognised when the Group has a minus the fair value of plan assets.
The dened benefit present legal or constructive obligation as a result of obligation is calculated annually by independent past events, it is more likely than not that an outow of actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
resources will be required to settle the obligation and The present value of the dened benefit obligation is the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by discounting estimated future cash ows discounted to present value where the effect is material.
using yields on high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related liability.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued long-term contracts with revenue recognised on a The Group recognises a provision for deferred percentage of completion basis.
Losses on contracts consideration in the period that an acquisition is made are recognised in the period in which the loss first and the Group becomes legally committed to making becomes foreseeable.
Contract losses are determined to the payment.
be the amount by which estimated total costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will The Group recognises a provision for integration be generated by the contract.
and reorganisation costs in the period in which the Group becomes legally or constructively committed to On certain contracts, where the Group acts as agent, making the payment.
only commissions and fees receivable for services rendered are recognised as revenue.
Any third party The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease costs incurred on behalf of the principal that are contracts when the expected benets to be derived rechargeable under the contractual arrangement are from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs not included in revenue.
of meeting the obligations under the contract.
The provision is based on the present value of future r. Leases payments for surplus leased properties under Leases of property, plant and equipment where the non-cancellable operating leases, net of estimated Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of sub-leasing revenue.
ownership are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the q.
Revenue recognition lower of the fair value of the leased property and the Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each received or receivable for the sale of goods and services lease payment is allocated between the liability and net of value-added tax and other sales taxes, rebates finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the finance balance outstanding.
Revenue is recognised as follows: obligations, net of finance charges, are included in Revenue from the sale of books is recognised when title other long-term payables.
The interest element of the passes.
Anticipated returns are estimated based finance cost is charged to the income statement over primarily on historical return rates.
Circulation and the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic advertising revenue is recognised when the newspaper rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability or other publication is published.
Subscription revenue for each period.
The property, plant and equipment is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the subscription.
shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or Leases where a significant portion of the risks and more separate elements that can be provided to rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are customers either on a stand-alone basis or as an classied as operating leases by the lessee.
Payments optional extra, such as the provision of supplementary made under operating leases net of any incentives materials with textbooks, revenue is recognised for received from the lessor are charged to the income each element as if it were an individual contractual statement on a straight-line basis over the period of arrangement.
Revenue from multi-year contractual arrangements, s. Dividends such as contracts to process qualifying tests for Dividends are recorded in the Groups financial individual professions and government departments, statements in the period in which they are approved by is recognised as performance occurs.
Certain of these the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are arrangements, either as a result of a single service recorded in the period in which they are approved spanning more than one reporting period or where the and paid.
contract requires the provision of a number of services that together constitute a single project, are treated as PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued 3 Royalty advances The realisable value of royalty advances relies on a degree of management judgement t. Non-current assets held for sale and in determining the profitability of individual author discontinued operations contracts, in accordance with the accounting policy Non-current assets are classied as assets held for sale stated in note 1h.
If the estimated realisable value and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair of author contracts is overstated then this will have value less costs to sell if it is intended to recover their an adverse effect on operating profits as these excess carrying amount principally through a sale transaction amounts will be written off.
The carrying amount of rather than through continuing use.
No depreciation is royalty advances is set out in note 19. charged in respect of non-current assets classied as held for sale.
4 Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Trade receivables is required in determining the estimates in relation to Trade receivables are recognised at fair value less the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are provision for bad and doubtful debts and anticipated many transactions and calculations for which the future sales returns see also note 1q.
ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises Critical accounting assumptions and judgements liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on The preparation of financial statements in conformity estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
with IFRS requires the use of certain critical Where the final tax outcome of these matters is accounting assumptions.
It also requires management different from the amounts that were initially recorded, to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the such differences will impact the income tax and Groups accounting policies.
The areas requiring a deferred tax provisions in the period in which such higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas determination is made.
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 5 Goodwill The Group tests annually whether consolidated financial statements, are discussed below.
goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 1e 1.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have 1 Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of been determined based on value in use calculations.
books is recognised when title passes.
A provision for These calculations require the use of estimates anticipated returns is made based primarily on see note 12. historical return rates.
If these estimates do not reect actual returns in future periods then revenues could Critical judgements in applying the Groups be understated or overstated for a particular period.
accounting policies The provision for sales returns is set out in note 19.
1 Revenue recognition Revenue from multi-year 2 Pre-publication costs The assessment of the contractual arrangements is recognised as performance useful life of pre-publication costs and the calculation occurs.
The assumptions, risks, and uncertainties of amortisation involve a significant amount of inherent in long-term contract accounting can affect judgement based on historical trends and management the amounts and timing of revenue and related estimation of their future potential sales, in accordance expenses reported.
with the accounting policy stated in note 1e 4.
2 Retirement benefit obligations The determination The overstatement of useful lives could result in excess of the pension cost and dened benefit obligation amounts being carried forward as intangible assets of the Groups dened benefit pension schemes that would otherwise have been written off to the depends on the selection of certain assumptions, income statement in an earlier period.
Reviews are which include the discount rate, ination rate, salary performed regularly to estimate recoverability of growth, longevity and expected return on scheme pre-publication costs.
The carrying amount of assets.
Differences arising from actual experience or pre-publication costs is set out in note 17. future changes in assumptions will be reected in subsequent periods.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Liquidity and renancing risk The Groups funding 3 Deferred income tax Deferred tax assets and objective is to ensure that committed funding is liabilities require management judgement in available to the Group at a reasonable cost, with an determining the amounts to be recognised.
extended maturity prole and that funding is available In particular, significant judgement is used when from diverse sources.
To assist with the diversity of assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should funding objective, the Group has ratings with Moodys be recognised with consideration given to the timing and Standard & Poors, which provides greater access and level of future taxable income together with any to international capital markets.
Counterparty risk The Groups risk of loss on deposits or derivative contracts with individual banks is Financial risk management managed in part through the use of counterparty The Groups treasury policy governs the management limits reecting published credit ratings.
Exposures to of financial risks within the Group.
The policy, which is individual counterparties are monitored on a regular approved by the treasury committee, covers interest basis.
Where appropriate, ISDA Master Agreements rate risk, liquidity and renancing risk, counterparty permitting the netting of transactions in the event risk and foreign currency risk.
In accordance with the of counterparty failure are entered into with treasury policy, the Group actively monitors and derivative counterparties.
manages its financial risk exposures.
The policy permits the use of financial instruments such as Foreign currency risk The Group has operations derivatives, where appropriate.
The policy only permits overseas and is therefore exposed to movements transactions related to underlying positions and in foreign currencies, particularly the US dollar.
speculative transactions are not permitted.
For transactional foreign exchange exposure, the policy allows the use of derivatives where appropriate.
Interest rate risk A change in market interest rates can The Group mainly converts foreign currencies at cause uctuations in the Groups net income or spot rate and had no cash ow hedges in place at the financial position.
The Group is predominantly funded balance sheet date.
Translational foreign exchange through bonds issued at xed rates and nearly all of exposure is of more signicance to the Group.
It seeks these bonds have been swapped to a oating rate for to offset this exposure through its policy of aligning the term of the debt.
The Groups policy as updated in approximately the currency composition of its core September 2005 requires that interest rates on its net net borrowings with its forecast operating profit.
debt position are xed for the next four years such that This policy only applies where a currency accounts the xed rate portion is within a range of 65% to 40% for more than 15% of Group operating profit in the first year, with the lower end of the range and currently is only applicable to the US dollar.
declining by 10% each year such that the xed rate The Group uses its dollar denominated debt and the portion falls within a range of 65% to 10% in year foreign exchange portion of certain cross currency four.
The Group also uses derivatives to change the rate derivatives as net investment hedges of foreign currency prole of its debt and to alter the timing of operations.
Unremitted profits are not hedged with oating interest rate resets in order to comply with its foreign exchange contracts, as the Company judges it policy.
The Group manages the derivatives and debt to inappropriate to hedge non-cash ow translational achieve policy objectives on a portfolio basis.
The exposure with cash ow instruments.
Group designates derivatives as hedges under IAS 39 where hedge accounting is possible, so long as a designation will not have an adverse effect on the balancing of the portfolio.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005
