NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised incentives over longer periods than under UK GAAP to the extent that it is probable that future taxable and to accelerate the charge in respect of xed profit will be available against which the temporary contractual increments in lease payments.
h. Joint ventures Following a review, the Group has k. Dividends IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet concluded that its 50% holding in Maskew Miller Date requires that dividends declared after the Longman should be accounted for as a joint venture balance sheet date should not be recognised as a under IFRS rather than its classication as a subsidiary liability at the balance sheet date as they do not under UK GAAP.
represent a present obligation at that date as dened i.
Joint ventures and associates The results of all joint by IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
ventures and associates have been adjusted to take into account IFRS adjustments within their own The final dividends relating to the years to financial statements.
31 December 2002, 2003 and 2004 have been reversed and recognised as a liability in the years 2003, 2004 and j.
Income taxes IAS 12 Income Taxes, requires that deferred taxation also be provided on all temporary 2005 respectively.
differences, not just timing differences as required l. Discontinued operations Consistent with the UK under UK GAAP.
Deferred tax is provided, using the GAAP treatment, Recoletos has been treated as liability method, on temporary differences arising discontinued as at 31 December 2004 and met the between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their criteria as held for sale at that date.
Accordingly the carrying amounts in the financial statements unless results are disclosed in one line in the income the initial recognition exemption applies.
Deferred tax statement, profit for the year from discontinued is not recognised for temporary differences arising operations for both 2003 and 2004 and, at on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 31 December 2004, it is disclosed in the balance sheet transaction other than a business combination if at the in two lines Non-current assets classied as held for time of transaction neither accounting nor taxable sale and Liabilities associated with non-current assets profit is affected.
Deferred taxation has been provided classied as held for sale.
on the post-acquisition difference between the book and tax bases of intangible assets and goodwill if When an assets carrying value will be recovered its amortisation is tax deductible.
A deferred tax principally through a sale transaction rather than liability has also been recognised in respect of the through continuing use and certain criteria regarding undistributed earnings of subsidiaries other than probability and proximity of the sale are satisfied, it where it is intended that those undistributed earnings is classied as held for sale and stated at the lower will not be remitted in the foreseeable future.
of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current Deferred taxation has been recognised on the IFRS assets classied as held for sale.
adjustments at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company statement of recognised income and expense Year ended 31 December 2005 All gures in millions 2005 2004 2003 Net exchange adjustments offset in reserves net of tax 20 23 Loss profit for the year 362 946 10 Total recognised income and expense for the year 362 926 33 Effect of transition adjustment on adoption of IAS 39 see note 11 3 PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005
