NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies Pendragon PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 December 2005 comprise the company and its subsidiaries and the group's interest in jointly controlled entities.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use by the EU, including International Accounting Standards Interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These are the group's first IFRS consolidated financial statements and IFRS1 has been applied.
The company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP, these are presented on pages to 83 to 90.
An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the reported financial position and financial performance of the group is provided in note 34. b Basis of Preparation The financial statements are presented in millions of UK pounds, rounded to the nearest 0.1million.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting year.
Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 33.
The group has applied IFRS1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in its initial application of IFRS.
The group is required to select appropriate accounting policies under IFRS and, subject to the few exemptions detailed below, apply them retrospectively to its financial statements such that all comparative information is presented on the same basis.
Accordingly this necessitates the restatement of the balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition, this being the date of the beginning of the earliest financial year for which full comparative information is required as well as at 31 December 2004.
IFRS1 permits certain exemptions to the full retrospective restatement.
The principal exemptions that have been adopted by the group are as follows: Business combinations Business combinations made prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated in accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations.
Property, plant and equipment The group has opted to restate the carrying value of land and buildings to fair value as at 1 January 2004, which is then deemed to be its cost at this date for future accounting purposes.
Land and buildings were previously held at depreciated historical cost.
Pensions Cumulative actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in full within shareholders funds as at 1 January 2004 in respect of the defined benefit schemes in which the group participates.
Share based payments IFRS2 Share-based payments has only been applied to awards of share options granted after 7 November 2002 that were not vested at 1 January 2004.
Foreign exchange translation differences The group has elected not to recognise pre-transition foreign exchange for cumulative translation differences for the groups foreign operations.
Any subsequent disposal of a foreign operation will recognise only those exchange gains or losses arising from the date of transition.
40 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Financial instruments The principles of IAS32 Financial Instruments : Disclosure and Presentation and IAS39 Financial Instruments : Recognition and Measurement have been adopted from 1 January 2005.
Comparatives have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
On 1 January 2005 the group made an adjustment to reflect the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS.
This adjustment reflected the recording of certain financial assets and financial liabilities at their fair value.
The group has applied hedge accounting in recording the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities where the requirements of IAS39 are met.
Restatement of Balance Sheet and Income Statement Reconciliations required by IFRS1 are presented in note 34 of these financial statements, showing the differences between UK GAAP and IFRS for both the balance sheets on transition at 1 January 2004 and at the year end to 31 December 2004, together with the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 for the purposes of transition to IFRS.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Pendragon PLC, all its subsidiary undertakings and the group's share of its joint veture under the equity accounting method.
Consistent accounting policies have been applied in the preparation of all such financial statements including those of the joint venture.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company.
Control exists when the company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Joint ventures Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the group's proportionate share of the entities net assets and profit after tax, on an equity accounted basis, from the date joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains or losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the group's interest in the entity.
d Accounting for business combinations and disposals The results of companies and businesses acquired or disposed of during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal using the acquisition method of accounting.
The purchase consideration is allocated to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
e Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement, net of discounts, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
In general this occurs when vehicles or parts have been supplied or when service has been completed.
Where vehicles are supplied to a leasing company for contract hire purposes and the group undertakes to repurchase the vehicle at a predetermined date and value the significant risks and rewards of ownership are deemed not to have transferred outside the group and consequently no sale is recognised.
The initial amounts received in consideration from the leasing company are held as deferred income allocated between the present value of the repurchase commitment and a residual amount of deferred revenue, both amounts being held within trade and other payables.
A finance charge is accrued against the present value of the repurchase commitment and recorded as a finance expense in the income statement.
The remaining deferred revenue is taken to the income statement on a straight line basis over the related lease term.
These vehicles are held as plant and equipment at their cost to the group and are depreciated to their residual values over the terms of the leases.
41 1 Accounting policies continued f Intangible assets and goodwill i Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary undertakings at the effective date of acquisition and is included in the balance sheet under the heading of intangible assets.
The goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and an impairment test is performed annually.
Goodwill is then held in the balance sheet at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
If the cost on acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets acquired the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
Adjustments are applied to bring the accounting policies of the acquired businesses into alignment with those of the group.
The costs associated with reorganising or restructuring are charged to the post acquisition income statement.
For those acquisitions made prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is recorded on the basis of its deemed cost which represented its carrying value as at 1 January 2004 under UK GAAP.
ii Intangible assets, other than goodwill are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
This category of asset includes computer software, which is amortised by equal instalments over four years.
iii Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Intangible assets arising on an acquisition are recognised separately from goodwill if the fair value of the asset can be identified separately and measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
Amortisation methods and useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
g Property, plant and equipment Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of other assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives.
On transition to IFRS as at 1 January 2004, all land and buildings were restated to fair value as permitted by IFRS1, which is then treated as the deemed cost.
All other assets are intially measured and recorded at cost.
Depreciation rates are as follows: Freehold buildings 2% per annum, Leasehold properties 2% per annum or over the period of the lease if less than 50 years, Fixtures, fittings and office equipment 1020% per annum, Plant and machinery 1033% per annum, Motor vehicles 2025% per annum, Motor vehicles held for contract hire depreciated to their residual value over the period of their lease.
The residual value of all assets, if significant, is reassessed annually.
The group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is possible that the future economic benefits embodied with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
h Non-current assets held for sale Properties under development are stated at cost less provision for foreseeable losses.
Completed properties are stated at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
An asset is classified as held for resale at the point management commit to a plan of disposal and the asset is marketed at a fair value.
i Impairment The carrying amounts of the group's assets, other than inventories see accounting policy j and deferred tax assets see accounting policy n, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the asset's recoverable amount is estimated see accounting policy b.
For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
42 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cashgenerating units and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets were tested for impairment at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, even though no indication of impairment existed.
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement even though the financial asset has not been derecognised.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the group's investments in held-to-maturity securities and receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversals of impairment An impairment loss in respect of a held-to-maturity security or receivable carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available for sale is not reversed through the income statement.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
j Inventories i Consignment vehicles are regarded as being effectively under the control of the group and are included within inventories on the balance sheet as the group has the significant risks and rewards of ownership even though legal title has not yet passed.
The corresponding liability is included in trade and other payables.
ii Motor vehicles including consignment and demonstrator vehicles and parts inventories are stated at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
Parts inventories are based on an average cost principle.
k Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment losses see accounting policy i. l Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at cost.
m Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise deposits with banks and financial institutions, bank and cash balances, and liquid investments, net of bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts are included in current borrowings.
n Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
43 1 Accounting policies continued Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
o Foreign currencies i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
In respect of all foreign operations, any differences that have arisen after 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
p Financial instruments The group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge currency and interest risks arising from its activities.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
Any gain or loss on remeasurement is recognised in the income statement.
However, the treatment of gains or losses arising from derivatives which qualify for hedge accounting depends on the nature of the hedged item itself.
The fair value of derivatives is the estimated amount receivable or payable to terminate the contract determined by reference to the market prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
The group has taken advantage of transitional arrangements of IFRS1 not to restate corresponding amounts in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
In the comparative period all financial assets and liabilities were carried at cost amortised as appropriate less, in the case of financial assets, provision for any permanent diminution in value.
The following adjustments necessary to implement the policy have been made as at 1 January 2005 with the net adjustment to net assets, after tax, taken through the 2005 Statement of Changes in Equity.
Corresponding amounts for 2004 are presented and disclosed in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and FRS 4.
Hedging i Fair value hedges In the current year, where a derivative financial instrument hedges the changes in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities, any gain or loss is recognised within finance costs or finance income, as appropriate, in the income statement.
The hedged item is also stated, separately from the derivative, at fair value in respect of the risk being hedged with any gain or loss also recognised within finance costs or finance income, as appropriate, in the income statement.
This will result in variations in the balance sheet values of the gross debt and the offsetting derivatives as the market value fluctuates.
In the prior year, hedging instruments were not recognised and hedged items were held at cost amortised as appropriate without any adjustment in respect of its hedged risk.
On 1 January 2005, hedged items and hedging instruments are brought separately on to the balance sheet in accordance with the current year policy.
44 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued ii Hedges of net investments in overseas operations A gain or loss in respect of an effective hedge of a net investment in an overseas operation is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement.
Prior to 1 January 2005, amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate derivatives are recognised on an accruals basis over the life of the instrument.
q Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
r Employee benefits Pension obligations The group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution plans, the assets of which are held in independent trustee administered funds.
Pension accounting costs for defined benefit plans are assessed by determining the pension obligation using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries, the amounts charged in respect of employee benefits reflect the cost of benefits accruing in the year, cost of financing historical accrued benefits and amortisation of gains losses in excess of the 10% corridor over the future working lives of the employees.
In respect of actuarial gains and losses that arise subsequent to 1 January 2004 in calculating the group's obligation in respect of a plan, to the extent that any cumulative unrecognised actuarial gain or loss exceeds 10 per cent of the greater of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets, that portion is recognised in the income statement over the expected average remaining working lives of employees participating in the plan.
The present value of pension obligations is measured by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Plan assets are measured at fair value.
As permitted by IFRS1, the group has recognised all cumulative actuarial gains and losses for all existing defined benefit pension plans as at 1 January 2004.
The groups total contributions relating to the defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate.
s Employee benefits Share based payments The group operates a number of employee share option schemes.
The fair value at the date at which the share options are granted is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, taking into account the number of options that are expected to vest.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The number of options that are expected to become exercisable is reviewed at each balance sheet date and if necessary estimates are revised.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS2, no income statement expenses are recorded in respect of grants of share options made prior to 7 November 2002. t Leases Leases are classified as finance leases wherever the lease transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the group.
All other leases are treated as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recorded at inception at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum payments required to be made under the lease.
The corresponding liability is recorded as a finance lease obligation.
The finance charge element of rentals paid under these leases is expensed so as to give a constant rate of finance charge on the remainder of the obligation.
Finance charges are expensed in the income statement and the capitalised leased asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the assets useful economic life.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged directly to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
u Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board and unpaid at the end of the year are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
v Capitalisation of finance costs Gross finance costs directly attributable to the construction of tangible fixed assets are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets until such a time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
45 1 Accounting policies continued w Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Vacant properties for which an outstanding lease commitment exists and which cannot be sublet for at least the same rate fall within this category.
x Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographic segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
y Own shares held by ESOP trust Transactions of the group-sponsored ESOP trust are included in the group financial statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases of shares in the company are debited directly to equity.
2 Segmental analysis Segment information is presented in respect of the group's business and geographical segments.
The primary format, business segments, is based on the group's management and internal reporting structure.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Central items comprise of mainly corporate assets and expenses, loans and borrowings.
Inter-segment transfers and transactions are entered into under normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used for more than one period.
Primary reporting format - business segments The group comprises the following main business segments: Motor This segment comprises the groups retail motor vehicle dealerships encompassing the sale of new and used motor cars, motorcycles and commercial vehicles together with associated aftersales activities of service, body repair and parts sales.
Contract hire This segment comprises the groups contract hire activities.
Support This segment comprises the ancillary businesses related to the motor segment which includes the group's parts distribution, dealer management system provider and shared service centre.
