NOTES TO THE TABLES OF THE EXPLANATION OF THE TRANSITION TO IFRS 1 Property, plant and equipment With the restatement of historical cost to fair value property, plant and equipment increase by 79.1m at 1 January 2004 and by 78.8m at 31 December 2004.
Depreciation charged in the year to 31 December 2004 increases by 0.3m.
The deferred tax liability in relation to this rebasing is 21.8m at 1 January 2004 and 21.7m at 31 December 2004.
2 Employee benefits and share based payments Under UK GAAP, the cost of granting employee share options is the difference in exercise price and market price at the date of grant of the option.
In the case of Pendragon this has always been equal and therefore no charge to the income statement has been necessary.
Under IFRS2 Share-based Payments, the cost is based upon the excess of the fair value of an option over the exercise price.
This fair value has been calculated using the BlackScholes option pricing model and has resulted in an operating cost of 0.3m for the year ended 31 December 2004.
There is no impact to net assets or distributable reserves as a result of this adjustment which is credited directly to equity.
3 Intangible assets IFRS 3 Business Combinations states that, instead of amortising goodwill over its useful economic life, it should be allocated to cash generating units and then tested annually for evidence of impairment.
Where evidence of impairment exists goodwill should be written down to the extent that its recoverable amount has fallen below the carrying value in the balance sheet.
Of the 9.7m amortisation charge for the year ended 31 December 2004 under UK GAAP, 7.8m has been reversed under IFRS with 1.9m remaining in the income statement as an impairment of goodwill.
All goodwill is allocated to business units upon acquisition.
For the purposes of testing for impairment the cash generating unit is taken at a franchise group level, representing the lowest level within the group at which goodwill can be monitored.
IAS38 Intangible Assets and IFRS3 require intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition to be separately identified on the balance sheet.
There are detailed differences between IFRS and UK GAAP in the criteria for recognising intangible assets separately from goodwill on acquisition, with UK GAAP typically recognising fewer intangible assets.
Acquisitions since 1 January 2004 have been re-evaluated and the acquisition balance sheet s restated the group is not required to reconsider acquisitions before this date.
The principal acquisition the group made in 2004 was CD Bramall PLC.
Of the goodwill arising on acquisition 6.7m has been reclassified to intangible assets.
This represents the fair value of the orders that existed at the date of acquisition based on the post acquisition profit generated by those orders less fulfillment costs incurred.
This is a short life asset and consequently it has been fully amortised in 2004 as all the orders that existed have been delivered.
This has therefore had the effect of reducing UK GAAP 2004 operating profit by 6.7m.
Goodwill remaining on the balance sheet has been reduced by the same amount.
There were also a number of other small acquisitions in the second half of 2004 where the goodwill paid was insignificant and consequently no adjustments arise.
The software assets of the group have been reclassified as intangibles under IAS38 and, accordingly 1.6m has been reclassified from tangible fixed assets to intangible assets.
There is no impact on the income statement as depreciation rates and amortisation rates remain unchanged.
4 Dividends Under IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date, dividends are recognised in the income statement in the subsequent accounting period to which they would have been recognised under UK GAAP.
At 31 December 2004 the final dividend for 2004 of 7.4m has been added back to net assets as part of distributable reserves and will appear as a deduction in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The treatment in the cash flow remains the same.
5 Deferred tax Under IAS12 Income Taxes, deferred tax is recognised in respect of most temporary differences at the balance sheet date.
Temporary differences focus on balance sheet values and not the income statement position and therefore encompass more items than the UK GAAP timing difference approach.
79 5 Deferred tax continued The groups deferred tax asset at 31 December 2004 under UK GAAP changes to a liability under IFRS as follows : m UK GAAP Change IFRS Provision at 1 January 2004 0.4 17.0 17.4 Acquired with CD Bramall PLC 15.5 6.9 8.6 Movement in the year 0.2 3.1 3.3 Provision at 31 December 2004 15.3 20.8 5.5 m Change Change to opening provision charged to reserves 17.0 Goodwill 6.9 Income statement tax credit for the year - deferred tax 1.2 Tax credit for the year taken directly to reserves 1.9 Total impact of IAS at 31 December 2004 20.8 The groups transitional IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 includes an additional deferred tax liability of 17.0m over the UK GAAP amount.
The majority of this adjustment relates to deferred tax provided on property revaluations and rolled-over chargeable gains, net of deferred tax assets recognised in respect of the pension deficit and share based payments.
These provisions were not previously recognised under UK GAAP.
Under IFRS, the deferred tax asset acquired with CD Bramall PLC has reduced by 6.9m.
The majority of this adjustment arises from the provision of deferred tax on the potential future tax liabilities arising from intangible assets, the fair value of fixed assets and rolled-over chargeable gains net of capital losses.
The income statement tax credit for the year of 1.2m arises largely from utilisation of the provision in respect of intangible fixed assets net of the realisation of part of the deferred tax asset in respect of share based payments.
Deferred tax in respect of share based payments is calculated by reference to a figure which differs from the charge for such payments in the income statement.
Tax relief in respect of share based payments charged directly to the income statement is also taken to the income statement with any excess tax relief over this credited directly to reserves.
1.9m has been credited directly to reserves in respect of this.
6 Leases Under UK GAAP the group has treated its leases of land and buildings as operating leases and the rental payments made each year have been charged to income statement.
IAS17 requires that leases of land and buildings are separated into leases for land, which are always treated as operating leases, and leases for buildings which are either operating leases or finance leases depending on various criteria.
A detailed review of property leases has resulted in a small number of building leases being reclassified as finance leases.
The result of this is an increase in fixed assets of 0.7m and a finance lease creditor of 2.0m.
The rentals charged to the income statement under UK GAAP are replaced under IFRS by depreciation and finance charges.
There will be a small change in the absolute level of charge due to differences in timing but the overall impact on the income statement is immaterial.
7 Revenue recognition Under UK GAAP the group immediately recognised revenue on the sale of vehicles to leasing companies for contract hire where the group undertook to repurchase the vehicle at predetermined values and dates.
Repurchase commitments were recognised in the balance sheet such that an asset was recorded for the vehicle at its guaranteed repurchase price together with a corresponding repurchase commitment liability.
Under IAS18 Revenue, partial derecognition of an asset is not permitted.
If the significant risks and rewards of ownership have not been transferred to a third party then no sale is deemed to have taken place regardless of the transfer of legal title.
An undertaking to purchase a vehicle at a predetermined value at a future date indicates that the original sale of the vehicle to the leasing company has not transferred all the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
80 NOTES TO THE TABLES OF THE EXPLANATION OF THE TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED 7 Revenue recognition continued The net effect of the adjustments is to spread the income earned by the group on the original sale of the vehicle over the term of the contract hire period.
The impact of these changes on the financial statements compared to UK GAAP, are set out below: Balance Sheet 1 January 31 December m 2004 2004 Increase in fixed assets 45.4 90.5 Increase in trade and other payables 43.8 90.7 Increase in goodwill 0.0 1.3 Increase in net assets 1.6 1.1 Year ended Income statement 31 December m 2004 Decrease in turnover 5.0 Decrease in cost of sales 7.3 Increase in finance charges 2.9 Decrease in profit before tax 0.6 Repurchase commitments Under UK GAAP the group recognised the residual value of vehicles and related liability when the group entered into repurchase commitments where the group had no involvement in the original sale of the vehicle to the leasing company.
As IAS18 does not permit partial recognition, the residual value and related liability of these repurchase commitments has been removed from the balance sheet.
The net effect is to remove from the balance sheet assets and related liabilities of 61.5m at 31 December 2004.
These primarily related to the Extra Leasing business.
8 Employee benefits - pensions Under UK GAAP the group has previously applied the provisions of SSAP24 and also gives disclosures under FRS17 in accounting for its pension obligations.
This standard is replaced by IAS19 Employee Benefits.
Under IAS19 the basic cost of defined benefit pension schemes comprises a number of factors, amongst which are the current service cost, an interest cost being the unwinding of the discount in the present value of the obligation and the expected return on plan assets.
The previous charge to profit under SSAP24 of 5.5m has been reduced by 0.5m under IAS19.
Operating expenses are reduced by 1.4m and finance costs increase by 0.9m resulting in a net increase in reported profit before tax of 0.5m for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Under the transitional exemption included in IFRS1, the group recognised all cumulative actuarial gains and losses for all plans as at 1 January 2004.
This means that there are no actuarial gains or losses to recognise in the income statement for 2004.
The effect on the balance sheet is the recognition of a defined benefit scheme liability at 1 January 2004 of 30.8m before deferred tax being brought onto the balance sheet to replace the SSAP24 prepayment at this date of 1.6m, thereby reducing net assets by 32.4m.
As at 31 December 2004, previously reported net assets are reduced by 32.3m.
9 Inventories New vehicle inventories held on the balance sheet have been restated to include all vehicles invoiced to the group including those that are on interest free stocking plans.
Under the previous treatment interest free vehicles and their associated liability within trade and other payables were not included in the balance sheet total.
81 10 Derivative Financial Instruments IAS39 Financial instruments is not applicable until the 2005 financial year and there is no restatement of prior year comparatives required.
Accordingly there is no restatement of the 2004 financial statements for IAS39.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the group has swapped its fixed rate USD liabilities into floating rate GBP liabilities by utilising cross currency interest rate swaps.
The fair value of these swaps at 1 January 2005 results in a liability and consequent charge to the income statement of 6.9m.
The fair value of the liabilities hedged by these derivatives results in a decrease in the balance sheet carrying value and consequently a credit to the income statement of 7.3m.
Hedges of net investments in overseas operations accounted for under IFRS result in the same treatment as that previously applied under UK GAAP and consequently there is no impact at 1 January 2005.
11 Cash flow statement The adjustments arising from the conversion to IFRS will have no impact upon the cash flows of the group.
IAS7 Cash Flow Statements does extend the UK GAAP requirement of reporting the movement in cash to that of cash and cash equivalents which would include certain short term highly liquid investments.
The group does not have any short term highly liquid investments.
