NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies Pendragon PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 December 2005 comprise the company and its subsidiaries and the group's interest in jointly controlled entities.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use by the EU, including International Accounting Standards Interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These are the group's first IFRS consolidated financial statements and IFRS1 has been applied.
The company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP, these are presented on pages to 83 to 90.
An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the reported financial position and financial performance of the group is provided in note 34. b Basis of Preparation The financial statements are presented in millions of UK pounds, rounded to the nearest 0.1million.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting year.
Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 33.
The group has applied IFRS1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in its initial application of IFRS.
The group is required to select appropriate accounting policies under IFRS and, subject to the few exemptions detailed below, apply them retrospectively to its financial statements such that all comparative information is presented on the same basis.
Accordingly this necessitates the restatement of the balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition, this being the date of the beginning of the earliest financial year for which full comparative information is required as well as at 31 December 2004.
IFRS1 permits certain exemptions to the full retrospective restatement.
The principal exemptions that have been adopted by the group are as follows: Business combinations Business combinations made prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated in accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations.
Property, plant and equipment The group has opted to restate the carrying value of land and buildings to fair value as at 1 January 2004, which is then deemed to be its cost at this date for future accounting purposes.
Land and buildings were previously held at depreciated historical cost.
Pensions Cumulative actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in full within shareholders funds as at 1 January 2004 in respect of the defined benefit schemes in which the group participates.
Share based payments IFRS2 Share-based payments has only been applied to awards of share options granted after 7 November 2002 that were not vested at 1 January 2004.
Foreign exchange translation differences The group has elected not to recognise pre-transition foreign exchange for cumulative translation differences for the groups foreign operations.
Any subsequent disposal of a foreign operation will recognise only those exchange gains or losses arising from the date of transition.
