33 Accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Critical accounting judgement when applying the groups accounting policies Certain critical accounting judgements in applying the groups accounting policies are described below: Goodwill impairment The carrying value of Goodwill is tested annually for impairment by using cash flow projections for each cash generating unit.
These projections are based upon actual and short term planned results extrapolated over a 20 year period.
A discount rate of 8.0% is used to aproximate the weighted average cost of capital of the group.
Intangible assets Management undertook a review of intangible assets that are pertinent to the motor business.
This included consideration of customer lists, franchise rights, brands and other intangible assets.
The review concluded that for acquisitions undertaken since 1 January 2004 no intangible assets or rights had been acquired with the exception of the value attaining to the order book that existed at the point of acquisition.
Repurchase commitments The group enters into leasing arrangements whereby it agrees to repurchase vehicles from lessees or providers of lease finance at the end of the lease agreement, typically two to four years in the future.
The repurchase price is determined at the time the agreement is entered into based on the then estimate of a vehicles future residual value.
The actual value of the vehicles at the end of the lease contract, and therefore the proceeds that can be realised from eventual sale, can vary materially from these estimates.
Annual reviews are undertaken to reappraise residual values.
Pensions The accounting policy and critical assumptions applied in calculating the value of the pension scheme assets and liabilities are explained in note 27.
The assumptions chosen by the Directors are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible assumptions, which due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The principal assumptions are in respect of rates of return on assets, the discount rate applied to future liabilities and the allowance for life expectancy.
If the expected return on the scheme assets were to be 1% pa higher or lower than the assumption used for 2005, the expected return on assets would be an estimated 1.7m higher or 1.7m lower.
If the actual discount rate used were to be 0.1% pa higher or lower than the assumption applied at 31 December 2005, the pension liabilities would be an estimated 6.0m lower or 6.0m higher.
If the life expectancy assumption was increased or reduced by one year from the assumption applied at 31 December 2005, the pension liability would be an estimated 11.3m higher or 11.3m lower.
33 Explanation of transition to IFRS As stated in note 1, these are the groups first consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The accounting policies set out in note 1 have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, the comparative 74
