16 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2005 2004 m m Non-current liabilities Unsecured bank loans 123.6 159.2 Unsecured loan notes 129.8 126.1 Finance lease liabilities 2.6 3.4 256.0 288.7 Current liabilities Unsecured bank loans - 34.4 Unsecured other loans 4.0 4.2 Unsecured loan notes - 32.7 Finance lease liabilities 0.9 1.1 4.9 72.4 Note 17 sets out the maturity profile of non-current liabilities.
17 Financial instruments and derivatives Financial risk management Treasury policy and procedures Group treasury matters are managed within policy guidelines set by the Board with prime areas of focus being liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange exposure.
Management of these areas is the responsibility of the groups central treasury function.
Derivative financial instruments are utilised to reduce exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The Board does not permit the speculative use of derivatives.
Funding and liquidity management The group is financed primarily by loan notes, bank loans, vehicle stocking credit lines and operating cash flow.
Committed facilities have a range of maturities, are maintained at levels in excess of planned requirements and are in addition to short term uncommitted facilities that are also available to the group.
Each business within the group is responsible for its own day to day cash management and the overall cash position is monitored on a daily basis by the group treasury department.
Where our overseas subsidiaries borrow to fund their businesses they do so independently of and without recourse to the UK parent company.
Interest rate risk management The objective of the groups interest rate policy is to minimise interest costs whilst protecting the group from adverse movements in interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the group to cash-flow interest rate risk whereas borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the group to fair value interest rate risk.
The group does not actively manage cash flow interest rate risk as the Board believes that the retail sector in which the group operates provides a natural hedge against interest rate movements.
Consequently, it is group policy to borrow on a floating rate basis and all fair value interest rate risk arising from fixed rate borrowings entered into by the group are managed by swaps into floating rate.
