RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 restated 2005 2004 m m Profit loss for the financial year 11.2 15.0 Dividends 15.6 9.8 4.4 24.8 Disposal of own shares in share trusts 0.3 0.8 Net addition to shareholders funds 4.1 24.0 Opening shareholders funds 147.8 171.8 Adoption of FRS26 on 1 January 2005 0.4 - Closing shareholders funds 144.1 147.8 Restated on adoption of FRS21 - see note 1 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY 1 Accounting policies a Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards using the historical cost convention.
b Deferred taxation Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences which have arisen but have not reversed at the balance sheet date, except as follows: i tax payable on the future remittance of the past earnings of subsidiaries is provided only to the extent that dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute all past earnings exists: ii deferred tax is not recognised on the difference between book values and fair values of non-monetary assets arising on acquisitions unless there is a binding agreement to sell such an asset and the gain or loss expected to arise has been recognised: and iii deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured on a non discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
c Financial instruments The company holds derivative financial instruments to hedge currency and interest risks arising from its activities.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at cost, if any, and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Any gain or loss on remeasurement is recognised in the income statement.
However, the treatment of gains or losses arising from derivatives which qualify for hedge accounting depends on the nature of the hedged item itself.
The fair value of derivatives is the estimated amount receivable or payable to terminate the contract determined by reference to the market prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the company has swapped its fixed rate USD liabilities into floating rate GBP liabilities by utilising cross currency interest rate swaps.
The fair value of these swaps at 1 January 2005 results in a liability and consequent charge to profit and loss 6.9m.
The fair value of the liabilities hedged by these derivatives results in a decrease in the balance sheet carrying value and consequently a credit to profit and loss of 7.3m.
As permitted by FRS 26 Financial Instruments : Measurement these policies were adopted on 1 January 2005.
