NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING THE SIXTEENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF PENNON GROUP PLC WILL BE HELD AT THE PLYMOUTH PAVILIONS, PLYMOUTH, DEVON ON THURSDAY 28 JULY 2005 AT 11.00am.
THESE PAGES ARE IMPORTANT AND REQUIRE YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you should immediately consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant, bank manager or other independent financial adviser who is authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred some or all of your ordinary shares, please send this Annual Report, together with the accompanying Form of Proxy, as soon as possible, to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
The Form of Proxy, if used, should be lodged with the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
Resolution 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING To propose the following as an ordinary resolution: The sixteenth Annual General Meeting of Pennon Group Plc will be held at The Plymouth Pavilions, Millbay Road, Plymouth, Devon That  LLP be reappointed auditors of the PL1 3LF on Thursday 28 July 2005 at 11.00 am for the transaction Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual of the following business: General Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
Resolution 1 Resolution 8 To receive the Report of the Directors and the financial To propose the following as an ordinary resolution: statements for the year ended 31 March 2005.
That the Directors be authorised to fix the remuneration of the Resolution 2 auditors.
To declare a final dividend, recommended by the Directors, for the Resolution 9 year ended 31 March 2005.
To propose the following as an ordinary resolution: Resolution 3 That in accordance with Article 5 of the Companys Articles of To propose the following as an ordinary resolution: Association, the Directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 32,802,000, that That the Directors remuneration report for the financial year such authority shall expire on 27 October 2006 or, if earlier, at the 2004 05, as contained in the Annual Report 2005, be approved.
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Resolution 4 Resolution 10 To re-elect Mr R J Baty as a Director.
To propose the following as a special resolution: Resolution 5 That in accordance with Article 6 of the Companys Articles of Association: a the Directors be given power to allot equity To re-elect Mr D J Dupont as a Director.
securities for cash: b that for the purpose of paragraph A ii of that Article, the nominal amount to which this power is limited is Resolution 6 7,109,000: and c this power shall expire on 27 October 2006 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General To re-elect Ms K M H Mortimer as a Director.
90 Pennon Group Plc NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Resolution 11 a Treasury shares To include a new definition of treasury shares in accordance To propose the following as a special resolution: with Section 162A of the Companies Act 1985. b Share capital That the Company is generally and unconditionally authorised to To reflect the authorised share capital of the Company at the make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the date of adoption of the new Articles of Association.
Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 1.11 each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in c Dis-application of pre-emption rights such manner as the Directors of the Company may from time to To clarify that any dis-application of pre-emption rights will time determine provided that: extend to the allotment of treasury shares for cash.
a the maximum number of ordinary shares that may be d Uncertificated shares purchased under this authority is 12,810,000 being no more To facilitate the holding and transfer of shares in than 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 15 June uncertificated form.
2005 : e Proceedings at general meetings To ensure the orderly and secure running of shareholders b the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share meetings.
purchased under this authority is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for such ordinary shares f Number of Directors as appropriate, as derived from the London Stock Exchange The maximum number of Directors to be 12.
Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding g Retirement of Directors the day on which that share is purchased and the minimum price Any Director who has held office for three years or more to which may be paid is 1.11 per ordinary share the nominal value retire from office but be eligible for re-appointment.
of that share : and h Removal of Directors c this authority will, unless previously varied, revoked or To add a provision to permit the removal of a Director by renewed, expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General notice from his co-directors.
Meeting of the Company but the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before its expiry i Expenses which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of To permit a Director to have paid out of the funds of the this authority and may make purchases of ordinary shares Company all expenses incurred by him in obtaining pursuant to such a contract.
professional advice in connection with the Companys affairs or his duties as a Director.
Resolution 12 j Delegation to individual Directors To give authority to the Board to delegate its powers to any To propose the following as a special resolution: Director.
That Article 102 of the Articles of Association of the Company be k Directors interests and voting amended to deduct in determining the borrowings of the To provide updated provisions as to Directors interests and Company any sums held by the Company on deposit.
voting and to give express ability to the Company to purchase Directors and Officers insurance.
Resolution 13 l Issue of share certificates To propose the following as a special resolution: To permit share certificates to be signed electronically.
m Power to differentiate That the Articles of Association set out in the document produced To permit the Board to differentiate between holders of to the meeting which incorporate the amendment proposed in shares.
Resolution 12 relating to the borrowing powers of the Company and signed by the Chairman for purposes of identification be n Calculation and currency of dividends adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in To permit dividends to be declared and paid in any currency.
substitution for, and to the exclusion of, all existing Articles of o Indemnity Association.
To provide that the Company may rather than shall A brief description of the principal changes proposed are set out indemnify a Director or other Officer excluding an auditor below.
The principal changes proposed are set out in more detail against liabilities incurred by him in connection with his in the Explanatory Notes.
Pennon Group Plc 91 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Resolution 14 advised to read the terms and conditions shown on the website relating to the use of this facility before appointing a proxy.
Any To propose the following as an ordinary resolution: electronic communication sent by a shareholder that is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Electronic That in accordance with Section 347C of the Companies Act 1985 communication facilities are available to all shareholders and the Company and its subsidiaries be generally and those who use them will not be disadvantaged in any way.
unconditionally authorised to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure in an Electronic proxy appointment through CREST aggregate amount not exceeding 100,000 during the period expiring 15 months after the date of the passing of this CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through resolution, or if earlier at the conclusion of the next Annual the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the General Meeting unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by the Company in general meeting.
For the purposes of this following the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
resolution, the expressions donations, EU political All messages relating to the appointment of a proxy or an organisations and EU political expenditure have the meanings instruction to a previously-appointed proxy, which are to be set out in Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the transmitted through CREST, must be received by Lloyds TSB Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Registrars ID 7RA01 no later than 11.00am on 26 July 2005, or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, close of business on By Order of the Board the day two days prior to the day fixed for the adjourned Annual K D WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary General Meeting.
Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR Registered Office 23 June 2005 Documents available for inspection A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association and a copy of the existing Articles of Association of the Company will be IMPORTANT NOTES available for inspection during normal business hours at the Registered Office of the Company and at Allen & Overy LLP, One Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities New Change, London EC4M 9QQ up to and including 28 July 2005 Regulations 2001, only those shareholders registered in the and at the Annual General Meeting from 10.00 am on 28 July 2005 register of members as at 6.00 pm on 26 July 2005 will be entitled to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes In addition, copies of the Executive Directors service contracts, to entries on the register after 6.00 pm on 26 July 2005 will be the Chairmans and the Non-executive Directors contracts for disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or service and the Register of Directors Interests in the share capital vote at the meeting.
of the Company, are available for inspection during normal A person entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to business hours at the Registered Office of the Company and will appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll, vote instead remain so up to and including 27 July 2005.
They will then be of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting from 10.00 am on 28 July 2005 until the conclusion of the meeting.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy for use at the meeting and power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified or office copy of such power or authority, must EXPLANATORY NOTES ON CERTAIN BUSINESS OF be deposited at the office of the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing BN99 6UQ not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Annual General Meeting.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a Remuneration policy shareholder from attending and voting at the Annual General Resolution 3 proposes the approval of the Directors Meeting instead of his or her proxy, if the shareholder so wishes.
remuneration report which is set out on pages 38 to 44 inclusive of the Annual Report.
It is a requirement, pursuant to Schedule Electronic proxy voting 7A of the Companies Act 1985, that the Directors remuneration report be submitted to shareholders for approval, albeit that any Shareholders may register the appointment of a proxy for the voting on the report is advisory only.
No changes have been made Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof to the policy which was submitted to shareholders for approval at electronically at www.
co. uk a website operated by the Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Shareholders are last years Annual General Meeting.
92 Pennon Group Plc NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Re-election of Directors Currently the Company does not hold any shares in the Company in treasury see the note to Resolution 11.
This authority will Resolutions 4, 5 and 6 propose the re-elections of Messrs Baty expire on 27 October 2006 or, if earlier, at the next Annual and Dupont and Ms Mortimer as Directors of the Company in General Meeting of the Company, although it is the Directors accordance with the Companys Articles of Association which intention to renew the authority annually.
require that, at the date of the notice convening the Annual General Meeting, each Director who has held office for more than Resolution 10 requests shareholder approval by way of a special 30 months since appointment or re-appointment must retire.
The resolution to renew until 27 October 2006 or, if earlier, at the Directors, being eligible, offer themselves up for re-election.
Bob conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, Baty was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 March 1996 the Directors authority to allot equity securities for cash without and has extensive knowledge of the water business having joined first being required to offer such securities to existing South West Water as its engineering and scientific director.
The share capital to which this authority relates to that he held engineering and operational appointments with represents not more than 5% of the issued share capital as at 15 North West Water Authority.
David Dupont was appointed a June 2005.
The Directors would not intend to issue more than Director of the Company on 2 March 2002 and has extensive 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three finance, regulatory, strategic planning and business year period without prior consultation with the Investment development experience having formerly been South West Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the Waters regulatory and finance director.
Prior to that he was National Association of Pension Funds.
Pennon Groups strategic planning manager.
Kate Mortimer was The Directors consider that they should have the above appointed a Director of the Company on 1 May 2000.
As authorities in order to be able to take advantage of opportunities demonstrated by her biographical details set out on page 37 of as they arise and to retain flexibility although they have no the Annual Report, Kate Mortimer has extensive financial and current plans to issue shares, except pursuant to the Companys business experience and has been appointed as a member and scrip dividend alternative, the exercise of options arising from Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the Board and as a the Companys all-employee sharesave scheme and new Share member of the Audit and Nomination Committees of the Board.
Incentive Plan, the operation of the Companys Restricted Share The Board supports the re-election of these Directors as it Plan and or the operation of the deferred bonus share element of believes that their knowledge and experience assists in ensuring the Companys Annual Incentive Bonus Plan.
that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience for the requirements of the business.
The Chairman Authority to purchase ordinary shares of the Company confirms that following the formal annual performance Resolution 11 requests shareholder approval by way of a special evaluation, Kate Mortimer, as a Non-executive Director, resolution to renew the Companys authority to purchase up to continues to be effective and continues to demonstrate commit- 10% of its ordinary shares at or between the minimum and ment to the role, including commitment of time for Board and maximum prices specified in the resolution.
This authority is Committee meetings and other duties as they are likely to arise.
requested in order to increase the Companys flexibility to optimise the long-term financial and tax efficiency of its capital Reappointment of auditors structure.
The Directors have no specific plans to exercise such Resolution 7 proposes the reappointment of Pricewaterpowers in the immediate future but will keep the matter under houseCoopers LLP as auditors.
 LLP have review and will only make such purchases if they would result in indicated their willingness to continue in office and their an increase in the Companys earnings per share and are in the reappointment is supported by the Audit Committee of the Board.
best interests of the Companys shareholders generally.
Any shares purchased in this way will, unless the Directors Authority to allot shares determine that they are to be held as treasury shares see below, Resolution 9 requests shareholder approval by way of an ordinary be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced resolution to renew in compliance with recently published accordingly.
Shares held in treasury will not automatically be institutional guidelines until 27 October 2006 or, if earlier, at cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the of earnings per share unless they are subsequently resold or Company, the Directors existing general and unconditional transferred out of treasury.
authority to allot securities in accordance with the Companies Act The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares 1985 and the Articles of Association of the Company.
This Regulations 2003 allows companies to hold shares acquired by authority would continue that granted in July 2004.
The nominal way of market purchase in treasury, rather than having to cancel share capital to which this authority relates of 32,802,000 them.
The Company may therefore consider holding any of its own being the unissued share capital of the Company represents shares that it may purchase pursuant to the authority conferred approximately 23% of the issued share capital as at 15 June 2005.
Pennon Group Plc 93 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING by this resolution as treasury shares as an alternative to Article 3: Share Capital cancelling them.
This would give the Company the ability to reissue such treasury shares quickly and cost effectively.
No This article will reflect the authorised share capital at the date of dividends may be paid on shares held in treasury and no voting adoption of the new Articles of Association.
There are no rights may be exercisable in respect of treasury shares.
references in this article to the special rights redeemable preference share of 1 as this was redeemed on 31 December Authority to redefine the power of the Company to 1994 and by a special resolution of the Company passed on 25 borrow money July 1995, the rights attaching to that class of share were deleted from the Articles of Association of the Company.
Resolution 12 requests shareholder approval by way of a special resolution to amend Article 102 of the Companys Articles of Article 7: Dis-application of pre-emption rights Association to deduct in determining the borrowings of the Company, any sums held by the Company on deposit.
This article will include a clarification that any dis-application of pre-emption rights will extend to the allotment of treasury shares This updating of the Article is made to reflect the fact that it is the for cash.
policy of the Company to forward borrow to fund the Groups capital programme for at least the forthcoming twelve months.
Articles 14 and 17: Uncertificated shares Adoption of proposed new Articles of Association Article 14 will contain specific provisions facilitating the holding of the Company and transfer of shares in uncertificated form.
Resolution 13 requests shareholder approval by way of a special Article 17 will provide that the Company will maintain a record of resolution that the new Articles of Association of the Company uncertificated shares.
Further changes will be made to other which incorporates the amendment proposed in Resolution 12 articles to facilitate the holding and transfer of uncertificated be adopted.
The current Articles of Association were adopted in shares.
Although subsequent amendments have been made, the Directors propose that new Articles of Association be adopted Articles 32, 34, 35, 37 and 38: Proceedings at general meetings which will comply with current regulations, and best practice and which will generally update, clarify, simplify and re-order the In common with other listed public companies, these articles will Articles of Association of the Company.
The changes will also contain amendments to the previous provisions to ensure the remove the references to the special rights redeemable orderly and secure running of shareholders meetings for the preference share which was redeemed on 31 December 1994. benefit of the meeting as a whole.
A summary of the principal differences between the Article 51: Number of Directors existing Articles of Association and the proposed new Articles of Association This article will provide that the maximum number of Directors will be 12.
The following is a summary of the principal changes proposed to be contained in the new Articles of Association.
Other changes Article 57: Retirement of Directors have been made to bring the Articles of Association into line with current regulation and best practice, generally to update, clarify This article will simplify and clarify the existing article by and simplify the Articles of Association of the Company and to reproviding that, at each Annual General Meeting, any Director who order the Articles of Association so as to make them easier to has held office for three years or more shall retire from office but read.
These changes require no further explanation.
Article 2: Interpretation Article 58: Removal of Directors This article will include a new definition of treasury shares in In addition to the power of the Company in general meeting to accordance with Section 162A of the Companies Act 1985.
The new remove a Director, this article permits the removal of a Director by article will clarify that when shares are held in treasury, all rights notice from his co-directors provided such notice is signed by or on relating to those shares are suspended, including the right to behalf of all the other Directors or their alternates being not less attend and vote in general meetings, the right to receive a dividend than three in number.
and the right to receive any other distribution from the Company.
94 Pennon Group Plc NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Article 65: Expenses Article 128: Indemnity This article will permit a Director to have paid out of the funds of This article will provide that the Company may rather than shall the Company all expenses incurred by him in obtaining indemnify a Director or other Officer excluding an auditor professional advice in connection with the affairs of the Company against liabilities incurred by him in connection with his duties, or the discharge of his duties as a Director subject to any powers or office.
The change is for the purposes of clarification guidelines and procedures established from time to time by the and reflects a recent determination by the courts that a Board.
companys articles of association are not automatically binding as between a company and its officers and that indemnities will not Article 70: Power to borrow money be available to directors or officers unless they are also incorporated in a separate contract between the company and the This article will be updated as set out in Resolution 12 to deduct relevant director or officer.
The new article will also reflect recent any sums held by the Company on deposit when determining the changes in company law relating to such indemnities.
Article 71: Delegation to individual Directors POLITICAL DONATIONS This article will give the Board the power to delegate any of its Whilst Resolution 14 requests shareholder approval by way of an powers to any Director on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.
ordinary resolution to approve donations to political parties, please note that the Company has a policy that it does not make Article 75: Directors interests and voting donations to, or incur expenditure on behalf of, political parties.
However, the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act This article will contain updated provisions as to Directors 2000 the Act amended the Companies Act 1985 and contains interests and voting including the express ability of the Company restrictions on companies making donations or incurring EU to purchase Directors and Officers insurance for the benefit of political expenditure and it defines these terms very widely and any person who holds a relevant office with the Company.
confirms that activities which form part of the normal relationship between the Company and bodies concerned with Article 87: Issue of share certificates policy review, law reform and other business matters affecting the Company may be included.
Such activities, which are in the This article will permit share certificates to be signed shareholders interests for the Company to conduct, are not electronically.
designed to support, or implement support for, a particular political party.
Article 94: Power to differentiate The Company believes that the authority proposed under this This article will provide that, on an issue of shares, the Board may Resolution which is similar to that agreed by shareholders at the differentiate between holders of shares in relation to the time Annual General Meeting last year is necessary to ensure that it and amount of payment of calls on those shares.
does not commit any technical breach that could arise from the uncertainty generated by the wide definitions contained within Article 104: Calculation and currency of dividends the Act when carrying out activities in the furtherance of its legitimate business interests.
This article will allow for dividends to be declared or to be paid in any currency.
It will also allow the Board to agree with a member to pay a dividend in a currency different from the one in which it RECOMMENDATION was declared and provides a mechanism for conversion of a dividend into that other currency.
Your Directors consider that all the proposals to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the Resolutions.
