INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS endorsed by the European Union EU.
The failure of the EU to OVERVIEW endorse all of these standards for financial reporting in 2005, the issue of any new or revised standards, or the publishing of further The Group is required to adopt International Financial Reporting interpretational guidance, could result in changes to the Standards IFRS for its 2005 06 financial year, with comparative financial information presented in this document.
These figures restated according to IFRS.
illustrative adjustments are also subject to the completion of the on-going IFRS project.
The first published results under IFRS will therefore be the interim results for the six months ending 30 September 2005.
The Group Certain exemptions are allowed under IFRS 1 to assist companies intends to present fuller information on the restatement of the with the transition process.
The Group intends to prepare its 2004 05 financial accounts on an IFRS basis no later than the balance sheets at 31 March 2004 and 2005 using the elections publication of these interim results.
relating to: The implementation of IFRS within the Group is a major on-going the bringing forward of historic goodwill balances without project.
The principal changes between UK Generally Accepted restatement to IFRS principles Accounting Principles UK GAAP and IFRS have been identified, together with an estimate of their impact upon shareholders equity the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 accounting for and and reported profits for 2004 05. disclosure of financial instruments with effect from 1 April 2005 The adjustments set out below are presented for illustrative the recognition of the full IAS 19 pension deficit in the Groups purposes only and represent the current best estimates of the balance sheet impact of IFRS on the specific areas identified in this document, under the assumption that all existing standards in issue from the the valuation of water and sewerage infrastructure assets at International Accounting Standards Board IASB will be fully fair value.
KEY CHANGES The key changes from IFRS impacting the Groups financial statements are: UK GAAP IFRS Taxation deferred tax FRS 19 IAS 12 Pensions FRS 17 IAS 19 Acquisition accounting and goodwill FRS 7 IFRS 3 Fixed assets infrastructure accounting FRS 15 IAS 16 Dividends Cos. Act FRS 21 IAS 10 Summary The assessment of the above specific key changes from the The reduction in net worth reflecting these key changes does not standards identified is estimated to result in a restatement of affect compliance with debt covenants since these are subject to total shareholders equity at 31 March 2004 from 900 million either frozen UK GAAP or specific carve-out clauses.
under existing UK GAAP to circa 670 million on an IFRS basis, The identified reduction in net worth affects Group consolidated primarily from reductions through the non-discounting of the reserves only and consequently will not impact individual existing deferred tax provision and the recognition of the net entities existing distributable reserves or the current policy to pension deficit.
cover dividend payments from net profit for the reporting period.
Reported profit before taxation for 2004 05 is estimated to be unchanged from the above key factors between UK GAAP and IFRS and adjusted earnings per share, before deferred tax, also remain as reported.
The non-discounting of the 2004 05 deferred tax charge reduces basic earnings per share by circa 6p, to 49p.
86 Pennon Group Plc INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS INCOME STATEMENT The assessment of the above specific key changes is estimated to result in a restatement of reported profit performance for 2004 05, before exceptional items, as: UK GAAP IFRS basis basis m m Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation 244 243 Group operating profit 148 149 Profit before taxation 87 87 Adjusted earnings per share before deferred tax 63p 63p Basic earnings per share 55p 49p The illustrative impact of these specific adjustments to Group operating profit on the Groups 2004 05 reported segmental performance is: UK GAAP IFRS basis basis m m Water and sewerage 122 121 Waste management 26 28 Other 148 149 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY The assessment of the above specific key changes is estimated to result in a restatement of shareholders equity of: 31 March 2004 31 March 2005 m m Reported under UK GAAP 900 938 Indicative restated to IFRS c. 670 c. 710 ADJUSTMENTS The expected principal differences between accounting under UK GAAP and IFRS specifically identified above may be summarised as: Taxation Under UK GAAP, the Group creates a discounted provision for Under IFRS IAS 12 a discounting methodology is not permitted.
deferred taxation, as allowed under FRS 19, to reflect an Consequently the deferred tax provision increases and assessment of the period over which timing differences are commensurately reduces shareholders equity as indicated below: expected to reverse.
31 March 2004 31 March 2005 m m Discounted provision UK GAAP 63 72 Undiscounted provision IFRS 269 286 Increase in provision 206 214 Pennon Group Plc 87 INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Fixed assets infrastructure accounting ADJUSTMENTS continued UK GAAP FRS 15 permits renewals accounting as a method for Taxation continued estimating depreciation on infrastructure assets which has been adopted by the UK water industry.
The depreciation charge represents Other significant deferred tax effects are estimated to arise from the the level of annual expenditure required to maintain the operating recognition under IFRS of deferred tax on property revalued at the time capacity of the infrastructure network at a specified level of service of acquisitions by Viridor Waste, circa 16 million and the recognition of potential by the continuing replacement and refurbishment of its the pension deficit, as outlined below.
South West Water uses an independently certified Asset The non-discounting of deferred tax increases the charge against Management Plan to determine the level of annual expenditure 2004 05 profits from 11 million to 18 million.
The significant on-going level of capital expenditure projected for the IFRS does not permit the use of renewals accounting.
Instead Groups operations means that actual payment of tax is expected to infrastructure assets are capitalised and depreciated over the estimated continue to be deferred through the creation of further timing useful lives of major components.
Consequently, infrastructure assets in the opening balance sheet under IFRS have to be restated from their existing UK GAAP net book value.
Pensions Under the first time adoption rules set out in IFRS 1, a fair value can be Under UK GAAP SSAP 24 the pensions charge is established by reference used as the deemed cost of the infrastructure assets where it is not to the triennial valuation of the Groups pension schemes and is set at a possible to reconstruct a value for historic cost less depreciation on an level amount to recognise both the on-going service cost and the IFRS compliant basis.
This value is depreciated over the estimated spreading of any actuarial surplus or deficit.
Under IFRS IAS 19 only the on-going service cost is charged against Shareholders equity at 31 March 2004 is not expected to be operating profit.
A net financing cost or credit to reflect expected significantly affected since the opening fair value of infrastructure changes in liabilities and investment return is included within interest assets under IFRS in South West Water is currently estimated to be close payable or receivable.
An annual update of the valuation of scheme to historic cost.
assets and liabilities results in a movement in the total pension surplus Reported operating profit for 2004 05 is estimated to be reduced by or deficit which is recognised in the IFRS Statement Of Recognised circa 4 million as a result of calculating specific depreciation compared Income and Expenditure SORIE.
to the previous normative long-term charge based upon the 1999 The gross pension deficit, circa 80 million at 31 March 2005, is shown Periodic Review Asset Management Plan.
as a balance sheet liability, with the related deferred tax asset, circa 24 The revised estimated total infrastructure depreciation cost of circa 19 million, within the net deferred tax balance.
million for 2004 05 is circa 2 million below the level of the The recognition of the pension deficit, net of deferred tax, reduces infrastructure renewals charge assumed by Ofwat in the Final shareholders equity by circa 59 million at 31 March 2004 and circa 51 Determination for 2005 06. million at 31 March 2005.
Reported 2004 05 profit before tax increases by circa 4 million, principally due to the on-going service cost no longer Dividends containing an element of deficit recovery.
Under UK GAAP prior to the introduction of FRS 21 with effect from the 2005 06 financial year dividends payable are recognised in the profit Acquisition accounting and goodwill and loss account for the period to which they relate.
Under UK GAAP goodwill arising on acquisitions is amortised over its Under IFRS IAS 10 if dividends are declared after the balance sheet useful life, assessed by the Directors as being 20 years.
No separately date, the dividends are not recognised as a liability at the balance sheet identifiable intangible assets are currently included in the fair values date.
In addition, given that interim dividends are approved only by established for acquisitions.
resolution of the Board, and are thus revocable and discretionary, such Under IFRS IFRS 3 a wider range of potential intangible assets arising interim dividends should only be recognised when paid.
Dividends on on acquisition is required to be considered, identified and amortised equity instruments are therefore recognised as liabilities under IFRS as according to the useful lives of the individual components.
In addition, follows: the amortisation of goodwill is not permitted but all goodwill balances Final dividends when authorised in general meeting are subject to an annual test for impairment by comparing the carrying by shareholders.
values of assets to the discounted cash flows arising from the future use of those assets for identifiable cash generating units.
Shareholders equity at 31 March 2004 is not affected since the Group is Shareholders equity is consequently increased at the balance sheet bringing-forward historic balances as allowed under the exemption date, by circa 51 million at 31 March 2004, and circa 55 million at 31 referred to above.
March 2005 as a result of adding-back, for each of the 2003 04 and 2004 05 financial years, the final dividend not authorised until after The 2004 05 reported operating profit is increased by net circa 2 the year end and the interim dividend not paid until after the year end.
million, comprising the elimination of goodwill amortisation, circa 3 million, partially offset by a charge for the amortisation of intangible assets acquired under the purchase of Thames Waste Management Limited, circa 1 million.
No impairment charge is required in 2004 05 in relation to the goodwill balances recorded.
