10549 R&A 2005 Front 20 3 06 12:01 Page 33 cancel the purchased shares, so reducing the number of STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES shares in issue: or IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS where the shares were purchased out of distributable profits, subject to certain limitations, hold the purchased shares as The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report treasury shares.
and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Treasury shares themselves may be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred for the purposes of the Companys employee Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and share schemes.
Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group At the present time, the Directors have no wish to exercise the financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by power to purchase any of the ordinary shares of the Company, the EU and have elected to prepare the Parent Company but consider that it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do financial statements on the same basis.
Accordingly, Resolution 10 authorises the Directors to purchase up to a maximum of 29,510,022 ordinary shares, The Group and Parent Company financial statements are being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present 24 February 2006 being the latest practicable date prior to the fairly the financial position of the Group and the Parent posting of this document.
The maximum price per ordinary Company and the performance for that period: the Companies share payable on any exercise of the authority shall not be Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that more than 5% above the average middle market quotation for references in the relevant part of that Act to financial the ordinary shares as derived from the Daily Official List of statements giving a true and fair view are references to their the London Stock Exchange for the five business days prior to achieving a fair presentation.
The minimum price payable shall be 10p In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial per ordinary share, being the nominal value of an ordinary statements, the Directors are required to: share.
For this purpose, both the maximum and minimum prices permitted are to be paid exclusive of any expenses select suitable accounting policies and then apply them payable by the Company.
The authority would expire on consistently: 20 October 2007 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, whichever is the sooner.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Directors will only implement such purchases if, after careful consideration, they are satisfied that such purchases are state whether they have been prepared in accordance with in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and would result in an increase in expected earnings per share.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Furthermore, account will be taken of the overall financial unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the implications to the Company.
Parent Company will continue in business.
As at 24 February 2006 there were a total of 3,358,576 options The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and awards outstanding, representing 1.1% of the issued share records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the capital of the Company at that date.
If the Directors were financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to granted this authority to purchase shares and were to use it ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies in full, and subsequently cancel such shares, the outstanding Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps options would represent 1.3% of the issued share capital of as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the the Company.
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
AUDITORS Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also A resolution for the reappointment of the auditors, KPMG responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Remuneration Audit Plc, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Report and a Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
By order of the Board The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Neil Francis Group Company Secretary 24 February 2006 33 Persimmon Plc Annual Report 2005 Directors report 10549 R&A 2005 Front 20 3 06 12:01 Page 34 People Power Last year we provided around six thousand training days for our employees to give them the skills to do an exceptional job 34 Persimmon Plc Annual Report 2005 10549 R&A 2005 Front 20 3 06 12:01 Page 35 35 Persimmon Plc Annual Report 2005
