Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2005 12 Goodwill continued Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The calculation of value in use for both the Facilities Management and Training units is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Market share Growth rate Net profit margins: and, Discount rate Market share: the assumption relating to market share for the Facilities Management unit is based on the unit re-securing those existing customer contracts in the UK which are due to expire during the projection period: for the Training unit, the key assumptions relate to managements assessment of maintaining the units market share in the UK and developing further the business in international markets.
Growth rate: estimates are based on managements assessment of market share having regard to macro-economic factors and the growth rates experienced in the recent past by each unit.
A growth rate of 5% per annum has been applied for the remaining 7 years of the 10 year projection period.
Net profit margins: estimates are based on managements assumption of achieving a level of performance at least in line with the recent past performance of each of the units.
Discount rate: management has used a discount rate of 9.1% per annum throughout the assessment period, reflecting the estimated weighted average cost of capital of the group.
This discount rate has been calculated using an estimated risk free rate of return adjusted for the groups estimated equity market risk premium and the groups cost of debt.
The calculation of value in use for the Resources unit is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Financial returns: and, Discount rate Financial returns: estimates are based on the unit achieving returns on existing investments comprising both those that are currently cash flowing and those which are in development and which may therefore be consuming cash at least in line with current forecast income and cost budgets during the planning period.
Discount rate: management has used an estimate of the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of the group plus a risk premium to reflect the particular risk characteristics of each individual investment.
The discount rates range between 9.9% and 17.0%.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With regard to the assessment of value in use of the cash generating units, management believes that no reasonably possible changes in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the relevant unit to exceed its recoverable amount, after giving due consideration to the macro-economic outlook for the oil & gas industry and the commercial arrangements with customers underpinning the cash flow forecasts for each of the units.
13 Intangible assets Intangible oil & gas assets 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 6,721 Additions 4,825 6,721 Transferred to tangible oil & gas assets 8,467 Exchange difference 97 At 31 December 2,982 6,721 On 6 May 2005, Petrofac MalaysiaPM304 Limited received formal approval from the Malaysian licensing authorities for the companys field development plan in relation to Block PM304, Malaysia and, as a consequence, recognised commercial oil & gas reserves.
As a result of this development, the carrying value of intangible assets associated with Block PM304 was transferred from intangible oil & gas assets to tangible oil & gas assets.
Intangible oil & gas assets at 31 December 2005 relate to the groups interest in two UK offshore oil & gas licences.
68 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005
