Notes to the consolidated financial statements At 31 December 2005 With the exception of accounting for oil & gas assets, the 1 Corporate information accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited the previous financial year except that the group has adopted new and Company for the year ended 31 December 2005 were authorised revised Standards and Interpretations issued by the International for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial 15 March 2006.
Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB that are relevant to its operations and effective for accounting periods Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered in Jersey beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The principal effects of the under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and is the holding adoption of new and amended standards are discussed below: company for the international group of Petrofac subsidiaries together the group.
The groups principal activity is the provision IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment of facilities solutions to the oil & gas production and processing IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment requires an expense to be industry.
recognised where the group buys goods or services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
A full listing of all group companies, including joint venture companies, is contained in note 30 to these consolidated financial The group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of statements.
IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that 2 Summary of significant accounting policies had not vested before 1 January 2005.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a As a result of adopting IFRS 2, the group has recognised an historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and expense in the year of US$897,000 relating to employees  financial assets that have been measured at fair based incentives.
This expense is classified within selling, general value.
The functional currency of the consolidated financial and administration expenses in the income statement.
The effect statements is United States dollars US$, as a significant of the adopting this standard on basic and diluted earnings per proportion of the groups assets, liabilities, income and expenses share is as follows: are US$ denominated.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest a decrease in basic earnings per share by 0.29 US cents thousand US$000 except where otherwise stated.
a decrease in diluted earnings per share by 0.26 US cents Statement of compliance The reported net profit and shareholders equity for the year ended The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and all 31 December 2004 are unaffected by the adoption of this new its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with accounting standard.
principles generally accepted in the island of Jersey, incorporating International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and in Standing Interpretations Committee SIC 12 Special compliance with the applicable requirements of Jersey law.
Purpose Entities The Company has adopted the recently amended SIC 12 Special Basis of consolidation Purpose Entities.
This requires special purpose entities, formed for The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial the purpose of equity compensation plans, to be consolidated statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries.
The financial within the financial statements of the group.
statements of subsidiaries are prepared using consistent accounting policies.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to The adoption of SIC 12 has required the group to consolidate bring the accounting policies into line with those of the group.
Petrofac ESOP Trustees Limited Petrofac ESOP and, consequently, to offset the cost of shares temporarily held by Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is Petrofac ESOP as treasury shares from equity.
Prior to adopting transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the SIC 12, Petrofac ESOP was not consolidated and the cost of date on which control is transferred out of the group.
All intrashares held was disclosed as a current receivable within Total group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits, have Assets.
Total equity as at 1 January 2004 has been reduced by been eliminated on consolidation.
US$106,000 due to the adoption of this amended Standard.
This restatement is reflected under the heading Treasury shares within Changes in accounting policies total equity.
The group has changed its accounting policy for oil & gas assets from the full cost method of accounting for oil & gas assets to the IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IAS 36 revised successful efforts method.
The group believes this change in Impairment of Assets accounting policy will enhance the transparency of the financial IFRS 3 applies to accounting for business combinations for which reporting of future performance.
The reported net profit and the agreement date is on or after 31 March 2004. shareholders equity for the year ended 31 December 2004 are unaffected by the adoption of this method of accounting for oil & The effect of the adoption of IFRS 3 and IAS 36 revised has gas assets.
There is no impact on the net profit and shareholders resulted in the group ceasing annual goodwill amortisation and equity for the year ended 31 December 2005. commencing testing for impairment at the cash-generating unit level annually, unless an event occurs during the year which requires the goodwill to be tested more frequently, from 1 January 2005.
50 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 This revised accounting policy has been applied prospectively, in Revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement and accordance with the transitional rules of IFRS 3, and therefore the construction contracts: the group recognises revenue on fixed reported net profit and shareholders equity for the year ended price engineering, procurement and construction contracts on the 31 December 2004 are unaffected by the adoption of this new  method, based on surveys of work Standard.
The group has determined this basis of revenue recognition is the best available measure of progress on such IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and contracts.
Discontinued Operations The group has adopted IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale Estimation uncertainty and Discontinued Operations with effect from 1 January 2005.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources IFRS 5 requires an operation to be classified as discontinued when of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a the criteria to be classified as held for sale have been met or the significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying group has disposed of the operation.
The adoption of this amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are Standard has required the group to separately disclose, on the discussed below: face of the balance sheet, those assets held for sale within its discontinued operation.
Impairment of goodwill: the group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of In addition, the presentation of the income statement for the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill discontinued operations is no longer required on a line-by-line is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the group to make basis.
Instead, the Standard requires the net profit or loss from an estimate of the expected future cash flows from each cashdiscontinued operations to be disclosed as a single line item at the generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order foot of the income statement.
to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2005 was US$49,183,000 The comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004: US$49,653,000.
have been restated to conform with the presentation required by IFRS 5.
These restatements do not affect previously reported net Project cost to complete estimates: at each balance sheet date profit or shareholders equity.
the group is required to estimate costs to complete on fixed price contracts.
Estimating costs to complete on such contracts Amendment to IAS 21 The Effects Of Changes In Foreign requires the group to make estimates of future costs to be Exchange Rates Net Investment in a Foreign Operation incurred, based on work to be performed beyond the balance The group has adopted Amendment to IAS 21 Net Investment in sheet date.
a Foreign Operation with effect from 1 January 2005.
The amendment to IAS 21 requires all exchange differences arising Interests in joint ventures from the groups net investment in subsidiaries to be taken directly The group has a number of contractual arrangements with other to equity, irrespective of which group entity provides the parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of investment.
agreements to share control over other entities jointly controlled entities and commercial collaborations jointly controlled As a result of adopting this Amendment to IAS 21, US$526,000 of operations.
The groups interests in jointly controlled entities and translation losses arising in the year from the groups net operations are accounted for by proportionate consolidation, investment in subsidiaries has been recognised within the foreign which involves recognising its proportionate share of the joint currency translation reserve in equity.
Prior to adopting this ventures assets, liabilities, income and expenses with similar items amended Standard this translation loss would have been charged in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
The effect of adopting this amended Standard on basic and diluted earnings per share is as follows: The financial statements of the groups jointly controlled entities and operations are prepared using consistent accounting policies.
an increase in basic earnings per share by 0.17 US cents Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting an increase in diluted earnings per share by 0.15 US cents policies into line with those of the group.
The reported net profit and shareholders equity for the year ended Transactions in foreign currencies 31 December 2004 are unaffected by the adoption of this In the accounts of individual group companies, transactions in amended Standard.
foreign currencies are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
At the year end, monetary assets and liabilities Significant accounting judgements and estimates denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of Judgements exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
All foreign In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, exchange gains and losses are taken to the income statement with management has made the following judgements, apart from the exception of exchange differences arising on monetary assets those involving estimations, which have the most significant effect and liabilities that form part of the groups net investment in on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: subsidiaries.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment at which time they are recognised in the income Petrofac Resources Ohanet Jersey Limited Petrofac Ohanet : the statement.
group acquired Petrofac Ohanet on 27 May 2005.
Prior to its acquisition, the group consolidated Petrofac Ohanet in its consolidated financial statements as it determined it held significant operating and financial control over the company.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 51 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2005 Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill Foreign group companies associated with the operation disposed of is included in the The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures are carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or translated using the closing rate method, whereby assets and loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the balance sheet date.
The income statements of overseas operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit subsidiaries and joint ventures are translated at average exchange retained.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net assets are taken directly to equity.
Oil & gas assets Capitalised costs On the disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange The groups activities in relation to oil & gas assets are limited to differences are recognised in the income statement as a acquisition, appraisal and development.
The group does not component of the gain or loss on disposal.
undertake oil & gas exploration activities.
Property, plant and equipment The group follows the successful efforts method of accounting for Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated oil & gas assets, under which expenditure relating to the depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is provided acquisition and appraisal of oil & gas interests, including an on a straight-line basis at the following rates: appropriate share of directly attributable overheads and relevant financing costs, are initially capitalised at cost as intangible assets, Oil & gas facilities 10% 12.5% pending determination of commercial reserves.
Plant and equipment 4% 33% Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% Intangible oil & gas assets are carried forward, on a field-by-field Office furniture and equipment 25% 100% basis, until declared part of a commercial development, at which Vehicles 20% 33% point the relevant total cost is transferred to tangible oil & gas assets.
All intangible oil & gas assets are assessed for any No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
impairment prior to transfer and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Costs relating to unsuccessful appraisals Borrowing costs are charged to the income statement in the period in which the Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of determination is made.
qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use, are Tangible oil & gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to substantially ready for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs proved reserves, taking account of estimated future development are recognised as interest payable in the income statement in the expenditure relating to those reserves.
period in which they are incurred.
The group utilises proved reserves estimates in performing Goodwill impairment testing on its oil & gas assets.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination Changes in unit-of-production factors over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations are contingent liabilities of the entity at the date of acquisition.
dealt with prospectively, not by immediate adjustment of prior Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any years amounts.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in Decommissioning circumstances indicate that such carrying value may be impaired.
Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when the group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and allocated to the related cash-generating units.
Each unit to which when a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
The goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the group at amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes expenditure.
An amount equivalent to the initial provision for and is not larger than a segment based on either the groups decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised over the life of primary or the groups secondary reporting format determined in the underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis over proved accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of oil & gas asset.
the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the The unwinding of the discount of future decommissioning carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
provisions is included as a separate financial item in the income statement under finance costs.
52 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Available-for-sale financial assets Trade and other receivables Investments classified as available-for-sale are initially stated at Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice cost, being the fair value of consideration given, including amounts less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be acquisition charges associated with the investment.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are written off when identified.
measured at their fair value using quoted market rates.
Gains and losses are recognised as a separate component of equity until the A proportion of the groups trading cycle is on average more than investment is sold or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain twelve months due to the long term nature of the contracts or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income undertaken.
Retentions relating to long term contracts are statement.
presented as a current asset although they may not be recovered within twelve months of the balance sheet date.
Impairment of assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying Cash and cash equivalents amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to assess whether Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at hand and bank and there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or such indication exists, the group makes an estimate of the assets less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax Interest-bearing loans and borrowings discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
cost, being the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs directly attributable to the borrowing.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective immediately in the income statement, unless the relevant asset is interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying Provisions amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted immediately in the income statement, unless the relevant asset is using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the impairment is treated as a revaluation increase.
increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the income statement as a finance cost.
Inventories Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, are Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable Financial assets value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset is business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated derecognised where: costs necessary to make the sale.
the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and the group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, estimated earnings but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without Work in progress is stated at cost and estimated earnings less material delay to a third party under a pass-through provision for any anticipated losses and progress payments arrangement: or, received or receivable.
Where the payments received or receivable the group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from for any contract exceed the cost and estimated earnings less the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks provision for any anticipated losses, the excess is shown as billings and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor in excess of cost and estimated earnings within current liabilities.
retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 53 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2005 Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Through Petrofac ESOP, the Company temporarily warehouses Financial liabilities ordinary shares that are expected, in the foreseeable future, to be A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the offered to new or existing employees including directors.
The cost liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
of shares temporarily held by Petrofac ESOP are reflected as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
Petrofac ESOP If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same acquires shares from the Company at fair value, as determined lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing using a net asset based formula, and the Company extends an liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or interest free loan to Petrofac ESOP to acquire these shares.
The modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and effects of share issues and repurchase transactions arising within the recognition of a new liability such that the difference in the Petrofac ESOP are taken directly to equity.
respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in the income statement.
Leases The group has entered into various operating leases the payments Pensions and employees end-of-service benefits under which are treated as rentals and charged to the income The group has various defined contribution pension schemes in statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries in which it operates.
The amount charged to the income statement Revenue recognition in respect of pension costs is the contributions payable in the year.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic Differences between contributions payable during the year and benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued liabilities or measured.
The following specific recognition criteria also apply: prepaid assets in the balance sheet.
Engineering, procurement and construction services Employees end-of-service benefits are provided in accordance Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the with the labour laws of the countries in which the group operates,  method, based on surveys of work further details of which are given in note 23. performed when the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when the Share-based payment transactions outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract Employees including directors of the group receive remuneration revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby are expected to be recoverable.
employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned Equity-settled transactions measured by the cost-to-cost method.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion of are granted.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is contracts entered into at the balance sheet date, whether or not taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked work has commenced on these contracts.
to the price of the shares of Petrofac Limited market conditions, if applicable.
Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is sufficiently advanced and the amount of the incentive payments The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with can be measured reliably.
Claims are only included in revenue a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting probable the claim will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects Facilities management, engineering and training services the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the groups Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will period in which the services are provided based on the agreed ultimately vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period contract schedule of rates.
represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the  method, measured by milestones No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, completed or earned value when the outcome of a contract can except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market be estimated reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or when the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other contract revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs performance conditions are satisfied.
incurred that are expected to be recoverable.
The group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 sufficiently advanced and the amount of the incentive payments only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that can be measured reliably.
Claims are only included in revenue had not vested before 1 January 2005. when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable the claim will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
54 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Oil & gas activities Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and Oil & gas revenues comprise the groups share of sales from the as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an entitlement basis.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by Income taxes reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate cap and swap payable and deferred tax.
contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: statement because it excludes items of income or expense that fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or, items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the carrying amounts of assets Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to bases used in the computation of taxable profit, with the following the income statement.
The treatment of gains and losses arising exceptions: from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments where the temporary difference arises from the initial depends on the nature of hedging relationship, as follows: recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the Fair value hedges transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from where the timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be both are taken to the income statement.
For hedged items carried controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will at amortised cost, the adjustment is amortised through the income not reverse in the foreseeable future: and, statement such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that a taxable profit will be available against The group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge credits or tax losses can be utilised.
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the group revokes the designation.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply Cash flow hedges when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the sheet date.
ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to hedged transaction affects the income statement.
items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a Derivative financial instruments and hedging hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast currency contracts and interest rate caps and swaps to hedge its transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract transferred to the income statement.
is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 55
