Notes to the consolidated financial statements At 31 December 2005 With the exception of accounting for oil & gas assets, the 1 Corporate information accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited the previous financial year except that the group has adopted new and Company for the year ended 31 December 2005 were authorised revised Standards and Interpretations issued by the International for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial 15 March 2006.
Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB that are relevant to its operations and effective for accounting periods Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered in Jersey beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The principal effects of the under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and is the holding adoption of new and amended standards are discussed below: company for the international group of Petrofac subsidiaries together the group.
The groups principal activity is the provision IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment of facilities solutions to the oil & gas production and processing IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment requires an expense to be industry.
recognised where the group buys goods or services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
A full listing of all group companies, including joint venture companies, is contained in note 30 to these consolidated financial The group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of statements.
IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that 2 Summary of significant accounting policies had not vested before 1 January 2005.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a As a result of adopting IFRS 2, the group has recognised an historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and expense in the year of US$897,000 relating to employees  financial assets that have been measured at fair based incentives.
This expense is classified within selling, general value.
The functional currency of the consolidated financial and administration expenses in the income statement.
The effect statements is United States dollars US$, as a significant of the adopting this standard on basic and diluted earnings per proportion of the groups assets, liabilities, income and expenses share is as follows: are US$ denominated.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest a decrease in basic earnings per share by 0.29 US cents thousand US$000 except where otherwise stated.
a decrease in diluted earnings per share by 0.26 US cents Statement of compliance The reported net profit and shareholders equity for the year ended The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and all 31 December 2004 are unaffected by the adoption of this new its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with accounting standard.
principles generally accepted in the island of Jersey, incorporating International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and in Standing Interpretations Committee SIC 12 Special compliance with the applicable requirements of Jersey law.
Purpose Entities The Company has adopted the recently amended SIC 12 Special Basis of consolidation Purpose Entities.
This requires special purpose entities, formed for The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial the purpose of equity compensation plans, to be consolidated statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries.
The financial within the financial statements of the group.
statements of subsidiaries are prepared using consistent accounting policies.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to The adoption of SIC 12 has required the group to consolidate bring the accounting policies into line with those of the group.
Petrofac ESOP Trustees Limited Petrofac ESOP and, consequently, to offset the cost of shares temporarily held by Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is Petrofac ESOP as treasury shares from equity.
Prior to adopting transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the SIC 12, Petrofac ESOP was not consolidated and the cost of date on which control is transferred out of the group.
All intrashares held was disclosed as a current receivable within Total group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits, have Assets.
Total equity as at 1 January 2004 has been reduced by been eliminated on consolidation.
US$106,000 due to the adoption of this amended Standard.
This restatement is reflected under the heading Treasury shares within Changes in accounting policies total equity.
The group has changed its accounting policy for oil & gas assets from the full cost method of accounting for oil & gas assets to the IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IAS 36 revised successful efforts method.
The group believes this change in Impairment of Assets accounting policy will enhance the transparency of the financial IFRS 3 applies to accounting for business combinations for which reporting of future performance.
The reported net profit and the agreement date is on or after 31 March 2004. shareholders equity for the year ended 31 December 2004 are unaffected by the adoption of this method of accounting for oil & The effect of the adoption of IFRS 3 and IAS 36 revised has gas assets.
There is no impact on the net profit and shareholders resulted in the group ceasing annual goodwill amortisation and equity for the year ended 31 December 2005. commencing testing for impairment at the cash-generating unit level annually, unless an event occurs during the year which requires the goodwill to be tested more frequently, from 1 January 2005.
50 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005
