Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2005 Basis of consolidation and presentation of financial information Tangible fixed assets The group accounts consolidate the accounts of the company and its The cost of tangible fixed assets is their purchase cost, together with subsidiary undertakings at 30 September 2005.
Interests in associated any incidental expenses of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated so undertakings are included using the equity method of accounting.
as to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets, less their estimated The results of businesses acquired or disposed of are consolidated for residual value, on a straight line basis over their estimated economic the period from, or up to, the date control passes.
The estimated economic lives used for this purpose are: The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention Buildings 2050 years and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable or over the remaining life accounting standards.
of the lease if shorter Plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings 315 years A separate profit and loss account dealing only with the results of Motor vehicles 314 years the company has not been presented, as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until they become available for use.
The carrying Cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses for values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or the 18 months to 30 September 2004 have been restated by an changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be increase of 45.4m, a decrease of 26.2m and a decrease of 19.2m recoverable.
Any impairment in the value of fixed assets is charged to respectively to align the classification of costs with those for the year the profit and loss account.
Stocks Revenue recognition Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods, net of value Cost represents all direct costs incurred in bringing stocks to their added tax, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within present state and location, including an appropriate proportion of the group.
Sales of goods are recognised when a group entity has manufacturing overheads.
Net realisable value is based on estimated delivered products to the customer, the customer has accepted the selling price less further costs to be incurred to completion and products and collectability of the restated receivables is reasonably disposal.
Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow assured.
Goodwill Deferred taxation In accordance with FRS10, purchased goodwill is capitalised and Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that amortised over its useful economic life.
This ranges from three to have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where 20 years.
As permitted by FRS10, purchased goodwill previously transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an written off to reserves has not been reinstated.
Goodwill previously obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax written off to reserves is included in the calculation of profits and with the following exceptions: losses on disposals.
i Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation Leases and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on Leasing and hire purchase agreements that transfer to the company disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a treated as if the assets had been purchased outright.
The assets are binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, included under fixed assets at their fair value and the capital element no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at of the commitment is shown as obligations under finance leases the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable and hire purchase agreements.
Assets held under finance leases are gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and the useful lives of only where the replacement assets are sold.
Assets held under hire purchase agreements are depreciated over the useful lives of equivalent owned assets.
The ii Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the finance element of lease and hire purchase agreements is charged to directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be the profit and loss account in proportion to the amount of loan suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the outstanding.
underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged on a straight line Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates basis over the lease term.
that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
40 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Pension benefits The group operates three defined benefit schemes, which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
The costs of providing pensions are charged to the profit and loss account on a consistent basis over the service lives of employees.
Such costs are calculated by reference to actuarial valuations and variations from such regular costs are spread over the remaining service lives of the current employees.
Differences between the amounts funded and the amounts charged in the profit and loss account are treated as either provisions or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Own shares The consideration paid for the companys own shares held by the Employee Share Option Plan is deducted from shareholders funds.
On unconditional vesting of these options the amount is transferred to the profit and loss reserves.
Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are expressed in sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using monthly average exchange rates.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments A variety of financial instruments are used to manage the financial risks arising from the business and financing activities of the group.
There is no trading activity in financial instruments.
The group has taken advantage of the dispensation of not disclosing short-term debtors and creditors as financial instruments.
A discussion of how the financial risks are managed is included in the operating and financial review.
Financial instruments are accounted for as follows: Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the groups exposure to movements in interest rates.
The interest payable or receivable on such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior to maturity: Forward rate agreements are used to hedge short-term interest rate exposures.
The interest payable or receivable is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings: Crosscurrency interest rate swaps currency swaps are used to hedge foreign currency borrowings.
The future currency exchange rate within such contracts is revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and any unrealised gain or loss is matched with that on the underlying liability.
To the extent that such swaps and the underlying cash flows are identical no change is made to the original sterling value of the liability: Forward exchange contracts and short dated swaps are used to hedge expected currency cash flows.
Gains and losses on these transactions are either deferred until the transaction to which they relate occurs or, in the event that maturity occurs before the actual cash flow, at the time of maturity of the contract swap.
