ROME, ITALY LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS, USA Dives in Misericordia Church Pilkington Optiwhite and William Jefferson Clinton BEIJING, CHINA laminated Pilkington Optilam Presidential Center and Beijing Global Trade Center Therm combine to offer Library 2 Over 55,000m of Pilkington high light transmission, The entire east wall of Arctic Blue Eclipse together with optimal the building is formed Advantage, manufactured thermal performance, in this of Pilkington Planar by Pilkington North America, unique structure, designed panels containing a was used in this striking by American architect, uniquely processed twin tower project in the Richard Meier.
laminate, which makes Chinese capital.
the glass transparent from one side and translucent from 14 the other.
Building Products Building Products sales, including joint ventures and associates, were 1,389 million, broadly in line with the previous year, at constant exchange rates.
Operating profits were essentially unchanged at 144 million.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 NEWARK, DELAWARE, USA Sanford School An improvement project BONN, GERMANY QUEENSLAND, at Sanford School includes AUSTRALIA Deutsche Post Building the use of 448 windows and With the primary Q1 Building 6,493 square feet of glass, requirement for high light The worlds tallest including Pilkington Activ transmission, more than residential building, due self-cleaning glass in new 47 different variations to open in 2005, will construction and major of Pilkington Optiwhite contain Pilkington clear renovation work.
glass were used to and green toned glass, striking effect in the green laminates, construction of this ceramically decorated flagship building.
glass and double glazing 15 using high specification Pilkington coated glass.
SOLAR CONTROL In warm weather, solar SAFETY glass that is used to reduce the risk GLASS SYSTEMS Pilkington Planar is a control products, such as Pilkington Suncool, of accident by impact, fracture or shattering.
structural glazing system requiring no frame, dramatically reduce the effect of the suns heat, Pilkington toughened safety glass and Pilkington allowing architects immense flexibility in the minimising the need for air-conditioning.
laminated safety glass provide a huge range of appearance of glass faades.
THERMAL INSULATION During cold weather, SPECIAL APPLICATIONS Pilkington Optiwhite low-emissivity low-e products, including SECURITY By using thicker and larger numbers is an ultra-clear float glass with a very low Pilkington Optitherm and Pilkington K Glass of glass sheets in laminated form, Pilkington iron content.
Its neutral appearance makes it reflect heat back into buildings.
security glass offers even higher levels of particularly appropriate for prestigious building protection from bullets and blasts.
projects and for use in furniture.
FIRE PROTECTION Pilkington employs two types of technology to protect people and SELF-CLEANING GLASS Pilkington Activ property against fire.
Pilkington Pyroshield self-cleaning glass is the latest example of is a wired glass and Pilkington Pyrodur and technological innovation from Pilkington.
Pilkington Pyrostop use a proprietary clear Incorporating a proprietary dual-action coating interlayer technology.
on the glass, it virtually eliminates the need for external window cleaning.
NOISE CONTROL glass products that allow people to live and work in peace and quiet.
DECORATIVE GLASS The Pilkington Pilkington Optiphon L is a laminate using Texture Glass range is continually updated a special interlayer, which attenuates noise to introduce new and exciting patterns by 36 decibels.
which provide both decoration and privacy.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 BUSINESS REVIEW Building Products sales, including manufacturing improvement team and the leading Pilkington Pyrostop, again joint ventures and associates, were Building Products technology group.
increased in Germany to meet continuing 1,389 million, broadly in line with growth in demand for this product.
In the the previous year at constant exchange year, Pilkington Pyrostop was launched EUROPE rates.
Operating profits were essentially in Australia and a cutting station established Building Products Europe is Pilkingtons unchanged at 144 million.
Although to provide best service to the market.
In the largest single business, representing 69 per sales volumes were at similar levels to UK, an improved version of Pilkington cent of Pilkingtons Building Products sales the previous year in Europe, prices fell in Pyrodur Plus has been well received, in 2005. the early part of the year.
The reduction allowing the business to grow sales at a 16 in prices was largely offset by internal Market conditions continue to be challenging, faster rate.
cost savings and improved manufacturing with industry capacity utilisation still low Sales of Pilkington Activ continue to efficiencies.
In South America, profits at about 82 per cent, following the market progress well, driven by steady growth improved by approximately 12 per cent.
The competitive in product recognition.
Increasingly, this environment has led to price erosion, and Global demand for float glass increased growth is supported by the expanding range prices have reached historical lows.
At least last year, with overall capacity utilisation of Pilkington Activ derivatives, offering 18 months of further volume increases closer of 87 per cent continuing its gradually Pilkington Activs unique self-cleaning to the long-term trend will be required to improving trend from the low level reached properties in combination with solar control soak up excess capacity before firmer in 2001.
Most of the growth was in China, coatings, low-e energy-saving glass, pricing can be expected.
though South America improved and laminated safety glass and noise-reduction Australia held steady.
In response, significant improvements demand picked up slightly, excess capacity in manufacturing performance were made UK sales of low-emissivity Pilkington K remains.
The North American commercial during the year, further reducing costs.
Glass were once again strong, following market continued to be weak last year, The restructuring of the European business the upgrade in UK building regulations.
although there were clear signs of recovery approximately one year ago has simplified as the year progressed.
The Groups first float glass plant in administration and brought further cost Russia, in the Ramenskoye district of the savings.
Additional restructuring of the The Groups Building Products business Moscow region, is at an advanced stage of downstream network resulted in the sale or remains a global market leader.
Work has also begun on a new closure of a number of branches in Austria.
Manufacturing performance is a critical insulating glass unit manufacturing facility The significant cost push in energy and raw element of this success and there is a in Szezchin, Poland.
materials was partly offset by the successful continuing requirement both to ensure introduction of an energy surcharge.
we implement best practice in every plant NORTH AMERICA worldwide and to reduce the cost base in The net effect of all these factors has been line with our objectives.
To support this North America represented 12 per cent of a modest decline in sales and operating requirement, a worldwide manufacturing Pilkingtons Building Products business in profits.
organisation for the business line has been 2005, mainly selling to the commercial created, which will include all the float and Production of the Groups high value-added market, where market demand has been rolled plants worldwide, the central clear fire protection range, the marketweak for the last few years but is now Pilkington products help keep buildings warm in winter, cool in summer, safe, secure and with reduced noise penetration.
Pilkington glass can stunningly transform the interior and exterior of buildings, provide protection from fire and smoke, and now even clean itself!
ECLIPSE ADVANTAGE WORLDWIDE SUCCESS SELF-CLEANING EXTENDED PRODUCT RANGE RUSSIA FLOAT ON TRACK FOR SUMMER LAUNCH Pilkington Eclipse Advantage is an innovative low-e glass, combining solar and thermal control with high visible-light transmission.
It offers subtle reflectivity, glare control and a crisp, consistent colour that only a glass coated online can provide.
A best-seller in North America and elsewhere, Pilkington Eclipse Advantage is exported for use in landmark buildings around the world.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 beginning to pick up.
The plant is fully operational and architectural applications in Adelaide demand has been strong so industry capacity and capable of producing approximately was closed, which will improve the overall utilisation has remained healthy, leading to 185,000 tonnes of float glass per annum.
Pilkington sales in sterling This additional capacity helped strong Despite trading conditions becoming more were down, but were up in dollars, and growth in export sales.
In sterling terms, difficult, the New Zealand Building Products overall profits improved due to cost savings sales increased ten per cent and profits rose business continued to perform strongly, and a more favourable sales mix.
generating good profits and cash.
The impact Building Products business in North America In Argentina, the economy grew strongly of slowing net immigration, softening in the is now well positioned to take advantage of 17 after the crisis of 2002, with the construction residential building market and continued an upturn in the US economy, particularly industry leading the economic resurgence.
strengthening of the New Zealand dollar in the growing commercial sector.
Consequently, demand for float glass were offset by cost reduction measures.
was strong, and has now recovered to the Vitro Plan SA fide CV VVP, Pilkingtons China once again proved to be a fastlevels seen before the economic collapse.
35 per cent associate, is operating in a more growing market in 2005.
GDP growth Pilkington has maintained its high market stable environment than a year ago, with the was above nine per cent, spending on share and continues to drive efficiency peso holding up against the US dollar and construction rose and Chinas flat glass improvements.
Chile has been stable and economic growth on both sides of the output grew strongly.
One third of the Pilkingtons market share has increased as US Mexico border.
However, despite strong worlds flat glass is now made and sold in imports have reduced.
Overall, Pilkingtons volume increases as a result of the start up China and there are over 100 float glass sales and profits were strong in dollars, of the new Mexicali line boosting export lines in operation around the country.
though sales declined in sterling due to sales, weakness in the domestic construction Prices for float glass improved considerably exchange rate movements.
market resulted in overall sales declining and by the end of the year were more than by 12 per cent.
15 per cent higher than the previous year.
ASIA PACIFIC The architectural processed glass market SOUTH AMERICA In Australia and New Zealand, which also remained strong, though new entrants represented 11 per cent of the Groups Group businesses in South America include into this market created some price pressure.
Building Products sales in 2005, the Argentina, Chile and the downstream anticipated softening of the general economy Pilkingtons 19 per cent owned associate business in Brazil, which collectively impacted sales revenues.
This was partly company in China, Shanghai Yaohua represented six per cent of Group Building mitigated by the reduced volume of imports, Pilkington Glass Co Ltd SYP produced Products sales in 2005. due to the higher costs of deep sea freight, excellent results in 2005, with a 17 per cent In Brazil, the market recovered from the and rising domestic demand for high quality increase in sales and a 68 per cent increase weakness in 2004, inflation stabilised and float in China.
SYP now operates four float glass the Brazilian real continued to appreciate efficiency improvements ensured that lines and four architectural glass processing against the dollar.
In July 2004, the Building Products Australasia again facilities, and during the year launched a Pilkington-designed and built fourth produced good profit and cash results.
new automotive glass plant in Shanghai.
float line was commissioned by the During the year, the under-performing There is still considerable opportunity for Pilkington Saint-Gobain joint venture, decorated glass business for white goods SYP to expand further.
SELF-CLEANING EXTENDED PRODUCT RANGE RUSSIA FLOAT ON TRACK FOR SUMMER LAUNCH Pilkington Activ, the worlds first dual-action self-cleaning Work on the first Pilkington float plant in Russia, being built at Ramenskoye, in the Moscow region, is well on track for the glass, is now even smarter.
Pilkington now supplies an extended projected launch in summer 2005.
The plant, which will have range of Pilkington Activ derivatives offering Pilkington Activs a sales capacity of around 240,000 tonnes a year, is being unique self-cleaning properties in combination with solar control built by, and will be operated by, Pilkington on behalf of a coatings, low-e energy-saving glass, laminated safety glass and joint venture with EMP Europe.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005
