SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION This summary financial statement does not contain sufficient PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS DIRECTLY INTO BANK ACCOUNTS information to allow as full an understanding of the results and If you currently receive dividends by cheque, you may wish to state of affairs of the company and of the Group, and of its consider having future dividends paid directly into your bank policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, account.
You will benefit from no postal delay, no risk of the cheque as would be provided by the full annual report and accounts.
being lost and avoid the inconvenience of having to go to the bank If you require more detailed information, you may obtain, free or building society.
In addition, this will help the company to of charge, a copy of the full annual report and accounts from minimise costs in the future which will benefit all shareholders.
the companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, You will be sent confirmation of the payment with your tax voucher.
PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH.
Simply complete a mandate form available from the companys 46 Registrars or the form may be downloaded from their website.
Shareholders who receive only the summary financial statement will continue to do so.
However, if you would like to receive the PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS TO BANKS OUTSIDE full annual report and accounts in future, please write to the THE UNITED KINGDOM BY TAPS companys Registrars.
Transcontinental Automated Payment Service TAPS is a facility ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING which is available for regular payments from the UK to certain countries overseas.
If you are a private shareholder with a registered The notice convening the companys annual general meeting overseas address and your dividend is normally between 5 and at the Pilkington European Technical Centre, Hall Lane, Lathom, 5,000 you may be able to receive your dividends using TAPS.
Nr Ormskirk, Lancashire on Thursday 28th July 2005 at 11.30 am, A dividend is automatically converted on the first working day is contained in a separate document issued to shareholders.
after the dividend payment date to the relevant countrys domestic Information on the results of voting at this annual general meeting currency and can then be forwarded direct to your bank account in will be published on the companys website and will be available on that country.
The cost of this service is currently 2.50 per payment request from the company secretary.
which will be deducted from your dividend payment prior to conversion.
If you would like to receive your dividend using this DIVIDEND service, please contact the companys Registrars for full details.
The The directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended exchange rates will be published on the companys website within 31st March 2005 of 3.35p per share, with scrip alternative, five working days of the dividend payment date, or as soon as payable on 1st August 2005 to shareholders on the Register on practicable thereafter.
CONSOLIDATED TAX VOUCHERS Shareholders with an existing scrip dividend mandate will, subject In an effort to streamline processes and to assist shareholders with as hereinafter provided, automatically receive new shares in lieu record keeping, the company will issue Consolidated Tax Vouchers of a cash dividend.
Scrip dividend mandates are available from the for those shareholders who elect to have their dividends paid direct companys Registrars and on the companys website and should be to their bank or building society account.
This will avoid the necessity completed and returned to them no later than 12th July 2005. of issuing a tax voucher with each dividend payment.
Instead, one Shareholders wishing to cancel an existing scrip mandate should tax voucher will be issued each year at the same time the interim also write to the Registrars before that date.
The offer of a scrip dividend is paid, normally in December.
This will contain the taxation dividend is subject to the terms of the Pilkington plc Scrip Dividend details of all dividends for that particular financial year which will Scheme.
be of assistance to you if you are required to complete a tax return.
The scrip dividend share value will be calculated on the basis of the average of the middle market quotations of Pilkington shares on the If you have any queries regarding this arrangement, please contact London Stock Exchange for the five dealing days commencing on the companys Registrars.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Announcement of results 26th May 2005 Shareholders now have the opportunity to access shareholder Ex-dividend date 8th June 2005 documents, such as Notice of Meetings, Forms of Proxy, Report Record date 10th June 2005 and Accounts and the Operating and Financial Review and Announcement of scrip dividend share value 15th June 2005 Summary Financial Statement, electronically via the Internet, Latest return date for scrip dividend mandates rather than receiving them by post.
If you choose this option, or cancellation of existing mandates 12th July 2005 you will receive a notification by e-mail each time the company Annual general meeting 28th July 2005 publishes shareholder documents on its website.
The e-mail will Dividend payment date and first date of provide information enabling you to access, read and download the dealing in scrip dividend shares 1st August 2005 documents at your leisure.
For the year ending 31st March 2006 Use of electronic communications enables shareholders to access Announcement of interim results 3rd November 2005 timely information and is also more environmentally responsible by helping to reduce the expense of printing and posting the documents Interim dividend payment date mentioned above.
to be confirmed December 2005 AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 If you elect to receive shareholder documents in electronic form you SHAREGIFT will be able to change your instruction or request a paper copy at The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation any time.
To receive documents electronically, you will need to scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value register online at www.
com register uk and then makes it uneconomical to sell them.
Details of the scheme are select Pilkington plc.
Full details of how to register are provided onavailable from the company secretary or on the ShareGift internet screen.
You will need your Shareholder Reference Number available site, www.
when you first log in located on the enclosed Form of Proxy, your share certificates or your tax voucher.
AMALGAMATING YOUR SHAREHOLDING If you receive duplicate mailings, it may be because we have ONLINE VOTING ON AGM RESOLUTIONS 47 more than one shareholding in your name.
To ensure that your shares You can vote online at www.
com voting uk from are registered correctly and amalgamated into one account, please 9.00 am on 20th June 2005 until 11.30 am on 26th July 2005.
You contact the Registrars on 0870 702 0000. will need your Shareholder Reference Number and unique PIN number provided on your Form of Proxy for security verification.
REGISTER FOR E-MAIL ALERT SERVICE If you wish to register for E-mail Alert Service go to CREATE A PORTFOLIO WITH INVESTOR CENTRE www.
com and Investor Centre is a free portfolio management system operated by Select Investors, then E-mail Alerts the companys Registrars, which will enable you to view details of Enter your e-mail address all your shareholdings that the Registrars administer.
You are able to Choose what you want to receive.
add other shareholdings to the portfolio.
The portfolio shows the current market value of your shareholding prices are normally only You can unsubscribe from this service at any time.
UNSOLICITED MAIL In addition, you can view price histories and trading graphs for all The law obliges the company to make its register of members companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, and keep up to available to other organisations.
Because of this, you may receive date with market news.
mail you have not asked for.
If you wish to limit the amount of If you wish to use this service, register free with Investor Centre at personally addressed unsolicited mail you receive, please write for www.
com investorcentre uk by clicking Register information and an application form to the Mailing Preference now.
You will need to have available your Shareholder Reference Service, Freepost 22, London W1E 4EZ or visit their website Number.
Please telephone 0870 873 5805 for Investor Centre www.
SHARE DEALING SERVICE The companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services By order of the board, PLC, has in place a share dealing service for Pilkington shares.
Sheila Lennon For further information please telephone 0870 703 0084 or log Secretary on to www.
26th May 2005 AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005
