Profit on long-term contracts, principally in relation to the building The provision for post-retirement healthcare and life insurance of new float line projects, is recognised once the projects outcome benefits is assessed annually by independent qualified actuaries can be assessed with reasonable certainty, usually when the project using the projected unit credit method.
The profit is calculated by applying the Where the Group guarantees or warrants a product from defect at percentage completion at the balance sheet date to the expected the time of sale, a warranty provision is set up to cover the likely contract profit.
Any losses envisaged on long-term contracts are costs of potential claims, calculated by reference to historic provided as soon as they are foreseen regardless of the extent of experience and the duration of the warranty period.
Long-term work in progress is stated net of payments received on account.
Provisions for redundancies and restructuring costs are made once 21 a detailed formal plan has been prepared and approved and the Group is irrevocably committed to implementing the plan.
DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences SHARE BASED INCENTIVE PLANS that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where The Groups share based incentive plans are accounted for in transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force UITF Abstract 17 the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Revised 2003 Employee Share Schemes.
The cost of shares acquired by the trust operating the Groups Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable and recognised in the employee share ownership plans is charged to the profit and loss financial statements when, on the basis of available evidence, it is account over the period to which the employees performance relates.
more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from Where awards are contingent upon future events, other than which the future reversal of the timing differences can be deducted.
continued employment, an assessment of the likelihood of these The recoverability of tax losses is assessed by reference to forecasts conditions being achieved is made at the end of each year.
which have been approved by the board.
In accordance with UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, No timing differences are recognised in respect of: the cost of the companys shares held by the ESOP trust are fair value adjustments to acquired tangible fixed assets where deducted from shareholders funds.
The adoption of both UITF 17 there is no commitment to sell the asset: and 38 constitutes a change in accounting policy and details of the restatements arising from the change are set out in note 33. gains on the sale of assets where those assets have been rolled over into replacement assets: and FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES additional tax which would arise if the profits of overseas The Group uses cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates were to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange risks and hedge distributed, in excess of those dividends that had been accrued.
its investments in overseas subsidiaries and investments designated in foreign currencies.
Such financial instruments are treated as hedges The deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
against the underlying assets or liabilities.
All gains or losses are taken to the statement of total recognised gains and losses until the instrument DEBTORS and the underlying hedged investments are sold, when the profit or Provisions against the non-recovery of debtors are made specifically loss arising is taken to the profit and loss account as realised.
Additionally, a general provision In addition, the Group uses interest rate swaps to manage the is made against all trade debts excluding those already specifically balance of its fixed and floating rate debt.
The net interest income provided, those which are insured, those which are covered by or expense on an interest rate swap is recognised as interest in the confirmed irrevocable letters of credit and those with major vehicle Groups profit and loss account over the life of the transaction.
manufacturers or government departments unless a specific provision is deemed necessary.
Where there is a legal right of set-off between a deposit and a loan, the two are offset within the financial statements.
The Group discounts without recourse certain factored debts.
The non-returnable amount of the factoring arrangement is deducted The Group excludes all short-term debtors and creditors from its from the trade debtors.
The debt factoring charge in the year is derivatives and financial instrument disclosures other than those disclosed as part of net interest payable and similar charges.
on currency risk relating to monetary assets and liabilities.
PROVISIONS SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS PARENT COMPANY Provisions in respect of liabilities are made in accordance with The company carries its investment in subsidiary undertakings FRS 12 and are discounted where the effect is material.
Specifically: at cost less any impairment.
PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT For the year ended 31st March 2005 2005 2004 Restated Note m m Turnover continuing operations Group turnover 1 2,394 2,440 Share of joint ventures and associates turnover 2 300 311 Turnover including joint ventures and associates 2,694 2,751 22 Operating profit Groups continuing operations 1 195 180 Share of joint ventures and associates 2 36 33 Operating profit including joint ventures and associates 231 213 Exceptional items 5 Loss on disposal termination of continuing operations: Loss on disposal termination 12 9 Previous provision utilised 2 2 10 7 Profit on disposal of investments in continuing operations 3 7 7 Profit before interest 224 206 Net interest payable and similar charges 7 59 69 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 165 137 Taxation 8 50 47 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 115 90 Minority interests including non-equity 9 15 11 Profit attributable to shareholders 100 79 Dividends 10 65 63 Retained profit of the Group 31 35 16 Earnings per share basic 11 7.8p 6.3p Fully diluted earnings per share basic 11 7.8p 6.3p PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
