the share of turnover, profit, interest and taxation are shown under INSURANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT separate headings in the profit and loss account.
Pilkington has an established system of internal controls.
The internal audit function reports directly to the Group Audit Committee Share based payments will be accounted for under IFRS 2, and has a rolling audit programme to ensure optimal coverage of whereby the fair value of the option awards is calculated using an Group businesses.
A full risk assessment process is undertaken option pricing model Black Scholes and such costs are charged each year and the results are submitted to the Audit Committee.
to the Income Statement over the period in which the options vest.
During the year the approach to risk assessment has been updated Pilkington will account for all options granted after 7th November to conform it with the latest COSO guidelines.
This more rigorous 2002, as permitted under IFRS 2.
25 approach will be expanded in the approach to risk management Deferred taxation under IFRS is provided on a full liability basis over 2005 06. on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount in the consolidated CONTINGENCIES balance sheet.
In 1989, Pilkington Holding GmbH made an offer to acquire the Derivative financial instruments and hedging rules are set out minority interests in Pilkington Deutschland AG and Dahlbusch AG.
These standards, as amended and endorsed by Certain minority shareholders rejected the offer as insufficient.
The the EU are effective from 2005 but Pilkington has decided to matter is in the hands of the German courts.
adopt them early from 1st April 2004 so that the first full year In the case of Pilkington Deutschland AG, the initial decision of 2005 06 will be published with a fully comparative year, the court, if upheld, would effectively increase the total amount at prepared under the same rules.
This decision is being appealed by Pilkington The key changes reflected in the IFRS opening balance sheet as at Holding GmbH and the minority shareholders, and following a court 1st April 2004 were as follows: hearing in November 2004, no decision is expected from the Appeal Court before September 2005.
In the case of Dahlbusch AG, no Shareholders funds have reduced from 674 million to 600 million.
decision has yet been made.
The retirement benefit obligations adjustment of 155 million has On 24th February 2005 the European Commission announced been brought on balance sheet.
an investigation into the flat and car glass sectors of the European Development costs of 19 million previously written off to profit glass manufacturing industry in connection with alleged and loss account under UK GAAP have been capitalised and infringements of Article 81 of the Treaty of Rome, the maximum shareholders equity credited.
penalty for which, if established, can be a fine of up to ten per cent of worldwide turnover.
In the course of that investigation the Dividends not approved by shareholders at 31st March 2004, Commission has carried out inspections at the premises of several amounting to 41 million have been credited to shareholders equity.
Pilkington has operated Reported net debt has increased from 664 million at 1st April a competition law compliance programme for a number of years 2004 to 819 million, mainly through dropping the linked and is cooperating with the Commissions investigation.
The presentation on securitisation of receivables and the fair valuing investigation is at a very preliminary stage and the outcome cannot of loans under IAS 39. yet be assessed.
These changes are further explained and can be viewed on Contingencies are more fully summarised on pages 42 and 43 of the the Pilkington website www.
Pilkington is ready to prepare its internal management accounts GOING CONCERN under IFRS from 1st April 2005 and will, in addition, make its first external publication of its results under IFRS in early November, After considering the year end financial position and future when the interim results for 2005 are published.
At that time prospects of the company, the directors consider the company has Pilkington will disclose the reconciliations of UK GAAP to IFRS adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for for shareholders equity at 1st April 2004 and at 31st March 2005 the foreseeable future and therefore it continues to adopt the going and the full year results for 2004 05 on an IFRS basis.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 Our processes 26 The Float Process at the heart of THE FLOAT PROCESS STEP BY STEP the worlds Flat Glass industry A batch of precisely mixed raw materials is melted in the furnace.
Molten glass, at Developed by Pilkington in 1952 now approximately 1000C, is poured continuously from the furnace onto a shallow bath of the world standard for high quality flat molten tin in a chemically controlled atmosphere.
It floats on the tin, spreads out and glass production forms a level surface.
Thickness is controlled by the speed at which the solidifying glass Produces clear and tinted glass for ribbon is drawn off from the bath.
After annealing controlled cooling the glass emerges buildings and vehicles, which can be as a fire polished product with virtually parallel surfaces.
further processed ECONOMICS SECONDARY PROCESSING Float plants operate non-stop for between 10-15 years In the Float Process, raw materials and energy Extra ingredients can be added to the glass Each plant makes around 6000 kilometres are the single largest elements of cost, followed raw materials at the melting stage to produce of glass a year by overheads and prime labour.
Silica sand is tinted products.
Modified properties can be the main component by weight of the batch produced by means of surface coating on or Producing glass from 0.4mm to 25mm raw material mixture.
Soda ash is one of the off-line.
Plies of glass are bonded or laminated thick and up to 3.5 metres wide most expensive raw materials used in glass together with a layer of polymer film in between Pilkington has licensed the process to more manufacturing and represents about 16 per for use in safety and security applications.
than 40 manufacturers in 30 countries cent of batch weight, but around 60 per cent Glass can also be heat-treated toughening, Around 280 float plants operate worldwide, of batch cost.
Recycled glass cullet represents shaped, bent, silvered mirrors, surface-worked, with a combined output of about 800,000 on average around 15 per cent of the materials installed in multiple glazed units and, in tonnes of glass a week used.
Its addition helps reduce the energy Automotive, assembled in modular systems.
Pilkington operates 25 plants worldwide, with interests in a further nine AVERAGE PRODUCTION COSTS TYPICAL CONSTITUENTS OF FLOAT GLASS ENERGY 2005 Raw materials % % Energy accounts for 20 per cent of total cost 1 20 Raw materials 7 6 1 Sand 51 % in the float process.
Since the 1960s the 2 20 Energy % glass industry as a whole has reduced specific 3 15 Prime labour Soda Ash 16 5 energy consumption by approximately 1.5 per % 4 17 Overheads Recycled Glass 15 2 cent per year.
The rate of reduction is now % 5 13 Depreciation 4 slowing as the thermodynamic limits of the % Dolomite 13 6 10 Transport 3 process are approached.
% 7 15 Other Limestone 4 Sodium Sulphate 1 RAW MATERIALS MELTING FURNACE FLOAT BATH COOLING ANNEALING Blended and conveyed into Contains up to 2000 tonnes Molten glass floats on molten LEHR melting furnace.
tin in an inert atmosphere.
Solidifying glass ribbon cools under controlled conditions AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 At the heart of the worlds glass industry is the float glass process, developed by Pilkington in 1952 and now the world standard for high-quality glass production.
The process manufactures clear, tinted and coated glass for buildings and clear and tinted glass for vehicles.
27 The environmental impacts of float glass production Float glass offers clear environmental advantages in the application of its Manufacture Float glass production is a high-temperature, energy-intensive products.
The total energy associated with glazing includes both the energy process.
This results in the emission of combustion products and the high consumed in its manufacture and its impact on the energy consumed by temperature oxidation of atmospheric nitrogen: i. e. carbon dioxide, sulphur the building or vehicle throughout the period it remains installed.
dioxide and oxides of nitrogen.
Furnace emissions also contain dust and traces of chlorides, fluorides and metals arising as impurities in the raw materials.
Use of advanced low-emissivity double glazing reduces heat loss through windows to less than 20 per cent of single glazing and less than 40 per Recycled glass Waste glass generated on-site cullet is recycled to cent of normal double glazing.
In Automotive, advanced products help to the furnace.
Cullet is also a useful raw material for other parts of the glass reduce fuel consumption by saving weight, and to reduce air conditioner industry, particularly the glass container sector.
Up to 95 per cent of waste load by the use of solar control glasses.
glass from processing is recycled in some way.
In the EU, the energy demand of buildings accounts for between 40 and Water Float glass production does not present significant water pollution 50 per cent of total national energy consumption.
Around half of buildings problems.
Water is used mainly for cleaning and cooling and can easily in the EU are still single-glazed.
The energy saved by replacing all single be reused or treated.
and ordinary double glazing with low-emissivity low-e double glazing Environmental improvements Since its inception, major environmental would save an estimated 140 million tonnes of CO emissions annually 2 improvements have been made in the float process.
Emissions have across the EU Group of 25 member states.
been reduced significantly and substantial reductions have been made in energy consumption.
POTENTIAL CO SAVINGS IN BUILDINGS European Union EU25 2 GLASS AND CO 2 Total CO emitted 2 The manufacture of one square metre of low-e double glazing leads by buildings to the emission of 25 kg of CO. 765 2 However, the CO saved by replacing one square metre of single 2 glazing with low-e double glazing in a typical European building is 91kg per year, offsetting the CO emitted during manufacture 2 after only 3.5 months in use.
Potential reduction Architectural glass in CO emitted 2 industry CO emissions 2 through using If ordinary double glazing is replaced by low-e double glazing, excluding emissions low-e double glazing from generation the offset period is typically 10.5 months.
of electricity used 140 in manufacture 4.6 Source: European Association of Flat Glass Manufacturers GEPVP Source: European Association of Flat Glass Manufacturers GEPVP CONTINUOUS CROSS CUTTERS LARGE PLATE SMALL PLATE Computer-controlled RIBBON OF GLASS LIFT-OFF DEVICES LIFT-OFF DEVICES cutters select plate sizes 3m wide, now solid enough Sizes up to 6 metres in length Smaller sizes are packed to go on rollers without damage are shipped for despatch and further processing AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 Million tonnes CO per year 2 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005
