MASS TRANSIT OFF-ROAD AGRICULTURAL Bombardier Flexity T3000 Outlook Tram CNH Magnum tractor LAMINATED COACH Bombardier is supplying Pilkington Automotives SIDE-GLAZING Evobus S 431 DT Brussels City Transport complex shaping capability BMW 5 Series The Evobus doubledecker Authority STIB with has allowed the integration The BMW 5 Series tourist coach is fitted with 46 bi-directional T3000 of windscreen and footwell features enhanced a windscreen in Pilkington Flexity Outlook trams.
panels into a dog house laminated side glazing Optikool Eseal solar The complex greytinted windscreen, significantly from Pilkington.
Double-glazed laminated glazing for increasing the operators product offers increased sideglazing using curved these vehicles is supplied field of view.
comfort, high frequency Pilkington Galaxsee, by Pilkington.
noise reduction, solar provides solar control control and enhanced and improves passenger 18 security.
comfort Automotive Products Automotive Products sales, including joint ventures and associates, were 1,198 million, down four per cent from the previous year.
At constant exchange rates, sales were broadly the same as last year.
Operating profit improved by 20 per cent to 107 million.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 REFLECTIVE INNOVATIVE WINDSCREEN GLAZED ROOF Citron C4 Land Rover Discovery 3 TRUCK MARINE Leading-edge Pilkington The new Land Rover Scania R580 Topline M S Color Fantasy solar reflective technology Discovery 3 has a Pilkington Automotive Launched in December blocks heat from entering high tech laminated is the market leader in 2004, the worlds largest the passenger compartment Pilkington Moonroof glazing for the growing cruise ferry with a car through the windscreen, as an optional feature.
deck has glazing supplied itself one of the most Pilkington supplies high by Pilkington Marine.
complex shapes on the quality glazing systems The turnkey project market today.
to Scania and all other included the supply leading European truck of over 1200 square manufacturers.
metres of toughened 19 insulated glass units.
LAMINATED SIDELIGHTS provide increased SOLAR CONTROL GLAZINGS reduce the effects WATER MANAGEMENT GLAZING heated glass comfort through high frequency noise reduction, of solar heat build-up inside the car.
systems that remove condensation from internal ultraviolet protection, solar control improvement Improve passenger comfort glass surfaces and ice from external surfaces.
and reduced direct solar radiation.
Laminated Reduce air conditioning load, thereby Hydrophobic coating on the glass that rapidly side glazings also offer enhanced security, increasing fuel economy clears rainwater from the car windows, helping to reduce theft from cars.
Reduce ultraviolet transmissions, increasing passenger visibility.
increasing the life of interior materials.
GLASS SHAPING glass is bent into shape RAIN SENSORS Pilkington has developed for vehicle windows.
After heating, sag-bending GLAZING SYSTEMS components or a patented sensor, using infrared rays to and press bending allow the manufacture of features added after basic glass manufacture detect moisture on the windscreen.
It then complex shapes free from wrinkles and other that increase value for our customers.
automatically activates the windscreen wipers optical defects.
Benefits include: at the right speed for the intensity of the rain.
Design development cost reduction by GLASS SUNROOFS Designers are increasingly complexity reduction specifying large area glass roofs for cars.
The parts, inventory reduction termed Panorama roofs, are two or three times the Supply chain complexity reduction size of traditional sunroofs and increase the feeling Health and safety improvement.
of space and light within the vehicle.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 BUSINESS REVIEW Automotive Products sales, including These new model platforms underpin business, accounting for over half of the joint ventures and associates, were Pilkington Automotives future business.
business line sales, was up two per cent in 1,198 million, down four per cent from To ensure that this heavy programme of euro with underlying sales volumes having the previous year.
At constant exchange new model introduction can be successfully moved ahead faster than the market.
rates, sales were broadly the same as sustained, the business continues to develop, Increased product complexity and last year.
Operating profit improved by improve and expand its global quality functionality in glass content continued 20 per cent to 107 million.
During the year, to be a requirement of the European OE integration has been achieved in the Pilkington Automotive achieved further site market, with growing sales of panoramic global supply chain, bringing cost accreditations under global environmental 20 and solar reflective windscreen glass, savings, optimisation of plant loading standards.
laminated sidelights for security and and improved service to both the Original Automotive industry expectations over comfort and acoustic noise-reducing and Equipment OE and Automotive Glass the coming year are for relatively modest heated integrated-wired products.
This Replacement AGR customers worldwide.
increases in production and sales of light trend will continue as vehicle manufacturers vehicles across Pilkingtons main markets emphasise the advantages of increased Pilkington Automotive operates as an of Europe and North America, and for safety, visibility, comfort and noise integrated global organisation, serving significantly higher growth rates in the reduction.
During the coming year, the OE and AGR markets.
A programme emerging markets in which Pilkington is investments will be completed in our to further integrate the supply chain, to the already established.
Pilkington Automotive plant in Sandomierz, Poland, to provide benefit of both OE and AGR worldwide, will grow faster than the market in Europe, additional capacity and capability to is already producing savings and improving through success with new models and manufacture the range of value-enhancing customer service.
Over the course of the specialist applications.
products required by our customers.
year, Pilkington announced to customers in China the reorganisation of the three Plans for further improvements in efficiency, The value of the aftermarket also continues Chinese manufacturing plants which it productivity, quality and customer service to grow in line with increases in the adoption wholly or partly owns with a unified should again show through in the results, of high value-added windscreens, highlighted identity and organisation.
positioning Pilkington well to move forward above, together with those containing extra with growth plans in developed and emerging Pilkington Automotive has been involved in components such as rain sensors and markets.
In North America, Pilkington more than 70 new product launches for new extruded profiles.
As a major OE supplier continues to broaden its customer base across models over the past year, a record for the with access to all these technologies, the major global light vehicle manufacturers.
New introductions included high Pilkington is able to offer a wide and volume models such as the Citron C4, attractive product range to its customers.
EUROPE BMW 1 and 3 Series, GM Astra, Silverado Pilkington has continued to improve and Trailblazer and the Mercedes A-Class, Overall light vehicle production in Europe customer service, efficiency and productivity, as well as niche market models such as the was unchanged from the previous year.
resulting in increased profitability across the Aston Martin DB9.
Turnover in our European Automotive European Automotive business.
Pilkington products include advanced solar control glass for passenger comfort, glass heating systems to control condensation and icing and security glazing systems, including encapsulation, extrusion and added components.
AMERICAN TRUCK CONTRACTS GLAZING THE NEW BMW 1 SERIES HALLMARK GLAZING ICONS INFORM CONSUMERS Pilkington Automotives specialised transport business has won important contracts with the two of North Americas largest Class A truck vehicle producers: Freightliner and PACCAR.
The PACCAR agreement covers 100 per cent of the glass for Peterbilt and Kenworth trucks.
Pilkington will also supply glazing for Class 8 Freightliner trucks in North America.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 NORTH AMERICA sales volume and increased product complexity.
OE light vehicle production in North America declined by two per cent compared ASIA PACIFIC to the previous year.
Pilkington sales in this region accounting for approximately In Australia, the sale of new vehicles one third of the Groups Automotive sales continued at record levels but, as has were virtually flat in US dollars.
been the trend for many years, new vehicle imports continued to grow, and now The North American business again 21 represent 70 per cent of the Australian demonstrated operational improvement this market.
Profits in Australasia were year.
However, due to the significant price reduced by one third, despite continued pressure in both the OE and AGR markets, manufacturing improvements, reflecting operating profits in North American price erosion and the closure last year of Automotive declined by around 25 per cent the Automotive Glass Replacement business in US dollars.
Vitro Plan SA fide CV and subsidiaries The Chinese automotive market continues VVP turnover in its automotive operations to grow rapidly, with passenger car sales increased slightly, with stronger OE volumes increasing 16 per cent in 2004 to 2.4 million being offset by lower AGR sales, where a units.
Around 95 per cent of these cars decision was made during the year to exit were made in China and 50 per cent of the the wholesale operations in the North West total production involved western vehicle United States and concentrate on the marques, underlining the need to develop distribution market.
production capability for an increasingly sophisticated market.
SOUTH AMERICA Pilkingtons South American Automotive The Pilkington Automotive Chinese business experienced strong demand, with plants supply both OE and AGR volumes up nearly 30 per cent and strong domestically and for export and are well growth in both domestic and export markets.
Additional This sales uplift, combined with continued investment is planned to increase capacity improvements in production efficiency, resulted and product range.
During the past year, in enhanced profitability.
Further investment Pilkington increased its ownership in all in both capacity and product capability will three plants.
be made during the coming year, to meet the expected rising demand both for greater Thermal Safety Atmospheric Security Comfort Comfort Integrated Visual Acoustic Visual Systems Comfort Comfort Comfort GLAZING THE NEW BMW 1 SERIES HALLMARK GLAZING ICONS INFORM CONSUMERS Pilkington produces 100 per cent of the glazing for the newly Pilkington Automotive has joined other leading glazing manufacturers launched BMW 1 Series.
The windscreen is made by using the to launch an industry-wide hallmark scheme, telling consumers what advanced press bend process for improved surface control and is special about their vehicles glass.
Eight product category icons effective wiper operation.
Pilkington is supporting BMW in this indicate benefits such as solar control, noise reduction and heated significant step into the high volume compact vehicle segment.
glazing, as well as integrated antennas for radio and mobile phones.
Renault, Volvo and Jaguar are already using the icons on new models.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005
