Our responsibilities 28 WHO HAS THE RESPONSIBILITY?
The code and summary leaflet form part of behaviour by another member of the Group the induction briefing for all new employees.
or by someone externally who is connected The Pilkington Code of Conduct sets out Both can be viewed on the Pilkington to the Group, such as a supplier or contractor.
the corporate social responsibilities intranet and website.
The detailed policies The procedure makes clear what employees shared by the Group and its employees supporting the code are available to should do if they have a concern and provides for behaving in a professional, fair, employees on the intranet.
assurances that any concerns expressed will ethical, legal and sustainable manner be dealt with seriously and fairly.
in relationships with fellow employees, New national or international legislation customers, suppliers, business partners, having implications for the code and MANAGEMENT OF HEALTH, SAFETY the community and other stakeholders employee behaviour is supported with AND ENVIRONMENT in the business.
appropriate communications and training The organisational structures and for those affected.
procedures for the management of HSE reflect the priorities given to these RISK MANAGEMENT, COMPLIANCE AND REPORTING OF CONCERNS important issues.
The group head of environmental affairs Group procedures for the review and and safety, in addition to his Group role, management of risk include CSR and also leads the global Building Products have been used to determine CSR policy HSE team.
Each of the four Building and priorities.
Given the nature of the Products regional businesses has a senior glass manufacturing process, HSE issues HSE manager reporting to the head of the have been identified as top priorities.
business and each large site employs a fullThe effective application of the Pilkington time professional HSE manager reporting Code of Conduct is monitored through: to the senior site manager.
Smaller sites have access to a shared professional annual self-assessments by individual A summary leaflet The Way we do Business, resource.
These arrangements are mirrored businesses against standards set down in available in the major languages spoken in in the Automotive business, with a head a series of statements of effective business the Group, has been distributed to existing of HSE for that business providing global control which includes the code.
Each employees, including those in new businesses co-ordination.
business head also signs an annual letter such as Russia.
of representation confirming that these HSE professionals support each other and standards have been achieved.
The group chief executive has responsibility provide a pool of specialised expertise for for Corporate Social Responsibility CSR the whole Group.
To ensure a consistent regular on-site business audits carried including health, safety and environmental approach across Pilkington, the group head out by the Groups internal audit function HSE issues and is personally informed of environmental affairs and safety chairs to ensure the effectiveness of the selfof any lost time accidents.
The executive a global HSE team drawn from the two assessment process.
board receives monthly HSE reports at each business lines.
Local safety teams of employees The results of this process for the current meeting and three times a year discusses and their representatives allow full participation year confirm a high level of compliance.
HSE and CSR issues, approving plans for in HSE matters at all levels.
These teams Any exceptions are reviewed by the Audit improvement where necessary.
The general have access to technical expertise locally Committee and appropriate action taken.
board of directors and Automotive and or centrally in the research and development Building Products business line boards also and engineering functions.
The Groups commitment to maintaining receive HSE reports at each of their meetings.
the highest standards of honesty, openness HSE issues are included in the formal The Group has a full-time head of and accountability is backed by a reporting evaluation process carried out for all major environmental affairs and safety and another of concerns procedure.
This aims to give capital investment projects and are also senior manager includes in his responsibilities individuals reassurance and support in carefully considered on smaller projects the overall co-ordination of CSR issues.
reporting suspicions of illegal or improper where simpler procedures apply.
PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 Pilkington seeks to achieve business success through professional, fair, ethical, legal, and sustainable business practices.
The health and safety of employees, visitors and those living or working in the communities affected by Pilkington operations, the protection of the environment and the development of effective relationships with stakeholders in the business remain top priorities.
29 SAFETY PERFORMANCE controls to be established to ensure the risks Procedures exist to ensure contractors follow posed by the wide range of potential hazards safe working practices and integrate their All incidents must be reported, not only in a diverse glass manufacturing business, working arrangements with those of those leading to accident and injury.
are as low as practicable.
The safety training required An intranet-based accident and incident by contractors is identified and their safety reporting system enables the majority Analysis of injuries shows that the majority supervision and performance monitored.
of facilities worldwide to access reports derive from simple activities such as moving All incidents involving contractors are and quickly communicate lessons learnt.
heavy weights, slips, trips and falls.
notified and investigated as if they involved Behavioural safety programmes are an Safety performance is measured using two employees.
Contractors who fail to maintain integral part of each businesss safety indices, the lost time accident rate LTAR, the necessary standards are dismissed.
programme and focus on recognising and the significant injury rate SIR.
A lost potential hazards and understanding the Regrettably on occasions, systems have time accident is an injury preventing a safety implications of personal decisions.
failed to protect an employee.
In 2005 person from returning to work on the Training in behavioural safety is provided Pilkington in Australia was fined A$25,000 following day or shift.
A significant injury for all executive directors, senior managers plus A$3,200 costs total 11,280 in respect is a less severe incident preventing someone and employees worldwide.
of the injuries sustained by an employee from undertaking their normal job.
Both working at the Alexandria plant, Sydney indices are based on 200,000 working hours, in 2002. equating approximately to the time worked by 100 people in one year.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE The Group LTAR for 2005 was 0.7, an improvement of 20 per cent over last year, Protection of the environment continues adding to the substantial improvements to be a priority for the Group and has achieved over the last eight years.
The SIR been assisted by the introduction during index was 2.36 in 2005, a 12 per cent the year of improved data recording improvement since the introduction of the procedures.
There were no fatal accidents The new procedures will not only improve on any Pilkington site during the year.
the quality of future data but have also These improvements derive from the enabled historical data to be updated implementation of effective Group-wide where necessary.
safety procedures and the positive response Energy and resource usage of employees.
A number of sites across the 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 Glass manufacturing is an energy-intensive Group have operated over 3 years, some LOST TIME ACCIDENT RATE LTAR process.
However, energy usage is offset Number of lost time accidents per 200,000 hours worked over 5 years, without a lost time accident.
by Pilkington employees and long-term contractors by the significant contribution that advanced The total time lost as a result of accidents Pilkington glass products make to saving Employees throughout Pilkington have and work-related illness during the year was energy and the sustainability of the business.
access to occupational health and hygiene 5,782 man-days, a ten per cent reduction on services.
As part of the behavioural safety Consumption of fuel rose in 2005 due to last years figure.
In line with LTAR and SIR programme, employees are encouraged to a nine per cent increase in glass production, statistics, these figures do not include longreport health-related issues in confidence to a consequence of the new float line in Brazil term absence or invalidity beyond one year, medical personnel, since a medical condition and other furnaces being fully operational, nor absence unrelated to workplace illness and its treatment may present additional risks with no rebuilds or hot holds taking place.
to the safety of themselves or their colleagues.
In the UK and South America, because of Safety processes Based on this knowledge, health and safety cost increases and supply problems, some A rigorous safety risk assessment process managers make suitable arrangements to switching from natural gas to heavy fuel is applied to all activities.
This enables ensure everyones wellbeing.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 6.8 4.7 3.4 2.6 1.9 1.2 1.1 0.87 0.7 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED RESOURCE USAGE Updated figure This chart indicates the trends in energy and other resource usage of the Group.
For presentation reasons the units vary according to resource.
01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 Natural gas 10 million Heavy fuel oil Diesel oil LPG 100 tonnes Electricity 100GWh Water million Timber 1,000 Recycled glass 1,000 30 cubic metres millions litres millions litres cubic metres cubic metres tonnes When allowance is made for the increased practices, non-government organisations or Further progress was made in reducing production and the normal decrease in energy-efficiency specialists in the UK.
overall levels of waste and increasing the efficiency expected as furnaces age, the level of recycling.
In Tampere, Finland Emissions overall use of energy is less than anticipated, production of hazardous waste was reduced Carbon dioxide emissions arise directly reflecting the success of energy saving by 80 per cent and smaller plants also from the glass making process and indirectly programmes.
contributed, such as rja, Sweden where from the generation of electricity used in the the number of chemicals used has been Diesel oil usage reported in the charts is process.
During glass making, emissions reduced by 20 per cent.
predominantly that used in the manufacturing occur as a result of the decomposition of process.
However, the North American raw materials and fuel combustion.
Carbon trading Automotive aftermarket business, with over Participation in the UK Climate Change Carbon dioxide emissions may be reported 100 branches, is also a significant user of Agreements and Emissions Trading Scheme in two ways, reflecting variations in policy diesel oil for distributing product by vehicle over the last four years has provided useful in different countries.
The first includes and consumed 6.5 million litres in 2005. experience in the run up to the introduction carbon dioxide emitted both by the glass of the European Emissions Trading Scheme The use of electricity also increased as a making process and by the generation of EUETS in January 2005. result of the higher level of production electricity used in the process.
The proportion of electricity used in this review, indicates carbon dioxide A number of national allocation plans, generated from renewable resources emissions of 4.2 million tonnes in 2005, setting out emission allowances at increased to 1.8 per cent.
an increase of 6.4 per cent over last year.
installation level, have yet to be finalised.
Consequently, not all individual installations Water consumption remained unchanged The second method excludes carbon have been allocated an allowance.
This despite the higher levels of production, dioxide emitted during electricity generation.
will only become an issue if this situation reflecting continuing progress during the Emissions measured in this way amounted persists to the end of calendar year 2005, year in water management.
There were to 3.1 million tonnes in 2005, an increase when installations will be required to notable achievements amongst automotive of 5.4 per cent.
surrender sufficient allowances to meet plants, particularly at Witten, where specific These increases in carbon dioxide in 2005 their actual emissions.
water consumption was reduced by 27 per were less than would have been expected cent, but also at plants in Italy, Sweden EUETS covers Pilkington float and rolled from the nine per cent increase in and Finland.
glass manufacturing and other plants with production, as a result of more efficient largescale combustion processes.
Risk The tonnage of recycled glass used fell, overall use of combustion fuel.
This was modelling has been used to explore the reflecting both the difficulty of obtaining despite the increased use of heavy fuel oil, likely exposure of the business, based on reliable supplies of good quality cullet and which is a greater source of carbon dioxide expected national and individual installation the reduction in the volumes of cullet than natural gas.
As a consequence, CO 2 carbon allocations over the period 2005 to generated as production yields increased.
per tonne of glass produced fell by some 2008.
As a result, Pilkington believes that, six per cent in 2005.
Pilkington Energy Efficiency Trust despite marked differences in the approach Pilkington continues to donate to the Trust, For given output, emissions arising from the taken to allocations by individual member which is independent of the company and decomposition of raw materials can only be states, the allocated allowances for the provides financial support for research, reduced by increasing the proportion of Group will, with good energy management, testing or demonstration projects with the recycled glass used in place of raw materials.
be sufficient to cover expected emissions aim of improving energy-efficiency practices Frequently, recycling is limited by the availability during this period.
of recyclable glass of acceptable quality.
The company has made a full contribution Projects need not be glass related and since The increase in oil firing also caused to the debate on the implementation of inception, the Trust has provided funding for the increase in air pollutants, principally carbon trading through engagement with 23 projects from universities, architectural sulphur dioxide.
industry trade associations, government AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 96 95 100 100 104 90 63 48 59 67 12 12 14 14 19 18 18 17 22 29 17 17 18 18 20 15 14 15 13 13 71 127 149 108 87 73 106 131 210 169 EMISSIONS Updated figure This chart indicates the trends in emissions of carbon dioxide and other key emission products.
For presentation reasons the units vary according to emission product.
01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 CO 1,000 tonnes NO 10 tonnes SO 10 tonnes Hazardous waste Non hazardous Products for Glass for 2 X X 31 tonnes waste 100 tonnes recycling 10 tonnes recycling 1,000 tonnes bodies, officials and regulators at national under the Eco Management Audit Scheme STAKEHOLDERS: EMPLOYEES and European levels.
This is a voluntary EU scheme The Code of Conduct acknowledges which has more stringent requirements than internationally proclaimed human rights Climate change is considered to be a serious ISO 14001. and the impact these have on employment.
global issue and carbon trading a useful tool Employment standards have been for industries economically to meet their Environmental penalties set, derived from external international obligations for reducing carbon emissions.
In the USA, a penalty of US$12,896 7,008 human rights employment guidelines Concerns remain that carbon trading should was paid at Lathrop in response to sulphur and Pilkingtons business requirements.
not be seen, particularly by governments, as dioxide emissions in 2003 exceeding those a substitute for sound policies and actions.
At Laurinburg, a penalty The code and the Groups overall of US$33,600 18,260 was paid because employment policy provide employees with There are also concerns that insufficient of oil and grease in water discharges reassurance on how they will be treated and account is being taken of the contribution exceeding set limits and certain record guides employment policy and practice in made to climate change programmes by keeping and maintenance issues on emission individual businesses.
The employment Pilkingtons energy efficient products and control equipment.
standards ensure that, as a minimum, the that reductions in greenhouse gases in the Group complies with employment laws, EU may be offset by increases in countries Legacy issues regulations, industry standards and local not bound by the Kyoto protocol.
Pilkington cooperates with regulatory practices within the countries in which it authorities worldwide on issues relating to International environmental standards operates and with relevant international historic industrial activity on and around With the float operation in France now guidelines.
In practice, the Group frequently Group premises.
certified to the ISO 14001 internationally exceeds local and international requirements.
recognised environmental standard, all float At the float glass plant in Ottawa, Illinois, operations, apart from the new float plant in Representation of women in the workforce USA, work continues with the authorities on Brazil, have achieved this standard.
Work is Given low levels of labour turnover and an the remedial investigation relating to historic in progress to achieve certification of the overall reducing working population, the contamination.
The health and safety of Brazilian plant.
All major automotive proportion of women in the work force is the people who live in the area remains a manufacturing sites have also achieved the not expected to change significantly, year priority and work continues at the direction standard.
Consequently, Group manufacturing to year.
The Group will continue to provide of the US Environmental Protection Agency sites certified to ISO 14001 account for over women with every opportunity to join the towards completing the investigation in a 73 per cent of business by turnover.
organisation and to develop their careers to timely fashion and ensuring that any action their full potential.
During the year, the Venice float operation required as a result of the investigation is became the first Pilkington site to be certified implemented promptly.
By these various means, which in the UK include the introduction of family-friendly policies, greater representation of women at KEY DATA ON PEOPLE ACROSS THE GROUP 2005 all levels in the workforce will be Code of conduct circulated to all existing and new employees Yes encouraged.
Female employees as % of workforce 15% Female managers as % of management 12% Consultation and communication Female graduates recruited in UK % of total over last five years 39% A formal cascade system of regular Employment of young people under the age of 15 None communication and briefing within all Consultation and communication procedures in place for all areas of business Yes businesses ensures employees receive Earnings meet at least legal minimum or minimum set by local industry Yes updates on Group and local business Employees contracted to work in excess of 48 hours None objectives, targets, results and best practice.
Employees working more than 12 hours overtime in any week 4% Every employee receives a monthly written Cases of reported and proven discrimination or harassment None briefing in their own language from the head Off-the-job, formal training expenditure 3.3 million of the respective business line.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 3,968 3,896 3,757 4,007 4,244 1,706 1,946 1,881 1,967 2,092 519 496 389 383 439 2,566 2,353 2,527 2,957 1,945 1,403 2,457 1,720 1,399 1,213 997 1,124 2,088 1,941 3,158 206 731 702 317 344 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED Every eight weeks each employee receives Training and development STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS a copy of Pilkington Focus, the in-house The Group recognises the importance of Quality is a key feature of Pilkingtons magazine, in their own language and the training and development of all employees relationship with its industry and endPilkington intranet is available to every for ensuring safe methods of working, user consumers encompassing design, employee on the Group network providing achieving higher standards of performance, development, manufacture, delivery, information on all aspects of the Groups introducing new technology and work assembly, price, customer support and activities worldwide.
practices and helping individuals to perform in-service use.
the demanding roles created by flat A Pilkington European Forum meets organisational structures.
High quality reduces waste throughout the 32 annually to discuss overall Group and supply chain, improving efficiency for business line strategy and performance, An intranet-based Group induction everyone and reducing adverse impacts on the economic outlook and the implications programme has recently been introduced the environment.
In Pilkington, achievement for employees.
It is attended by employee that includes key messages for everyone on of high quality is supported by the use of representatives, the group chief executive, health and safety, the code of conduct and rigorous quality management systems and business line presidents and key senior the Groups business strategy.
There are separate six-monthly The investment in formal, off-the-job meetings of sub-groups for Building The Automotive business operates a single training and development ranges from Products and Automotive Products to global quality management system which initiatives to meet specific local business discuss more detailed topics.
is the basis of current efforts to achieve needs, to Group programmes aimed at the a single corporate certification to the The company has reviewed its longer-term development of managers.
In ISO TS 16949:2002 quality standard.
communication procedures in the light of the the latter category, the First in Management During the year original equipment OE EU Directive on Informing and Consulting programme which is run locally, has now operations in Europe, Scandinavia and Employees, which was implemented in been attended by 370 people who are in or South America were certified under a the UK in April 2005, and believes that approaching their first management role.
In single certificate and this will be existing arrangements provide effective addition, around 220 managers at all levels expanded to include the OE operations communications with employees.
Nevertheless, from across the Group last year participated in North America and Australia.
the opportunity has been taken to improve in general management and functional the dialogue in the UK on pensions and a development programmes.
With closer integration into the global body has been established which has business, the automotive plants in China On-the-job training is significant and representation from across the membership have adopted the global quality focuses on raising safety standards and of the Pilkington Superannuation Scheme.
management system and associated best performance and enhancing skills through practices, with consequent improvements Working hours planned initiatives in the workplace.
The in product quality and manufacturing The overtime worked by the four per cent benefits of this training are visible in performance.
of employees who voluntarily worked more improved safety and operating performance.
than 12 hours overtime in any week, was For practical reasons the resources devoted European and North American Building not on a regular or contractual basis.
to on-the-job training are not recorded.
Products businesses have obtained a Pilkington aims to ensure that its worldwide operations play a responsible and responsive role in the local communities in which it operates.
Mary Kayitesi Blewitt received the 2004 Women of the Year Pilkington Window to the World Award from Lorraine Clinton, Pilkington Architectural and Glazing director.
Mary established the Rwandan Survivors Fund in 1997, for widows and orphans left by the massacres in Rwanda.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005
