ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING over the Groups share of the fair value of its separable net assets at acquisition.
Negative goodwill represents the excess of the The Groups financial statements are prepared under the historical Groups share of the separable net assets at acquisition over the fair cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and value of consideration paid to acquire a subsidiary undertaking, joint with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Prior to 1st April 1995, all goodwill arising on The Group has adopted UITF 17 Revised 2003, Employee share acquisitions was written off to reserves.
scheme and UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP trusts in these financial Where an acquired undertaking is subsequently sold and where statements.
The adoption of each of these standards represents a goodwill has been previously written off to reserves and can be change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been 19 identified, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated after including restated accordingly.
Details of the prior year adjustments are given goodwill in the profit and loss account for the year.
Goodwill carried in the balance sheet is amortised, on a straight line A summary of the principal Group accounting policies, which have basis, over periods not exceeding 20 years, such periods being been consistently applied, except as detailed above, is set out below.
chosen to reflect the expected useful economic lives.
These periods are the periods over which the directors estimate that the values of GROUP CONSOLIDATION the underlying businesses acquired are expected to match the value of the underlying assets.
The Groups financial statements consolidate the results and financial position of Pilkington plc, the parent company, and all its subsidiary FOREIGN CURRENCIES undertakings, made up to 31st March in each year.
Where appropriate, the financial statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, including adjusted to conform with the Groups accounting policies.
Unrealised those of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates, are profits on intra-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and Where subsidiary undertakings are acquired or disposed of during associates are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates the year, the Groups profit and loss account reflects their results ruling during the financial year.
from the date that control passes to the Group on an acquisition and to the date that the undertaking ceases to be a subsidiary either on Where the Groups operations are conducted in countries where disposal or through the loss of control exercised over the undertaking.
there is hyperinflation, the results and balance sheets are adjusted in accordance with the indexation rules set out in UITF 9.
JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of The Group treats investments in undertakings which are jointly overseas subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates and controlled as joint ventures.
Investments in undertakings where the on the translation of foreign currency borrowings used to hedge Group has a participating interest, where the investment is held for investments in overseas subsidiaries are taken to reserves.
Other the long-term and where the Group exercises significant influence, transactional exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss are treated as associates.
The Groups share of turnover and the component elements of the Where a subsidiary undertaking borrows in a currency other than profit and loss account are disclosed separately for both joint its own reporting currency, any exchange gains or losses arising ventures and associates in the Groups profit and loss account.
on translation into sterling are included in the profit and loss account and are disclosed within net interest payable and similar Joint ventures are included using the gross equity method under charges.
which the share of gross assets and liabilities is disclosed on the balance sheet.
Associates are included using the equity method TURNOVER under which the share of net assets is shown.
Group turnover is based on the invoiced value of all goods delivered Joint ventures and associates are accounted for on the basis of and services provided prior to the year end, excluding VAT and other audited accounts, or where these are not available, on the basis of sales based taxes and net of trade discounts.
Turnover also includes unaudited management accounts prepared up to the Groups the proportion of the sales value of long-term contracts principally accounting date.
Where it is not practicable to obtain such accounts, the construction of float lines for glass manufacture based on their audited accounts or unaudited management accounts prepared to an stage of completion.
Group turnover includes sales by Group accounting date not more than three months prior to the Groups undertakings to joint ventures and associates, but excludes sales accounting date are used.
Where appropriate, the financial by joint ventures and associates.
statements of overseas joint ventures and associates are adjusted to conform with the Groups accounting policies.
DEFERRED INCOME Regional development grants, other investment grants and other types GOODWILL of deferred income are taken to deferred income and are released to Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of consideration the profit and loss account in appropriate instalments relating to the paid to acquire a subsidiary undertaking, joint venture or associate type and nature of expenditure they are intended to fund.
PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Groups float lines are subject to regular repair.
All hot repair costs on glass tanks incurred while the furnace is alight are written Expenditure on pure or applied research and development, using off to the profit and loss account.
When the float tank is rebuilt every existing know-how to produce new or substantially improved ten to 15 years, the costs of the re-build are capitalised as fixed products, or to install new processes prior to the commencement of assets and depreciated over the life of the tank until the next re-build.
commercial production or to improve substantially those products or processes already in commercial production, is written off to the Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is charged on all profit and loss account as incurred.
other categories of tangible fixed assets so as to write off the cost to their residual value by equal annual instalments over the expected Expenditure on research laboratories, equipment and plant is capitalised 20 useful economic lives of the assets at the following rates: as tangible fixed assets and written off over its expected future life.
Freehold buildings 2% to 5% per annum RETIREMENT BENEFITS Long leasehold buildings 2% to 5% per annum The pension cost relating to defined contribution schemes operating in the UK and overseas is the amount of the contribution payable in Improvements to short the respective financial year.
leasehold buildings over the life of the lease The pension cost relating to defined benefit schemes operating in Float glass tanks 7% to 10% per annum the UK is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent Glass making plant 4% per annum qualified actuaries.
The amounts so determined include the regular cost of providing the benefits under the plans, which it is intended Glass processing plant 6% to 7% per annum should remain at a level percentage of current and expected future Other plant and machinery 5% to 20% per annum earnings of the employees covered under the plans.
Variations from the regular pension costs are spread on a systematic basis over the Vehicles 20% per annum estimated average remaining service lives of current employees in The Group regularly reviews its depreciation rates and the remaining the plans in accordance with SSAP 24. useful economic lives of its tangible fixed assets to take account of Retirement plans of non-UK subsidiaries are accounted for in technological changes, intensity of use over their lives and market accordance with local conditions and practice.
recognise the expected cost of providing pensions on a systematic basis over the average remaining service lives of employees in IMPAIRMENT OF FIXED ASSETS accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
If events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of fixed assets may not be recoverable, the need for any fixed The policy in respect of the cost of providing healthcare benefits to asset impairment provision is assessed by comparing the carrying retired employees, principally in the USA, accords with UITF 6, and value of the asset against the higher of its net realisable value and its is similar to that used to account for pension obligations.
The value in use is determined by discounting charge to the profit and loss account is determined on a systematic estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset, or basis over the service lives of employees in accordance with the if more applicable, the income-generating unit, to net present value.
The notes to the financial statements contain additional information LEASES on retirement benefits as required by FRS 17.
Assets held under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets at cost and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION useful economic life.
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost.
Cost includes finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable appropriate under creditors due within or after one year.
Finance to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
charges are allocated to accounting periods over the lease term to When the Group builds an entirely new major plant, the initial reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the commissioning costs, bringing the plant to a status prior to obligations.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit production of goods of saleable quality, are capitalised as part and loss account as incurred.
All subsequent costs are written off to the profit and loss account as incurred.
STOCKS, WORK IN PROGRESS AND LONG-TERM CONTRACTS In the case of businesses acquired by the Group, the fair value attributed to the tangible fixed assets at the date of acquisition is Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net treated as their cost to the Group.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and works Gross interest costs relating to major tangible fixed assets under overhead expenditure incurred in bringing goods to their current construction are included in the cost of such assets and are state under normal operating conditions.
Net realisable value is depreciated as part of the total cost.
Capitalisation of such costs based on anticipated selling price less the cost of selling such goods ceases when the asset is commissioned.
PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
