Directors Report continued Environment Independent auditors The Group recognises the importance of responsible environmental Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors and management and its obligation to protect the environment.
The Group to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be therefore gives high priority to all environmental matters.
Further proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
information appears in the Social Responsibility Report on pages 24 Annual General Meeting to 26.
The notice convening the Companys 2005 Annual General Meeting at Substantial shareholdings the Mayfair Conference Centre, Marble Arch, London on 14th June 2005 At 10th April 2005 the Company had been notified of the following at 10.30 am is set out in a separate document issued to shareholders.
interests amounting to 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued By order of the Board ordinary share capital: % Steven Webb Secretary Prudential plc 10.76 The Capital Group Co Inc. 9.00 Farnell House Forge Lane Fidelity Investments 6.01 Lloyds TSB 3.90 Leeds LS12 2NE Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 3.69 17th March 2005 Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are Auditors Report, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditors in the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The 2005 Annual Report and Accounts will be published on the The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare Companys web site in addition to the normal paper version.
The accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state maintenance and integrity of the Companys web site is the responsibility of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year of the Directors and the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year.
The Directors consideration of these matters.
consider that in preparing the accounts on pages 43 to 66 the Company Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates and financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
34 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
