Statement of Accounting Policies Basis of accounting Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate hedges are The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention recognised as adjustments to interest payable or receivable over the life and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
of the more important Group accounting policies, which the Directors Exchange gains and losses arising on foreign currency borrowings and consider to be the most appropriate for the Group, is set out below, related financial instruments used to finance the Groups foreign currency together with an explanation of where changes have been made investments are taken to reserves and reported in the statement of total to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in recognised gains and losses.
Stocks Changes in accounting policies Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provision is The Group has adopted UITF 17 revised 2003, Employee Share Schemes, made against slow moving and obsolete stock based on analysis of and UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts, in these accounts.
adoption of UITF 17 did not require any change in comparative figures.
The adoption of UITF 38 represents a change in accounting policy and Deferred taxation the comparative figures have been restated accordingly note 22.
Full provision is made, on an undiscounted basis, for deferred taxation resulting from timing differences between profits computed for taxation Basis of consolidation purposes and profits stated in the accounts to the extent that there is an The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company obligation to pay more tax in the future as a result of the reversal of those and each of its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended timing differences.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of are consolidated from or up to the date on which control Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent they are expected to be passes.
Inter-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Turnover and revenue recognition Pensions and similar obligations Turnover comprises the value of sales to outside customers, excluding The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
value added and sales taxes.
Turnover is recognised when the risks and Pension schemes are accounted for in accordance with SSAP 24. rewards of ownership have passed to the customer.
Accordingly, the expected cost of providing pension benefits under defined benefit schemes and other post-retirement benefits is amortised Expense classification in the profit and loss account over the period benefiting from the Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers employees services.
Costs with respect to defined contribution schemes including the cost of freight, packaging and inventory adjustments.
are charged to the profit and loss account as they fall due.
Distribution costs represent all operating company expenses including The Group has adopted the transitional arrangements of FRS 17, sales, marketing, product and purchasing, warehousing, information Retirement Benefits, details of which are given in note 28. technology and eCommerce.
Foreign exchange Administrative expenses comprise the cost of central head office and the The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into Group Board.
sterling at the average exchange rate ruling during the year.
Foreign Goodwill currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of Goodwill, comprising the amount by which the consideration for exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising in the acquisitions exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, is ordinary course of business are dealt with in arriving at operating profit.
capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account on a Those arising on the translation of the assets and liabilities of overseas straight line basis over its estimated useful life, which has been subsidiary undertakings, together with the exchange differences arising determined as 20 years.
when the profit and loss accounts are translated at average rates and compared to the rate ruling at the balance sheet date, are dealt with as As permitted by FRS 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, goodwill arising movements in reserves.
on acquisitions prior to 1999 remains written off against reserves.
Such goodwill would be charged in the profit and loss account on subsequent The principal exchange rates used to translate the Groups overseas disposal of the related business.
subsidiaries were as follows: 2005 2004 Goodwill arising on acquisitions is reviewed for impairment in accordance Average Year-end Average Year-end with FRS 10 and FRS 11, Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill, at US dollar 1.84 1.88 1.66 1.82 the end of the first full year after an acquisition and in other years if Euro 1.47 1.45 1.44 1.47 events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, any impairment arising being charged to the profit Catalogue and advertising costs and loss account.
Catalogue costs are expensed over the life of the catalogue up to a Tangible fixed assets and depreciation maximum period of one year.
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Fixed assets are stated at cost.
Leased assets With the exception of motor vehicles, which are depreciated on a Payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss reducing balance basis at 25% per annum, depreciation is calculated to account as they fall due.
write off the cost of individual fixed assets from the time they become Long-term incentive plan operational by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives, The consolidated profit and loss account includes the costs relating to the which are principally as follows: Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan and the Consolidated and Plant and equipment: between 5 and 10 years.
Company balance sheets include the appropriate assets and liabilities of Computer equipment: between 3 and 5 years.
Shares in the Company held by the trust established to Freehold buildings: 50 years.
administer the plan are deducted in arriving at shareholders funds.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Where options over shares are awarded to employees, the value of the expected award is charged on a straight line basis over the performance Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with FRS 11 if period to which the award relates.
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, any impairment arising being charged to the profit Investments in subsidiary undertakings and loss account.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included at cost.
Provision is made where, in the opinion of the Directors, a permanent diminution in Financial instruments value has occurred.
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts, entered into as hedges of future purchases and sales denominated in foreign currency, Research and development are carried forward and taken to the profit and loss account on maturity to Research and development costs are expensed in the profit and loss match the underlying transactions.
account in the year in which they arise.
Pr Premier Far emier Farnell plc nell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 47 47
