Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Premier Foods plc Resolution 10 the Company will be held on Thursday 11 May 2006 at 12.00 noon at That HL Foods Limited, being a wholly-owned subsidiary be Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smitheld, London EC1A 9HQ, to consider the hereby authorised: following resolutions: a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations: and Ordinary resolutions b to incur EU Political Expenditure Resolution 1 on the same terms as are applied to Premier Ambient Products UK That the report of the directors and auditors, and the audited accounts of Limited in resolution 9 in the notice of this meeting.
the Company for the year ended 31 December 2005 be received.
Resolution 11 Resolution 2 That Chivers Hartley Limited, being a wholly-owned subsidiary be That the final dividend of 9.50p per ordinary share in the Company hereby authorised: recommended by the directors be declared and be payable on 7 July 2006 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 9 June 2006. a to make donations to EU Political Organisations: and Resolution 3 b to incur EU Political Expenditure That the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December on the same terms as are applied to Premier Ambient Products UK 2005 be approved.
Limited in resolution 9 in the notice of this meeting.
Resolution 4 Resolution 12 That David Kappler be re-elected as a director.
That MBM Produce Limited, being a wholly-owned subsidiary be Resolution 5 hereby authorised: That Sharon Hintze be re-elected as a director.
a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations: and Resolution 6 b to incur EU Political Expenditure That Ian Ramsay be re-elected as a director.
on the same terms as are applied to Premier Ambient Products UK Resolution 7 Limited in resolution 9 in the notice of this meeting.
That  LLP be reappointed auditors of the Company to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at Resolution 13 which accounts are laid before the Company and that their remuneration That Marlow Foods Holdings Limited, being a wholly-owned subsidiary be xed by the directors.
be hereby authorised: Resolution 8 a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations: and That the Company be hereby authorised: b to incur EU Political Expenditure a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations not exceeding 25,000 on the same terms as are applied to Premier Ambient Products UK per annum: and Limited in resolution 9 in the notice of this meeting.
b to incur EU Political Expenditure not exceeding 25,000 per annum: Resolution 14 during the period ending at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting That Cauldron Foods Limited, being a wholly-owned subsidiary be of the Company in 2009.
For purposes of this resolution, Donations, hereby authorised: EU Political Organisations and EU Political Expenditure have the a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations: and meanings set out in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985. b to incur EU Political Expenditure Resolution 9 That Premier Ambient Products UK Limited, being a wholly-owned on the same terms as are applied to Premier Ambient Products UK subsidiary be hereby authorised: Limited in resolution 9 in the notice of this meeting.
a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations not exceeding 25,000 Resolution 15 per annum: and That Monument GB Limited, being a wholly-owned subsidiary be hereby authorised: b to incur EU Political Expenditure not exceeding 25,000 per annum: a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations: and during the period ending at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009.
For purposes of this resolution, Donations, b to incur EU Political Expenditure EU Political Organisations and EU Political Expenditure have the on the same terms as are applied to Premier Ambient Products UK meanings set out in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985.
89 Premier Foods plc Resolution 16 Resolution 18 That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised under That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot relevant securities market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies as dened in that Act up to an aggregate nominal value of 826,137.
Act 1985 of not more than 24,784,116 ordinary shares of 1p each in its This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General share capital at a price per share of not less than 1p and not more than 5% Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
above the average of the middle market price for an ordinary share taken However, before this authority expires, the Company may make an from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to days immediately preceding the day on which such shares are contracted be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities to be purchased in each case exclusive of any expenses and the amount under such an offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Special resolutions Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
However, Resolution 17 before this authority expires, the Company may agree to purchase ordinary That, provided this resolution 16 in the notice of this meeting has been shares where the purchase will or may be completed, either fully or partly, passed, the directors be empowered under section 95 of the Companies after the authority expires and the Company may purchase such ordinary Act 1985 to allot equity securities as dened in that Act for cash pursuant shares as if the authority had not expired.
to the authority conferred by that resolution as if section 89 1 of that Act By order of the Board did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this authority shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by Andrew Astin them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, Company Secretary legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the Premier Foods plc requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other Premier House matter whatsoever: and Centrium Business Park Grifths Way b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above St Albans of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 123,921 Hertfordshire AL1 2RE and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
The Company may 3 April 2006 before such an expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities under such an offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
90 Premier Foods plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Recommendation specified in the Act to obtain shareholder approval for the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries Premier Ambient Products UK Limited, Your directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed at the HL Foods Limited, Chivers Hartley Limited, MBM Produce Limited, Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole Marlow Foods Holdings Limited, Cauldron Foods Limited and Monument and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
They will be doing so in GB Limited each to make donations to EU political organisations of up respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
to 200,000 per annum and to incur EU political expenditure of up to Explanation of resolutions 200,000 per annum.
The Companys policy remains that it does not, directly or through any subsidiary, make what are commonly regarded Resolution 1: as donations to any political party, and the authority being requested To receive the report and accounts from shareholders is not designed to change this policy.
The directors are required to present to the meeting the directors and auditors reports and the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Resolutions 16 and 17: Authority to allot shares and disapplication pre-emption rights Resolution 2: Under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, the directors cannot To declare a dividend generally allot shares in the Company unless they are authorised to The proposed 2005 final dividend of 9.50p per share will be paid on do so by the Company in general meeting.
Resolution 16 will authorise 7 July 2006 to shareholders who are on the register on 9 June 2006. the directors to allot new shares up to a nominal value of 826,137 The final dividend will be paid in cash to all shareholders.
representing one third of the issued share capital of the Company as at the Resolution 3: date of this notice.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next To approve the directors remuneration report of the Company Annual General Meeting or, if earlier 15 months from the date of passing of The Board is required to present the directors remuneration report to this resolution.
The directors have no present intention of issuing shares, shareholders for approval at the meeting.
The remuneration report is set except as needed to satisfy the exercise of options under the Companys out on pages 38 to 44.
The Board considers that appropriate executive employee share schemes.
remuneration plays a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall If shares are to be allotted for cash, section 89 of the Companies Act objectives.
The vote will have advisory status in respect of the remuneration 1985 requires those shares to be offered first to existing shareholders in policy and overall remuneration packages and is not specic to individual proportion to the number of shares held by them.
This right of shareholders levels of remuneration.
is commonly known as a pre-emption right.
Under resolution 17, the Resolutions 4 to 6: directors will remain subject to constraints on the issue of shares for cash.
To re-elect David Kappler, Sharon Hintze, and Ian Ramsay Unless they comply with the pre-emption procedure under section 89 of Article 115 of the Companys Articles of Association allows the Board the Companies Act, they will be able to issue such shares for cash only: to appoint a person to the Board during the year, subject to them in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer or, being re-elected at the subsequent Annual General Meeting.
No such appointments have been made.
However Article 124 of the Companys up to 123,921, representing approximately 5% of the nominal value Articles of Association requires one third of the directors to retire and of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of this notice.
Each of the directors was re-elected Resolution 18: at the 2005 annual general meeting and the Board has agreed that the To authorise the Company to make market purchases of its shares above named directors should offer themselves for re-election at the This resolution is intended to give the directors the authority to make market 2006 annual general meeting.
purchases of up to 24,784,116 shares, representing approximately 10% of Directors biographical details are shown on page 26. the issued share capital at the date of this notice.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, although the directors Resolution 7: intend to seek renewal of the authority at each Annual General Meeting.
To reappoint  LLP as auditors Moreover, purchases will only be made if they would be in the best This resolution proposes the reappointment of  interests of shareholders generally.
As at the date of this notice there were LLP as auditors, and permits the directors to x their remuneration.
options to subscribe outstanding over 4,719,402 shares in the Company, Resolutions 8 to 15: representing 1.90% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the authority Political donations proposed to be given by this resolution were used in full, these would The Companies Act 1985 requires companies to obtain shareholder represent 1.87% of the resulting issued share capital.
There are no authority before they can make donations to EU political organisations warrants outstanding.
which includes UK political parties.
The denition of political donations used in the Act is very broad and, as a result, it may have the effect of covering a number of normal business activities that would not be thought to be political donations in the usual sense.
Such activities are not designed to support any political party nor to inuence public support for a particular party.
To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the Act, the directors consider that it would be prudent to follow the procedures 91 Premier Foods plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Attendance and voting Please mark the appropriate box alongside each resolution on the Form of Proxy to indicate whether you wish your votes to be cast for, or against, Only those shareholders who are registered on the Companys share or whether you wish to withhold your vote from, that resolution.
Unless you register at 6.00 pm on 9 May 2006 shall be entitled to attend the Annual give specic instructions on how to vote on a particular resolution, your General Meeting and to vote in respect of the number of shares registered proxy will be able, at his or her discretion, either to vote for or against in their names at that time.
Changes to entries on the share register after that resolution or to withhold from voting.
6.00 pm on 9 May 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Before posting the form to the registrar, please check that you have signed it.
In the case of joint holders, any of you may sign it.
Please bring with you the accompanying Admission Card.
It will facilitate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will speed your admission.
Forms of Proxy must be received in the ofces of the Companys registrars Please keep it until the end of the meeting.
The meeting will commence no later than 12.00 noon on 9 May 2006.
Any Form of Proxy received after at 12 noon and light refreshments will be available from 11.30 am and this time will be void.
also after the conclusion of the meeting].
The register of directors interests and copies of their service contracts Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual General Meeting, you are or letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the registered requested to complete the enclosed Form of Proxy and return it to the ofce of the Company during usual business hours between the date Companys registrars at the following address: Response Licence No.
of this notice and the Annual General Meeting and at the venue of the SEA 10855, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing BN99 6ZX Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the commencement as soon as possible and in any event so as to be received no later than of the meeting until its conclusion.
48 hours before the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting.
The completion and submission of a Form of Proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting in person if you so wish.
You may also nd it helpful to bring your Annual Report with you so that you can refer to it at the meeting.
If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you may appoint either the Chairman of the meeting or one or more persons of your choice to act on your behalf and to vote in the event of a poll.
That person is known as a proxy.
You are advised to use the enclosed Form of Proxy to appoint a proxy.
A proxy need not be a shareholder and may attend and vote on behalf of the shareholder who appointed him or her.
At the meeting, the proxy can act for the member he or she represents.
This includes the right to join in or demand a poll.
The proxy is also valid for any adjournment of the meeting.
92 Premier Foods plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Financial highlights: 789.7 6.0% Turnover 603.8m 1.6% Like-for-like grocery turnover 1 08.4m 13.3% Trading profit 95.3m 18.2% Operating profit 15.
25p Dividends per share ifc Highlights for 2005 01 Introduction 02 Chairmans statement 04 Chief Executives summary 06 Our strategy 16 Business review 22 Financial review 26 Board of Directors 27 Senior Management 28 Directors report 30 Corporate governance 38 Directors remuneration report 45 Independent auditors report the Group 46 Consolidated income statement 47 Consolidated balance sheet 48 Consolidated cash flow statement 48 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 49 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 84 Independent auditors report the Company 85 Company financial statements 86 Notes to the Company financial statements 88 Corporate information 89 Notice of Annual General Meeting Designed produced by Radley Yeldar London Premier Foods plc Annual Report 2005 Premier Foods plc Premier House Griffiths Way St Albans AL1 2RE T 01727 815850 F 01727 815982 Premier Foods plc Annual Report 2005 growing
