Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Foods plc The Company We have audited the parent company financial statements of Premier Foods Basis of audit opinion plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Sheet and the related notes.
These parent company financial statements Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part described as having been audited.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Premier assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Foods plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been be audited.
prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance Opinion with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any In our opinion: other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting consent in writing.
Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial and statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is  LLP not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial 7 March 2006 statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, Notes: the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans a The maintenance and integrity of the Premier Foods plc website is the responsibility of the Statement, the Chief Executives Summary, the Business Review, the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
