Contacts Registered Office Auditors Premier is a leading FTSE 250 independent exploration Premier Oil plc Deloitte & Touche LLP Registered No.
234781 Scotland Hill House and production company with gas and oil interests principally 4th Floor 1 Little New Street Saltire Court London in the North Sea, Asia and West Africa.
Our strategy is to add 20 Castle Terrace EC4A 3TR Edinburgh significant value per share through exploration and appraisal EH1 2EN Solicitors success, astute commercial deals and asset management.
Slaughter and May Head Office One Bunhill Row Premier Oil plc London 23 Lower Belgrave Street EC1Y 8YY London SW1W 0NR Stockbrokers Telephone: 44 0 20 7730 1111 Merrill Lynch Fax: 44 0 20 7730 4696 Merrill Lynch Financial Centre www.
com 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ and Oriel Securities Limited 125 Wood Street London EC2V 7AN Registrars Computershare Investor Services plc Lochside House 7 Lochside Avenue Edinburgh Park Edinburgh EH12 9DJ Contents Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0000 01 Highlights www.
com 02 Chairmans statement 04 Financial review 06 Operational review 11 Social performance summary 13 Health, safety, environment and security summary 14 Board of directors 15 Corporate governance report 20 Report of the directors 22 Remuneration report 31 Statement of directors responsibilities 32 Independent auditors report Group 33 Accounting policies 39 Consolidated income statement 40 Consolidated balance sheet 41 Consolidated cash flow statement 42 Notes to the accounts 59 IFRS transition reconciliations 68 Independent auditors report Company 69 Parent company financial statements 77 Five year summary 78 Shareholder information 79 Oil and gas reserves 80 Worldwide licence interests Designed and produced by williams and phoa, London.
81 Contacts This annual report is printed on paper manufactured by an ISO 14001 mill, using totally chlorine free pulps from fully sustainable managed forests.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Premier Oil plc 23 Lower Belgrave Street London SW1W 0NR Telephone: 44 0 20 7730 1111 A pioneering spirit with true technological expertise Fax: 44 0 20 7730 4696 Annual Report and Accounts www.
com Year to 31 December 2005 A pioneering spirit with true technological expertise Summary Review 2005 Premier is a leading FTSE 250 independent exploration and production company with gas and oil interests principally in the North Sea, Asia and West Africa.
Our strategy is to add significant value per share through exploration and appraisal success, astute commercial deals and asset management.
Glossary Contents boe barrels of oil equivalent 01 Highlights boepd barrels of oil equivalent per day 02 Group at a glance mmboe million barrels of oil equivalent EPS earnings per share 04 Production and reserves FPSO floating production storage and offtake vessel 05 Exploration and appraisal HSFO high sulphur fuel oil PSC production sharing contract 06 Our strategy 08 Technical expertise 10 Operational success 12 Management team 14 Financial strength 16 People and environments 17 Contacts Highlights Operational Production ahead of budget 33,300 boepd 2004: 34,700 boepd Record gas sales from projects in Indonesia and Pakistan Exploration and appraisal success in Mauritania and Egypt Reserves and contingent resources 10 per cent higher at 232 mmboe Strong 2P reserve base 164 mmboe 2004: 177 mmboe New acreage acquired in Norway, Congo and SADR Financial Profit after tax and EPS up 75 per cent to US$38.6 million, 47.0 cents per share Healthy operating cash flow amounting to US$118.9 million 2004: US$109.6 million Operating costs stable under US$6 per boe Strong balance sheet and improved credit facility Low-cost, long-term hedging in place 2006 Outlook Announcement of Lembu Peteng discovery giving Premier two exploration successes this year to date Up to 17 exploration and appraisal wells currently planned, with four high-impact wells Significant programme of development drilling Development projects on stream in Mauritania and Indonesia 01 Group at a glance 1 North Sea Returning to growth Building on our newly established Norway position by seeking out attractive exploration opportunities, maximising the value of our existing UK producing assets.
2005 Highlights Norway acreage additions Kyle offtake reconfiguration Wytch Farm infill drilling 2006 Outlook UK exploration ongoing programme to drill out the portfolio Assessment of Fry potential and progress development plans Wytch Farm Enhanced Oil Recovery EOR project 1 2 West Africa Building a new core business Continuously building a pipeline of quality high impact drillable prospects and capitalising on our developing Mauritanian position.
2005 Highlights Congo and SADR acreage acquisitions Chinguetti development completion Appraisal of Tiof, Tevet and Banda discoveries 2006 Outlook Guinea Bissau high impact exploration wells Chinguetti phase 2 Tiof development decision New partnership with the Government of Mauritania 2 02 4 Asia Building on our Natuna Sea production Using technical and commercial expertise from our operations in the Natuna Sea to deliver new exploration and production projects across the region.
2005 Highlights Vietnam prospect delivery and pre-drilling preparations Natuna Sea operations achieve world-class HSES performance Excellent progress on the West Lobe project 2006 Outlook Lembu Peteng and Macan Tutul discoveries Vietnam high impact wells Singapore gas sales progressing Progressing Ratna field discussions in India 4 3 3 Middle East-Pakistan Enhancing the Pakistan gas business Capitalising on our leading position in Pakistans rapidly growing gas market, build a position in Egypt and pursue new opportunities in the Middle East.
2005 Highlights Another year of record production from Pakistan Al Amir Egypt discovery Zamzama Phase 2 development sanction Good progress on Bhit Qadirpur fields additional gas sales agreements 2006 Outlook Appraisal of Al Amir discovery Indus E exploration on Anne prospect offshore Pakistan Bhit and Qadirpur plant upgrades 03 Production and reserves Indonesia Our two PSC areas in the Natuna Sea contributed 12,000 boepd to group production with strong gas demand from our gas customers in Singapore.
Pakistan In 2005 gas production in Pakistan grew to a record 11,500 boepd.
The Zamzama Phase 2 project was approved during the year and is due on stream in mid- 2007.
Technical studies performed have highlighted increased reserve potential at the Kadanwari field that will be tapped in 2006.. Mauritania Following first oil from the Chinguetti field in February 2006, attention is now switching to development planning for the discovered reserves in the other nearby oil fields Tiof, Tevet, Labeidna.
These will be either stand-alone developments or incremental fields tied back to the Chinguetti FPSO.
New development projects Preparations for final appraisal drilling of the Dua oil field in block 12 in Vietnam neared completion.
In the Norwegian 19th licensing round Premier was awarded a 50 per cent interest in the During 2005 our reserves and contingent resources Fry field redevelopment project.
In India we are close to agreement on increased by over 10 per cent to 232 mmboe as the award of the redevelopment project we added undeveloped resources in Vietnam, for the Ratna field.
Together with the discoveries in Mauritania, these projects Norway and Mauritania to our portfolio.
We have will add significantly to Premiers production over time.
a solid long life reserve base which creates a strong platform from which to grow our production to 50,000 boepd in the medium-term.
04 Exploration and appraisal Indonesia The Natuna A block in Indonesia continues to outperform.
Exploration yielded success in the Macan Tutul-1 and Lembu Peteng-1 wells, following 2004s success in Gajah Baru.
Commercialisation of gas discoveries made since 2001, via a second gas sale to Singapore, is being vigorously pursued.
Vietnam In 2006 we will drill two high value wells in block 12E, offshore southern Vietnam.
Preparation over the past two years with acquisitions of 2D and 3D seismic data allow us to accurately position the Dua and Blackbird exploration wells, which share the geology of our successful Indonesian acreage.
Success on Dua will be targeting first oil production in 2009.
Mauritania In PSC A and PSC B, following the Chinguetti field coming on stream in early 2006, new exploration wells will be drilled on these prospective blocks and the pre-development planning for the Tiof, Tevet, Labeidna and Banda discoveries will continue.
UK Norway In 2005, we acquired a significant Our established exploration team have an enviable exploration and appraisal portfolio in track record of success.
Of the 59 exploration Norway through successful application in licence round awards.
In 2006 Premier and appraisal wells spudded since 2000, 28 have hopes to increase this position of under explored, yet highly prospective acreage found potentially commercial oil and gas reserves.
The deep experience and skill base of the team Guinea Bissau has allowed these resources to be commercialised Offshore Guinea Bissau, we plan to drill two high impact wells on salt-flank either through asset sale or by taking projects rapidly plays.
Following our 2004 discovery, through to development.
Sinapa-2, we have targeted drilling the largest and lowest risk prospects on this Long range planning in 2005 has meant that the block, which have multiple follow-up prospect potential.
programme for drilling in 2006 has been confirmed.
The challenge in a rising cost environment is to explore the best areas within budget.
Plans are in place for 2006 to achieve this.
05 Our strategy Left to right Our strategy is to grow our Tony Durrant Finance Director Simon Lockett Chief Executive Robin Allan Director of Business Development four regional businesses by combining the delivery of new production with successful exploration.
06 Our portfolio of producing assets, incremental Premiers medium-term production projects and new developments gives us every target of 50,000 boepd is a 50 per confidence that this target can be achieved.
cent increase on todays level.
Our exploration strategy focuses on delivering at least four high impact wells per annum.
These are designed to give our shareholders material upside from our annual programme.
Our technical edge is developing in specific geological plays: sub-salt in West Africa, fold belts in India and Pakistan and our broad knowledge of the Natuna Sea basins.
Financially we maintain a disciplined exploration spend using portfolio management where appropriate.
What are our key strengths?
As an experienced operator, we have all the requisite technical and commercial skills and a history of successfully completing complex development projects.
Our production is sourced from high quality reservoirs around the world which continue to generate improved performance with time.
Our existing fields have a lengthy productive life which provides us with a strong and stable cash flow.
Our portfolio of existing reserves in the commercialisation phase provides us with a solid foundation to grow the production base.
Through commercial deal making and through established partnerships in our regional operations around the world we continue to accumulate a portfolio of exploration opportunities.
Through a focus on rocks and relationships we continue to improve our portfolio of exploration opportunities.
07 Technical expertise Creative thinking is critical for Premiers exploration and production activities.
We thrive on the astute development and implementation of new technologies from imaging through drilling.
Cutting cycle times whilst improving the chances of success, and at the same time maintaining the highest possible standards and performance are key to our business.
The application of leading edge seismic technology provides a new understanding of the subsurface allowing Premier to seek and find oil and gas reserves overlooked by other explorers.
08 09 Operational success The foundation of any strong exploration and production company is the ability to successfully achieve its operational objectives whether these are world-class safety, efficient drilling, reliable production or on-time on-budget project execution.
Premier continues to deliver in all of these areas.
10 Indonesia Our operations in Indonesia completed the year without a lost time injury.
Our production facilities continued an excellent record of reliably supplying gas into Singapore.
The project to install a new wellhead platform on the West Lobe of the Anoa field has gone well and is running ahead of schedule.
Negotiations for a further sale of gas from block A into Singapore have made good progress.
Pakistan Excellent production reliability at all of our assets enabled us to take advantage of strong market demand.
Commercial negotiations and development planning to accelerate production at Qadirpur and Bhit and to develop the reserves at Badhra should come to fruition in 2006.
Mauritania The deepwater and technically challenging Chinguetti project was nearing completion at year-end and made a successful start to production in February 2006.
This is the first ever oil production in Mauritania and a significant milestone for the country.
UK During the year production at the Kyle field was reconfigured.
The oil production is now through a single FPSO two were being used previously resulting in a significant reduction in operating costs and an extension to the economic life of the field.
11 Management team Using our existing skills we target new growth opportunities in the areas we already know well: locations where we can deepen our understanding of the geology and build on our relationships.
12 Norway Extending our UK North Sea experience to the Norwegian sector.
Awarded five new interests in the Norwegian APA licensing round December 2005.
Targeting development approval for the Fry field in early 2007.
Programme of exploration drilling planned in 2007 2008.
Vietnam Building on our knowledge of the Natuna Sea geology in Vietnam waters.
Two high impact wells planned for the second quarter of 2006.
If successful, a number of future prospects following on from the Dua and Blackbird wells including the large Swan discovery.
Indonesia Discoveries at Macan Tutul and Lembu Peteng add to our continuing exploration success record in the Natuna Sea.
As an experienced operator in Indonesia we expect to bring on stream our new West Lobe platform on-time and under budget.
Good progress in commercial negotiations for further gas sales.
13 Financial strength Premiers strategy of delivering growth both from the production base and from high value exploration is backed by a solid financial position.
An effectively ungeared balance sheet, strong cash flows and a corporate credit facility of US$275 million will allow us to fund existing and new development projects and acquisitions.
14 Profit after tax US$ 38.6m Low gearing 7% Credit facility US$ 275m largely unused Strong earnings growth For the year ended 31 December 2005, operating profits were up 112 per cent to US$125.7 million and earnings per share and profit after tax were up 75 per cent.
Premiers performance continues to reflect its fundamentally strong resources base, which should show healthy profit growth year on year with a rising production profile.
Hedging future production 9 million barrels, approximately 50 per cent, of expected future oil production from 20062010 has been hedged at a collar of US$37.4 per barrel to protect the groups cash flows from negative oil price movements.
For a similar period, 384 thousand metric tonnes of HSFO, representing 33 per cent of Indonesian gas production, has been hedged at a floor of US$200 per metric tonne.
These hedges will underpin the groups continuous commitment to a flow of new development projects and a high impact exploration programme.
US$275 million credit facility In 2005 the group entered into a new US$275 million credit facility on improved terms with a syndicate of 13 financial institutions led by Barclays Bank plc and Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Together with positive operating cash flows, this facility puts Premier in a strong position to fund acquisitions or new development projects.
15 People and environments Respect for people and the environment is We have well-articulated business principles a key part of Premiers business.
We believe that clearly state what we believe in.
From these Premier must continue to build its reputation principles we establish policies that clearly spell as a corporate citizen of choice.
This goes out the behaviour we expect from our employees beyond merely being seen to do the right and contractors, wherever we operate.
To ensure thing and translates into real actions.
that we embed this behaviour in every aspect of our business we have drawn up management systems health, safety, environment and security, as well as social performance to communicate and capture the way we work, and to ensure that appropriate training takes place.
Success in these areas inherently protects our assets, our revenue streams and our reputation.
16 Contacts Registered Office Auditors Premier Oil plc Deloitte & Touche LLP Registered No.
234781 Scotland Hill House 4th Floor 1 Little New Street Saltire Court London 20 Castle Terrace EC4A 3TR Edinburgh EH1 2EN Solicitors Slaughter and May Head Office One Bunhill Row Premier Oil plc London 23 Lower Belgrave Street EC1Y 8YY London SW1W 0NR Stockbrokers Telephone: 44 0 20 7730 1111 Merrill Lynch Fax: 44 0 20 7730 4696 Merrill Lynch Financial Centre www.
com 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ and Oriel Securities Limited 125 Wood Street London EC2V 7AN Registrars Computershare Investor Services plc Lochside House 7 Lochside Avenue Edinburgh Park Edinburgh EH12 9DJ Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0000 www.
com Designed and produced by williams and phoa, London.
This report is printed on paper produced in a totally chlorine free process from up to 50% pre and post consumer waste.
The paper mill has achieved accreditation to the environmental standard ISO 14001.
