Accounting policies General d Cumulative translation differences exemption The group Premier Oil plc is a limited company incorporated in Scotland and has elected to set the cumulative translation differences to zero listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities at 1 January 2004.
This exemption has been applied to all of the company and its subsidiaries the group are oil and gas subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 1. exploration and production in South and South East Asia, the UK and Africa.
e Compound financial instruments exemption The group has not issued any compound instruments: this exemption is These financial statements are presented in US dollars since not applicable.
that is the currency in which the majority of the groups transactions are denominated.
f Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures exemption This exemption is not applicable, as the use Accounting convention of the exemption is made at the level of the subsidiary, associate The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with or joint venture that adopts IFRS later than its parent company.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the Council of the European Union.
As this is the first time these g Exemption from restatement of comparatives for IAS 32 standards have been applied, special rules apply in converting and IAS 39 The group elected to apply this exemption.
The group the comparatives and opening the consolidated balance sheet therefore applies its former UK GAAP accounting policies to of the group.
A basis of preparation, as given below, details all the derivatives, financial assets and financial liabilities and to hedging mandatory and optional exemptions which the group has adopted.
relationships for the 2004 comparative information.
The adjustments required for differences between UK GAAP, IAS 32 and IAS 39 are The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention determined and recognised from 1 January 2005. except for the revaluation of financial instruments and certain properties at transition date to IFRS.
h Share-based payment transaction exemption The group has elected to apply the share-based payment exemption.
It applied Basis of preparation of results and reconciliations IFRS 2 from 1 January 2004 only to those options that were issued In preparing these financial statements in accordance with IFRS 1, after 7 November 2002, but that have not vested by 1 January 2005. the group has applied the mandatory exceptions and certain of the optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS.
i Insurance contracts exemption The group does not issue insurance contracts: this exemption is not applicable.
Exemptions from full retrospective application elected by the group j Decommissioning liabilities included in the cost of property, The group has made the following choices in respect of the optional plant and equipment exemption The group recognises a exemptions from full retrospective application, as set out in IFRS 1. provision in accordance with IAS 37 in respect of decommissioning liabilities relating to its share in operated and non-operated a Business combinations exemption The group has applied the production facilities.
business combinations exemption in IFRS 1.
It has not restated business combinations that took place prior to the 1 January 2004 The exemption provided in IFRS 1 from the full retrospective transition date.
application of IFRIC 1 has been applied to determine the adjustment required to property, plant and equipment PPE b Fair value as deemed cost exemption The group has elected to in respect of the obligation to decommission existing measure certain items of property, plant and equipment PPE at fair production facilities.
value as at 1 January 2004 and use the fair value as deemed cost.
k Fair value measurement of financial assets or liabilities c Employee benefits exemption The group has elected at initial recognition The group has not applied the exemption to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses as at offered by the revision of IAS 39 on the initial recognition of the 1 January 2004. financial instruments measured at fair value through profit and loss where there is no active market.
This exemption is not applicable to the 2004 financial information since the group has applied the exemption in g above.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33 Accounting policies continued Exceptions from full retrospective application followed All significant inter-company transactions and balances between by the group group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Premier has applied the following mandatory exceptions from retrospective application.
Interest in associates An associate is an entity in which the group has a long-term equity a Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities exception interest and over which it has significant influence, but not control, Any non-derivative financial assets and liabilities derecognised through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions before 1 January 2004 are not re-recognised under IFRS in the of the investee.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in b Hedge accounting exception Management has claimed hedge these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
accounting from 1 January 2005 only if the hedge relationship meets Interests in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as the entire hedge accounting criteria under IAS 39.
As the group adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net will apply IAS 39 prospectively from 1 January 2005, hedges are assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual included in the 2004 financial information according to the groups investments.
Any excess deficiency of the cost of acquisition over former UK GAAP accounting policies.
below the groups share of the net fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate at the c Estimates exception Estimates under IFRS at 1 January 2004 date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill negative goodwill.
are consistent with estimates made for the same date under previous UK GAAP, unless there is evidence that those estimates Interest in joint ventures were in error.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to d Assets held for sale and discontinued operations exception joint control.
Management applies IFRS 5 prospectively from 1 January 2005.
Any assets held for sale or discontinued operations are recognised Where a group company undertakes its activities under joint in accordance with IFRS 5 only from 1 January 2005. venture arrangements directly, the groups share of jointlycontrolled assets and any liabilities incurred jointly with other The group had no assets that met the held-for-sale criteria during venturers are recognised in the financial statements of the relevant 2004 and 2005, and consequently this exception had no effect on company and classified according to their nature.
Liabilities and expenses incurred directly in respect of interests Basis of consolidation in jointly-controlled assets are accounted for on an accrual basis.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Income from the sale or use of the groups share of the output of statements of the company and entities controlled by the company jointly-controlled assets, and its share of joint venture expenses, its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial associated with the transactions will flow to from the group and and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits their amount can be measured reliably.
Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The group reports its interests in Any excess deficiency of the cost of acquisition over below the jointly-controlled entities using proportionate consolidation fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as the groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of goodwill negative goodwill.
The interest of minority shareholders jointly-controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Where the group transacts with its jointly-controlled entities, The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the are included in the consolidated income statement from the groups interest in the joint venture.
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by other members of the group.
34 Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Sales and revenue Treatment of E&E assets at conclusion of appraisal activities Sales of petroleum production are recognised when goods Intangible E&E assets relating to each exploration licence prospect are delivered or the title has passed to the customer.
are carried forward, until the existence or otherwise of commercial reserves have been determined subject to certain limitations Interest revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the including review for indications of impairment.
If commercial principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
reserves have been discovered the carrying value, after any impairment loss of the relevant E&E assets is then reclassified as Dividend revenue from investments is recognised when the development and production assets.
If, however, commercial shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
reserves have not been found, the capitalised costs are charged to expense after conclusion of appraisal activities.
Oil and gas assets The group applies the successful efforts method of accounting b Development and production assets for exploration and evaluation E&E costs, considering the Development and production assets are accumulated generally requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing Mineral Resources.
the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into production, together with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding a Exploration and evaluation assets commercial reserves transferred from intangible E&E assets as Under the successful efforts method of accounting, all licence outlined in accounting policy a above.
acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised in well, field or specific exploration cost centres as appropriate, The cost of development and production assets also includes pending determination.
Expenditure incurred during the various the cost of acquisitions and purchases of such assets, directly exploration and appraisal phases is then written off unless attributable overheads, finance costs capitalised, and the cost of commercial reserves have been established or the determination recognising provisions for future restoration and decommissioning.
process has not been completed.
Depreciation of producing assets The net book values of Pre-licence costs Costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal producing assets are depreciated generally on a field-by-field basis rights to explore an area are expensed directly to the income using the unit-of-production UOP method by reference to the ratio statement as they are incurred.
of production in the period and the related commercial reserves of the field, taking into account future development expenditures Exploration and evaluation costs Costs of E&E are initially necessary to bring those reserves into production.
Payments to acquire the legal right to explore, costs of technical services and studies, seismic acquisition, Producing assets are generally grouped with other assets that are exploratory drilling and testing are capitalised as intangible dedicated to serving the same reserves for depreciation purposes, E&E assets.
but are depreciated separately from producing assets that serve other reserves.
Tangible assets used in E&E activities such as the groups vehicles, drilling rigs, seismic equipment and other property, plant and Pipelines are depreciated on a unit of throughput basis.
equipment used by the companys exploration function are classified as property, plant and equipment.
However, to the extent that such a tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Such intangible costs include directly attributable overheads, including the depreciation of property, plant and equipment utilised in E&E activities, together with the cost of other materials consumed during the exploration and evaluation phases.
E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal activities.
Pr Premier Oil emier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35 35 Accounting policies continued c Impairment of development and production assets Inventories An impairment test is performed whenever events and Inventories, except for petroleum products, are valued at the lower circumstances arising during the development or production of cost and net realisable value.
Petroleum products and under phase indicate that the carrying value of a development or and over lifts of crude oil are recorded at net realisable value.
production asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
Tax The carrying value is compared against the expected recoverable Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable amount of the asset, generally by reference to the present value and the deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from production profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported of commercial reserves.
The cash generating unit applied for in the income statement because it excludes items of income or impairment test purposes is generally the field, except that a number expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further of field interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups where the cash flows of each field are inter-dependent.
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted, or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
d Acquisitions, asset purchases and disposals Acquisitions of oil and gas properties are accounted for under Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on the purchase method where the transaction meets the definition differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in of a business combination.
the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the Transactions involving the purchases of an individual field interest, balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally or a group of field interests, that do not qualify as a business recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax combination are treated as asset purchases, irrespective of assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable whether the specific transactions involve the transfer of the profits will be available against which deductible temporary field interests directly, or the transfer of an incorporated entity.
Such assets and liabilities are not Accordingly, no goodwill and no deferred tax gross-up arises, recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill and the consideration is allocated to the assets and liabilities or negative goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in purchased on an appropriate basis.
a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Proceeds on disposal are applied to the carrying amount of the specific intangible asset or development and production assets Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary disposed of and any surplus is recorded as a gain on disposal differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and in the income statement.
interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the e Decommissioning temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full at the commencement of oil and gas production.
The amount The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer A corresponding tangible fixed asset is also created at an amount probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all equal to the provision.
This is subsequently depreciated as part or part of the asset to be recovered.
of the capital costs of the production facilities.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to an adjustment to the provision and the fixed asset.
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off corporation tax assets against corporation tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
36 36 36 Pr Pr Premier Oil emier Oil emier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Translation of foreign currencies Royalties In the accounts of individual companies, transactions denominated Royalties are charged as production costs to the income statement in in foreign currencies, being currencies other than that companys the period in which the related production is recognised as income.
functional currency, are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates as of the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets Leasing and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the period end Rentals payable for assets under operating leases are charged are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the period end.
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value, that are denominated in foreign currencies, are translated at the rates Financial instruments prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Non-monetary assets held at historic cost are translated at the date groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the of purchase and are not retranslated.
Any gain or loss arising from contractual provisions of the instrument.
a change in exchange rate subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the income statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value as reduced On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of group companies with by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
non US$ functional currency overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and Bank borrowings expense items are generally translated into the groups presentation Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at currency US$ at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Any exchange differences arising are classified as equity including premiums payable, on settlement or redemption, and transferred to the groups translation reserve.
Such translation and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to differences are recognised as income or expense in the period the income statement using the effective interest method and in which the operation is disposed of.
are added to the carrying amount of the liability to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Group retirement benefits Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are Trade payables charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to stateTrade payables are stated at their nominal value.
managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans where the groups obligations under Share-based payments the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined The group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 share-based contribution retirement benefit plan.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November The group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005. requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the The group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled income and expense.
Past service costs are also recognised share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares that or otherwise are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average will eventually vest.
period until the benefits become vested.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial model.
The expected life The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and as reduced by and behavioural considerations.
the fair value of the plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to unrecognised past service costs, plus the A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received present value of available refunds and reductions in future is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance contributions to the plan.
sheet date for cash-settled share-based payments.
Pr Pr Premier Oil emier Oil emier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 37 37 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments applied prospectively For qualifying hedges of net investment in a foreign entity, from 1 January 2005 the hedging instrument is recorded at fair value.
The portion The group uses derivative financial instruments derivatives to of any change in fair value that is an effective hedge is included manage its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, in equity.
interest rates and oil price fluctuations.
Any remaining ineffective portion is recorded in financial income All derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at cost, or expense where the hedging instrument is a derivative and in including transaction costs.
Derivatives are subsequently carried equity in other cases.
If the entity is disposed of, then the cumulative at fair value.
Apart from those derivatives designated as qualifying changes of fair value of the hedging instrument that have been cash flow hedging instruments, all changes in fair value are recorded recorded in equity are included in financial income at the time as financial gains or losses in the period in which they arise.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedging relationships may Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or nonbe of three types.
Fair value hedges are hedges of particular risks derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when that may change the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host Cash flow hedges are hedges of particular risks that may change contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with the amount or timing of future cash flows.
Hedges of net investment unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
in a foreign entity are hedges of particular risks that may change the carrying value of the net assets of a foreign entity.
Presently the Fair value is the amount for which a financial asset, liability group only uses cash flow hedges.
or instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable and willing parties in an arms length transaction.
It is determined To qualify for hedge accounting the hedging relationship must by reference to quoted market prices adjusted for estimated meet several strict conditions on documentation, probability of transaction costs that would be incurred in an actual transaction, occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
or by the use of established estimation techniques such as option If these conditions are not met, then the relationship does not pricing models and estimated discounted values of cash flows.
In this case the hedging instrument and the hedged item are reported independently as if there were Prior to adopting IAS 39 from 1 January 2005, the group continued no hedging relationship.
In particular, any derivatives are reported to account for hedges by deferring recognition of gains and losses at fair value, with changes in fair value included in financial gains on hedging instruments until the hedged transaction occurs.
Cash and cash equivalents For qualifying fair value hedges, the hedging instrument is recorded Cash comprises cash-in-hand and deposits repayable on demand, at fair value and the hedged item is recorded at its previous carrying less overdrafts payable on demand.
value, adjusted for any changes in fair value that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Any changes in the fair values are reported in Cash equivalents comprise funds held in term-deposit accounts financial gains or losses.
with a maturity not exceeding three months.
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the hedging instrument is Provisions recorded at fair value.
The portion of any change in fair value that Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation is an effective hedge is included in equity, and any remaining as a result of a past event and it is probable that the group would ineffective portion is reported in financial income.
If the hedging be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the relationship is the hedge of a firm commitment or highly probable managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle forecasted transaction, the cumulative changes of fair value of the the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to hedging instrument that have been recorded in equity are included present value where the effect is material.
in the initial carrying value of the asset or liability at the time it is recognised.
For all other qualifying cash flow hedges, the cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging instrument that have been recorded in equity are included in financial gains and losses at the time when the forecasted transaction affects net income.
38 Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005
