ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation As an EU listed company, Arriva plc is required to prepare its Group accounts using International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, with effect from 2005.
These financial statements are the first full year statements to be prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The disclosures required by IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, are set out below.
Comparatives for 2004 are restated to IFRS where applicable.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting, other than for certain items of property, plant and equipment that have been stated at deemed cost under the transitional rules of IFRS, and share-based payment charges and derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair value.
The principal IFRS accounting policies of the Group are set out below: First-time adoption of IFRS In accordance with the requirements of IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group is subject to a number of voluntary and mandatory exemptions from full restatement of comparatives to the requirements of IFRS, which have been applied as follows: IAS32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement were adopted with effect from 1 January 2005 The Group has elected to use fair value as deemed cost for UK land and buildings at the date of transition 1 January 2004 The Group has not applied IFRS3 Business Combinations retrospectively to business combinations that occurred before the transition date The Group has set cumulative translation differences to zero at the transition date for all subsidiaries.
From the date of transition onwards foreign exchange differences on the retranslation of foreign subsidiaries are recognised in a separate reserve within equity IFRS2 Share-based Payment has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005.
The transitional information required to be disclosed by IFRS1 is included on pages 77 to 79 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Arriva plc and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportional consolidation, combining its share of the joint ventures profits, assets, liabilities and cash flows on a line-by-line basis with those of the Group.
Associates are those entities over which the Group can exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Revenue is recognised either on receipt of consideration or, in the case of the provision of contractual services, on a percentage of completion basis.
The percentage of completion method is calculated either with respect to the proportion of services provided compared with the total contracted service, or to the proportion of costs incurred on a contract compared with total expected costs.
Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment, including short-term rental vehicles, are excluded from revenue.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those items which, because of their nature and materiality, merit separate presentation to allow a better understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Segment reporting The Groups primary risks and rates of return are determined by both the business and the geographical areas in which it operates.
Disclosure of results by business segment is used as the basis for primary segment disclosures, in line with the Groups internal management reporting structure.
48 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk Government grants Government grants relating to capital expenditure are included as deferred income and are credited to the income statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned.
Revenue-related grants are credited to the income statement when the related expenditure is expensed.
Foreign currency translation The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of the opening investment in subsidiary undertakings and the associated borrowings or hedging instruments, where hedge accounting is permitted, are taken to the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held for use in the delivery of passenger transport services and for administration purposes are stated in the balance sheet at cost or deemed cost.
They are not subject to a valuation.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of each asset less its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings 50 years Fixtures, fittings, plant and machinery 310 years Motor vehicles short-term rental vehicles up to 7 years Motor vehicles buses and coaches up to 15 years Rail rolling stock up to 35 years Major refurbishment work on rail rolling stock is capitalised and depreciated over the interval to the subsequent related major refurbishment.
Interest costs incurred in financing the construction of certain assets are capitalised where they are considered significant in relation to the asset being constructed and the asset necessarily takes a substantial period of time to be prepared for its intended use.
Rail rolling stock undergoing post-construction acceptance testing is not depreciated until the commencement of full operational service.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is disclosed separately in non-current assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates is included in investments.
Goodwill is not amortised but tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves has not been reinstated.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognised when acquired as part of business combinations where customer-related contractual cash flows and obligations exist, and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets purchased separately are measured at cost.
Intangible assets that have a finite life are amortised annually over their expected useful lives.
Impairment At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
If indicators of impairment exist then the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated.
Where individual assets do not generate cash flows independent from other assets, the Group reviews the carrying value and recoverable amount of a cash generating unit.
This is the smallest group of assets where independent cash flows are produced.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the difference is recognised in the income statement as an impairment loss.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 49 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between initial carrying value and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to taxation authorities.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Pensions The Group operates retirement benefit schemes, both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The Group also participates in a number of multi-employer retirement benefit schemes and a number of state-managed retirement benefit schemes.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method.
Formal actuarial valuations are carried out on a triennial basis, with updated calculations being prepared at each balance sheet date.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The cost of providing future benefits service cost is charged to the income statement in net operating expenses.
The return on scheme assets and interest obligation on scheme liabilities comprise a pension finance adjustment which is included in net operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity and shown in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in the period they arise.
Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes, and certain overseas defined benefit schemes that are accounted for as defined contribution schemes under IAS19, are charged to the income statement as they arise.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The impact of revising original estimates, if any, is included in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
50 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other liabilities.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than 90 days that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposures to foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and changes in fuel prices to acceptable levels.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted for in line with the nature of the hedging arrangement.
Derivatives are intended to be highly effective in mitigating the above risks, and hedge accounting is adopted where the relevant test criteria are met.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Foreign currency exchange risk Derivatives are entered into to hedge exposure to foreign currency exchange risk.
The Group also uses foreign currency debt to hedge foreign currency exposures.
Both the derivatives and debt are designated as hedges of net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
Interest rate and fuel price risk Derivative instruments are used to manage the Groups exposure to changes in cash flows arising from movements in interest rates and fuel prices.
The derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, and hedge accounting is used where it is demonstrable that the hedge relationship is highly effective.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 51
