46 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS ANNUAL REPORT 2005 47 STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Basis of accounting Intangible xed assets and goodwill The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost convention adjusted to Purchased brands are included in the balance sheet at cost less amortisation calculated on a straight line basis over the useful economic life include the periodic revaluation of properties.
Provision is made for any impairment.
All brands held in the balance sheet at 31st May 2005 are considered to have inde nite lives given their strength and durability and the level of marketing support.
Accordingly they are not being amortised.
Impairment reviews New accounting standards are carried out as required by Financial Reporting Standard 10, Goodwill and intangible assets, and in accordance with Financial Reporting During the year the Group has adopted UITF Abstract 38, Accounting for ESOP trusts.
In accordance with the Abstract, shares held in the Standard 11, Impairment of xed assets and goodwill.
Employee Share Ownership Trust have been reclassi ed from investments to other reserves.
The impact of this reclassi cation is to reduce Prior to the year ended 31st May 1999, goodwill was set off against or added to reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of accounting both the value of investments and the value of reserves at 31st May 2005 by 1,137,000 31st May 2004 970,000. policy.
With effect from 1st June 1998, in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 10, Goodwill and intangible assets, goodwill is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life subject to a maximum of twenty years.
As permitted by the Consolidation current accounting standard, goodwill previously set off against or added to reserves has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
On a The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of PZ Cussons Plc and all its subsidiaries.
Where appropriate the accounts of disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, the attributable amount of goodwill would be included in determining the pro t or overseas subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
No credit is taken for the Groups share of pro ts on intraloss on disposal.
group sales of goods until such goods have been sold to third parties.
b The total pro ts or losses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated pro t and loss account and the proportion of pro t or loss after Tangible xed assets and depreciation taxation applicable to minority interests in subsidiaries is excluded in arriving at the pro t attributable to the shareholders of PZ Cussons Plc.
Tangible xed assets are stated at cost or valuation, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Movements in reserves are shown net of taxation and of minority interests where appropriate.
Individual freehold and leasehold properties are revalued every year with the surplus or fide cit on book value being transferred to the c The total assets and liabilities of subsidiary companies are included in the consolidated balance sheet and the interests of minority revaluation reserve, except that a fide cit which is in excess of any previously recognised surplus over depreciated cost relating to the shareholders in the net assets of subsidiaries are stated separately.
same property, or the reversal of such a fide cit, is charged or credited to the pro t and loss account.
A fide cit which represents a clear consumption of economic bene ts is charged to the pro t and loss account regardless of any such previous surplus.
d The accounts of all subsidiary companies are made up to 31st May annually.
A full external valuation is carried out every five years together with an interim valuation in year three.
In the intervening years, the properties e The results of subsidiary companies acquired during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition.
are held at current cost based on the directors valuation.
Joint ventures On the disposal or recognition of a provision for impairment of a revalued xed asset, any related balance remaining in the revaluation Joint ventures are included in the consolidated balance sheet at Group interest in the net assets on the basis of accounts made up to reserve is also transferred to the pro t and loss account as a movement on reserves.
The Groups share of pro ts is included in the consolidated pro t and loss account.
In the case of leasehold properties, leases which at the balance sheet date have more than 50 years to run are designated as long leaseholds.
Exchange rates Exchange rates used to translate the pro t and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries are the average rates for the year.
Depreciation is provided mainly on a straight line basis.
The annual rates used, which are expected to write off the assets over their anticipated useful lives, are: Exchange rates used to translate overseas currency assets and liabilities other than shares held by the parent company in overseas companies are the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Freehold land Nil Currency gains and losses are included in operating pro t or investment income as appropriate except that the difference arising on Freehold buildings at rates not less than 2% the retranslation of the Groups share, at the beginning of the year, of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries is treated as a movement Leasehold land and buildings at rates which will reduce the book value in reserves.
to nil on or before the termination of the leases with a minimum of 2% Gains and losses on financial instruments that are hedging existing assets or liabilities are included in the carrying amounts of those assets Plant and machinery not less than 10% and liabilities.
Gains and losses on financial instruments that are hedging rm commitments or anticipated transactions are deferred and are recognised when the hedged transaction occurs.
Fixtures, ttings, vehicles not less than 20% In the case of major projects depreciation is provided from the date the project in question is brought into use.
Turnover During the year the accounting policy for the treatment of sales discounts and rebates has been revised.
Discounts and rebates have been Government grants related to expenditure on tangible xed assets are re ected in the balance sheet as deferred income and are credited to accounted for as a reduction in revenue, having previously been treated as a selling and distribution cost.
This accounting treatment is the pro t and loss account at the same rate as the depreciation on the assets to which the grants relate.
consistent with Financial Reporting Standard 5, Reporting the substance of transactions Application Note G issued November 2003 and in the directors opinion more fairly re ects the nature of these transactions.
For the 12 month period to May 2004 the impact of this revision Stocks has resulted in a reduction of both turnover and selling and distribution expenses of 30,628,000.
There is no impact on earnings.
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost in the case of the manufacturing subsidiaries includes an appropriate addition for manufacturing overheads.
Group turnover comprises sales of goods and services after deduction of discounts and sales taxes but including interest receivable on sales on extended credit and income from the provision of technical services and licensing agreements.
Liquid resources, current asset investments and investment income Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the ownership of underlying products and services have been substantially transferred Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one year and current asset investments which are valued at the lower of cost and to the customer and the Group has obtained the right to consideration.
Investment income takes account of pro t or loss on redemption or sale of current asset investments.
Pro t on ordinary activities Pro t on ordinary activities for the year is arrived at after charging or crediting all operating expenditure and revenue, whether normal or exceptional, including interest payable and receivable.
