74 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS ANNUAL REPORT 2005 75 NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED iv unless revoked, varied or renewed prior to such date, this authority shall expire on the earlier of 25th December 2006 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2006 provided that the company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares before the expiry of this authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may purchase ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract: and v such authorisation is in substitution for and to the exclusion of any existing authority subsisting at the date of this resolution save to the extent that the same may already have been exercised.
Dated this twenty fifth day of August 2005 By order of the board of directors B H LEIGH Secretary Notes 1 A member of the company entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is also entitled to appoint a proxy whether a member or not to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A reply-paid proxy card is enclosed.
In order to be valid, proxies must be received at the of ces of the company Registrar not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
2 The form of proxy may be completed, signed and returned to the Registrar or submitted via the internet.
If you lodge your proxy form via the internet it is not necessary also to return this paper form.
If you would like to submit your proxy vote online, you can do so by accessing the Registrars website www-uk.
com proxy and then selecting PZ Cussons Plc from the menu.
You will require your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference Number which are printed on the front of the proxy card to log in the PIN will expire at the end of the voting period.
3 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for this meeting by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos speci cations and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments speci ed in Note 1 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001.
4 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001, the company speci es that only holders of ordinary shares registered in the register of members of the company as at 6.00 pm on 24th September 2005 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 6.00 pm on 24th September 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Copies of the service contracts of the executive directors and of the letters of appointment from the company to its non-executive directors will be available for inspection at the registered of ce of the company during usual business hours on any weekday from the date of this notice until the date of the meeting and, together with the register of directors interests, will be available for inspection on the date and at the place of the meeting from 11.45 am until the conclusion of the meeting.
76 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 ACCOUNTS Registered ofce PZ Cussons House Bird Hall Lane Stockport SK3 0XN Registered number Company registered number 19457 Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Company secretary B H Leigh Information about PZ Cussons Plc and a full copy of the annual report and accounts can be found on our website www.
