Notice of the annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting committee assignment fee, to receive an of the company will be held in the Conference Room additional US$90 000: of the Atlantic Hotel, St. Brelade, Jersey, JE3 8HE, Channel Islands on Tuesday, 2 May 2006 at 14h15 for the f An annual award to each director of US$30 000 purpose of conducting the following business.
to be translated into a number of restricted shares.
The shares are to vest over a three year ORDINARY BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY period from the date of the award.
Vesting would 1 To receive and adopt the companys financial accelarate on the following conditions: statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 i Termination other than resignation or and the reports of the directors and the auditors dismissal: thereon.
ii Voluntary retirement after the age of 65 with 2 To re-elect Dr Aubrey Laurence Paverd who retires a minimum of three years service as a director: as a director by rotation in accordance with the articles and of association of the company as a director of the company, as recommended by the board of directors iii Change in control of the company.
Dr Paverd was initially appointed to the board of 6 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors directors of the company on 29 July 1996 and serves of the company.
on the companys audit committee.
In terms of the definitions of the Combined Code and Sarbanes- 7 SPECIAL BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY Oxley Act, Dr Paverd is deemed a non-executive To consider and, if thought fit, pass a special resolution director.
in the form attached as annexure 1 to this notice to the effect that the company be authorised to purchase 3 To re-elect Mr Bernard Harry Asher who retires as a certain ordinary shares of US$0.05 each in the director by rotation in accordance with the articles of company on the terms set out in annexure 1. association of the company as a director of the company, as recommended by the board of directors NOTES of the company.
1 The register of directors interests and copies of all Mr Asher was initially appointed to the board of service contracts of the company will be available directors of the company on 12 June 1997 and serves from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the as the companys senior independent non-executive annual general meeting, and in the Conference Room director, chairman of the audit committee and as a of the Atlantic Hotel, St. Brelade, Jersey, JE3 8HE, member of the remuneration committee.
In terms of Channel Islands for at least 15 minutes prior to and the definitions of the Combined Code and Sarbanesduring the annual general meeting.
Oxley Act, Mr Asher is deemed a non-executive director.
2 A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend 4 To receive and adopt the report of the remuneration and, on a poll, vote in his her stead.
not be a member of the company.
5 To approve fees payable to directors as follows: 3 For the convenience of members who are unable to attend the meeting but wish to be represented at it, a A general annual retainer to all non-executive a proxy form is attached.
Attention is drawn to the directors of US$45 000: fact that, if it is to be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy and the power of a attorney or other authority b An annual committee assignment fee of if any under which it is signed or a copy of such US$25 000, with an additional premium authority certified notarially must reach Computershare for membership of the audit committee of Investor Services Channel Island Limited not less US$10 000: than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
c The chairman of a board committee to receive a committee assignment fee of US$40 000: ANNEXURE 1 Special Resolution d The senior independent director, in addition to authorising the purchase by the company of its own shares the general annual retainer but in lieu of any IT IS RESOLVED THAT: committee assignment fee, to receive an additional The company be authorised pursuant to Article 57 of US$75 000: the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended the Law, to purchase from time to time such number e The non-executive chairman, in addition to of ordinary shares of US$0.05 each of the company the general annual retainer but in lieu of any at such price or prices and on such other terms and 68 Annual Report 2005 Randgold Resources
