PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting convention Capital transactions The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and When the Company repurchases equity share capital, the amount in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable United of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is Kingdom accounting standards.
recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares are cancelled and, in order to maintain capital, an equivalent amount to the There is no material difference between the result disclosed as the nominal value of the shares cancelled is transferred from Retained profit for the year and the result on an unmodified historical cost Earnings to the Capital Redemption Reserve.
basis and therefore a note of historical cost profits and losses is not included in these accounts.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity The Company primarily uses forward rate agreements and forward Foreign currency translation foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuating Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are initially rate of exchange on the day the transaction occurs or at the contracted recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured at their fair rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends Assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Company designates at a forward contract rate.
derivatives as either a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge or a hedge of net investment in foreign operations.
Taxation The tax charge is based on the profit for the period and takes into At inception the relationship between the hedging instrument account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the and the hedged item is documented, as is an assessment of the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
effectiveness of the derivative instrument used in the hedging Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets transaction in offsetting changes in the cash flow of the hedged item.
are recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
This effectiveness assessment is repeated on an ongoing basis during the life of the hedging instrument to ensure that the instrument Tangible fixed assets remains an effective hedge of the transaction.
Fixed asset investments are valued at cost.
Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: the effective portion Adoption of accounting standards of changes in the fair value is recognised in the SORIE.
Any gain The Company has adopted Financial Reporting Standard FRS 20 or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately Share-based Payment FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet in the income statement.
date and FRS 25 and 26 Financial Instruments.
2004 comparative numbers have been restated to reflect FRS 20, FRS 21 and FRS 25.
Amounts recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
If the Employee share schemes hedging instrument expires or is sold, or no longer meets the criteria Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity share option and restricted share schemes.
Any shortfall between the at that time remains in equity, and is recognised when the forecast cost to the employee and the fair market value of the shares at date of transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If the grant is charged to the income statement over the period to which the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative performance criteria relate, with the credit taken directly to the retained gain or loss in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged to the income statement account over the same 2.
Derivatives classified as net investment hedges: the effective period with the credit included in creditors.
Where awards are contingent portion of any changes in fair value is recognised in equity.
upon future events other than continued employment an assessment Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised of the likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made at the end immediately in the income statement.
of each reporting period and reflected in the accounting entries made.
Gains or losses accumulated in equity are included in the income Financial instruments statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Financial instruments held for trading are classified as current assets 3.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: these are and current liabilities, and are stated at fair value, with any resulting classified as at fair value through profit or loss.
All changes in gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge Where the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold a financial accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
instrument until its maturity, the instruments are stated at amortised cost less any impairment losses recognised in the income statement.
The fair value of financial instruments classified as held for trading is their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments classified as held for trading are recognised derecognised by the Company on the date it commits to purchase sell the instrument.
Financial instruments held to maturity are recognised derecognised on the day they are transferred to by the Company.
51 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
