SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Annual General Meeting To be held on Thursday, 4 May 2006 at The London Heathrow Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB3 5AN.
Every shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
The notice convening the meeting is contained in a separate document for shareholders.
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 To be paid if approved on 25 May 2006 to shareholders on the register on 3 March 2006.
Company Secretary Elizabeth Richardson Registered office 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH Telephone: 01753 217800 Facsimile: 01753 217899 Registered in England No.
527217 Auditors  LLP Solicitors Slaughter and May Registrar and transfer office If you have any queries about your shareholding, please write to, or telephone, the Companys Registrar at the following address: Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Dedicated Reckitt Benckiser shareholder helpline Telephone: 0870 703 0118 Website: www.
com Key dates Announcement of quarter 1 results 27 April 2006 Annual General Meeting 4 May 2006 Payment of final ordinary dividend 25 May 2006 Payment of half-yearly preference dividend 1 July 2006 Announcement of interim results 24 July 2006 Payment of interim ordinary dividend September 2006 Announcement of quarter 3 results 24 October 2006 Payment of half-yearly preference dividend 1 January 2007 Preliminary announcement of 2006 results February 2007 Publication of 2006 Annual Report and Accounts April 2007 Annual General Meeting May 2007 60 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 WE ARE PASSIONATE ABOUT DELIVERING BETTER SOLUTIONS IN HOUSEHOLD CLEANING AND HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE TO CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS, WHEREVER THEY MAY BE, FOR THE ULTIMATE PURPOSE OF CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
CONTENTS 2 Report of the Directors 7 Financial review 2005 10 Directors remuneration report 16 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Reckitt Benckiser plc 17 Accounting policies 20 Group income statement 20 Group statement of recognised income and expense 21 Group balance sheet 22 Group cash flow statement 23 Notes to the accounts 49 Five year summary 50 Parent company independent auditors report to the shareholders of Reckitt Benckiser plc Designed and produced by The Workroom www.
co. uk 51 Parent company accounting policies Printed by the colourhouse.
The paper used throughout this report is 52 Parent company balance sheet manufactured from ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulps sourced from 53 Notes to the parent company accounts sustainable managed forests.
The recyclable outer wrapping used is 60 Shareholder information manufactured using totally degradable polythene.
Reckitt Benckiser plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 THE BUSINESS Reckitt Benckiser plc 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH United Kingdom www.
com ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 SHAREHOLDERS REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2005 EXPANDING EXPANDING HORIZONS HORIZONS ENTERING NEW SEGMENTS, EXPANDING OUR BRANDS INTO NEW GEOGRAPHIES, ACQUIRING NEW CATEGORIES STRONG FINANCIAL RESULTS DIVIDEND UP 15% BHI ACQUISITION NEW PLATFORM FOR GROWTH CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ENTERING NEW SEGMENTS, EXTENDING INTO NEW GEOGRAPHIES AND BUILDING NEW GROWTH PLATFORMS Over The Counter OTC Healthcare is a market with good growth and inherently attractive margins.
We expect this growth to be sustained by the trends of increasing self medication, ageing populations and national health systems growing need to pass the cost of minor ailments to consumers.
Margins are attractive as brand loyalty is particularly strong in OTC Healthcare.
Consequently, growing our healthcare business has the potential to enhance Reckitt Benckisers overall operating margins, albeit this will take time due to the regulatory hurdles in expanding this business rapidly.
BHI owns three particularly powerful multi-national brands: Nurofen, Europes No.
1 outside the US in sore throat and Clearasil, world No.
With Lemsip and Gaviscon weve already shown we can grow strong brands like these in healthcare stimulating growth by choosing the right categories and segments, developing innovative products that meet real consumer needs, and expanding distribution into new geographical markets.
Combining our healthcare business with BHIs will create a platform for growth for RBs Health & Personal Care both organically as well as through further acquisition.
We paid a full price for BHI, reflecting its quality and growth record.
But we believe this price is justified by the anticipated cost synergies of 75m and opportunities to reduce working capital by 130m.
VISION AND STRATEGY Our vision is continuously to deliver better products to consumers that improve their lives at crucial moments.
Our strategy is equally simple.
Let me remind you of its key elements.
DELIVER ABOVE INDUSTRY AVERAGE GROWTH IN NET REVENUES.
Focus investment and innovation on the right brands in the right categories.
That means categories with strong growth potential like Automatic Dishwashing and Reckitt Benckiser continued to expand its business with 2005 ACHIEVEMENTS Fabric Treatment, where we can drive growth behind world good results in 2005.
We further strengthened our brand It is satisfying to deliver good financial results for shareholders leading brands such as Finish and Vanish.
Most of our and market positions behind successful new products, but one year of results is not the only measure of success.
effort goes behind the 18 flagship powerbrands that will entered new segments and extended our portfolio into Im equally excited about the progress we made in by the end of 2006 represent 60% of our net revenues.
We also substantially strengthened strengthening our business for the long-term building our core business by agreeing to acquire Boots Healthcare our brands, market positions and geographic spread.
Reinforce our brands with an exceptional rate of product International, creating a new platform for profitable growth.
Offering consumers ever-better solutions New product launches stimulates them to purchase, helping to grow both the We launched a number of even better solutions for our 2005 RESULTS category and our market share.
Almost 40% of our net consumers.
Vanish Dual Power harnessed new technology I think the business performance, in the face of sharply revenues come from products launched in the past three years.
with its dual chamber bottle to provide powerful, instant higher prices for materials and energy, emphasises the stain removal.
We upgraded Vanish Oxi Action Max to resilience of our business: it was a major achievement Back our brands with consistent marketing tackle even tough dried-on stains.
Finish 4in1 brought still to sustain margin growth by relentlessly reducing costs.
Our media spend rate, at around 12% of net more convenience to Automatic Dishwashing, combining revenues, is at the top of the industry.
And we are now Net revenues grew 8% 6% at constant exchange rates to detergent, rinse aid, salt and glass protection in a single complementing media investment with more direct 4,179m.
In North America we launched Electrasol 3in1 with interaction with consumers through in-store demonstrations, the significant increases in input costs, gross margins expanded Jet Dry Action.
Air Wick Freshmatic allowed users to sampling programmes and point-of-sale communication.
Thanks to tight control of fixed choose the frequency of air freshener spray.
Finally, we took costs, we achieved an 80 basis point increase in operating world leadership in multi-purpose cleaners by rolling-out Build our major brands by rolling them out into new margins to 20.1%.
Net income grew 16% to 669m, helped Bang globally.
Launched in Europe as Cillit Bang and beyond geographies.
Vanish now in 48 countries and, more by higher interest received and non-recurring tax credits.
Europe as Easy-Off Bang, it is now sold in 68 countries recently, Bang now in 68 demonstrate the scope for and makes a powerful new platform on which to build.
Few of our major brands are yet present in all We continue to strengthen our financial position.
Dividends territories, and we continue to roll them out as market for the year increased 15% to 39p, and share buy backs BHI an excellent add-on acquisition opportunities develop.
Even after returning over 550m of In October we announced agreement to acquire Boots cash to shareholders in these ways, net funds increased Healthcare International BHI for 1,926m.
We have been Finally, leverage our financial strength to enhance by 255m to 887m.
seeking suitable add-on acquisitions for our core business long-term growth by making add-on acquisitions that and BHI fits our criteria exactly.
2 Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONVERT GROWTH INTO EVEN MORE ATTRACTIVE 2005 was another year of very good progress in challenging PROFIT AND CASH FLOW THROUGH CONTINUING circumstances.
The results again exceeded targets, allowing MARGIN EXPANSION AND CASH CONVERSION.
us to deliver strong returns to shareholders.
Most importantly, we expand margins through intensive STRATEGY work on cost optimisation in goods and services, and in The Companys strategy, set out in the Chief Executives review, remains unchanged.
During the year the Board fixed costs.
We find exciting rewards in the most approved a successful offer for Boots Healthcare unglamorous places: using less packaging, standardising International BHI, advancing the strategy of becoming product formulas, renegotiating supply contracts, simplifying processes.
Margin expansion fuels the business, funding a major player in Health & Personal Care.
marketing investment and driving profit growth.
In 2000, RETURNING CASH TO SHAREHOLDERS our operating margin was 14.4%.
It is now over 20%, The Company has continued to return cash to shareholders achieving our target for 2006 a year early.
through progressive dividends and share buy backs.
The I like to tell my colleagues that I cannot invest profit, directors propose a total dividend for the year of 39p, an I can only invest cash.
That is why we focus relentlessly overall increase of 15%.
In addition we met our commitment on collecting cash which allowed us to return over to buy back 300m of shares during the year.
The Company 550m to shareholders last year while making the 1,926m has consistently strengthened its balance sheet over recent BHI bid on the strength of our own balance sheet.
Following the BHI acquisition it will have proforma net borrowings of over 1 billion but will still have the financial These are the principles of our strategy.
In the following strength to continue share buy backs.
We are targeting 300m pages you will see examples of how we put it into practice of buy backs in 2006, and dividend growth in line with earnings.
to deliver results for shareholders.
MANAGEMENT AND COMPENSATION OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE The strength of the management team is evident from the Our strategy will only work if we have the right people Companys sustained performance.
There were no major working together within the right corporate culture.
Our changes in the team over the year.
The Board continues to people consistently achieve remarkable things through their review remuneration policy to ensure that it is appropriate passion for the business and determination to succeed.
in a competitive international market and that it incentivises I thank them for their tremendous contribution.
managers to generate quality returns for shareholders.
Our success does not depend on a few outstanding people, We believe it is an important contributor to the continuing but on many good people working effectively together success of the business.
Some minor changes, disclosed in a culture that shares a hunger for success, celebrates in the Remuneration Report, are being made to bring it into line with best practice, for which we are seeking achievement, collaborates in powerful teams and takes shareholder endorsement at the AGM.
intelligent risks together on behalf of the business.
Internal politics waste time and dissipate effort.
We aim to unite ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING behind shared strategies to make a winning business.
The Board strongly recommends that shareholders support the resolutions at the AGM on 4 May 2006, endorsing the Our remuneration system is a key tool in driving culture, policies that have brought the Company continuing success.
It is designed to reward success.
We make no apology for paying well for excellent BOARD performance, nor for being unsympathetic to mediocrity.
The Board reviewed various aspects of the business during Reckitt Benckiser people like to work for a responsible company 2005 in particular corporate governance, corporate one whose products are a force for good in society and responsibility and sustainability, and reputational risk which helps to improve lives through wealth creation and especially in relation to product and manufacturing risks.
Our sustainability commitment is to The Board regularly reviews business performance and holds specific reviews with operational management operate ever more effectively today with as little environmental, on area and functional performance.
social and ethical cost to the future as possible.
In 2005 the Board was strengthened with the appointment We are making good progress in addressing our environmental of Graham Mackay, Chief Executive of SABMiller, and and social impacts.
For example, our new Automatic Dishwashing Gerard Murphy, Chief Executive of Kingfisher.
Graham initiative, detailed in this report, shows how we can play a major Mackay joined the Remuneration Committee and Gerard role in making a positive impact on climate change.
I hope you will find time to read more in our Sustainability Report.
Murphy joined the Audit Committee.
Ken Hydon assumed the role of senior Non-Executive Director.
George Greener OUR FUTURE will not be standing for re-election at the AGM.
I thank Our brands and market positions are stronger than they him for his significant contribution throughout his ten were last year.
They benefit from a consistent stream of years as a director, latterly as senior Non-Executive investment and continuous consumer-relevant innovation.
Director and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Our financial strength continues to grow and the BHI Ana Maria Llopis and Hans van der Wielen retired at the acquisition will provide a new platform for us to develop 2005 AGM: I thank them both for their contribution.
Our people are even more THANKS experienced and just as passionate.
Reckitt Benckiser I thank Bart Becht and his excellent team for another year is well placed to continue living its vision.
of strong results and good strategic progress.
I would also like to thank the Board for their important contribution.
Bart Becht Chief Executive Officer Adrian Bellamy Chairman 3 Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 WE ARE PASSIONATE ABOUT AT A GLANCE DELIVERING BETTER SOLUTIONS IN HOUSEHOLD CLEANING AND HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE TO CUSTOMERS AND OUR BRANDS, CONSUMERS, WHEREVER THEY MAY BE, FOR THE ULTIMATE PURPOSE OF CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
OUR BUSINESS EUROPE NORTH AMERICA AND AUSTRALIA DEVELOPING MARKETS 0000 0000 0000 0000 REVENUE GROWTH OPERATING PROFIT REVENUE GROWTH OPERATING PROFIT REVENUE GROWTH OPERATING PROFIT 502m 270m 68m 4% 5% % 12 Growth came from key recent product introductions.
In Fabric Care, Spray n Wash Dual Power Fabric There was strong growth in all categories.
In Fabric In Fabric Treatment, growth was due to the success of Treatment and Resolve Dual Power carpet cleaner grew Care, growth came following the roll-out of Vanish Vanish with Vanish Oxi Action Max and Vanish Dual sales.
In Surface Care increases came from growth for Oxi Action Fabric Treatment products.
In Surface Care, growth came from Cillit Bang.
Lysol Disinfectant Spray, and the launch of Easy-Off increases came from the success of Easy-Off Bang.
Pest In Dishwashing, growth was due to Finish Calgonit Bam.
In Dishwashing increases came due to the Control grew strongly with the launch of Mortein Power 4in1.
Home Care increased due to the successful success of Electrasol with Jet Dry Action.
Health & Personal Care grew due to the launch of Air Wick Freshmatic.
Health & Personal Care Care, Air Care grew following the launch of Air Wick continuing roll-out of Veet in new markets and strong saw strong growth for the Health Care portfolio due Freshmatic, and in Health & Personal Care, Veet growth for the Dettol range of personal care products.
to the roll-out of Gaviscon in Europe.
depilatories and prescription drug Suboxone were the OPERATING COUNTRIES principal contributors to growth.
Food increased net OPERATING COUNTRIES Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, revenues due to the launch of Cattlemans BBQ Sauce Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Costa Rica, Egypt, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, in retail and to continued growth for Frenchs yellow Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Kenya, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, mustard and gains for Franks Red Hot Sauce.
Israel, Italy, Latvia, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, OPERATING COUNTRIES Thailand, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Venezuela Switzerland, Turkey, UK and Ukraine.
Australia, Canada, New Zealand and USA.
at constant exchange rate at constant exchange rate at constant exchange rate COMPARISONS BY REGIONS GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2005 2004 change M M % Net revenues 4,179 3,871 8 Operating profit 840 749 12 Profit before tax 876 758 16 Profit after tax 669 577 16 Basic earnings per share 92.0p 80.7p 14 Diluted earnings per share 90.0p 77.1p 17 Declared dividend per share 39.0p 34.0p 15 4 Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 OUR GLOBAL BRANDS HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE FABRIC CARE SURFACE CARE DISHWASHING HOME CARE 16% 27% 21% 14% 15% HOME CARE OF NET REVENUES OF NET REVENUES OF NET REVENUES OF NET REVENUES OF NET REVENUES FABRIC CARE SURFACE CARE DISHWASHING HOME CARE HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE Net revenue 662m Net revenue 1,113m Net revenue 871m Net revenue 579m Net revenue 628m PROFILE OF CATEGORY PROFILE OF CATEGORY PROFILE OF CATEGORY PROFILE OF CATEGORY PROFILE OF CATEGORY This category consists of Five product groups.
Products used in automatic Consists of three categories.
Products that relieve or solve five product groups used Disinfectant cleaners both dishwashing machines and Air Care products freshen common personal or health problems, protecting against for cleaning and treating clean and disinfect surfaces, for washing dishes by hand.
or add fragrance to the infection and improving all fabrics.
It covers products killing 99.9% of germs.
In automatic dishwashing air and also create an used before, during or after Lavatory cleaners offer the main product is detergent ambience.
Our personal care products include Clearasil the main laundry wash cycle.
specialised cleaning and for cleaning dishes in the include: aerosols, gels, anti-acne cream and Veet Fabric Treatment products disinfecting for the toilet main wash cycle and sold liquids, electricals and remove stains from clothes, bowl and cistern.
All purpose in an increasing range of candles.
Pest Control to remove unwanted body hair.
Denture Care cleans and carpets and upholstery.
cleaners are ideal for formats: powder, liquid, products offer solutions improves the performance Garment Care products many household surfaces, gels standard and 2in1, to domestic infestation.
are specially formulated gelcaps standard and 2in1 of dentures.
Our range of particularly in the bathroom The category includes for washing delicate fabrics.
Specialty and tabs Double Action, rodenticide and insecticide the over-the-counter health products includes analgesics, Water Softeners protect cleaners are designed PowerBall, 2in1, 3in1 and products in formats such gastro-intestinal products the machine and laundry for specific tasks from 4in1.
Other products include as coils, mats, baits, traps, against the build-up cleaning ovens to removing rinse agents, decalcifying salts, vapourisers and sprays and cough, cold and sore throat products.
Suboxone of limescale and other limescale.
Finally, polishes dishwasher cleaners, to prevent infestation Buprenorphine is the deposits.
Fabric Softeners and waxes clean and shine deodorisers and glass and to kill pests.
Shoe Care are used for softening hard surfaces such as corrosion protectors.
Companys prescription drug against opiate dependence.
and freshening fabrics furniture and floors.
KEY BRANDS KEY BRANDS and ironing aids help make KEY BRANDS KEY BRANDS Finish, Calgonit, Electrasol, Air Care Air Wick Pest ironing more convenient.
Disinfectant Lysol, Dettol, Jet Dry Control d-Con, Mortein, Antiseptics Dettol Denture Laundry detergents clean Sagrotan, Pine-O-Cleen Shieldtox, Target, Rodasol, Care Kukident, Steradent fabrics in washing machines.
MARKET POSITION Analgesics cold flu Disprin, Lavatory Harpic, Lysol Pif Paf, Tiga Roda Shoe Care No.
1 worldwide in Lemsip, Nurofen, Strepsils KEY BRANDS All purpose Veja, St Marc, Nugget, Cherry Blossom Automatic Dishwashing.
Fabric Treatment Vanish, Cillit Bang, Easy-Off Bang Gastro-Intestinals Gaviscon, MARKET POSITION Senokot, Fybogel Personal Spray n Wash, Resolve, Specialty Easy-Off Oven, No.
2 worldwide in Air Care, Care Clearasil, Veet Napisan Garment Care Mop & Glo, Brasso, Shoe Care and Pest Control.
Woolite Water Softener Lime-A-Way, Destop, Rid-X MARKET POSITION Calgon Fabric Softener Polishes & waxes Poliflor, Dettol is the world leader Quanto, Flor Laundry Old English, OCedar, in antiseptics bought for use Detergent Ava, Mr Sheen at home.
Veet is the world Sole Colon, Dosia leader in depilatories.
MARKET POSITION Nurofen is the No.
1 worldwide in Fabric Surface Care with leading Treatment and Water positions across the five sore throat product outside the US.
5 Acquired 31 January 2006 Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 TURNING STAINS INTO GAINS... OUR FORMULA IS SIMPLE: RIGHT CATEGORY CONSTANT INNOVATION CLEAR COMMUNICATION Stain removal is an ideal category for us.
Theres a real consumer need: stains are a worry, you cant be sure if theyll come out in the wash, and the wrong treatment can make matters worse.
Consumers know their laundry detergents alone wont do the trick and theres growing demand for specialised additives that can.
The right product has real value to consumers, if it rescues a garment.
And the market has plenty of room for further growth.
In the past few years weve covered the world in pink, making Vanish global market leader.
From nine countries in 1999, its now sold in 48.
Weve built a worldwide brand into which we can launch a stream of ever cleverer products.
Consumers trust Vanish because it works.
And we reinforce their trust through constant product innovation.
For us, innovation does two things.
It grows sales, as we improve our products or broaden the range of Vanish products for specific challenges such as carpet stains.
And it protects our premium pricing, as consumers are willing to pay for better products.
In 2005 we found ways to improve Vanish Oxi Action Max so it removes even tough dried-in stains in the wash. And we launched Vanish Dual Power pre-treater, with two active solutions in an eyecatching double-barrelled bottle: you squirt, they mix and you see them fizz as they activate.
As always, we backed the brand with clear communication that demonstrates how Vanish makes stains disappear.
Result: further market share growth virtually everywhere, and even stronger global brand leadership.
Our formula works like magic.
Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 2IN1, 3IN1, 4IN1 WERE NEVER SATISFIED!
WHILE DISHWASHER OWNERS ARE VERY SATISFIED, WE KEEP SURPRISING THEM... To keep expanding our share of this growing market, we need to make dishwasher owners even happier with even better solutions.
What can we do, when theyre so happy already?
We began in 1995, with the first two-layer dishwasher tablet.
It sold very well and research said consumers were very satisfied with it.
So we improved its performance by adding the pre-soaker Powerball in 1999.
So we made life simpler for them with Finish 3in1, which had rinse aid and salt built-in.
Research said they disliked the corrosion that makes glasses cloudy.
So we launched Protector, to help stop it happening.
Could life get much better?
Consumers didnt really think so.
Until in 2005 we launched Finish 4in1 with Protector action built-in.
Over the past year its been a real success, further strengthening our global leadership.
In Germany, where strong local competition has been a challenge for several years, its returned our market share to growth.
Worldwide, its taken our share to record levels and brought private label share growth to a standstill.
Finish 4in1 brought consumers our best-ever cleaning and stain removal, shine, limescale protection plus glass and silver protection.
So are they satisfied with it?
And are we going to improve on it?
HAS TAKEN 68 COUNTRIES BY STORM.
Bang really has launched with a bang.
In just a year weve rolled it out into 68 countries and taken world leadership in multi-purpose cleaners.
It takes a powerfully co-ordinated global marketing strategy to win friends on that scale.
But it also takes real sensitivity to local conditions.
In South Africa, for example, we used the global media campaign to reach the countrys three million more-affluent households.
But for the other seven million households we used an altogether more down-home approach.
The townships are a big market Soweto alone has a population of six million.
But TV commercials wouldnt get us much visibility there.
And as well as reaching consumers, we also had to reach the small independent stores where they shop.
So we set up a roadshow to tour community halls and shopping centres.
We brought music to draw the crowds, with big-name DJs to add excitement and credibility.
We gave live demonstrations to convince people that Bang really works, and delivers great value.
The theme was Haikona or I cant believe my eyes!.
Some 12,000 people came to see for themselves.
And live tie-ups with radio stations broadcasting in 11 languages enabled us to reach 3.4 million listeners with just six events.
To encourage retailers to stock the product, we gave them display cards of sample sachets.
Within eight weeks we were in 2,500 stores, including 96% of the top 500.
A year on, were still in all those stores and theyre still selling out.
Bang now has the top-selling trigger pack and two of the top-selling powder packs on the multi-purpose cleaner market.
And on the back of Bangs success, were now building distribution of other Reckitt Benckiser brands in the townships.
Looks like everyones cleaning up with Bang Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 ACQUIRING BOOTS HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL BHI IS THE RIGHT PLATFORM TO EXPAND INTO HEALTHCARE.
BHI brings complementary strengths to our Health & Personal Care business, creating a platform for sustainable growth in a very attractive category.
As weve already shown with Lemsip and Gaviscon, theres major potential in over-the-counter OTC medicines if you know how to develop products and brands that meet real consumer needs.
Whats more, we expect the overall OTC market to show good growth BHI for many years to come.
Because ageing populations are more prone to minor ailments which they could treat themselves with OTC medicines.
And because governments need to curb the rising cost of healthcare.
Following the acquisition well have strong positions in four of HITS the key OTC medicine categories.
In analgesics well have Nurofen, the European brand leader, and Disprin.
In cough, cold and flu Lemsip will be joined by Strepsils, the worlds leading sore throat brand.
In gastro-intestinal we already have Gaviscon and Senokot.
And in medicated skin care well have Clearasil, the worlds leading anti-acne THE brand, as well as strong local brands such as E45 and Lutsine.
Brand loyalty is strong in this sector, which is generally good for margins.
And by exploiting synergies and reducing costs, we expect to build margins even further.
As the business grows, we expect SPOT... it to give the Groups overall margins a healthy lift.
Combining the brands and the infrastructure of BHI with our existing business in Health & Personal Care creates a strong platform across Europe and selected other markets in OTC.
Our strength in grocery and mass market distribution will be complemented by BHIs capability in medical detailing and pharmacy channels.
This makes a powerful base for organic development or for further acquisitions to expand our portfolio and geographical reach.
Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 RISING COSTS REALLY BUG US!
OUR COST REDUCTION PROGRAMME ROUTINELY TAKES 30M OUT OF OUR COSTS EACH YEAR.
BUT IN 2005 WE FACED A SWARM OF RAW MATERIAL PRICE HIKES.
It wasnt just the soaring oil price.
High-priced oil drove up the cost of plastics and chemical feedstocks.
And booming demand from growth economies such as China and India raised the price of materials like steel and tinplate.
That was a serious challenge for our strategy of squeezing costs to drive up profits and cash flow even faster than sales.
Just to stand still, we needed major savings on top of our existing 30m cost reduction target.
Undaunted, a SWAT team representing all spending departments looked at hundreds of cost-saving ideas.
They filtered-out any that might affect product performance or consumer perceptions, and still found enough to offset all our input cost increases and keep margins growing.
And were well placed to do it again this year, despite continuing cost pressures.
Relentlessly reviewing everything we do, to get more cost out or more value in.
In the US we switched from printing on cans to glossy plastic labels that look better and cost less on millions and millions of cans a year.
In Europe we optimised our distribution logistics and saved 1m.
In India, sales of Mortein mosquito coils are growing very rapidly.
We moved production to economically deprived areas in Northern India where the government provides fiscal incentives.
And negotiated to introduce a more advanced active ingredient at lower cost.
Rising costs wont go away.
So were focused on long-term, sustainable savings.
Were moving up the supply chain helping suppliers cut their own costs, so they can curb their prices to us.
That way, everyone wins: our suppliers, shareholders and consumers.
Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 TAKING A LEAD IN ACTION FOR SUSTAINABILITY CLICK YOUR DISHWASHER TO AN ENERGY SAVING PROGRAMME AND YOULL SAVE MORE THAN YOU THINK... OVER AND ABOVE THE CLEAR BENEFITS OF OUR PRODUCTS IN IMPROVING HYGIENE AND HEALTH, WERE INTENT ON DELIVERING THEM IN A SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE WAY.
We focus on sustainability issues both as distinct targets and as an but now we are sponsoring a number of projects to improve the amount everyday part of how we manage our business.
How can we make our of plastic packaging that is recycled, including three public recycling direct business performance more sustainable, and how can we influence schemes in the US, France and South Africa with more to come in 2006. others to do so too?
SOCIAL & ETHICAL SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY We judge our social and ethical sustainability in terms of making our Our target is to achieve a 20% reduction in the direct greenhouse gas company and supply chain a better place in which to work: and in terms emissions from our global manufacturing energy use by 31st December of how we share some of our wealth creation with those parts of society 2010: in 2004 we beat our initial 10% reduction target, having achieved most in need of support, who cannot generally afford to benefit from an 11% reduction since 2000: this is measured per unit of production.
We seek a similar reduction in the indirect greenhouse gas emissions In terms of improving social issues at work, we focus particularly on that arise when consumers use our products in their home.
In 2005 we cut our lost time So what progress have we made in 2005 to improve our environmental, accident rate by around 30%, bringing the total reduction since 2001 social and ethical performance?
We also work continuously on a more sustainable supply chain.
In 2005 we audited more than 40% of our third-party product Take the new industry initiative to cut climate change emissions and water suppliers against our Global Manufacturing Standard, which requires use across Europe.
The idea is simple: many people use higher temperature compliance with local and international labour, health & safety and wash programmes on their dishwashers needlessly, because our environmental standards.
This was well ahead of our 20% target.
dishwashing products work just as well on energy saving Eco programmes.
We are also working actively on the sustainable sourcing of If we could persuade just half the EU households using higher temperature a number of our raw materials, including woods and palm oil.
dishwashing programmes to switch to energy saving programmes, theyd save up to 388,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions from their annual Our community programmes are designed to assist the most deprived energy use: more than the total greenhouse gas emissions from energy parts of society with help on basic health and hygiene.
In 2005 we gave use at all Reckitt Benckiser factories around the world.
Theyd also save more than 1.6m in cash and products to community projects worldwide up to 7,000 million litres of water a year enough for over 200 million 2004 1m.
We continued with our support for Mdecins Sans Frontires showers.
Overall, a simple way to help the environment, save money programmes tackling HIV AIDS in Thailand and Ethiopia.
And in year and reduce climate change.
Since March 2006 weve started to put two of our partnership with Save the Children we supported health and Save Energy and Water advice on our automatic dishwashing hygiene programmes in Bangladesh, China and India.
We also responded to major natural catastrophes.
The Company and its We also introduced a major programme to improve plastic packaging employees donated almost $500,000 in cash and products to help US recycling in 2005.
Our plastic packaging does an important job, but too victims of Hurricane Katrina.
After the earthquake in Pakistan we gave much of it ends up in landfill, a very visible waste of resources.
Weve over 75,000 in cash and products to help with immediate health and already done much to make our packaging thinner and lighter, sanitation needs.
For a full report on our policies, targets and progress on sustainability, please see our full Sustainability Report available at www.
com NB: our internal controls around Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE matters and reputational risk are outlined in our Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 p4.
All brands that carry this mark are from companies which are committed to the Industry programme Charter for Sustainable Cleaning.
11 Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 FOR THE DETAILED FINANCIAL FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW, SEE OUR FULL ANNUAL REPORT AVAILABLE ONLINE AT 2005 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF WWW.
COM SOLID PROGRESS EXCEEDING EARLIER TARGETS 2005 was another year of solid progress exceeding our revenue growth due to a shift in marketing mix towards earlier targets.
Growth came across all regions and was other forms of consumer marketing.
Operating margins strongly driven by new products like Cillit Easy-Off Bang, increased by 80bps to 20.1% due to gross margin Finish 4in1, Air Wick Freshmatic and Vanish Oxi Action expansion and particularly to tight control of fixed costs Max.
Benefiting from strong cost containment, operating more than offsetting higher marketing investment.
Net income for the year increased 16% 14% constant to 20 The Group has adopted IFRS for its financial reporting 669m.
Net interest received of 36m 2004 9m was due for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Financial reporting to the strong cash inflow over the past year increasing the 19 for 2004 has been restated, but for 2001, 2002 and 2003 level of net funds after higher dividend payments and share 18 it has not been restated.
buy back, and the conversion of the Convertible Capital Bond.
The underlying tax rate for the period is 26% before 17 Net revenues grew by 8% 6% constant to 4,179m.
non-recurring tax credits of 16m arising from favourable 16 Operating profit increased 12% 10% constant to 840m.
Gross margin increased 10bps to 54.9% as a result of EPS diluted increased 17% to 90.0 pence.
15 higher margin new products, and savings from ongoing cost optimisation programmes offsetting significantly 14 higher input costs.
Media investment increased 3% and 13 represented 11.9% of net revenues 2004 12.4%.
Other 01 02 03 04 05 marketing investment increased ahead of the rate of net Colin Day Chief Financial Officer CATEGORY GROWTH HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE FABRIC CARE SURFACE CARE DISHWASHING HOME CARE NET REVENUES GREW 9% NET REVENUES GREW 2% NET REVENUES GREW 9% NET REVENUES GREW 6% NET REVENUES GREW 8% TO 662M TO 1,113M TO 871M TO 579M TO 628M Net revenues grew 9% to 662m Net revenues grew 2% to 1,113m The major growth driver was the Net revenues grew 6% to 579m Net revenues grew 8% to 628m with growth across all segments.
Veet largely due to the success of Vanish roll-out of Bang under the Cillit due to strong growth in Automatic with strong growth for both Air depilatories continue to benefit from Oxi Action, the Companys Fabric brand in Europe, and the Easy-Off Dishwashing.
Growth came from Care and Pest Control.
Air Care the continuing roll-out in Developing Treatment franchise, and Calgon brand in North America and the success of Finish Calgonit grew behind the launch of Air Wick Markets and growth in North America.
water softener, offset to some Developing Markets.
The Dettol 4in1 in Europe, initial sales of Freshmatic in Europe, North Dettol antiseptics grew behind the extent by softness in laundry and Lysol disinfecting range, Finish Calgonit Quantum in America and certain Developing personal care range in Developing detergent and fabric softeners.
particularly disinfectant spray, early launch markets and from Markets.
Pest Control growth was Markets.
Healthcare products Key drivers of growth included the grew in Europe, North America Electrasol with Jet Dry Action driven by Mortein Power Booster benefited from the continuing roll-out roll-out of Vanish Oxi Action Max, and Developing Markets.
coils and a strong pest season of Gaviscon in Europe.
Suboxone Vanish Dual Power and continued in the Southern Hemisphere.
continues to grow strongly as growth for Vanish carpet cleaners.
distribution builds in North America.
12 Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 GEOGRAPHICAL ANALYSIS FIGURES AT A GLANCE GEOGRAPHICAL ANALYSIS AT CONSTANT SUMMARY GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT EXCHANGE SEE CHARTS ON PAGE 4 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 2005 2004 M M OF NET REVENUES 51% Net revenues 4,179 3,871 EUROPE Operating profit 840 749 NET REVENUES GREW BY 4% TO 2,135M Net finance income 36 9 Growth came from key recent product introductions.
In Fabric Treatment, growth was due to the success of including coupon on convertible capital bonds Vanish with Vanish Oxi Action Max and Vanish Dual Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 876 758 Power.
In Dishwashing, growth was due to Finish Calgonit Tax on profit on ordinary activities 207 181 4in1.
Home Care increased due to the successful Profit for the year 669 577 launch of Air Wick Freshmatic.
Health & Personal Care saw strong growth for the health care portfolio due to Attributable to equity minority interests the roll-out of Gaviscon in Europe.
Operating margins were 60bps ahead of last year at 23.5% due to tight Profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 669 577 control of costs offsetting higher marketing investment, Dividends 262 216 resulting in operating profits increased by 6% to 502m.
Profit for the year after dividends 407 361 31% OF NET REVENUES Earnings per ordinary share On profit for the year, basic 92.0p 80.7p NORTH AMERICA & AUSTRALIA On profit for the year, diluted 90.0p 77.1p NET REVENUES INCREASED 5% TO 1,281M In Fabric Care, Spray n Wash Dual Power Fabric Treatment and Resolve Dual Power carpet cleaner grew sales.
Dividend paid on ordinary shares for the year is 36p per share 2004 30p consisting of 2004 final 18p per share 2004 14p In Surface Care increases came from growth for Lysol and 2005 interim 18p per share 2004 16p.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year disinfectant spray, and the launch of Easy-Off Bam.
In Dishwashing increases came due to the success of ended 31 December 2005 of 21p per share to be paid, if approved at the AGM, on 25 May 2006.
Electrasol with Jet Dry Action.
In Home Care, Air Care grew following the launch of Air Wick Freshmatic, and in SUMMARY GROUP BALANCE SHEET Health & Personal Care, Veet depilatories and prescription AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2005 drug Suboxone were the principal contributors to growth.
2005 2004 Food increased net revenues due to the launch of M M Cattlemans BBQ sauce in retail and to continued growth for Frenchs yellow mustard and gains for Franks Red Hot Non-current assets 2,343 2,212 sauce.
Operating margins were 90bps higher at 21.1%, Current assets 1,870 1,640 due to substantially higher input costs reducing gross margins offset by tight control of fixed costs.
As a result Total assets 4,213 3,852 operating profits increased 9% to 270m.
Current liabilities 1,523 1,404 18% OF NET REVENUES Non-current liabilities 834 868 Total liabilities 2,357 2,272 DEVELOPING MARKETS NET REVENUES GREW 12% TO 763M Net Assets 1,856 1,580 There was strong growth in all categories.
In Fabric Care, growth came following the roll-out of Vanish Oxi Action Equity minority interests 1 3 Fabric Treatment products.
In Surface Care, increases came from the success of Easy-Off Bang.
Pest Control grew Total shareholders funds 1,855 1,577 strongly with the launch of Mortein Power Booster coils.
Health & Personal Care grew due to the continuing rollApproved by the Board on 20 March 2006 out of Veet in new markets and strong growth for the Dettol range of personal care products.
Operating margins expanded 250bps to 8.9%, resulting in operating profits Adrian Bellamy Bart Becht increasing by 55% to 68m.
Director Director SUMMARY GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 CASH FLOW 2005 2004 M M Cash generated from operations 946 914 Net interest received 34 8 Tax paid 157 189 Net cash generated from operating activities 823 733 Capital expenditure 78 83 Other investing activities 13 8 Maturity of short-term investments 493 38 1,251 696 Proceeds for issuance of ordinary shares 36 30 Share purchases 300 283 Repayments of borrowings 66 87 Dividends paid to the Companys shareholders 262 216 Cash generated from operations increased to 946m due to higher operating profit.
Net working capital Net increase in cash and cash equivalents in year 659 140 improvements were lower than in 2004 as many of the Groups businesses reached optimal levels.
Exchange gains losses 9 2 Net cash flow from operations defined in the Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 301 163 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005: Group Cash Flow p22 increased to 758m.
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of year 969 301 Net interest received was 34m 2004 8m while tax payments decreased by 32m.
13 Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 SUMMARY DIRECTORS, AUDITORS AND REMUNERATION REPORT THIS IS A SUMMARY OF INFORMATION FROM THE consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within Pensions ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 the Shareholders Review with the full Annual Report and In line with the Committees emphasis on the importance Financial Statements, the Report of the Directors and the of only rewarding the Executive Directors for creating This Summary Financial Statement is a summary of Directors Remuneration Report and its compliance with the shareholder value, Reckitt Benckiser operates a defined information in the Report of the Directors and the Groups relevant requirements of s. 251 of the Companies Act 1985 contribution pension plan, the Reckitt Benckiser Executive accounts.
The Summary Financial Statement does not contain and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the Pension Plan.
Mr Becht and Mr Day are both members sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of other information contained in the Shareholders Review and of this Plan.
the results of the Group and of the state of affairs of the consider the implications for our report if we become aware Bart Bechts standard Company pension contribution was Company or of the Group.
For further information, the of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies 30% of pensionable pay during 2005.
A further annual Report of the Directors, the Directors Remuneration Report, with the Summary Financial Statement.
contribution of 20% of pensionable pay was also paid the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the in 2005 to take account of the uncompetitive level of his This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared auditors report on those accounts should be consulted.
for and only for the Companys members as a body in pension contributions since his appointment as Chief Executive Shareholders have the right to receive, free of charge, accordance with s. 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for Officer.
This additional contribution has now ceased.
a copy of the Groups Annual Report and Financial Statements.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept Colin Days standard Company pension contribution was or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any If shareholders wish to receive a copy of the Groups Annual 25% of pensionable pay in 2005. other person to whom this statement is shown or into Report and Financial Statements for this and all future years, In 2006, only Bart Becht is immediately affected by the whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed please write to the Registrar whose address appears on new lifetime limit brought about by the proposed UK tax by our prior consent in writing.
The Committee has Basis of opinion SUMMARY REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS decided that the most cost-effective approach is to maintain We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin Review of the activities and the development his current pension commitment, and to make a funded of the Groups business 1999 6, The auditors statement on the Summary Financial and unapproved pension arrangement.
The Financial Review set out on pages 7 to 9 of the Annual Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use Service agreements Report and Financial Statements includes a review of the in the United Kingdom.
For newly-appointed Executive Directors, termination operations for the year.
The Directors endorse the content Opinion payments, including compensation paid during any notice of that Review.
In our opinion, the Summary Financial Statement is period, will not exceed 12 months pay.
Service contracts In the view of the Directors, the Groups likely future consistent with the full Annual Report and Financial will be rolling and terminable on six months notice.
Statements, the Report of the Directors and the Directors development will continue to centre on the main product Contracts will also provide liquidated damages of six Remuneration Report of Reckitt Benckiser plc for the year categories in which it now operates.
months base salary plus an amount equal to one times ended 31 December 2005, and complies with the the average bonus paid if any in the two years up to Directors applicable requirements of s. 251 of the Companies Act termination.
Any bonus earned will be included in the Information regarding the Directors of the Company who 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
termination payment on the basis that a high proportion were serving on 31 December 2005 is set out on page 15. of pay is related to performance and that in the event of  LLP During the year there were the following changes to the termination for poor performance it is unlikely that any Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, Board of Directors.
Ana Maria Llopis and Hans van der bonus will have been paid.
London 20 March 2006 Wielen resigned at the conclusion of the AGM held on Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements, SUMMARY OF POLICY ON REMUNERATION 5 May 2005.
Graham Mackay and Gerard Murphy joined but are subject to re-election by shareholders every The full Directors Remuneration Report can be found the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 25 February 2005 three years.
on pages 10 to 15 of the 2005 Annual Report and and 20 June 2005 respectively.
As Gerard Murphys Financial Statements.
The remuneration for Non-Executive Directors consists of appointment was made subsequent to the date fees for their services in connection with Board and Board of the 2005 AGM, he will offer himself for election The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee committee meetings.
is responsible for determining and reviewing the terms of employment and remuneration of the Executive Directors Historical TSR performance Bart Becht and Peter Harf retire by rotation and, being eligible, Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over and senior executives.
The Committee comprises three offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Non-Executive Directors under the Chairmanship of George Greener has served on the Board for more than nine Judith Sprieser.
The Committees overriding objective years and, under the Combined Code, is therefore obliged is to ensure that Reckitt Benckisers remuneration policy to offer himself for re-election on an annual basis.
George encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery of Greener has advised that he will not be offering himself for outstanding shareholder value.
The graph opposite re-election at the AGM in 2006 and will accordingly step shows that the Company has, over the last five years, down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
outperformed the UK FTSE 100 in terms of Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The core principles on which Corporate Governance the remuneration policy is based are described below.
The Company recognises the importance of high standards of Corporate Governance.
It understands, supports and First, in order to attract and retain the best available people, has applied throughout 2005 the principles set out in the the Committee has and will continue to adopt Combined Code and has complied with the great majority a policy of executive remuneration based on competitive of the detailed provisions contained in the Code.
Reckitt Benckiser competes for management skills in which the Company applies these principles, and the few and talent in the same international market place as its provisions with which the Company does not consider that main competitors, the vast majority of which are based it is appropriate to comply, are set out in the appropriate in the US.
In accordance with this policy principle, total sections of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
remuneration for Executive Directors and other senior The application of the principles to matters related to executives will be benchmarked against the upper quartile the Board and its committees, to internal control and of a peer group comprising Reckitt Benckisers main to relations with shareholders is included in the Report competitors, together with a range of comparable of the Directors and to Directors remuneration in the companies in the US consumer goods industry.
The second principle is to align the interests of Executive Report of the auditors Directors and senior executives with those of shareholders The report of the auditors on the annual accounts of through a variable, performance based compensation policy the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005 is and the Companys share ownership policy.
FTSE 100 unqualified and does not contain a statement under either In this context, variable pay is, and will continue to be, s. 237 2 or s. 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
Reckitt Benckiser the major element of our current Executive Directors and Annual General Meeting senior Executives total compensation package.
Accordingly, The notice convening the 53rd Annual General Meeting the Executive Directors compensation package comprises, Notes in addition to base salary, an annual cash bonus and shareof the Company to be held on Thursday, 4 May 2006 The graph above shows the performance of Reckitt Benckiser based incentives.
Highly leveraged annual cash bonuses, at The London Heathrow Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, in terms of TSR performances against the UK FTSE 100 linked to the achievement of key business measures within Hayes, Middlesex, UB3 5AN is contained in a separate Index over a five-year period and conforms to the Directors the year, are designed to stimulate the achievement of document for shareholders which accompanies this Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Index was outstanding annual results.
selected on the basis of companies of a comparable size in INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE To balance the managements orientation between the the absence of an appropriate industry peer group in the UK.
MEMBERS OF RECKITT BENCKISER PLC achievement of short and long-term business measures, Directors remuneration We have examined the Summary Financial Statement the Committee believes that longer-term share-based The aggregate amount of Directors emoluments during the of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
The aggregate gains made by the Directors on the exercise of options and the vesting of Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Shareholders will be asked at the 2006 AGM to approve restricted shares were 12.3m 2004 5.0m.
The aggregate The Directors are responsible for preparing the Summary a consolidation and simplification of the current plans amount of contributions made to money purchase pension Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
rules under which grants for Executive Directors and Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the other employees can be made.
schemes in respect of the Directors was 0.5m 2004 0.5m.
14 Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 COMBINING TALENTED PEOPLE FROM DIFFERENT PROFESSIONAL AND CULTURAL BACKGROUNDS IN ACTION-ORIENTATED TEAMS GIVES MEET THE TEAM US A COMPETITIVE EDGE.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE THE BOARD ADRIAN BELLAMY 64, BRITISH # 1 4 7 Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Company in 1999 and became Non-Executive Chairman in May 2003.
He is Executive Chairman of The Body Shop International Plc and a director of The Gap and Williams-Sonoma, Inc.
He was formerly a director of Gucci Group NV and The Robert Mondavi Corporation.
BART BECHT 49, DUTCH # Joined the Board in 1999 on his appointment as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
He was Chief Executive of Benckiser Detergents, subsequently Benckiser N. V. since 1995 and Chairman of Benckisers Management Board from May 1999.
He holds no current external directorships.
COLIN DAY 50, BRITISH Joined Reckitt Benckiser in September 2000 from Aegis Group plc where he was Group 2 5 8 Finance Director from 1995.
He was formerly a Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc resigned September 2005 and the Bell Group plc resigned June 2004.
During 2005 he was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Imperial Tobacco plc and WPP Group plc.
DR GEORGE GREENER, CBE 60, BRITISH Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1996 and was the Senior Non-Executive Director from May 2003 to February 2005.
He was formerly Chairman of British Waterways and The Big Food Group Plc.
He was appointed Chairman of Kellen Investments Limited in January 2006.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of JP Morgan Fleming American Investment Trust plc.
DR PETER HARF 59, GERMAN # 3 6 9 Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in 1999 and is the Deputy Chairman.
He served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until June 2004.
He is Chairman of Coty Inc. and a director of InBev and the Brunswick Corporation.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Joh.
KENNETH HYDON 61, BRITISH Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in December 2003 and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in February 2005.
He retired as Financial Director of Vodafone Group plc in July 2005.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Tesco plc, the Royal Berkshire & Battle Hospitals NHS Trust and Pearson plc.
1 ALAIN LE GOFF 53, FRENCH 4 ERHARD SCHOEWEL 57, GERMAN 7 JAVED AHMED 46, PAKISTANI GRAHAM MACKAY Executive Vice President, Supply.
Was Executive Vice President, Europe.
Joined Executive Vice President, North America 56, BRITISH SOUTH AFRICAN appointed EVP for Operations at Benckiser Benckiser in January 1979 and served and Australia and Regional Director Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in in October 1996.
He joined the as General Manager of Germany and North American Household.
He is the current Chief Executive Company in 1986, serving as Industrial of Propack Europe private label.
Benckiser in 1992 as General Manager, of SABMiller plc, one of the worlds largest Director in France, Monaco, Germany He was General Manager of Italy Canada and in 1995 became General brewers with a brewing presence in over 40 and as Logistics Director for the Group.
Appointed SVP North countries across four continents.
He joined the He was previously with Lesieur.
he was EVP, Central Europe.
He was American Household in 2001 and EVP, then South African Breweries Limited in 1978 previously with PWA Waldhof.
North America and Australia in and has held a number of senior positions Alain is responsible for the global September 2003.
Prior to joining within that group.
supply chain including procurement, Erhard is responsible for all European Benckiser, he previously worked with manufacturing, warehousing and logistics.
DR GERARD MURPHY 50, IRISH Procter & Gamble and Bain & Company.
Also responsible for management of Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in June 5 COLIN DAY 50, BRITISH Squeeze and X-trim gross margin Javed is responsible for North America 2005.
He is the current Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer.
He was previously Chief Benckiser in September 2000 from Aegis Executive Officer of Carlton Communications plc, Group plc where he was Group Finance 8 BART BECHT 49, DUTCH 2 TONY GALLAGHER 50, BRITISH Exel plc and Greencore Group plc.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive Officer.
Joined Benckiser Senior Vice President, Information in his career, he held various senior positions at Kodak, British Gas, fide La Rue Group in 1988 and served as General Manager Services.
Joined Benckiser in September within food and drink group Grand Metropolitan plc and ABB Group.
in Canada, the UK, France and Italy 1997.
He was previously CEO of InfoSol, now Diageo plc in Ireland, UK and USA.
before being appointed Chief Executive a systems integration and consulting Colin is responsible for financial of Benckiser Detergents, subsequently JUDITH SPRIESER 52, AMERICAN # company in the Middle East.
Prior to controls and reporting, treasury, tax, Benckiser N. V. in 1995.
He was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
that, he was at Integraph and Mitel.
corporate development, legal affairs Chief Executive Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in and internal audit.
Tony is responsible for global following the merger in December 1999.
She was previously Chief Executive information systems and services 6 ELIO LEONI SCETI 40, ITALIAN He was previously with Procter & Gamble Officer of Transora Inc. an e-commerce and telecommunications.
Executive Vice President, Category both in the USA and Germany.
software and service company and Executive Development.
Joined Benckiser in 1992 Vice President formerly Chief Financial Officer Tony will retire from the Company in April 2006.
Bart is Chairman of the Executive Committee.
serving in various marketing roles and as of Sara Lee Corporation.
She is a Director of 3 FRANK RUETHER 53, GERMAN General Manager of Germany and Italy.
9 FREDDY CASPERS 45, GERMAN CBS Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company, Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Following the merger in 1999, Elio was Executive Vice President, Developing Markets.
USG Corporation and InterContinental Exchange.
Joined Benckiser in July 1996 as Personnel promoted to Senior Vice President, Joined Benckiser in September 1997 as PETER WHITE 64, BRITISH # Director and was appointed SVP Human North American Household and was EVP for Eastern Europe.
He previously Chairman of the Audit Committee, was Resources in March 1997.
He was previously appointed EVP, Category Development served in PepsiCo and Johnson & Johnson appointed a Non-Executive Director in with Mars, 19861996, as Director of in July 2001.
Elio was previously with in a variety of international assignments December 1997.
He was previously Group Chief Compensation & Benefits Europe.
Procter & Gamble in Italy and France.
in Europe, US, Eastern Europe and Turkey.
Executive of Alliance & Leicester Plc.
Frank is responsible for human resources Elio is responsible for global category Freddy is responsible for all companies Member of the Audit Committee management, remuneration and benefits, development, research & development, in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Africa Member of the Remuneration Committee and organisational development.
# Member of the Nomination Committee 15 Reckitt Benckiser Shareholders Review 2005 LOOKING AHEAD USEFUL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS DURING THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING SHAREDEALING SERVICE NEXT YEAR To be held on Thursday, 4 May 2006 at The London Heathrow The following sharedealing services are available through Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes Middlesex, UB3 5AN.
our Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC: Every ordinary shareholder is entitled to attend and vote WE WILL... Internet ShareDealing at the meeting.
The notice convening the meeting is Please note that, at present, this service is only available contained in a separate document for shareholders.
to shareholders in certain European jurisdictions.
Please ANNOUNCE QUARTER 1 RESULTS ON refer to the website www.
com for an upFINAL DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 APRIL 2006 to-date list of these countries.
This service provides shareholders 31 DECEMBER 2005 To be paid if approved on 25 May 2006 to with an easy way to buy or sell Reckitt Benckiser plc ordinary HOLD THE ANNUAL GENERAL shareholders on the register on 3 March 2006. shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The commission MEETING ON 4 MAY 2006 is just 0.5%, subject to a minimum charge of 15.
In COMPANY SECRETARY addition stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
Elizabeth Richardson There is no need to open an account in order to deal.
PAY FINAL ORDINARY DIVIDEND IF Real time dealing is available during UK market hours REGISTERED OFFICE APPROVED ON 25 MAY 2006 8.00am to 4.30pm.
In addition there is a convenient facility 103-105 Bath Road, to place your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90-day Slough, PAY HALF-YEARLY PREFERENCE limit orders are available for sales.
To access the serviceBerkshire SL1 3UH log on to www.
Shareholders Telephone: 01753 217800 DIVIDEND ON 1 JULY 2006 should have their SRN available.
The SRN appears on share Facsimile: 01753 217899 certificates.
A bank debit card will be required for purchases.
ANNOUNCE INTERIM RESULTS ON REGISTERED IN ENGLAND Telephone ShareDealing No.
527217 24 JULY 2006 Please note this service is, at present, only available AUDITORS to shareholders resident in the UK and Ireland.
The  LLP PAY INTERIM ORDINARY DIVIDEND commission is 1%, subject to a minimum charge of 15.
In addition stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable IN SEPTEMBER 2006 SOLICITORS on purchases.
The service is available from 8.00am to Slaughter and May 4.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on ANNOUNCE QUARTER 3 RESULTS ON REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER OFFICE telephone number 0870 703 0084.
Shareholders should If you have any queries about your shareholding, 24 OCTOBER 2006 have their SRN ready when making the call.
The SRN please write to, or telephone, the Companys Registrar appears on share certificates.
A bank debit card will be at the following address: required for purchases.
Detailed terms and conditions PAY HALF-YEARLY PREFERENCE are available on request by telephoning 0870 702 0000.
Computershare Investor Services PLC, DIVIDEND ON 1 JANUARY 2007 PO Box 82, These services are offered on an execution-only basis.
The Pavilions, This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares ANNOUNCE PRELIMINARY 2006 Bridgwater Road, in Reckitt Benckiser plc.
Shareholders who are unsure of RESULTS IN FEBRUARY 2007 Bristol BS99 7NH what action to take should obtain independent financial advice.
Share values may go down as well as up, which Dedicated Reckitt Benckiser shareholder helpline 0870 703 0118 PUBLISH 2006 ANNUAL REPORT AND may result in a shareholder receiving less than he she website: www.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN APRIL 2007 VIEWING YOUR SHAREHOLDING To the extent that this statement is a financial promotion If you have internet access, you may view your for the sharedealing service provided by Computershare HOLD THE ANNUAL GENERAL shareholding by accessing the Computershare website, Investor Services PLC, it has been approved by Computershare www.
You will need your Shareholder MEETING IN MAY 2007 Investor Services PLC for the purpose of Section 21 2 b Reference Number SRN which appears on your of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 only.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and DIVIDENDS regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Where If you wish to receive your dividends directly to your this has been received in a country where the provision bank account, or by way of additional shares, please of such a service would be contrary to local laws or contact the Registrars and ask for the relevant forms.
regulations, this should be treated as information only.
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT OUR TOTAL PERFORMANCE...
This review is part of an integrated approach to reporting our total performance.
Our family of reports also includes the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Sustainability Report on our social and environmental responsibilities, and regularly updated corporate responsibility information at www.
cfm Reckitt Benckiser plc 103-105 Bath Road Slough Berkshire SL1 3UH United Kingdom www.
com Annual Report and Sustainability Report Corporate responsibility web pages Financial Statements 2005 Designed and produced by The Workroom www.
co. uk Illustrations by Kevin Hopgood.
Photography by Tim Barker and Duncan Smith.
Printed by the colourhouse Westerham Press.
The paper used throughout this report is produced from a combination of both TCF Totally Chlorine Free and ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp.
It is totally recyclable and manufactured within a BS EN ISO 14001 accredited mill, also conforming to EMAS Eco-management and Audit Scheme.
The recyclable outer wrapping used is manufactured using totally degradable polythene.
