ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2005 environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, financial statements are set out below.
Unless otherwise stated, these which is the Companys functional currency.
policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Basis of preparation currency using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, at period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities as endorsed by the European Commission EC for use within the denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
to companies reporting under IFRS.
These financial statements have The accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by into Sterling on the following basis: the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the Group income statement.
A summary of the Groups more Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the year important accounting policies is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements that conform to IFRS requires Profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the for the period.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net and revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency these estimates are based on managements best knowledge at the instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken time, actual amounts may ultimately differ from those estimates.
to shareholders equity on consolidation.
The Group has adopted IFRS 1: First-time Adoption of IFRS for these The currencies that most influence these translations and the relevant financial statements, and has applied the following relevant optional exchange rates were: exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS: 2005 full year 2004 full year Business combinations before the date of transition have not Average rates: been restated: and Euro 1.4621 1.4730 US Dollar 1.8192 1.8330 Cumulative translation differences have been set to zero at the Closing rates: date of transition.
Euro 1.4525 1.4152 The following optional exemptions were not applied: US Dollar 1.7187 1.9181 The requirements of IFRS 2: Share-Based Payment were applied Property, plant and equipment to all share awards that had not vested as at 1 January 2004: and Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated The Group has applied IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Disclosure depreciation and impairment, with the exception of freehold land, and Presentation and IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition which is shown at cost less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure and Measurement with effect from the transition date.
that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Except for freehold land, the cost of property, plant and equipment is written The other optional exemptions available in IFRS 1 were not applicable off on a straight line basis over the period of the expected useful life to the Group.
For this purpose, expected lives are determined within The 2004 comparatives included within these financial statements the following limits: are based on those published in the 2004 Annual Report, as restated Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years: for IFRS.
Reconciliations between the previously published UK GAAP Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser of 50 years or the life numbers and the restated IFRS numbers are set out in Note 27 of the lease: and to these financial statements.
Owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years.
In general, Basis of consolidation production plant and equipment and office equipment are written The accounts of the Group represent the consolidation of Reckitt off over ten years or less: motor vehicles and computer equipment Benckiser plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
In the case of over five years or less.
acquisitions and disposals of businesses, the results of trading Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if are consolidated from or to the date upon which control passes.
necessary, at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances transactions between Group companies have been eliminated on indicate that the carrying amount may not be appropriate.
Unrealised losses have also been eliminated to the land is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
extent that they do not represent an impairment of a transferred asset.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment Subsidiaries accounting policies have been changed where necessary are determined by comparing the assets carrying value with any to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
sale proceeds, and are included in the income statement.
The results and net assets of the Groups subsidiary in Zimbabwe have Goodwill and intangible fixed assets been excluded from the consolidated Group results.
This is on the basis Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over that the Group does not consider the Zimbabwean business to be a the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets subsidiary due to the loss of power to govern the financial and operating of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill policies of the Zimbabwean business due to the restrictions on remitting on acquisitions of subsidiaries since 4 January 1998 is included in funds out of the country.
Results for 2004 and 2005, and the balance intangible assets.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to this date sheets as at 31 December 2004 and 31 December 2005, were insignificant.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment The impacts of IFRSs issued but not yet effective at the balance sheet date and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
would not have a significant impact on these financial statements.
An acquired brand is only recognised on the balance sheet as an Foreign currency translation intangible asset where it is supported by a registered trade mark, Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups is established in the marketplace, brand earnings are separately entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic identifiable, the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the 17 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued business and where the brand achieves earnings in excess of those integral part of the Groups cash management and are repayable on achieved by unbranded products.
The value of an acquired brand demand, are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
is determined by allocating the purchase consideration of an acquired Convertible Capital Bonds business between the underlying fair values of the tangible assets, The Groups Convertible Capital Bonds have been accounted for as goodwill and brands acquired.
The equity component of the Bond Brands are not generally amortised, as it is considered that their useful was calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the present economic lives are not limited.
This policy is appropriate due to the stable value of the future interest and principal payments discounted at the long-term nature of the business and the enduring nature of the brands.
market rate of interest applicable to similar liabilities that do not have A core element of the Groups strategy is to invest in building its brands a conversion option.
Transaction costs relating to the issue of the through an ongoing programme of product innovation and sustained and bonds were allocated proportionately to the equity and liability rising marketing particularly media investment.
The interest recognised in the income statement a brand typically comprises an assortment of base products and more is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Both contribute to the enduring nature of the brand.
Borrowings The base products establish the long-term positioning of the brand while a Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less succession of innovations attracts ongoing consumer interest and attention.
Subsequent to initial recognition, The Directors also review the useful economic life of brands annually, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any to ensure that the judgement that their economic lives are not limited difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in is still appropriate.
If a brand is considered to have a finite life, the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an its remaining carrying value is amortised over that period.
Payments made in respect of product registration and distribution Income tax rights are capitalised where the rights comply with the above Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred requirements for recognition of acquired brands.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the or distribution rights are for a defined time period, the intangible extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, when the asset is amortised over that period.
If no time period is defined the income tax is also then recognised directly in equity.
intangible asset is treated in the same way as acquired brands.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for Acquired computer software licences are capitalised at cost.
the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantially enacted, at the These costs are amortised over three years.
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Research and development Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and Development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The incurred, unless it meets the requirements of IAS 38 to be capitalised deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial and then amortised over the useful life of the developed product.
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business During 2005 4m 2004 nil of development expenditure has been combination that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss assessed as meeting the requirements of IAS 38 and so has been at that time.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and capitalised within other intangible assets.
laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance Impairment of assets sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset Assets that have indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent All assets are tested for impairment if there is an event or circumstance that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against that indicates that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
If an which the temporary differences can be utilised.
assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment Pension commitments loss is recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount Group companies operate defined contribution and funded and is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in unfunded defined benefit pension schemes.
Value in use is calculated with reference to the future cash flows expected to be generated by an asset or group of assets where cash The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members flows are not identifiable to specific assets.
The discount rate used in of defined contribution schemes is charged to the income statement brand impairment reviews is based on the Groups weighted average as contributions are made.
The Group has no further payment cost of capital including, where appropriate, an adjustment for the obligations once the contributions have been paid.
specific risks associated with the relevant asset.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit Inventories pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost the balance sheet date, less the fair value of the plan assets.
The defined comprises materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of overhead benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using expenses based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value the project unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit is the estimated selling price less applicable selling expenses.
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows by the yield on high-quality corporate bonds denominated in the Trade receivables currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have a maturity Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value.
If there is approximating to the terms of the pension obligations.
The costs of objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the full providing these defined benefit schemes are accrued over the period amount of the receivable an impairment is recognised through the of employment.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately income statement.
The impairment is calculated as the difference in the statement of recognised income and expense SORIE.
between the carrying value of the receivable and the present value of the related estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective Post-retirement benefits other than pensions interest rate.
The amount of any impairment is recognised in the Some Group companies provide post-retirement medical care to their income statement.
The costs of providing these benefits are accrued over the period of employment and the liability recognised in the balance Cash and cash equivalents sheet is calculated using the projected unit credit method and Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and other deposits is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related with a maturity of less than three months when deposited.
For the asset is deducted.
purpose of the Cash Flow Statement, bank overdrafts that form an 18 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Employee share schemes Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under The Group primarily uses forward rate agreements and forward share option and restricted share schemes.
Any shortfall between the foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuating cost to the employee and the fair market value of the shares at date of interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are initially grant is charged to the income statement over the period to which the recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured at their fair performance criteria relate, with the credit taken directly to the retained value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends earnings reserve.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and awards are charged to the income statement account over the same if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates period with the credit included in creditors.
Where awards are contingent derivatives as either a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction upon future events other than continued employment an assessment cash flow hedge or a hedge of net investment in foreign operations.
of the likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made at the end At inception the relationship between the hedging instrument of each reporting period and reflected in the accounting entries made.
and the hedged item is documented, as is an assessment of the Provisions effectiveness of the derivative instrument used in the hedging Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal transaction in offsetting changes in the cash flow of the hedged item.
or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely This effectiveness assessment is repeated on an ongoing basis during than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that the life of the hedging instrument to ensure that the instrument obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions remains an effective hedge of the transaction.
are valued at the present value of the Directors best estimate of the 1.
Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: the effective portion expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
of changes in the fair value is recognised in the SORIE.
Any gain Financial instruments or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately Financial instruments held for trading are classified as current assets in the income statement.
and current liabilities, and are stated at fair value, with any resulting Amounts recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
in the period when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
If the Where the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold a financial hedging instrument expires or is sold, or no longer meets the criteria instrument until its maturity, the instruments are stated at amortised for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity cost less any impairment losses recognised in the income statement.
at that time remains in equity, and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If the The fair value of financial instruments classified as held for trading forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative is their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date.
gain or loss in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Financial instruments classified as held for trading are recognised 2.
Derivatives classified as net investment hedges: the effective derecognised by the Group on the date it commits to purchase sell portion of any changes in fair value is recognised in equity.
Financial instruments held to maturity are recognised Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised derecognised on the day they are transferred to by the Group.
immediately in the income statement.
Net revenues Gains or losses accumulated in equity are included in the income Net revenues are defined as the amount invoiced to external statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
customers during the year, that is gross sales net of trade discounts, customer allowances and consumer coupons, and exclusive of VAT 3.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: these are and other sales-related taxes.
Net revenues are recognised at the classified as at fair value through profit or loss.
All changes in time that the risks and rewards of ownership of the products are fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge substantially transferred to the customer.
accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Leases Accounting estimates and judgements Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has The Directors make a number of estimates and assumptions regarding substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified the future, and make some significant judgements in applying the as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at Groups accounting policies.
These include: lease inception at the lower of the assets fair value and the present Estimates of future business performance and cash generation supporting value of the minimum lease payments.
Obligations related to finance the net book value of intangible assets at the balance sheet date: leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate within borrowings.
The interest element of The continuing enduring nature of the Groups brands supporting the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the life of the assumed indefinite useful lives of these assets: the lease so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the Long-term rates of return, inflation rates and discounted rates have remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The plant, property been assumed in calculating the pension and other employee postand equipment is depreciated on the same basis as owned plant and retirement benefits.
If the real rates are significantly different over equipment or over the life of the lease, if shorter.
time to those assumed, the amounts recognised in the income Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards statement and in the balance sheet will be impacted: of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease Assumptions are made as to the recoverability of tax assets especially rentals net of any related lease incentives are charged against as to whether there will be sufficient future taxable profits in the profit on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
same jurisdictions to fully utilise losses in future years: Capital transactions Assumptions are made in relation to share awards, both in the Black-Scholes When the Group repurchases equity share capital, the amount of the model used to calculate the charge and in terms of the recoverability consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised of the deferred tax asset related to the share award reserve.
Repurchased shares are cancelled and, in order to maintain capital, an equivalent amount to the nominal value of The actual tax paid on profits is determined based on tax laws and the shares cancelled is transferred from Retained Earnings to the regulations that differ across the numerous jurisdictions in which the Capital Redemption Reserve.
Assumptions are made in applying these laws to the taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax charge Acquisition of minority interests for that period.
Where the eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different The Group has booked the cost of acquiring minority interests to the amounts originally estimated, the difference will be charged or in Group companies directly to equity, as permitted by IFRS 3. credited to the income statement in the period in which it is determined.
19 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
