PARENT COMPANY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF RECKITT BENCKISER plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Reckitt Basis of audit opinion Benckiser plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the balance sheets.
We have also audited the information in on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant been audited.
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We have reported separately on the Group financial statements be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates of Reckitt Benckiser plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that of Directors responsibilities.
the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, information in the financial statements.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Opinion Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 In our opinion: of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the parent company financial statements give a true and fair purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into view in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Accounting Practice, of the state of affairs of the Company consent in writing.
as at 31 December 2005: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors with the Companies Act 1985.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration  LLP and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We read other information contained in the Annual Report and London consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company 20 March 2006 financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Notes Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the financial The maintenance and integrity of the Reckitt Benckiser website review, report on corporate social responsibility, biographies of is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the the Board of Directors and Executive Committee.
Report of the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, Directors, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes the five-year summary and shareholder information.
that may have occurred to the financial statements since they We consider the implications for our report if we become aware were initially presented on the website.
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation do not extend to any other information.
50 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
