NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of Redrow plc 5,305,412 provided that this authority shall unless previously revoked will be held at St Davids Park Hotel, St. Davids Park, Flintshire on or renewed expire on the date of the next annual general meeting of Wednesday 9 November 2005 at 12 noon for the following purposes.
the Company but so that the Company may, before such expiry, make All resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions except numbers an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities 10 and 11 which will be proposed as special resolutions.
to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority had Ordinary business not expired.
Resolution 1 - Annual Report and Accounts To receive and adopt the directors report and the financial statements Resolution 10 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights for the year ended 30 June 2005, together with the Auditors report.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 9 as set out in the Notice convening the annual general meeting at which this resolution is to be Resolution 2 - Dividend considered and in place of any existing authority given pursuant to To declare a final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2005. section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, the directors be given power pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to make allotments Resolution 3 - Re-appointment of director of equity securities as defined in section 94 of the said Act pursuant To re-appoint Neil Fitzsimmons as a director.
to the authority contained in the said Resolution 9 and to sell shares which are held in treasury wholly for cash as if section 89 1 of the said Resolution 4 - Re-appointment of director Act did not apply to such allotments or sale provided that this power To re-appoint Colin Edward Lewis as a director.
shall be limited to: Resolution 5 - Re-appointment of director i allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, To re-appoint Robert Brannock Jones as a director.
being an offer of equity securities by way of rights to ordinary shareholders of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be to Resolution 6 - Re-appointment of director their holdings subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as To re-appoint Brian Duckworth as a director.
the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws Resolution 7 - Re-appointment of Auditors of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the stock exchange in any territory: and Company, to hold office until the end of the next general meeting at which financial statements are laid before the Company and to ii any other allotments for cash or equity securities or sale of shares authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
held in treasury up to a maximum nominal amount of 795,812 and shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the date Special business which is the earlier of the next annual general meeting of the Resolution 8 - Remuneration report Company or 8 February 2007 save that the said power shall permit To approve the remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2005. the Company to make an offer or enter into an agreement before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity Resolution 9 - Authority to allot shares securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot That the directors, in place of any existing authority conferred upon equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if such them for the purpose of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, be power conferred had not expired.
generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all powers of the Company to allot Resolution 11 - Authority to purchase own shares and to make offers or agreements to allot relevant securities as defined That, pursuant to Article 11 of the Companys Articles of Association, in section 80 of the said Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of the Company is generally and unconditionally authorised, in NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 71 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, to make Notes: market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the said i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy ordinary shares, and that where such shares are held in treasury, the need not be a member of the Company.
Company may use them for the purposes of its employees share A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be schemes, provided that: completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein and returned so as to reach the Companys Registrars not later than 48 a the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased hours before the time of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
is 15,916,236: Completion of a form of proxy will not preclude a shareholder b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 10p from attending and voting at the meeting in person if they so wish.
exclusive of expenses payable by the Company: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an ii All shareholders on the Register at 6pm on 7 November 2005 and amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market only those shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at the quotations for an ordinary share derived from the London Stock annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately registered in their respective names at that time.
Changes to preceding the day on which the ordinary share is entries on the Register after that time will be disregarded in purchased exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : and determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the d the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next meeting.
annual general meeting of the Company or 8 February 2007 whichever may be the earlier except that the Company may before iii Copies of the directors service contracts will be available for such expiry make a contract to purchase its own shares which will inspection at the registered office during normal business hours on or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
any business day and at the place of the annual general meeting for at least 15 minutes before the meeting is held until its conclusion.
12 September 2005 By order of the Board iv The register of directors interests in the share capital of the Company will be available for inspection at the place of the Registered office: meeting from 12 noon on 9 November 2005 until the conclusion Redrow House Graham A Cope of the meeting.
None of the directors has a service contract which St. Davids Park Company Secretary cannot be terminated within one year without payment of Flintshire compensation.
2877315 v If you have any questions about the meeting or need any special assistance at the meeting, please contact the Company Secretary at the registered office or telephone 01244 520044 during normal business hours.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 72 This sum represents 7,958,118 ordinary shares of 10p each, being Explanatory notes to Annual General Meeting resolutions: equivalent to approximately 5% of the Companys current issued share Resolution 2 - Dividend capital.
The resolution also enables the directors to modify the strict Subject to approval at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 18 requirements for a rights issue in circumstances where they consider it November 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business necessary or expedient.
In addition, if the Company has purchased its own shares and holds Resolution 3-6 - Re-appointment of directors them in treasury, this resolution would give the directors power to sell The Companys articles of association require that each director shall these shares for cash to persons other than existing shareholders, retire from office at the third annual general meeting after the annual subject to the same limit that would apply to issues of shares for cash to general meeting at which he was last elected or, in the case of a new these persons.
director, to seek re-election at the first annual general meeting following appointment.
The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting or 8 February 2007.
Resolution 7 - Re-appointment of Auditors The Company is required to appoint Auditors at every general meeting Resolution 11 - Authority to purchase own shares at which the accounts are presented to shareholders.
The directors are seeking authority as in previous years, to make market  LLP were appointed at last years annual purchases of the Companys shares.
general meeting and are willing to seek re-appointment this year.
It is normal practice for a Companys directors to be authorised to agree the The proposed authority would be limited by the terms of the special Auditors fees.
If this resolution is passed, the Audit Committee will resolution to the purchases of 15,916,236 shares, an aggregate nominal approve the fees for recommendation to the Board.
value of 1,591,624 which is equivalent to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2005.
Resolution 8 - Remuneration report Under the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors In the past, such shares would have been cancelled immediately.
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 companies are required to ask However, The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury shareholders to vote on the Remuneration report.
The report is Shares Regulations 2003 which came into effect on 1 December 2003 contained on pages 39 to 47 of the Report and Accounts.
allows companies to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase as treasury stock, rather than having to cancel them.
Such shares can Resolution 9 - Authority to allot shares subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used pursuant to the Shareholders are being invited to renew the authority given to directors Companys employee share schemes.
in previous years to allot unissued shares.
If passed, resolution 9 would renew this authority by authorising the directors to allot shares up to an The ability to hold in treasury shares that the Company purchases aggregate nominal amount of 5,305,412. pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution would give the The authority will expire on the date of the next annual general Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and meeting of the Company.
This represents 53,054,120 ordinary shares of cost-effectively, and would provide the Company with additional 10p each and is equivalent to approximately 33% of the Companys flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Shareholders should current issued ordinary share capital.
note that this resolution explicitly authorises the Company to use any shares purchased and held in treasury for the purposes of the Companys Resolution 10 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights employee share schemes.
If any shares were used in this way, the The directors may only allot shares for cash to persons who are not already shareholders in the Company if authorised to do so by the Company would take them into account when calculating the share shareholders in a general meeting.
This resolution renews authority for issuing limits in the schemes, as long as required under the Guidelines the directors to allot shares for cash without first offering them to of the Association of British Insurers.
existing members up to an aggregate nominal amount of 795,812.
73 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Details of any shares purchased pursuant to the proposed authority would be notified to the London Stock Exchange by 7.30am on the business day following the purchase and to the Registrar of Companies within 28 days.
Details would also be included in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts in respect of the financial period in which any such purchases take place.
The authority set out in the special resolution will expire on whichever is the earlier of the end of the next annual general meeting or 8 February 2007 and the resolution specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be bought.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company will be taken into account before deciding upon the course of action.
The directors would exercise this authority only if they felt it would be in the best interests of the Company to do so and would increase earnings per share.
To the extent that any such shares were held in treasury, earnings per share would only be increased on a temporary basis, until the shares were transferred out of treasury.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 74
