ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the e Fixed assets Companies Act 1985 and applicable Accounting Standards in the 1 Freehold properties are included at cost.
The freehold land United Kingdom which have been applied consistently.
A summary of element is not depreciated whilst the buildings element is the more important accounting policies is set out below: depreciated on a straight line basis at an annual rate of 2%.
a Basis of accounting 2 All other tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less The financial statements have been prepared under the depreciation.
They are depreciated on a straight line basis historical cost convention, modified to include the over their expected useful lives at the following principal revaluation of the investment in subsidiary companies.
annual rates: b Basis of preparation and consolidation Fixtures and fittings 20%-35% The Group financial statements incorporate the financial Plant and machinery 10%-20% statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the results for the year ended 3 The investment in subsidiary companies represents the 30 June 2005 and share of assets and liabilities of joint book value of the underlying net assets, the surplus or ventures restated to comply with the Groups accounting deficit arising on the revaluation being transferred to policies.
This basis of valuation has been adopted so as to present more fairly the The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the investment by the Company in these companies.
year are included from or up to the date of acquisition or disposal.
On the acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are f Stocks and work in progress attributed to the net assets acquired.
Prior to the Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost introduction for the year ended June 1998 onwards of and net realisable value less cash on account.
Cost includes land FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, the difference and associated acquisition costs, materials, labour and sub-contract between the consideration paid and these values was work.
Since the introduction of FRS 10, g Forward land the difference is capitalised and amortised.
Expenditure relating to forward land, including options, c Turnover and profit recognition fees etc.
is provided for when incurred.
After exercise of an Turnover represents sales of residential housing and option and acquisition of the land following the securing of commercial developments and is recognised on legal completion.
planning permission, the provisions relating to that land are released.
Profit is recognised on legal completion.
h Deferred taxation d Interest on borrowings Deferred tax is provided on timing differences arising Interest is written off when incurred.
from the recognition of income and expenditure in different periods for taxation and accounting purposes where timing differences have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES 52 Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted.
i Pension scheme The Group operates a contributory pension scheme for all its staff.
The Scheme comprises two sections: a defined benefits section and a defined contribution section.
The Scheme is externally invested and the funds of the Scheme are administered by trustees.
The Groups contributions to the defined benefits section, which are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries, are charged against profits in accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No.
Contributions to the defined contribution section are charged in the year in which the contributions are made.
Further disclosures including those required under FRS 17 transitional rules are contained within Note 7 to the financial statements.
j Operating leases Costs in respect of operating leases are charged against profit on a straight line basis over the lease term.
k Treasury instruments Hedge accounting principles are applied to these instruments and the gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account within interest cost in the period to which they relate.
