159711 Reed Report 103-142 7 3 06 12:05 Page 124 124 Reed Elsevier NV The Supervisory Boards report J Hommen, Chairman D E Reid G J fide Boer-Kruyt Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE M W Elliott R W H Stomberg C J A van Lede S Zelnick Together with the Executive Board, we herewith submit Reed Elsevier NVs annual report and financial statements, comprising the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2005, to the shareholders meeting for adoption.
The financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with the accounting principles explained on pages 129, 130 and 140 of this document and have been examined by Deloitte Accountants BV, Amsterdam.
Their reports and opinions are set out on pages 138 and 142.
The combined financial statements on pages 56 to 100 are part of the notes to and form an integral part of these statutory financial statements.
We refer to the Report of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and to the other reports contained within the Reed Elsevier Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2005 and the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005.
These reports explain the business results of 2005, the financial state of the company as at 31 December 2005, and contain disclosures in respect of corporate governance, systems of internal control and risk management, corporate responsibility, remuneration of board members and key strategic issues.
The equalisation agreement between Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC has the effect that the respective shareholders can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group and provides that Reed Elsevier NV shall declare dividends such that the dividend on one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share, which shall be payable in euros, will equal 1.538 times the cash dividend, including the related UK tax credit, paid on one Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share.
In that context, the combined meeting of the Supervisory and Executive Boards the Combined Board determines the amounts of the companys profit to be retained.
The ordinary shares and the R-shares are entitled to receive distribution in proportion to their nominal value.
The Combined Board may resolve to pay less per R-share, but not less than 1% of their nominal value.
Details of dividends are contained in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
Following a review of Reed Elseviers financial position and outlook, the Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV, together with the board of Reed Elsevier PLC, has approved the introduction of an annual share repurchase programme in 2006 to further improve capital efficiency.
With Reed Elseviers stronger free cash flow and positive growth outlook, it is expected that this new programme will enhance shareholder returns, whilst retaining the financial capability to continue to develop the business through both organic and acquisition investment.
Further details are given on pages 2 and 3 of the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005.
Reed Elseviers policies, practices and disclosures, and an explanation of the way in which Reed Elsevier has complied with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, are set out in pages 28 to 33 of the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005.
Reed Elseviers corporate governance policies, practices and disclosures were explained and accepted by the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV at the Annual General Meeting in April 2005.
At the forthcoming Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2006, Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt, Mr Elliott, Mr van Lede and Mr Reid will retire by rotation as members of the Supervisory Board and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Furthermore Mr van fide Aast and Mr Tierney will retire by rotation as members of the Executive Board and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
A recommendation will be made at the Annual General Meeting for the reappointment of these directors.
The Supervisory Board Registered office 15 February 2006 Radarweg 29 1043 NX Amsterdam
