159711 Reed Report 103-142 7 3 06 12:05 Page 142 142 Reed Elsevier NV Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Introduction We have audited the individual parent company financial statements, which are part of the financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV, Amsterdam, for the year ended 31 December 2005 the company financial statements as set out on pages 139 to 141.
These company financial statements are the responsibility of the companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these company financial statements based on our audit.
Scope We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Netherlands.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the company financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the company financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the company financial statements.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the company as at 31 December 2005 and of the result for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom and also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Book 2 Title 9 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Furthermore we have established to the extent possible that the other information contained in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 is consistent with the company financial statements.
Deloitte Accountants B. V. J P M Hopmans Amsterdam The Netherlands 15 February 2006 Additional information As set out in the notes to the consolidated and parent company financial statements, on 14 February 2006 Reed Elsevier Group plc declared a dividend payable to Reed Elsevier NV of a218m.
2005 2004 Proposal for allocation of profit gm am Final dividend on ordinary shares for prior financial year 177 162 Interim dividend on ordinary shares for financial year 68 67 Dividend on R-shares Retained loss 57 10 188 219 The combined Supervisory and Executive Board determines the part of the profit to be retained.
The profit to be distributed is paid on the ordinary shares and the R-shares in proportion to their nominal value.
The Combined Board may resolve to pay less per R-share, but not less than 1% of the nominal value.
The company is bound by the Governing Agreement with Reed Elsevier PLC, which provides that Reed Elsevier NV shall declare dividends such that the dividend on one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share, which shall be payable in euros, will equal 1.538 times the dividend, including the related UK tax credit, paid on one Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share.
