159711 Reed Report 55-102 7 3 06 12:04 Page 60 60 Combined financial statements Accounting policies Under a regulation adopted by the European Parliament, the non operating items, related tax effects and movements in Reed Elsevier combined financial statements are prepared in deferred taxation assets and liabilities that are not expected accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards to crystallise in the near term.
Adjusted operating profits IFRS with effect from the 2005 financial year.
are also grossed up to exclude the equity share of taxes in joint ventures.
Adjusted operating cash flow is measured The transition date for the application of IFRS is 1 January 2004 after dividends from joint ventures and net capital and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 December expenditure, but before payments in relation to acquisition 2004 have been restated accordingly.
Reconciliations of net integration costs.
income and equity for the comparative period from previously applied UK GAAP to IFRS are presented in note 33.
IAS39 Foreign exchange translation Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is The combined financial statements are presented in both applicable from the 2005 financial year with a transition date of pounds sterling and euros, being the respective functional 1 January 2005 and accordingly no restatement of prior period currencies of the two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC comparatives has been made in respect of IAS39.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements are Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate prepared under IFRS as endorsed by the European Union, of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each including the early adoption of an amendment to IAS19 balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are Employee Benefits which allows actuarial gains and losses denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the to be recognised in full in the statement of recognised rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange income and expense in the period in which they occur.
differences arising are recorded in the income statement other than where hedge accounting applied see Financial The Reed Elsevier accounting policies under IFRS are set Instruments.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at Basis of preparation exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income The equalisation agreement between Reed Elsevier PLC and and expense items of foreign operations are translated at the Reed Elsevier NV has the effect that their shareholders can average exchange rate for the period.
Exchange differences be regarded as having the interests of a single economic arising are classified as equity and transferred to the group.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements translation reserve.
When operations are disposed of, the the combined financial statements represent the related cumulative translation differences are recognised combined interests of both sets of shareholders and within the income statement in the period.
encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their respective subsidiaries, As permitted under the transition rules of IFRS1 First Time associates and joint ventures, together with the parent Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV cumulative translation differences in respect of foreign the combined businesses.
operations have been deemed to be nil at the date of transition to IFRS.
These financial statements form part of the statutory information to be provided by Reed Elsevier NV, but are Reed Elsevier uses derivative financial instruments, primarily not for a legal entity and do not include all the information forward contracts, to hedge its exposure to certain foreign required to be disclosed by a company in its financial exchange risks.
Details of Reed Elseviers accounting policies statements under the UK Companies Act 1985 or the in respect of derivative financial instruments are set Dutch Civil Code.
Additional information is given in the out below.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements of the parent companies set out on pages 104 to 142.
A list of principal Revenue businesses is set out on page 153.
Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales less anticipated returns on transactions completed by In addition to the figures required to be reported by performance, excluding customer sales taxes and applicable accounting standards, adjusted profit and sales between the combined businesses.
operating cash flow figures have been presented as additional performance measures.
Adjusted figures are Revenues are recognised for the various categories of shown before the amortisation of acquired intangible turnover as follows: subscriptions on periodic despatch assets, acquisition integration costs, disposals and other of subscribed product or rateably over the period of the 159711 Reed Report 55-102 7 3 06 12:04 Page 61 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 61 subscription where performance is not measurable by Borrowing costs despatch: circulation on despatch: advertising on All borrowing costs are expensed as incurred unless hedge publication or over the period of online display: exhibitions accounting applies see Financial Instruments.
on occurrence of the exhibition: educational testing contracts over the term of the contract on percentage completed Taxation against contract milestones.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the current year taxable profits and the movements on deferred tax Where sales consist of two or more independent that are recognised in the income statement.
components, revenue is recognised on each component, as it is completed by performance, based on attribution The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated of relative value.
using the applicable tax rates that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Employee benefits The expense of defined benefit pension schemes and other Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the post-retirement employee benefits is determined using the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial projected unit credit method and charged in the income statements and their corresponding tax bases used in the statement as an operating expense, based on actuarial computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the assumptions reflecting market conditions at the beginning of balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are the financial year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences in full in the statement of recognised income and expense and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it in the period in which they occur.
Past service costs are is probable that taxable profits will be available against which recognised immediately to the extent that benefits have deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred vested, or, if not vested, on a straight line basis over the tax is not recognised on temporary differences arising in period until the benefits vest.
respect of goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes.
Net pension obligations in respect of defined benefit Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to schemes are included in the balance sheet at the present apply in the period when the liability is expected to be settled value of scheme liabilities, less the fair value of scheme or the asset realised.
Full provision is made for deferred tax assets.
Where assets exceed liabilities, any net pension which would become payable on the distribution of retained asset is limited to the extent that the asset is not recoverable profits from foreign subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
through reductions in future contributions.
Movements in deferred tax are charged or credited in the The expense of defined contribution pension schemes and income statement, except when they relate to items charged other employee benefits is charged in the income statement or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is as incurred.
also dealt with in equity.
Share based remuneration Goodwill The fair value of share based remuneration is determined On the acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the purchase at the date of grant and recognised as an expense in the consideration is allocated between the net tangible and income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting intangible assets on a fair value basis, with any excess period, taking account of the estimated number of shares purchase consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill that are expected to vest.
Market based performance criteria arising on acquisitions also includes amounts corresponding are taken into account when determining the fair value at the to deferred tax liabilities recognised in respect of acquired date of grant.
Non-market based performance criteria are intangible assets.
taken into account when estimating the number of shares expected to vest.
The fair value of share based remuneration Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for is determined by use of a binomial model.
All Reed Elseviers impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised share based remuneration is equity settled.
immediately in the income statement and not subsequently reversed.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS2 Share Based Payment, the expense recognised in the income On disposal of a subsidiary or business, the attributable statement relates to grants made during the financial period amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the and all grants made before the transition date that had not profit or loss on disposal.
fully vested at that date.
159711 Reed Report 55-102 7 3 06 12:04 Page 62 62 Combined financial statements Accounting policies In accordance with the IFRS transition rules, goodwill arising leases are depreciated over their estimated useful lives up on acquisitions before the 1 January 2004 date of transition to a maximum of 50 years.
Short leases are written off over to IFRS is included in the balance sheet at the net book the duration of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other amount previously stated under UK GAAP.
An impairment assets on a straight line basis over their estimated useful review was carried out as at the transition date and no lives as follows: leasehold improvements shorter of life impairment identified.
Deferred tax liabilities recognised in of lease and 10 years: plant 3 to 20 years: office furniture, respect of acquired intangible assets acquired prior to the fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: computer systems, transition date were taken directly to equity on transition.
communication networks and equipment 3 to 7 years.
Intangible assets Investments Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination Investments, other than investments in joint ventures and are stated in the balance sheet at their fair value as at the associates, are stated in the balance sheet at fair value.
date of acquisition, less accumulated amortisation.
Internally Investments held as part of the venture capital portfolio generated intangible assets are stated in the balance sheet are classified as held for trading, with changes in fair at the directly attributable cost of creation of the asset, less value reported through the income statement.
investments are classified as available for sale with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity until the Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at comprise: market related assets e. g. trade marks, imprints, which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised brands : customer related assets e. g. subscription bases, in equity is brought into the net profit or loss for the period.
customer lists, customer relationships : editorial content: All items recognised in the income statement related to software and systems e. g. application infrastructure, investments, other than investments in joint ventures and product delivery platforms, in-process research and associates, are reported as non operating items.
development : contract based assets e. g. publishing rights, exhibition rights, supply contracts : and other intangible Available for sale investments and venture capital assets.
Internally generated intangible assets typically investments held for trading represent investments in listed comprise software and systems development where an and unlisted securities.
The fair value of listed securities is identifiable asset is created that is probable to generate determined based on quoted market prices, and of unlisted future economic benefits.
All other development securities on managements estimate of fair value based on expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in standard valuation techniques.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted Intangible assets, other than brands and imprints determined for under the equity method and stated in the balance sheet to have indefinite lives, are amortised systematically over their at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in Reed estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives of intangible Elseviers share of net assets, less any impairment in value.
assets with finite lives are as follows: market related assets 3 to 40 years: customer related assets 3 to 16 years: content, Impairment software and other acquired intangible assets 3 to 20 years: At each balance sheet date, reviews are carried out of the and internally developed intangible assets 3 to 10 years.
carrying amounts of tangible and intangible assets and Brands and imprints determined to have indefinite lives are not goodwill to determine whether there is any indication that amortised and are subject to impairment review at least those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the Intangible assets recognised on acquisitions made before the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash 1 January 2004 date of transition to IFRS have been included flows that are independent from other assets, estimates are in the balance sheet at their previously stated UK GAAP cost made based on the cash flows of the cash generating unit to less amortisation as at that date.
An impairment review was which the asset belongs.
Intangible assets with an indefinite carried out as at the transition date and no impairment useful life are tested for impairment at least annually identified.
and whenever there is any indication that the asset may be impaired.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated in the balance Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value, less costs to sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
No depreciation sell, and value in use.
In assessing value in use, estimated is provided on freehold land.
Freehold buildings and long future cash flows are discounted to their present value using 159711 Reed Report 55-102 7 3 06 12:04 Page 63 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 63 a discount rate appropriate to the specific asset or cash cash and cash equivalents, payables and accruals, borrowings generating unit.
Pre-tax discount rates of 1012% have been and derivative financial instruments.
Estimated future cashflows are based on latest that are classified as held to maturity are recorded in the forecasts and estimates for the next five years, and a long balance sheet at amortised cost.
Investments are classified term growth rate of 3% is assumed thereafter.
as either held for trading or available for sale, as described above.
Other financial instruments that are classified as held If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit for trading are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value, with is estimated to be less than its net carrying amount, the net changes in fair value reported through the income statement.
carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS1 are recognised immediately in the income statement.
First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, financial instruments have been accounted for Inventories and pre-publication costs and presented on the UK GAAP basis for the year ended Inventories and pre-publication costs are stated at the 31 December 2004.
Under IAS39 Financial Instruments, lower of cost, including appropriate attributable overhead, with effect from 1 January 2005, financial instruments are and estimated net realisable value.
Pre-publication costs, stated in the balance sheet at fair value.
representing costs incurred in the origination of content prior to publication, are expensed systematically reflecting Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge interest the expected sales profile over the estimated economic rate and foreign exchange risks.
Changes in the fair value lives of the related products, generally up to five years.
of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly Leases in equity in the hedge reserve.
If a hedged firm commitment or Assets held under leases which confer rights and obligations forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non similar to those attaching to owned assets are classified financial asset or liability, then, at the time that the asset or as assets held under finance leases and capitalised within liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the property, plant and equipment and the corresponding liability derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are to pay rentals is shown net of interest in the balance sheet as included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For obligations under finance leases.
The capitalised value of the hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a assets is depreciated on a straight line basis over the shorter liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets income statement in the same period in which the concerned.
The interest element of the lease payments is hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion of allocated so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge.
hedges is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement Where an effective hedge is in place against changes in the on a straight line basis over the period of the leases.
Rental fair value of fixed rate borrowings, the hedged borrowings income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line are adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the basis over the term of the relevant lease.
risk being hedged with a corresponding income or expense included in the income statement.
The offsetting gains Cash and cash equivalents or losses from remeasuring the fair value of the related Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, derivatives are also recognised in the income statement.
call deposits and other short term highly liquid investments and are held in the balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in Assets held for sale the income statement as they arise.
Assets of businesses that are held for sale, rather than for continuing use by Reed Elsevier, are classified as assets held Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging for sale.
Such assets are carried at the lower of amortised instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, cost and fair value less costs to sell.
Similarly, liabilities of or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, businesses held for sale are also separately classified on the any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument balance sheet.
recognised in equity is either retained in equity until the firm commitment or forecasted transaction occurs, or, Financial instruments where a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, Financial instruments comprise investments other than is immediately credited or expensed in the income investments in joint ventures or associates, trade receivables, statement.
159711 Reed Report 55-102 7 3 06 12:04 Page 64 64 Combined financial statements Accounting policies As at 1 January 2005, adjustments have been made either to the carrying value of hedged items or to equity, as appropriate, to reflect the differences between the UK GAAP carrying values of financial instruments and their carrying values required to be reported under IAS39.
Any transition gains or losses on financial instruments that qualify for hedge accounting and are reflected in equity will remain in equity until either the forecasted transaction occurs or is no longer expected to occur.
Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty A description of critical judgements made by management of Reed Elsevier and key sources of estimation uncertainty in the preparation of the combined financial statements is included in the description of accounting policies on pages 23 and 24 of the Operating and Financial Review.
