159711 Reed Report 103-142 7 3 06 12:05 Page 129 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 129 Group accounting policies These consolidated financial statements report the dividend distributions is settled with Reed Elsevier NV and is statements of income, cash flow and financial position of credited directly to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts Reed Elsevier NV can pay a nominal dividend on its R-shares shown in the financial statements are in millions of euros.
held by Reed Elsevier PLC that is lower than the dividend on the ordinary shares.
Equally, Reed Elsevier NV has the The statutory consolidated financial statements have been possibility to receive dividends directly from Dutch affiliates.
prepared under the historical cost convention.
As required Reed Elsevier PLC is compensated by direct dividend by a regulation adopted by the European Parliament, the payments by Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The settlements consolidated financial statements have been prepared, flowing from these arrangements are also taken directly with effect from the 2005 financial year, in accordance to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union.
Combined financial statements The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the The transition date for the application of IFRS is 1 January combined financial statements are set out on pages 60 to 64.
2004, other than in respect of IAS39 where the transition date is 1 January 2005, and the comparative figures for These include policies in relation to intangible assets.
Such 31 December 2004 have been restated accordingly.
assets are amortised over their estimated useful economic Reconciliations of net income and equity for the comparative lives which, due to their longevity, may be for periods in period from previously applied UK GAAP to IFRS are excess of five years.
presented in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Basis of valuation of assets and liabilities The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements on Reed Elsevier NVs 50% economic interest in the net assets pages 56 to 100 form an integral part of the notes to Reed of the combined businesses has been shown on the Elsevier NVs statutory financial statements.
consolidated balance sheet as investments in joint ventures, net of the assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed The basis of the merger of the businesses of Reed Elsevier Elsevier NV.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity NV and Reed Elsevier PLC is set out on page 28. method.
As a consequence of the merger of the companys Cash and cash equivalents are stated at fair value.
Other businesses with those of Reed Elsevier PLC, described assets and liabilities are stated at historical cost, less on page 28, the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed provision, if appropriate, for any impairment in value.
Elsevier PLC can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group, enjoying substantially equivalent Foreign exchange translation ordinary dividend and capital rights in the earnings and Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate net assets of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that Reed Elsevier NV consolidated financial statements are are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at presented incorporating Reed Elsevier NVs investments the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses accounted for differences arising are recorded in the income statement.
using the equity method, as adjusted for the effects of the The gains or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed equalisation arrangement between Reed Elsevier NV Elsevier NVs 50% interest in the net assets of the combined and Reed Elsevier PLC.
The arrangement lays down the businesses are classified as equity and transferred to the distribution of dividends and net assets in such a way that translation reserve.
Reed Elsevier NVs share in the profit and net assets of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses equals 50%, with all Cumulative translation differences are recognised within settlements accruing to shareholders from the equalisation the income statement in the period in which operations are arrangements taken directly to reserves.
Because the dividend paid to shareholders by Reed Elsevier As permitted under the transition rules of IFRS1 First Time NV is equivalent to the Reed Elsevier PLC dividend plus Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC cumulative translation differences in respect of foreign shareholders, Reed Elsevier NV normally distributes a higher operations have been deemed to be nil at the date proportion of the combined profit attributable than Reed of transition.
Reed Elsevier PLCs share in this difference in 159711 Reed Report 103-142 7 3 06 12:05 Page 130 130 Reed Elsevier NV Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the current year taxable profits and the movements on deferred tax that are recognised in the income statement.
Tax arising in joint ventures is included in the share of results of joint ventures.
The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated using the applicable tax rate that has been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
