Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 29 Summary financial statements Introduction Under a regulation adopted by the European Parliament, These summary financial statements are a summary of the Reed Elsevier combined financial statements and the information contained in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports consolidated financial statements of the two parent and Financial Statements 2005.
They do not contain companies are prepared in accordance with International sufficient information to allow as full an understanding Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with effect from the of the results and state of affairs of the Reed Elsevier 2005 financial year.
The transition date for the application businesses and the parent companies as would be of IFRS is 1 January 2004, other than in respect of provided by the full financial statements.
Shareholders who IAS39 Financial Instruments which has a transition date wish to receive, free of charge, a copy of the Reed Elsevier of 1 January 2005, and the comparative figures for the year Annual Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 have been restated accordingly.
ended 31 December 2005, or in the future, should write to Reconciliations of net income and equity for the the registered offices of either Reed Elsevier PLC at comparative period from previously applied UK GAAP are 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5JR, UK or Reed Elsevier NV presented in the full financial statements.
at Radarweg 29, 1043 Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
The documents are also published on the Reed Elsevier The summary financial statements include adjusted website, www.
figures for profit and cash flows.
These figures are used by Reed Elsevier as additional performance measures.
Summary report of the directors Adjusted profit figures are shown before the amortisation Information relating to a review of the activities of of acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration costs, Reed Elsevier and of future developments in the business disposals and other non operating items, related tax is given in the Chairman and Chief Executives report on effects and movements in deferred taxation assets and pages 1217, the summary Operating and Financial Review liabilities that are not expected to crystallise in the near on pages 20 and 21, and the Chief Financial Officers report term.
Adjusted operating profits are also grossed up to on pages 22 and 23. exclude the equity share of taxes in joint ventures.
Adjusted operating cash flow is measured after dividends from joint The Reed Elsevier directors who served during the year ventures and net capital expenditure, but before payments and their respective remuneration are shown in the in relation to acquisition integration costs.
summary directors remuneration report on page 37.
Details of dividends paid and proposed are given for Reed Elsevier PLC on page 32 and for Reed Elsevier NV on page 34.
Basis of preparation The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, together with the two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the combined businesses.
The Reed Elsevier PLC summary financial information reflects its shareholders 52.9% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
The Reed Elsevier NV summary financial information reflects its shareholders 50% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
The respective economic interests of the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders take account of Reed Elsevier PLCs 5.8% equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV.
