159711 Reed Report 103-142 7 3 06 12:05 Page 121 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 121 Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC We have audited the individual parent company financial or if information specified by law regarding directors statements of Reed Elsevier PLC for the year ended remuneration and transactions with the company is not 31 December 2005 the company financial statements disclosed.
which comprise the parent company balance sheet, the parent company reconciliation of shareholders funds and the We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has parent company accounting policies.
These company not complied with any of the four directors remuneration financial statements have been prepared under the disclosure requirements specified for our review by the accounting policies set out therein.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration We have also audited the information in the parts of the package and information on share options, details of long Directors Remuneration Report presented in the Reed term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, the Remuneration Report that are described as having of details of any non-compliance.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC We review whether the corporate governance statement for the year ended 31 December 2005. reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by This report is made solely to the companys members, as a the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the boards statements on internal control cover all risks state to the companys members those matters we are and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the required to state to them in an auditors report and for no companys corporate governance procedures or its risk other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do and control procedures.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our We read the directors report and the other information audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
contained in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 for the above year and described in the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors contents section including the unaudited parts of the As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, Remuneration Report and consider the implications for our the companys directors are responsible for the preparation report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements of the company financial statements in accordance with or material inconsistencies with the company financial applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom statements.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information Basis of audit opinion contained in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Statements 2005 including, together with the directors of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Reed Elsevier NV, the Remuneration Report.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Our responsibility is to audit the company financial in the company financial statements and the part of the statements and the parts of the Remuneration Report Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
described as having been audited in accordance with relevant It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and and judgements made by the directors in the preparation International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
of the company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys We report to you our opinion as to whether the company circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant framework and whether the company We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration information and explanations which we considered necessary Report to be audited have been properly prepared in in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you if, reasonable assurance that the company financial statements in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as company financial statements, if the company has not kept having been audited are free from material misstatement, proper accounting records, if we have not received all the whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In information and explanations we require for our audit, forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy 159711 Reed Report 103-142 7 3 06 12:05 Page 122 122 Reed Elsevier PLC of the presentation of information in the company financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: The company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and the company financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London United Kingdom 15 February 2006
