159711 Reed Report 103-142 7 3 06 12:05 Page 110 110 Reed Elsevier PLC Group accounting policies These consolidated financial statements have been prepared and its subsidiaries.
Investments in joint ventures are under the historical cost convention in accordance with accounted for using the equity method.
Foreign exchange translation Basis of preparation Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate These statutory consolidated financial statements report the of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each consolidated statements of income, cash flow and financial balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that position of Reed Elsevier PLC, and have been prepared in are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange IFRS as endorsed by the European Union with effect from differences arising are recorded in the income statement.
The gains or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in the net assets The transition date for the application of IFRS is 1 January of the combined businesses are classified as equity and 2004, other than in respect of IAS39 where the transition date transferred to the translation reserve.
is 1 January 2005, and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2004 have been restated accordingly.
Cumulative translation differences are recognised within Reconciliations of net income and equity for the comparative the income statement in the period in which operations period from previously applied UK GAAP to IFRS are are disposed of.
presented in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
As permitted under the transition rules of IFRS1 First Time Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts shown in the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, financial statements are in millions of pounds.
cumulative translation differences in respect of foreign operations have been deemed to be nil at the date The basis of the merger of the businesses of Reed Elsevier of transition.
PLC and Reed Elsevier NV is set out on page 28.
Taxation Determination of profit The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the The Reed Elsevier PLC share of the Reed Elsevier combined current year taxable profits and the movements on deferred tax results has been calculated on the basis of the 52.9% that are recognised in the income statement.
Tax arising in joint economic interest of the Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders in ventures is included in the share of results of joint ventures.
the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, after taking account of results arising in Reed Elsevier PLC and its subsidiaries.
The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated Dividends paid to Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV using the applicable tax rate that has been enacted, shareholders are equalised at the gross level inclusive of or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
the UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
In Reed Elsevier PLCs consolidated financial Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the statements, an adjustment is required to equalise the benefit carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial of the tax credit between the two sets of shareholders statements and their corresponding tax bases used in the in accordance with the equalisation agreement.
This computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the equalisation adjustment arises on dividends paid by balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are Reed Elsevier PLC to its shareholders and reduces the generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences consolidated attributable earnings by 47.1% of the total and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it amount of the tax credit.
is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the combined financial statements are set out on pages 60 to 64.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset Investments is realised.
Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of the combined businesses has been shown on the balance sheet as investments in joint ventures, net of the assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier PLC
