42 Investor information Investor information Annual Reports and Financial Statements Shareholders who have not registered for electronic The full Annual Reports and Financial Statements communications can do so online at www.
com, for the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, including quoting their shareholder account number, which appears Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, for the year on the Form of Proxy.
Shareholders who hold their Reed ended 31 December 2005 are available on the Reed Elsevier Elsevier PLC shares through CREST may appoint proxies website, or from the registered offices of the respective through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service companies shown on page 45.
Additional financial for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting by using the information is also available on the Reed Elsevier website, procedures described in the CREST manual.
including Interim and Preliminary Results announcements and presentations.
Dividends Dividends on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares are Share price information paid in sterling.
Shareholders can arrange to have their Reed Elsevier PLCs ordinary shares are quoted on the dividends paid directly into a bank or building society London Stock Exchange.
This method of payment reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures Reed Elsevier NVs ordinary shares are quoted on the the account is credited on the dividend payment date.
Euronext Stock Exchange in Amsterdam.
ShareGift The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share shares are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs, of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
Details of the scheme can be obtained from the ShareGift website www.
org or by telephoning ShareGift on The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary 020 7337 0501. share prices and the ADR prices may be obtained from the Reed Elsevier website and from the financial pages Share dealing service of many newspapers.
A telephone and internet dealing service has been arranged through Lloyds TSB Registrars which provides a simple way Information for Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shareholders for UK-resident shareholders to buy or sell Reed Elsevier PLC shares.
Commission is 0.5% with a minimum charge Shareholder services of 20 for telephone dealing and 17.50 for internet dealing.
The Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share register is For telephone dealing call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Enquiries and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing concerning ordinary shareholdings in Reed Elsevier PLC log on to www.
You will need your and notification of change of personal details should be shareholder account number shown on the Form of Proxy.
referred to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address shown on page 45.
Individual Savings Accounts ISA Lloyds TSB Bank plc can provide a single company ISA Electronic communications for Reed Elsevier PLC shares.
Details of this ISA, which Reed Elsevier PLC has given e-mail notification, to those is only available to UK-resident shareholders, may be shareholders who have requested it, of the availability obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars by writing to them on the Reed Elsevier website of this Annual Review and at the address shown on page 45, or by calling their ISA Summary Financial Statements, the Annual Reports and helpline on 0870 24 24 244.
Financial Statements and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Reed Elsevier website contains a link Sub-division of ordinary shares to enable shareholders to register for future electronic On 28 July 1986 each Reed Elsevier PLC 1 ordinary share communication, view details of their shareholding or was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p each.
appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf Subsequently, on 2 May 1997 the 25p ordinary shares on any poll at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
were sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 43 Capital Gains Tax Annual Reports and Financial Statements The mid-market price of Reed Elsevier PLCs 1 ordinary A Dutch language version of the Annual Review and shares on 31 March 1982 was 282p each which, when Summary Financial Statements 2005 will be made available adjusted for the four for one sub-division in 1986 and on the Reed Elsevier website.
Copies of the Dutch language the subsequent two for one sub-division in 1997, gives an version can also be obtained from Reed Elsevier NV, equivalent amount of 35.25p for each 12.5p ordinary share.
at the registered office address shown on page 45.
Unsolicited mail Reed Elsevier NV has entered into arrangements Reed Elsevier PLC, along with other publicly owned with Stichting Communicatiekanaal Aandeelhouders companies, is legally obliged to make its share register Shareholder Communication Channel Trustee in available to anyone who requests a copy.
the Netherlands, facilitating the communication with and between shareholders, particularly in connection Shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from with general meetings of shareholders.
Under these organisations offering their services.
To limit the receipt arrangements, holders of Reed Elsevier NV bearer shares of such unsolicited mail, shareholders should contact whose shares are held in the custody of a Dutch bank, and the Mailing Preference Service MPS on 0845 703 4599, who have notified the intermediary authority appointed for or online at www.
uk, or by writing to MPS these purposes of their interest, will receive written for a registration form at: Mailing Preference Service information from the company with a proxy form for FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT their representation at general shareholders meetings.
Shareholders may still, however, receive unsolicited mail Information for Reed Elsevier PLC and from organisations that do not subscribe to the MPS service.
Reed Elsevier NV ADR holders The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADR Depositary Information for Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shareholders is The Bank of New York.
Reed Elsevier PLCs CUSIP number is 758205108 and its trading symbol is RUK.
Each Shareholder enquiries Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents four Reed Elsevier PLC Enquiries from holders of Reed Elsevier NV registered ordinary shares.
Reed Elsevier NVs CUSIP number is ordinary shares in relation to share transfers, dividends, 758204101 and its trading symbol is ENL.
Each Reed Elsevier change of address and bank accounts should be directed NV ADR represents two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
to the Company Secretary of Reed Elsevier NV, at the registered office address shown on page 45.
ADR shareholder services Enquiries concerning Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV Dividend payments ADRs should be addressed to the ADR Depositary at the Dividends on Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are paid address shown on page 45. in euros.
Registered shareholders in Reed Elsevier NV will receive dividends from the company by transmission to Dividends the bank account which they have notified to the company.
Dividend payments on Reed Elsevier PLC and Dividends on shares in bearer form are paid through the Reed Elsevier NV ADRs are made in US dollars by the intermediary of a bank or broker.
Payment of the final dividend for 2005 on Reed Elsevier PLCs ADRs will be converted at the Sub-division of ordinary shares US$ exchange rate, and on Reed Elsevier NVs ADRs On 24 April 1984 each Reed Elsevier NV Dfl 20 ordinary at the a US$ exchange rate, on 12 May 2006. share was sub-divided into five ordinary shares of Dfl 4 each, and on 24 April 1987 each Dfl 4 ordinary share Annual Report on Form 20-F was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of Dfl 1 each.
The Annual Report on Form 20-F for the Reed Elsevier Subsequently, on 4 October 1994 each Dfl 1 ordinary share combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed was sub-divided into 10 ordinary shares of Dfl 0.10 each.
Elsevier NV is filed electronically with the United States On 15 April 1999 the ordinary shares of Dfl 0.10 were Securities and Exchange Commission.
A copy of Form 20-F redenominated as ordinary shares of a0.06.
is available on the Reed Elsevier website, or from the ADR Depositary at the address shown on page 45.
