AR 2005. qxd 2 8 05 11:53 am Page 37 NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 32nd annual general meeting of 8.
To consider as special business and, if thought fit, to pass the Company will be held at New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, the following resolution, which will be proposed as a Gloucestershire, GL12 8JR on Friday 14th October 2005 at noon to special resolution:- transact the following business:- THAT the articles of association be hereby amended by the 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and auditors and deletion of article 82.2. the financial statements for the year ended 30th June 2005.
By order of the Board New Mills 3.
To re-elect as a director of the Company D R McMurtry, A C G Roberts FCA Wotton-under-Edge who is retiring by rotation.
To re-elect as a director of the Company D J Deer, who is retiring by rotation.
To approve the Directors remuneration report contained in the Annual report 2005.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Company and to authorise the directors to determine Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders their remuneration.
registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6 pm on 12th October 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered 7.
To consider as special business and, if thought fit, to pass in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register the following resolution, which will be proposed as a of securities after 6 pm on 12th October 2005 shall be disregarded in special resolution:- determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or THAT the Company be and is hereby unconditionally authorised to proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him or her.
A proxy make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of need not be a member of the Company and the appointment of a the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 20p each in the proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting at the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed for this purpose.
i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby The register of directors shareholdings will be available for inspection at authorised to be purchased is 7,278,854: the registered office of the Company during normal business hours until ii the maximum price that may be paid for an ordinary share is the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting for 15 minutes an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market prior to, and during, the meeting.
No director has a service contract.
quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 10 business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 20p: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held in 2006 and 31st December 2006 unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to such contract.
