AR 2005. qxd 9 8 05 10:46 am Page 24 NOTES forming part of the financial statements Foreign currency 1.
Accounting policies Overseas results are translated into Sterling at weighted average The following principal accounting policies have been applied exchange rates for the year.
Overseas assets and liabilities included in consistently in the preparation of the financial statements of the the consolidated balance sheet are translated into Sterling at the Group.
The financial statements have been prepared under the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the accounting year.
The historical cost accounting rules and in accordance with applicable resultant currency exchange differences are treated as movements on accounting standards.
reserves and are reported in the consolidated statement of total Basis of consolidation recognised gains and losses.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Where forward exchange contracts are entered into, to hedge foreign statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
currency income streams, any profits or losses arising on maturity of Details of subsidiary undertakings are shown in note 22. the contracts are accounted for in the profit and loss account at the time of maturity.
Profits and losses arising on currency borrowings In accordance with FRS 8, transactions or balances between group used to hedge the foreign currency exposure on the net assets of the companies that have been eliminated on consolidation are not overseas subsidiaries, are accounted for directly in reserves, to the reported as related party transactions.
extent that the level of currency borrowings match the net assets and As provided by section 230 3 of the Companies Act 1985, a are included in the consolidated statement of total recognised gains separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the and losses.
Company alone has not been presented.
Liquid resources and cash Turnover Cash, for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, Turnover represents the amount derived from the provision by the comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less Group of goods and services to third party customers during the overdrafts payable on demand.
Liquid resources comprise term year less returns, allowances and value added tax.
deposits of less than one year.
Tangible assets and depreciation Pension costs Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The Group operates contributory pension schemes, of the defined Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of assets less their benefit type, for UK and Irish based employees.
The schemes are estimated residual value on a straight line basis over their estimated administered by trustees and are independent of the group finances.
useful economic lives as follows:- Contributions are paid to the schemes in accordance with the Freehold buildings 50 years recommendations of independent actuaries to enable the trustees to Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years meet from the schemes the benefits accruing in respect of current Motor vehicles 3 to 4 years and future service.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market value.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and Stocks discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The increase in comprises direct materials and labour plus overheads applicable to the present value of the liabilities of the Groups defined benefit the stage of manufacture reached.
pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged to operating profit.
The expected return on the Research and development schemes assets and the increase during the period in the present Research and development expenditure is charged to profit and loss value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are account in the year in which it is incurred.
included in other finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Consolidated statement of total recognised gains Taxation and losses.
The charge for taxation is based on the group profit for the year.
The pension schemes surpluses, to the extent that they are Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation on the face of the balance sheet net of the related deferred tax.
and accounting purposes, which have arisen but not reversed by the Foreign-based employees are covered by state, defined benefit and balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. private pension schemes in their countries of residence.
Actuarial Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded valuations of foreign pension schemes, in accordance with FRS 17, as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
were not obtained, apart from Ireland, because of the smaller number of foreign employees.
Warranty on the sale of products The Group provides a warranty from the date of purchase on all its products.
This is typically for a twelve-month period, although up to three years is given for a small number of products.
A warranty provision is included in the accounts, which is calculated on the basis of historical return in warranty information and other quality reports.
