Subsidiary undertakings The following are the subsidiary undertakings of Renishaw plc, all of which are wholly-owned, unless otherwise stated.
The country of incorporation and registration is England and Wales unless otherwise stated.
The country of incorporation is also the country of operation.
[equity held by a subsidiary undertaking] Company Principal activities Renishaw International Limited Overseas holding and investment company.
Renishaw Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology and inspection equipment.
Renishaw Investments Limited Guernsey Investment company.
Renishaw Finance and Insurance Guernsey Limited Guernsey Finance and captive insurance company.
Renishaw Holdings Limited Holding and investment company.
Renishaw Finance Limited Finance company.
Renishaw S. A. S. France Service, distribution, research and development and manufacture of group products.
Wotton Travel Limited Travel agency.
RLS merilna tehnika d. o. o. Slovenia 50% Manufacture and distribution of own products and distribution of group products.
Company principal activity is the service and distribution of group products Renishaw Inc USA Renishaw Oceania Pty Limited Australia Renishaw KK Japan Renishaw s. r. o. Czech Republic Renishaw GmbH Germany Renishaw Sp.
z o. o. Poland Renishaw S. p. A. Italy OOO Renishaw Russia Renishaw Iberica S. A. Spain Renishaw AB Sweden Renishaw A. G. Switzerland Renishaw Austria GmbH Austria Renishaw Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Renishaw Korea Limited South Korea Renishaw Latino Americana Ltda.
Brazil Renishaw Canada Limited Canada Renishaw Metrology Systems Private Limited India Renishaw Israel Limited Israel Renishaw Benelux BV The Netherlands 23.
Related party transaction On 27th June 2005, the Company sold two parcels of land, one of which is subject to an agricultural tenancy, to D R McMurtry.
The land was valued at 80,000 by a firm of independent chartered surveyors, which was the purchase price paid by D R McMurtry.
The sale includes a provision requiring payment of an additional amount if the land is disposed of within 25 years of the sale with the benefit of planning permission for a use other than agricultural use.
The sale was reviewed and approved by the Board.
D R McMurtry did not take part in the discussions and abstained from voting on the matter.
