A letter from the Chairman and CEO continued I admit these aims are largely qualitative but they are fundamental to reshaping the company and getting it back on the right track.
There are three key points to note here: first, the problems that exist are largely within our control to solve: second, we cannot ignore market realities of tough competition in relatively modestly growing sectors: and third, we have several strong market positions from which to build.
It is these businesses which have the potential to create the most shareholder value because they have or can build international leadership positions in their markets, can sustain profitable growth and add value through being part of the group.
In addition, we have other businesses with strong country or regional positions which can also contribute to shareholder value.
Taking the companys circumstances together, we believe we can add considerable value to what we have.
Out of the review came a detailed plan to revive and refresh the company and we are now well into the implementation phase of this plan.
The scope, scale and ambition of what our company is undertaking should not be underestimated.
Progress against the plan became apparent as 2005 unfolded: revenue increased in every quarter: the rate of profit deceleration slowed as the year progressed: the portfolio was up and customer terminations down.
We expect this to continue throughout 2006 and beyond.
However, a complete turnaround will take time, with revenues improving ahead of profits which, in turn, I expect to precede margin improvement.
This brings me to the first of the three areas we have been focusing on: strategy.
Having identified our key businesses, we are aiming to provide clear strategic focus and investment priorities within the group and to build stronger strategic positions within our businesses.
Acquisitions are an important part of this and in 2005 we acquired an Austrian textiles business, which has enabled us to introduce our existing strong European textiles model into that country, and 39 small bolt-ons.
Most recently we acquired J. C. Ehrlich, the largest independently owned and fourth largest overall High access cleaning pest control company in the USA.
Ehrlich has an excellent reputation and a strong position in the Safe, well planned and managed high access cleaning is just one growing US pest control industry and provides a platform for growth in this important market.
of many specialist services that the At $141.8 million, Ehrlich was by far the largest acquisition the company had undertaken since BET Facilities Services division offers to in 1996.
With a changing marketplace and a somewhat awkward franchise agreement, the progress customers in the provision of total of City Link has been hindered over the last few years.
To improve strategic and operational property maintenance and care.
flexibility, we announced in October that we would be ending franchising arrangements within a maximum of five years by buying back the franchises.
It had been hoped that we would be able to dispose of the loss-making linen and workwear activities of our UK textiles business but after exploring all possible options, we regretfully concluded that closure was the only option.
This decision was not taken lightly but a sale was not feasible due to the serious risk of regulatory intervention and the consequent uncertainty in terms of timing, costs and eventual exit.
The unsatisfactory position of the UK linen and workwear activities has not, however, dented our continuing enthusiasm and commitment to our textiles business in continental Europe.
We are also now able to move forward the UK washroom activities, the progress of which had been hindered for some time by the long and complex process of disentangling it from linen and workwear.
04 Rentokil Initial plc A Letter from the Chairman and CEO
