We are actively managing our portfolio of businesses to ensure each business within our company can appropriately contribute to creating value.
If we believe a business is likely to do better with alternative ownership, we will seek to divest it.
Thus in 2005 we disposed of Style Conferences for 325 million.
More recently have sold our manned guarding activities in the UK and Canada for a total of 105 million and at the time of writing we are still in discussion on the US and Belgian guarding businesses.
These were profitable, well-run businesses but better owned by others and we achieved good prices in each case.
Separately, our company had collected an array of small entities of no strategic relevance which have been, or are being, disposed of.
The second area of focus is people and structure.
I am particularly pleased with the progress made in 2005 in this area.
I firmly believe that turning this company around is all about the people within it.
The best plans will come to nothing without the committed people to execute them.
In 2005, I think we have put together a talented and dedicated senior management team.
Andrew Macfarlane joined us as chief financial officer, Andy Kemp as group HR director and Catherine Brown as head of the Change Programme Office.
We have two new divisional managing directors: Andy Hobart at Pest Control and Tropical Plants and David Liu in Asia Pacific.
Including myself and Mark Boyle, who joined as group director of strategy and development shortly before my appointment, seven of the eleven most senior positions in the company are new recruits.
In 2006, the senior team, which includes existing divisional managers Henri Hendrickx, Henry Chandler and Clive Ward, will focus on developing their own teams, introducing new talent and upgrading skills where needed.
When I joined the company, it was organised on a rather eclectic mix of business activities and regional territories.
This has now been changed and each business is now wholly under the leadership of one member of the senior team.
The new structure is designed to execute the strategy and drive growth and facilitates the sharing of market knowledge and core competences.
It makes us more responsive to changes in both customer needs and the marketplace.
The one exception to the business segment based structure is Asia Pacific.
Here, we have formed a new division which will lead all our activities in the region to take full advantage of the opportunity the emerging markets in Asia Pacific represent for us.
Also within the area of people and structure are the issues of measurement and rewards.
These have been reviewed at all levels in the company.
In many businesses there has been an unacceptably high rate of turnover of service and sales personnel.
A significant contributor to this has been the level of base pay.
In 2005, improvement was made where it was most required and over time we will continue to ensure that we are paying competitive rates of pay.
Additionally, greater attention is being made to recruitment and training processes.
Management incentives have been another element in need of some work.
For the company to be regenerated and create value for shareholders, we have to be able to attract and motivate new and Rentokil Initial plc A Letter from the Chairman and CEO 05
