Notes to the company financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the profit and loss account.
For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in reserves, with any ineffective portion recognised in the profit and loss account.
When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in reserves are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in reserves are transferred to the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the profit and loss account.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Borrowings excluding convertible preference shares are measured at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Convertible preference shares are split into a liability component and an equity component.
On issue, the fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for an equivalent non convertible bond and recognised in borrowings on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the proceeds of the issue is allocated to the conversion option that is recognised in preference share capital.
The change in value of the conversion option, other than on conversion or redemption, in subsequent accounting periods is not recognised in the financial statements.
Dividends on convertible preference shares are charged as interest in the profit and loss account.
Debtors are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
Debtors are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
"2 Employee costs and numbers 2005 2004 m m Employee costs including directors: Wages and salaries 15 15 Social security 2 2 Share based payment 4 2 Retirement bene ts operating pro t charge 9 9 30 28 For details of directors remuneration see the ""Remuneration Report""."
2005 2004 Number Number Average employee numbers 128 124 3 Auditors' remuneration 2005 2004 m m Audit 0.6 0.4 Other assurance and tax advice 1.2 1.4 1.8 1.8 4 Equity dividends For details of equity dividends see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
