Notes to the company financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies The financial statements of Rexam PLC are prepared under UK GAAP using the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account is not presented.
"In preparing the financial statements the following accounting standards which impact the financial statements have been adopted in 2005: FRS20 Share Based Payment""."
FRS21 Events After the Balance Sheet Date.
FRS23 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
FRS25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
As a result of the adoption of the above accounting standards, restatements have been made to the corresponding amounts as set out in the various notes to the company financial statements.
As permitted, FRS25 and FRS26 have been adopted from 1 January 2005 with no restatement of corresponding amounts.
Disclosures have been made on financial instruments as required by the Companies Act 1985.
Rexam PLC is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS25.
The principal adjustments that would be required to the corresponding amounts to comply with FRS25 and FRS26 are as follows: i Allocating convertible preference shares between liability and equity components.
ii Recognising derivative financial instruments at fair value and eliminating related accrued interest from debtors and creditors.
iii Adjusting sterling medium term notes by the fair value of the interest rate swaps used to hedge the notes.
iv Reclassifying accrued interest on borrowings from creditors to borrowings.
Foreign currencies All exchange differences arising on foreign currencies are taken to the profit and loss account.
Interest Interest on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings held at amortised cost is recognised in the profit and loss account using the effective interest method.
Interest includes exchange differences arising on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings.
In 2004 interest includes amounts accrued under interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
In 2005 interest includes all fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, and corresponding adjustments to hedged items under designated fair value hedging relationships, where they relate to financing activities and are recognised in the profit and loss account.
In 2005 interest includes dividends on convertible preference shares.
Retirement bene ts The pension rights of Rexam PLC employees are dealt with through a self-administered scheme, the assets of which are held independently of the Groups finances.
The scheme is a defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from Rexam PLC and its subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
In accordance with FRS17, Rexam PLC accounts for its contributions as though it were a defined contribution scheme.
This is because the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme cover Rexam PLC and a number of its subsidiaries and it cannot be split between each subsidiary on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Full details of the scheme and its deficit can be found in Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Share based payment Rexam PLC operates various share settled share option schemes.
The services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the profit and loss account, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
FRS20 has been applied to share settled share options granted after 7 November 2002.
The Rexam Employee Share Trust holds shares in Rexam PLC which are presented as a deduction from shareholders funds.
120 Notes to the company financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued Tangible xed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less provision for depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of tangible fixed assets over their expected lives by equal annual instalments.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets.
Assumed lives vary according to the class of asset as follows: Computer hardware and software 2 to 7 years Fixtures, fittings and vehicles 4 to 10 years Investment in joint venture The investment in the joint venture is stated at cost less provisions for impairment where appropriate.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for impairment where appropriate.
Dividends Under FRS21, final ordinary dividends payable to the shareholders of Rexam PLC are recognised in the period that they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim ordinary dividends payable are recognised in the period that they are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Financial instruments accounting policies applicable up to 31 December 2004 Financial instruments are used as hedges in the financing and financial risk management of the Company.
Forward foreign exchange contracts FX contracts which hedge currency assets and liabilities are recognised in the financial statements together with the assets and liabilities that they hedge.
The contract rate is used for translation.
FX contracts which hedge future sales and purchases are not recognised in the financial statements until the transaction they hedge is itself recognised.
If an FX contract ceases to be a hedge or it is a trading transaction, then any gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Premia paid or received on foreign exchange option contracts FX option contracts are recognised upon exercise or at maturity of the contract.
Recognised gains or losses on FX option contracts are reflected in the financial statements on the same basis as FX contracts.
Forward commodity contracts and options are recognised in the financial statements on the same basis as FX contracts.
Cross currency swaps are included in the financial statements at the rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are dealt with in accordance with the Companys accounting policy on foreign currencies.
Interest paid or received on cross currency swaps is recorded on an accruals basis in accordance with the Companys accounting policy on interest.
Apart from inclusion at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, cross currency swaps are not revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date.
Interest arising under interest rate swaps is recognised in the profit and loss account in accordance with the Companys accounting policy on interest.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date.
Options on cross currency or interest rate swaps are used either to hedge a bond transaction or as a means of entering into a swap as a hedge at a pre determined target rate.
Premia paid or received for such options are accounted for over the life of the resultant transaction or, if immaterial or no transaction takes place, are recognised in the profit and loss account upon exercise or at maturity of the option contract.
Dividends on convertible preference shares are charged as dividends in the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments accounting policies applicable from 1 January 2005 Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Company include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward aluminium commodity contracts.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Companys risk management policies.
Hedges are classified as follows: i Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
ii Cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
