Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The rules for first time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS1 requires the use of the same accounting policies in the IFRS transition balance sheet and for all periods presented thereafter.
The accounting policies must comply with all IFRS effective at the reporting date for the first financial reporting under IFRS, which is 31 December 2005.
The transition date to IFRS for Rexam was 1 January 2004.
IFRS1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of taking the following exemptions: i Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated to comply with IFRS3 Business Combinations.
ii All cumulative actuarial gains and losses with respect to employee benefits have been recognised in equity at 1 January 2004. iii Cumulative translation differences on foreign operations are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004.
Any gains and losses recognised in the consolidated income statement on subsequent disposal of foreign operations will therefore exclude translation differences arising prior to the transition date.
iv IAS32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement have been adopted from 1 January 2005, with no restatement of comparative information.
"New accounting standards and amendments to existing standards that have been published and are mandatory for the Group's accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted, are as follows: i IFRS7 ""Financial Instruments: Disclosures"", and amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements ""Capital Disclosures""."
IFRS7 introduces new disclosures about financial instruments.
It requires the disclosure of information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis to market risk.
It replaces the disclosure requirements in IAS32.
The amendment to IAS1 introduces disclosures about the level of an entity's capital and how it manages capital.
The Group assessed the impact of IFRS7 and the amendment to IAS1 and concluded that the main additional disclosures will be the sensitivity analysis and the capital disclosures.
"Due to the onerous nature of these disclosures the Group has chosen not to adopt IFRS7 and the amendment to IAS1 until annual periods beginning 1 January 2007. ii Amendment to IAS39 ""Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions""."
This amendment allows the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast intragroup transaction to qualify as a hedged item in the consolidated financial statements, provided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction and the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
Since the costs of compliance were deemed to outweigh the benefits to be obtained through such hedge accounting the Group chose not to adopt this amendment in 2005.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise Rexam PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the results of its associates and joint ventures.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared as of the same reporting date using consistent accounting policies.
Intercompany balances and transactions, including any unrealised profits arising from intercompany transactions, are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which the Group ceases to control them.
Associates and joint ventures are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued All acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group, together with any costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Foreign currencies The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
Exceptions to this are where the monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation or are designated as hedges of a net investment, or, from 1 January 2005, designated as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statements are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate for the period.
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, the exchange rate on the transaction date is used.
Exchange differences on translation into sterling arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
The principal exchange rates against sterling used in these consolidated financial statements are as follows: Average Average Closing Closing 2005 2004 2005 2004 US dollar 1.82 1.83 1.74 1.93 Euro 1.46 1.47 1.46 1.42 Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration, net of rebates and trade discounts.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer, when the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution pension plans.
A defined benefit pension plan is one that specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
The Group operates both funded defined benefit pension plans, where actuarially determined payments are made to trustee administered funds, and unfunded defined benefit pension plans, where no such payments are made.
The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated, at least triennially, by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefits pension plans, less administration expenses of pension plans, and the interest on pension plan liabilities comprise the pension element of the net finance cost in the consolidated income statement.
Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, experience gains and losses and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
A defined contribution plan is one under which fixed contributions are paid to a third party.
The Group has no further payment obligations once these contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised in the consolidated income statement when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is likely.
The Group also provides post retirement healthcare benefits retiree medical to certain of its current and former employees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on an employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet treatment with respect to retiree medical is similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
These obligations are valued by independent actuaries, usually on an annual basis.
69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued Share based payment The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled share option schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is measured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
IFRS2 Share-based Payment has been applied to equity settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 and to all cash settled share options.
The Rexam Employee Share Trust holds ordinary shares in Rexam PLC which are presented in the consolidated financial statements as a deduction from equity.
Interest Interest on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings held at amortised cost is recognised in the consolidated income statement using the effective interest method.
Interest includes exchange differences arising on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings, where such exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
In 2004 interest includes amounts accrued under interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
In 2005 interest includes all fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, and corresponding adjustments to hedged items under designated fair value hedging relationships, where they relate to financing activities and are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
In 2005 interest includes dividends on convertible preference shares.
Segment reporting The Groups primary reporting format is business segments and its secondary format is geographical segments.
A business segment is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group of related products and is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is a component of the Group that operates within a particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components operating in other economic environments.
Non specific central costs are allocated on the basis of net assets excluding investments in associates and joint ventures, net borrowings, deferred tax, current tax and non current tax.
Disposals and other exceptional items Gains and losses realised on the disposal of businesses and items which are material by size and or by nature and are non recurring are presented as disposals and other exceptional items within their relevant consolidated income statement category.
Items that management consider fall into this category are presented separately in the consolidated income statement under the column Disposals and other exceptional items.
The separate reporting of disposals and other exceptional items helps provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Events which may give rise to disposals and other exceptional items include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, the restructuring of businesses, the integration of new businesses, asset impairments and the subsequent recognition of deferred tax assets on prior year acquisitions.
Goodwill Acquired goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions on or before 31 December 1997 has been deducted from equity.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business sold except for the goodwill deducted from equity.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates and joint ventures is presented in investments in associates and joint ventures.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of intangible assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: Acquired computer software 2 to 3 years Computer software development Up to 7 years Acquired patents, licences and customer contracts Up to 20 years Development projects Up to 5 years The cost of intangible assets acquired in an acquisition is the fair value at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase price and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
Computer software development costs that are directly associated with the implementation of major business systems are capitalised as intangible assets.
70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued Expenditure on research is recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Expenditure incurred on development projects is capitalised as an intangible asset if it is probable that the expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be measured reliably.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leasehold buildings Shorter of 50 years or lease term Manufacturing machinery 7 to 17 years Furnaces in glassworks Up to 12 years Computer hardware Up to 8 years Fixtures, fittings and vehicles 4 to 10 years Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
Impairment of assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use and is determined for an individual asset.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined.
Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in first out or a weighted average cost basis.
Cost comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs and an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement comprise cash at bank and in hand, money market deposits and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are presented in borrowings within current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Grants Grants received in respect of property, plant and equipment are capitalised and released to the consolidated income statement in equal instalments over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
Emission rights Emission rights are initially recognised as intangible assets at fair value.
Where they are acquired at less than fair value the difference between the amount paid and fair value is recognised as a government grant.
Emission rights are not revalued or amortised but are tested for impairment where there is any indication of impairment.
Any government grant element is amortised in the consolidated income statement over the period to which the corresponding emission rights relate.
A provision is made for the liability to deliver emission allowances equal to the emissions that have been made.
Emission rights and associated provisions are derecognised when delivered, sold or lapsed.
Any pro t or loss on disposal is taken to the consolidated income statement.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists in respect of a past event and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for restructuring are recognised for direct expenditure on business reorganisations where plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance sheet date.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued Leases Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the liability and finance charge to produce a constant rate of interest on the finance lease balance outstanding.
Assets capitalised under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Any incentives to enter into operating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight line basis.
Tax Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than an acquisition, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised.
Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the tax relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Dividends Final equity dividends to the shareholders of Rexam PLC are recognised in the period that they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
Financial instruments UK GAAP accounting policies applicable up to 31 December 2004 Financial instruments are used as hedges in the financing and financial risk management of the Group.
Forward foreign exchange contracts FX contracts which hedge currency assets and liabilities are recognised in the consolidated financial statements together with the assets and liabilities that they hedge.
The contract rate is used for translation.
FX contracts which hedge future sales and purchases are not recognised in the consolidated financial statements until the transaction they hedge is itself recognised.
If an FX contract ceases to be a hedge or it is a trading transaction, then any gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Premia paid or received on foreign exchange option contracts FX option contracts are recognised upon exercise or at maturity of the contract.
Recognised gains or losses on FX option contracts are reflected in the consolidated financial statements on the same basis as FX contracts.
Forward commodity contracts and options are recognised in the consolidated financial statements on the same basis as FX contracts.
Cross currency swaps are included in the consolidated financial statements at the rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are dealt with in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on foreign currencies.
Interest paid or received on cross currency swaps is recorded on an accruals basis in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on interest.
Apart from inclusion at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, cross currency swaps are not revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date.
Interest arising under interest rate swaps is recognised in the consolidated income statement in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on interest.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date.
Options on cross currency or interest rate swaps are used either to hedge a bond transaction or as a means of entering into a swap as a hedge at a pre determined target rate.
Premia paid or received for such options are accounted for over the life of the resultant transaction or, if immaterial or no transaction takes place, are recognised in the consolidated income statement upon exercise or at maturity of the option contract.
Dividends on convertible preference shares are charged as dividends in the consolidated income statement.
Other investments are stated at cost, with the exception of certain investments used to satisfy pension obligations which are held at market value.
Unrealised market value changes on these assets are taken to the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued Financial instruments IFRS accounting policies applicable from 1 January 2005 Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward aluminium and energy commodity contracts.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are classified as follows: a Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
b Cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
c Net investment hedges where they hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the consolidated income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to operating activities are included in operating profit when recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to financing activities are included in interest when recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Borrowings excluding convertible preference shares are measured at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations, the portion of the exchange gain or loss on the borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
Convertible preference shares are split into a liability component and an equity component.
On issue, the fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for an equivalent non convertible bond and recognised in borrowings on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the proceeds of the issue is allocated to the conversion option that is recognised in equity.
The change in value of the conversion option, other than on conversion or redemption, in subsequent accounting periods is not recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
Dividends on convertible preference shares are charged as interest in the consolidated income statement.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from these assets which are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
