Notes to the consolidated financial statements 41 Reconciliation of the consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2005 on adoption of IAS32 and IAS39 Impact of adoption of IAS32 and IAS39 Forward Forward Under Interest Cross foreign aluminium Convertible Deferred Under IFRS at rate currency exchange commodity Embedded preference Cash tax and IFRS at 31.12.04 swaps swaps contracts contracts derivatives Borrowings shares offset other 1.1.
Interest rate swaps Under UK GAAP, only accrued interest under interest rate swaps was recognised on the balance sheet.
Under IAS39, the fair value of interest rate swaps is recognised.
Net assets reduce by 13m under IAS39, comprising a net derivative financial instrument asset of 3m representing the fair value of the interest rate swaps including accrued interest, reduced by 16m of accrued interest previously recognised in trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
Cross currency swaps Under UK GAAP, cross currency swaps were recognised at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date together with accrued interest.
Under IAS39, the fair value of cross currency swaps is recognised.
Net assets increase by 9m under IAS39, comprising an increase in derivative financial instrument assets of 22m representing the fair value less the spot value of the cross currency swaps including accrued interest, reduced by 13m of accrued interest previously recognised in trade and other receivables.
Forward foreign exchange contracts Under UK GAAP, forward foreign exchange contracts were generally only recognised on settlement.
Under IAS39, the fair value of all forward foreign exchange contracts is recognised.
A net derivative financial instrument liability of 17m is recognised under IAS39.
Forward aluminium commodity contracts Under UK GAAP, aluminium commodity contracts were only recognised on settlement.
Under IAS39, the fair value of aluminium commodity contracts is recognised.
A derivative financial instrument asset of 34m is recognised under IAS39.
Embedded derivatives Under UK GAAP, embedded derivatives were not recognised.
Under IAS39, the fair value of embedded derivatives not closely related to their host contracts is recognised.
A net embedded derivative financial instrument liability of 6m is recognised under IAS39.
Borrowings Under UK GAAP, sterling medium term notes were recognised at initial proceeds received, comprising face values adjusted for issue fees, discounts and premia.
Issue fees, discounts and premia were amortised over the life of the notes.
Premia received and paid on interest rate swaps used to hedge the notes were also recognised.
Under IAS39, the amortised cost of sterling medium term notes is adjusted by the fair value of the interest rate swaps used to hedge the notes.
Under UK GAAP, interest accrued on borrowings was included in trade and other payables.
Under IAS39, interest accrued on borrowings is included within borrowings.
Liabilities increase by 7m under IAS39, comprising a 9m increase in sterling medium term notes borrowings, reduced by a 2m liability in respect of premia no longer recognised.
Borrowings increase and trade and other payables reduce by 43m with respect to interest accrued under IAS39.
Convertible preference shares Under UK GAAP, convertible preference shares were recognised at nominal value in non equity shareholders funds.
Under IAS32, convertible preference shares are allocated between liability and equity components.
Liabilities increase by 69m under IAS32, comprising an increase in borrowings of 70m, reduced by 1m in respect of accrued dividends no longer required.
Cash offset Under UK GAAP, cash and overdraft balances maintained in notional pooling cash management arrangements with banks were offset so that only the net amounts were shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
Under IAS32, the requirements to show a net balance presentation also include the intention to settle those balances on a net basis.
Rexam uses notional pooling to reduce bank interest costs and to manage cash in subsidiary bank accounts, but without the intention to settle all such balances on a net basis.
As a result, cash and cash equivalents and borrowings increase by 152m.
A summary of the principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS for the consolidated income statement are set out in Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements and for the consolidated balance sheet are set out in Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
Before disposals and other exceptional items.
Includes proposed final dividends in 2004 and 2005, which in accordance with IFRS accounting requirements have not been accrued in the consolidated financial statements.
Interest cover is based on underlying operating pro t and net interest expense excluding preference dividends and gains and losses on nancing derivatives.
