Notes to the consolidated financial statements 23 Derivative financial instruments 2005 2004 m m Non current assets 92 90 Current assets 43 11 135 101 Current liabilities 20 2 Total derivative financial instruments 115 99 See Notes 24 and 25 for further details of derivative financial instruments.
24 Financial instruments 2005 i Financial risk management Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage trading exposures, liabilities and assets under parameters laid down by the Board of Directors and are monitored by its Finance Committee.
Derivative financial instruments are used as economic hedges to manage interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity risks.
Rexam has not used derivatives for purposes other than for hedging.
Hedge accounting treatment has not been applied, following the adoption of IFRS, to all hedging activities due in part to the onerous level of compliance required under IAS39.
All derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The Groups major operational hedging activities, mainly associated with the European beverage can operation, comply with IFRS hedge accounting requirements.
For the smaller trading exposures in its other businesses, Rexam has derivative hedges which are effective from an economic standpoint, but where hedge accounting has not been applied.
Fair value gains and losses on these hedges are recognised in the consolidated income statement at each reporting date.
The income statement volatility resulting from these exposures is not significant.
Rexam has entered into interest rate swap transactions to fix its US dollar interest payments.
These US dollar interest rate swaps hedge floating interest payable on a sterling to US dollar cross currency swap associated with Rexams issue of 250m sterling medium term notes in 2002.
These medium term notes were subsequently swapped into US dollars as a cost efficient way of raising US dollar bond debt at the time of issue.
The interest rate swaps fail to get hedge accounting treatment under IAS39 as they are hedging other derivatives.
Fair value gains and losses on these interest rate swaps have to be taken to the consolidated income statement at each reporting date.
The amount taken to the consolidated income statement each year will be determined by movements in US dollar interest rates on bonds and swaps with equivalent maturities, which can neither be predicted nor, under current IFRS rules, managed.
The swaps continue to fulfil their original objective of fixing part of the Group's US dollar interest cash payments, even though the IFRS accounting treatment means that there is associated volatility in the consolidated income statement.
When the fixed euro medium term notes were issued in 2002, they were immediately swapped to floating rates, so as to maintain the balance between fixed and floating rates.
Rexam then entered into interest rate swap transactions to fix a part of its euro interest payments.
Under IFRS, these two sets of interest rate swaps, entered into at different times and at different rates, are now effectively offsetting the volatility each would otherwise generate, whilst the fixed rate notes provide the fixed rate level of funding sought.
In 2005 there was a net gain of 9m on financing derivatives recorded within interest in the consolidated income statement.
This comprised a 5m gain on the US dollar interest rate swaps, a 6m gain on the offsetting euro interest rate swaps and a 2m loss on other cross currency swaps.
Interest rate risk The objective of interest rate risk management is to reduce the Group's exposure to the effects of rising short term interest rates.
Its effect is to fix the interest cash flows, using interest rate swaps, for a significant part of the Group's borrowings.
The interest rate risk profile of the Group is set out in iv below.
The issue of longer term borrowings through the MTN programme is a key element of the Group's debt and financial risk management process.
Fixed rate MTNs, in sterling 250m and euros euros 550m, were issued in 2002 to meet strong investor demand for public issuance in those currencies, which helped the pricing of the notes issued.
However, the Group's fixed to floating rate debt proportions were relatively high at that time and its own funding needs were for floating rate euros and US dollars.
To satisfy both investor demand and meet its own funding needs, the Group entered into a series of swap transactions simultaneously with the pricing of the notes.
A further MTN issue of 120m was made in February 2003 and, again simultaneous to issue, it was swapped into floating rate US dollar interest rates to its maturity.
Additional smaller private issues of MTNs have been made in response to investor enquiries.
Most of these notes have been issued at floating rates to fit more readily into the Groups funding profile.
This has enabled the Group to continue to manage the fixed to floating rate proportion of its borrowings and the duration of the fixed rate borrowings independently of the sourcing of the funding.
Interest rate swaps have been used to fix a proportion of the US dollar interest paid by the Group.
These interest rate swaps cannot be treated as hedges under IFRS rules, so fair value gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Re nancing risk It is the Group's policy to maintain a range of maturity dates for its borrowings, and to refinance them at the appropriate time so as to reduce refinancing risk.
The Group also has a committed syndicated bank facility of 775m, reduced from 875m at 31 December 2004, due in 2010.
