Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The rules for first time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS1 requires the use of the same accounting policies in the IFRS transition balance sheet and for all periods presented thereafter.
The accounting policies must comply with all IFRS effective at the reporting date for the first financial reporting under IFRS, which is 31 December 2005.
The transition date to IFRS for Rexam was 1 January 2004.
IFRS1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of taking the following exemptions: i Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated to comply with IFRS3 Business Combinations.
ii All cumulative actuarial gains and losses with respect to employee benefits have been recognised in equity at 1 January 2004. iii Cumulative translation differences on foreign operations are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004.
Any gains and losses recognised in the consolidated income statement on subsequent disposal of foreign operations will therefore exclude translation differences arising prior to the transition date.
iv IAS32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement have been adopted from 1 January 2005, with no restatement of comparative information.
"New accounting standards and amendments to existing standards that have been published and are mandatory for the Group's accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted, are as follows: i IFRS7 ""Financial Instruments: Disclosures"", and amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements ""Capital Disclosures""."
IFRS7 introduces new disclosures about financial instruments.
It requires the disclosure of information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis to market risk.
It replaces the disclosure requirements in IAS32.
The amendment to IAS1 introduces disclosures about the level of an entity's capital and how it manages capital.
The Group assessed the impact of IFRS7 and the amendment to IAS1 and concluded that the main additional disclosures will be the sensitivity analysis and the capital disclosures.
"Due to the onerous nature of these disclosures the Group has chosen not to adopt IFRS7 and the amendment to IAS1 until annual periods beginning 1 January 2007. ii Amendment to IAS39 ""Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions""."
This amendment allows the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast intragroup transaction to qualify as a hedged item in the consolidated financial statements, provided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction and the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
Since the costs of compliance were deemed to outweigh the benefits to be obtained through such hedge accounting the Group chose not to adopt this amendment in 2005.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise Rexam PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the results of its associates and joint ventures.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared as of the same reporting date using consistent accounting policies.
Intercompany balances and transactions, including any unrealised profits arising from intercompany transactions, are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which the Group ceases to control them.
Associates and joint ventures are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
