81795x 1190 27 2 06 8:31 PM Page 89 general meetings because they have acquired shares in one Company association of Rio Tinto plc and the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited in excess of a given threshold without making an offer for all the shares were amended with the intention of extending these laws and in the other Company.
If this should occur, the votes cast by these regulations to the combined enterprise and, in particular, to ensure that excluded shareholders will be disregarded.
a person cannot exercise control over one Company without having Following the Companies general meetings the overall results of made offers to the public shareholders of both Companies.
It is the voting on Joint Decisions and the results of voting on separate consistent with the creation of the single economic enterprise and the decisions will be announced to the stock exchanges, published on the equal treatment of the two sets of shareholders, that these laws and Rio Tinto website and advertised in the Financial Times and Australian regulations should operate in this way.
The articles of association of newspapers.
The results of the 2005 annual general meetings may also Rio Tinto plc and the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose be obtained on the appropriate shareholder helpline Rio Tinto plc: restrictions on any person who controls, directly or indirectly, 20 per cent Freephone 0800 435021: and Rio Tinto Limited: toll free 1800 813 292. or more of the votes on a Joint Decision.
If, however, such a person only has an interest in either Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc, then the Rio Tinto plc restrictions will only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, 30 per cent At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision will or more of the votes at that Companys general meetings.
be considered, each Rio Tinto plc share will carry one vote and the If one of the thresholds specified above is breached then, subject holder of its Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote cast to certain limited exceptions and notification by the relevant Company, by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited.
The holder of the such persons i may not attend or vote at general meetings of the Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly and only in accordance relevant Company: ii may not receive dividends or other distributions with the votes cast by public shareholders for and against the equivalent from the relevant Company: and iii may be divested of their interest by resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting.
the directors of the relevant Company.
These restrictions will continue to The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually apply until such persons have either made a public offer for all of the hold any voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in publicly held shares of the other Company, or have reduced their Rio Tinto Limited and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating controlling interest below the thresholds specified, or have acquired to the Special Voting Share.
through a permitted means at least 50 per cent of the voting rights of all the shares held by the public shareholders of each Company.
Rio Tinto Limited These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the publicly At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision held shares of both Companies would be required to avoid the will be considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share will carry one vote and, restrictions set out above, even if the interests which breach the together with the Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares held by Tinto thresholds are only held in one of the Companies.
The directors do not Holdings Australia, the holder of its Special Voting Share will carry one have the discretion to exempt a person from the operation of these rules.
vote for each vote cast by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies agree to cooperate their parallel meeting.
Tinto Holdings Australia and the holder of the to enforce the restrictions contained in their articles of association and Special Voting Share are required to vote strictly, and only, in constitution and also agree that no member of the Rio Tinto Group shall accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution accept a third party offer for Rio Tinto Limited shares unless such at the parallel Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting.
acceptance is approved by a Joint Decision of the public shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold of both Companies.
any voting shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto plc and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Guarantees Special Voting Share.
In December 1995, each Company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of creditors of the other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll Capital distribution rights Guarantees, each Company guaranteed the contractual obligations of If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing Agreement the other Company and the obligations of other persons which are provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets of both guaranteed by the other Company, subject to certain limited exceptions.
If the surplus assets available for distribution by one Beneficiaries under the Deed Poll Guarantees may make demand upon Company on each of the shares held by its public shareholders exceed the guarantor thereunder without first having recourse to the Company the surplus assets available for distribution by the other Company on or persons whose obligations are being guaranteed.
The obligations of each of the shares held by its public shareholders, then an equalising the guarantor under each Deed Poll Guarantee expire upon termination payment between the two Companies shall be made, to the extent of the Sharing Agreement and under other limited circumstances, but permitted by applicable law, such that the amount available for only in respect of obligations arising after such termination and, in the distribution on each share held by public shareholders of each case of other limited circumstances, the publication and expiry of due Company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The objective is to ensure notice.
The shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce the provision that the public shareholders of both Companies have equivalent rights of the Deed Poll Guarantees.
to the assets of the combined Group on a per share basis, taking account of the Equalisation Ratio.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to General shareholder enquiries the shareholders of either Company upon liquidation of a Company.
Computershare Investor Services PLC and Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited are the registrars for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations Limited, respectively.
All enquiries and correspondence concerning The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose certain shareholdings, other than shares held in ADR form, should be directed restrictions and obligations on persons who control interests in public to the respective registrar.
Their addresses and telephone numbers are quoted companies in excess of certain thresholds that, under certain given under Useful addresses on page 180.
Shareholders should notify circumstances, include obligations to make a public offer for all of the Computershare promptly in writing of any change of address.
outstanding issued shares of the relevant company.
The threshold Enquiries concerning Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares held applicable to Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations is 30 per cent in ADR form should be directed to JPMorgan Chase Bank NA whose and to Rio Tinto Limited under Australian law and regulations is address and telephone number are also given under Useful addresses.
Shareholders can obtain details about their own shareholding on As part of the DLC merger, the memorandum and articles of the internet.
Full details, including how to gain secure access to this Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 89 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 200 5 81795x 1190 28 2 06 2:13 pm Page 90 Shareholder information continued personalised enquiry facility, are given on the Computershare website: Rio Tinto on the web www.
com Rio Tinto maintains a substantial amount of information on its website, including this and previous annual reports, many other publications and Consolidation of share certificates links to Group company websites.
If a certificated shareholding in Rio Tinto plc is represented by several The maintenance and integrity of the Rio Tinto website is the individual share certificates, they can be replaced by one consolidated responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the UK governing the certificate: there is no charge for this service.
Share certificates should preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from be sent to Computershare together with a letter of instruction.
Share certificates name change Website: www.
com Share certificates in the name of The RTZ Corporation PLC remain valid notwithstanding the name change to Rio Tinto plc in 1997.
General enquiries If you require general information about the Group please contact the Share warrants to bearer External Affairs department.
For all other enquiries please contact the All outstanding share warrants to bearer of Rio Tinto plc have been relevant company secretary or the share registrar.
converted into registered ordinary shares under the terms of a Scheme of Arrangement sanctioned by the Court in 2001.
Holders of any Publications outstanding share warrants to bearer should contact the company The following publications may be obtained free of charge from secretary of Rio Tinto plc for an application form in order to obtain their Rio Tinto: rights to registered ordinary shares.
2005 Annual report and financial statements Low cost share dealing service 2005 Annual review Stocktrade operates the Rio Tinto Low Cost Share Dealing Service which 2005 Sustainable development review provides a simple telephone facility for buying and selling Rio Tinto plc The way we work Rio Tintos statement of business practice shares.
Basic commission is 0.5 per cent up to 10,000, reducing to Review magazine Rio Tintos quarterly magazine for shareholders 0.2 per cent thereafter, subject to a minimum commission of 15.
Further information is available from Stocktrade, a division of Brewin Dolphin Copies of the 2005 annual reports for the following listed Rio Tinto Securities which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Group companies are also available on request: Authority.
Their details are given under Useful addresses.
Bougainville Copper Limited Individual Savings Account ISA Coal & Allied Industries Limited Stocktrade offers UK residents the opportunity to hold Rio Tinto plc Energy Resources of Australia Limited shares in an ISA.
Existing PEPs or ISAs may also be transferred to Palabora Mining Company Limited Stocktrade.
Further information can be obtained from Stocktrade whose details are given under Useful addresses.
Full parent entity financial statements for Rio Tinto Limited are available free of charge from the Rio Tinto Limited company secretary on request.
Corporate nominee service These financial statements are also available on the Rio Tinto website.
Computershare in conjunction with Rio Tinto plc, have introduced a corporate nominee service for private individuals.
Further information can be obtained from Computershare.
Publication of financial statements Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual report and financial statements and or the Annual review in electronic rather than paper form should register their instruction on the Computershare website.
Unsolicited mail and telephone calls Rio Tinto is aware that some shareholders have had occasion to complain that outside organisations, have used information obtained from the Companies share registers for their own purposes.
Rio Tinto, like other companies, cannot by law refuse to supply such information provided that the organisation concerned pays the appropriate statutory fee.
Shareholders in the UK who wish to reduce the amount of unsolicited mail and telephone calls they receive, should register with The Mailing Preference Service and The Telephone Preference Service whose details are set out on page 180.
90 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 200 5
