The Group These usually include an Interim dividend paid in the year, and a final dividend implemented IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 without restatement of comparatives.
The paid after the end of the year.
The special dividend of 110 US cents per share effect of that restatement is explained on page 131 of these financial statements.
proposed in the announcement of the 2005 results is not included above.
b Information for the years 1995 to 2003 is stated under UK GAAP and has not j Fixed assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, been restated except where indicated below.
and investments in, and loans to, jointly controlled entities and associates.
c The most important difference between IFRS and UK GAAP impacting on k Capital expenditure comprises purchases less disposals of property, plant and earnings, is the inclusion of certain gains and losses on exchange and on equipment, and intangible assets, plus direct funding provided to jointly revaluation of derivatives in net earnings under IFRS.
These impacts are, however, controlled entities and associates for Rio Tintos share of their capital excluded from Underlying earnings.
The figures include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital d Figures for 1995-1998, reported under UK GAAP, were restated following the expenditure, but exclude that of jointly controlled entities and associates implementation of FRS 12 in 1999.
Shareholders funds for 2001 and prior years except where directly funded by Rio Tinto.
were restated following the implementation of FRS 19 in 2002. l Total cash flow from operations comprises Cash flow from consolidated e Adjustments have been made for 2002 and subsequent years to include in operations together with Dividends from jointly controlled entities and associates.
turnover, certain amounts charged to customers for freight and handling costs, m Cash flow before financing activities is stated before deducting dividends payable which previously were deducted from operating costs.
to Rio Tinto shareholders, which involved restatement of 2003 and prior years.
f Certain units that were equity accounted under UK GAAP are proportionally n Operating margin is the percentage of underlying adjusted PBIT after excluding consolidated under IFRS and vice-versa.
tax on equity accounted units to gross turnover.
g Underlying earnings is an additional measure of earnings, which is reported by o Total capital comprises year end shareholders funds plus net debt and outside Rio Tinto with its IFRS results to provide greater understanding of the shareholders interests.
underlying business performance of its operations.
It is defined on page 106. p Underlying adjusted earnings: shareholderss funds represents underlying or Underlying earnings is similar but not identical to the adjusted earnings adjusted earnings expressed as a percentage of the mean of opening and measure that Rio Tinto reported with its UK GAAP results.
Adjusted earnings closing equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
was defined as excluding exceptional items of such magnitude that their q Interest cover represents the number of times interest payable less receivable exclusion was necessary in order that adjusted earnings fulfilled their purpose excluding that of jointly controlled entities and associates and excluding the of reflecting the underlying performance of the Group.
Underlying profit before amortisation of discount but including capitalised interest is covered by interest and tax PBIT and adjusted PBIT are similar to underlying earnings and underlying operating profit, less amortisation of discount, plus dividends from adjusted earnings but are stated before tax and interest.
jointly controlled entities and associates.
Underlying operating profit is similar to h Finance costs include net interest and amortisation of discounts.
underlying earnings but is stated before tax, interest and share of profit after tax i Dividends per share are the amounts declared in respect of each financial year.
of jointly controlled entities and associates.
174 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements FINANCIAL SUMMARY 1995-2005 1995-2003 UNDER UK GAAP, 2004-2005 UNDER IFRS 200 5 81795x 3000 25 2 06 2:23 pm Page 175 Rio Tinto share ownership As at 10 February 2006 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS Under the Listing Rules, any shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with a beneficial interest of more than three per cent, or of Rio Tinto Limited with a beneficial interest of more than five per cent, is required to provide the Companies with notice.
Excluding the interest held by Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited in Rio Tinto Limited, the shareholders to have provided such notice are: RIO TINTO plc Date of Number of Percentage RIO TINTO LIMITED Date of Number of Percentage notice shares of issued notice shares of issued share capital share capital Barclays PLC 03 Aug 05 43,702,654 4.090 None The Capital Group Companies, Inc 19 Oct 05 42,380,010 3.964 Fidelity Management and Research Company 23 Dec 05 33,690,364 3.150 Legal & General plc 05 Oct 05 33,539,570 3.130 1.
As far as it is known, Rio Tinto is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by 2.
Rio Tinto is not aware of any arrangement which may result in a change in its another corporation or by any government.
Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc.
Other large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 175 RIO TINTO SHARE OWNERSHIP 200 5 81795x 3010 27 2 06 10:16 PM Page 176 Definitions NON MINING DEFINITIONS Throughout this document, the collective expressions Rio Tinto, Rio Tinto Group and Group are used for convenience only.
Depending on the context in which they are used, they mean Rio Tinto plc and or Rio Tinto Limited and or one or more of the individual companies in which Rio Tinto plc and or Rio Tinto Limited directly or indirectly own investments, all of which are separate and distinct legal entities.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the meanings shown below: Adjusted earnings An additional measure of earnings reported by Rio Tinto with its UK GAAP results which excludes exceptional items of such magnitude that their exclusion is necessary to reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing American Depositary Shares ADS.
Australian GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in Australia.
AIFRS The Australian equivalent of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Company Companies Rio Tinto plc and or Rio Tinto Limited.
As the context so requires.
DLC merger Dual listed companies merger 1995.
EU IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards LME London Metal Exchange.
New Zealand dollars New Zealand currency.
Abbreviates to, pence or p. Public shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto plc shares that are not companies in the Rio Tinto Limited Group and the holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares that are not companies in the Rio Tinto plc Group.
Abbreviates to R. Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto Limited, and, where the context permits, its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated companies.
Rio Tinto Limited ADS An American Depositary Share representing the right to receive four Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Rio Tinto Limited Group Rio Tinto Limited and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated companies.
Rio Tinto Limited shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Rio Tinto Limited The agreement, dated 21 December 1995, between Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Limited, RTL Shareholder Shareholder Voting SVC Limited and the Law Debenture Trust Corporation p. l. c. relating to the voting rights of the Agreement Rio Tinto plc Special Voting Share at meetings of shareholders of Rio Tinto plc.
Rio Tinto Limited shares The ordinary shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Rio Tinto Limited RTL The DLC Dividend Share in Rio Tinto Limited.
DLC Dividend Share Rio Tinto Limited RTL The Special Voting Share in Rio Tinto Limited.
Special Voting Share Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated companies.
Rio Tinto plc ADS An American Depositary Share representing the right to receive four Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares.
176 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements DEFINITIONS 200 5 81795x 3010 25 2 06 1:48 pm Page 177 Rio Tinto plc Group Rio Tinto plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated companies.
Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares The ordinary shares of 10p each in Rio Tinto plc.
Rio Tinto plc shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto plc shares.
Rio Tinto Shareholder The agreement, dated 21 December 1995, between Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Australian Holdings Limited, Voting Agreement RTP Shareholder SVC Pty Limited, Rio Tinto Limited and the Law Debenture Trust Corporation p. l. c. relating to the voting rights of the Rio Tinto Limited shares held by the Rio Tinto plc group and the Rio Tinto Limited Special Voting Share at meetings of Rio Tinto Limited shareholders.
Rio Tinto plc shares Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares.
Rio Tinto plc RTP The DLC Dividend Share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc.
DLC Dividend Share Rio Tinto plc RTP The Special Voting Share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc.
Special Voting Share Share shares Rio Tinto Limited shares or Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares, as the context requires.
Sharing Agreement The agreement, dated 21 December 1995, as amended between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc relating to the regulation of the relationship between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc following the DLC merger.
UK GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in the UK.
US dollars United States currency.
Abbreviates to dollars, $ or US$ and US cents or USc.
US GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
MINING AND TECHNICAL DEFINITIONS Alumina Aluminium oxide.
It is extracted from bauxite in a chemical refining process and is subsequently the principal raw material in the electro-chemical process by which aluminium is produced.
Anode and cathode At the final stage of the smelting of copper concentrates, the copper is cast into specially shaped copper slabs called anodes for subsequent refining to produce refined cathode copper.
Bauxite Mainly hydrated aluminium oxides Al O.
Principal ore of alumina, the raw material from which 2 3 2 aluminium is made.
Beneficiated bauxite Bauxite ore that has been treated to remove waste material to improve its physical or chemical characteristics.
Bioleaching The deliberate use of bacteria to speed the chemical release of metals from ores.
Block caving An underground bulk mining method.
It involves undercutting the orebody to induce ore fracture and collapse by gravity.
The broken ore is recovered through draw points below.
Borates A generic term for mineral compounds which contain boron and oxygen.
Cathode copper Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining of impure copper or by electro-winning.
Classification Separating crushed and ground ore into portions of different size particles.
Concentrate The product of a physical concentration process, such as flotation or gravity concentration, which involves separating ore minerals from unwanted waste rock.
Concentrates require subsequent processing such as smelting or leaching to break down or dissolve the ore minerals and obtain the desired elements, usually metals.
Cutoff grade The lowest grade of mineralised material considered economic to process.
It is used in the calculation of the quantity of ore present in a given deposit.
Dor A precious metal alloy which is produced by smelting.
Dor is an intermediate product which is subsequently refined to produce pure gold and silver.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 177 DEFINITIONS 200 5 81795x 3010 25 2 06 1:48 pm Page 178 Definitions continued DWT Dead weight tons is the combined weight in long tons 2,240 pounds weight of cargo, fuel and fresh water that a ship can carry.
Flotation A method of separating finely ground minerals using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
In the flotation process certain mineral particles are induced to float by becoming attached to bubbles of froth whereas others, usually unwanted, sink.
Grade The proportion of metal or mineral present in ore, or any other host material, expressed in this document as per cent, grammes per tonne or ounces per ton.
Head grade The average grade of ore delivered to the mill.
Ilmenite Mineral composed of iron, titanium and oxygen.
Metallurgical coal Also referred to as coking coal.
By virtue of its carbonisation properties, it is used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steel making process.
Mineral resource A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
Ore A rock from which a metal s or mineral s can be economically and legally extracted.
Ore milled The quantity of ore processed.
Ore hoisted The quantity of ore which is removed from an underground mine for processing.
Ore reserve The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
Pressure oxidation A method of treating sulphide ores.
In the case of refractory gold ores, the object is to oxidise the sulphides to sulphates and hence liberate the gold for subsequent cyanide leaching.
The technique involves reaction of the ore with sulphuric acid under pressure in the presence of oxygen gas.
Rock mined The quantity of ore and waste rock excavated from the mine.
In this document, the term is only applied to surface mining operations.
Rutile A mineral composed of titanium and oxygen TiO.
2 Steam coal Also referred to as steaming coal, thermal coal or energy coal.
It is used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement manufacture and various industrial applications.
Stripping ratio The tonnes of waste material which must be removed to allow the mining of one tonne of ore. Solvent extraction Processes for extracting metal from an ore and producing pure metal.
First the metal is leached into and electrowinning solution: the resulting solution is then purified in the solvent extraction process: the solution is then SX-EW treated in an electro-chemical process electro-winning to recover cathode copper.
Tailing The rock wastes which are rejected from a concentrating process after the recoverable valuable minerals have been extracted.
Titanium dioxide A feedstock rich in titanium dioxide, produced, in Rio Tintos case, by smelting ores containing feedstock titanium minerals.
4 178 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements DEFINITIONS 200 5 81795x 3010 25 2 06 1:49 pm Page 179 Notes Metal grades have not been adjusted for mill recoveries, but mill recoveries are presented in the table of reserves and are taken into consideration in the calculation of Rio Tintos share of recoverable metal.
Unless stated to the contrary, reserves of industrial minerals and coal are stated in terms of recoverable quantities of saleable material, after processing or beneficiation losses.
Reserve and resource terminology used in this document complies in general with the requirements of the Australian Stock Exchange and the London Stock Exchange.
Conversion of weights 1 troy ounce 31.1 grammes and measures 1 kilogramme 32.15 troy ounces 1 kilogramme 2.2046 pounds 1 metric tonne 1,000 kilogrammes 1 metric tonne 2,204.6 pounds 1 metric tonne 1.1023 short tons 1 short ton 2,000 pounds 1 long ton 2,240 pounds 1 gramme per metric tonne 0.02917 troy ounces per short ton 1 gramme per metric tonne 0.03215 troy ounces per metric tonne 1 kilometre 0.6214 miles Exchange rates The following tables show, for the periods and dates indicated, certain information regarding the exchange rates for the pound sterling and Australian dollar, based on the Noon Buying Rates for pounds sterling and Australian dollars expressed in US dollars per 1.00 and per A$1.00.
No representation is made that pound sterling and Australian dollar amounts have been, could have been or could be converted into dollars at the Noon Buying Rate on such dates or at any other dates.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 179 DEFINITIONS AND EXCHANGE RATES 200 5 81795x 3030 25 2 06 1:49 pm Page 180 Useful addresses Registered offices US investor relations consultant Rio Tinto plc Makinson Cowell US Limited 6 St Jamess Square One Penn Plaza London SW1Y 4LD 250 West 34th Street Registered in England No.
com Rio Tinto Limited Low cost share dealing service & Level 33 Individual Savings Account ISA 55 Collins Street for Rio Tinto plc shareholders only Melbourne, Victoria 3000 ACN: 004 458 404 Stocktrade 81 George Street Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 Edinburgh EH2 3ES Facsimile: 61 0 3 9283 3707 Website: www.
com Low cost share dealing service Telephone: 44 0 131 240 0101 Shareholders UK residents only: 0845 840 1532 Please contact the respective registrar if you Website: www.
co. uk have any queries about your shareholding.
Individual Savings Account ISA Rio Tinto plc Telephone: 44 0 131 240 0623 Computershare Investor Services PLC Website: www.
co. uk PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Unsolicited mail and telephone calls Bristol BS99 7NH The Mailing Preference Service FREEPOST 29 LON20771 Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0000 London W1E 0ZT Facsimile: 44 0 870 703 6119 UK residents only, Freephone: 0800 435021 Telephone: 0845 703 4599 Website: www.
uk Rio Tinto Limited The Telephone Preference Service Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited 3rd Floor GPO Box 2975 DMA House Melbourne 70 Margaret Street Victoria 3000 London W1W 8SS Telephone: 61 0 3 9415 4030 Telephone: 0845 070 0707 Facsimile: 61 0 3 9473 2500 Website: www.
uk Australia residents only, Toll free: 1 800 813 292 Website: www.
com Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary Receipts ADRs Please contact the ADR administrator if you have any queries about your ADRs ADR administrator JPMorgan Chase Bank NA JPMorgan Service Center P O Box 3408 South Hackensack NJ 07606 3408 Telephone: 1 201 680 6630 US residents only Toll free: 800 900 1135 Website: www.
com shareholder e-mail: adr@jpmorgan.
com 180 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements USEFUL ADDRESSES 200 5 81795x 01 cover 27 2 06 12:04 pm Page 2 Financial calendar 2 February 2006 Announcement of results for 2005 Rio Tinto is a leader in finding, mining and processing the 22 February 2006 Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2005 final and special dividend earths mineral resources.
The Groups worldwide operations 24 February 2006 Record date for 2005 final and special dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs supply essential minerals and metals that help to meet global needs and contribute to improvements in living standards.
28 February 2006 Record date for 2005 final and special dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares and ADRs In order to deliver superior returns to shareholders over 16 March 2006 Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2006 final and special dividend time, Rio Tinto takes a long term and responsible approach to the Groups business.
We concentrate on the development 6 April 2006 Payment date for 2005 final and special dividend of first class orebodies into large, long life and efficient 7 April 2006 Payment date for 2005 final and special dividend for holders of ADRs operations, capable of sustaining competitive advantage through business cycles.
12 April 2006 Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc Major products include aluminium, copper, diamonds, 4 May 2006 Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited energy products, gold, industrial minerals titanium dioxide, borates, talc and salt and iron ore.
The Groups activities 3 August 2006 Announcement of half year results for 2006 span the world but are strongly represented in Australia and 9 August 2006 Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2006 interim dividend North America with significant businesses in South America, Asia, Europe and southern Africa.
11 August 2006 Record date for 2006 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs Wherever Rio Tinto operates, the health and safety of our 15 August 2006 Record date for 2006 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares employees is our first priority.
We seek to contribute to sustainable development.
We work as closely as possible 16 August 2006 Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2006 interim dividend with our host countries and communities, respecting their 7 September 2006 Payment date for 2006 interim dividend laws and customs.
We minimise adverse effects and strive to 8 September 2006 Payment date for 2006 interim dividend for holders of ADRs improve every aspect of our performance.
We employ local people at all levels and ensure fair and equitable transfer of February 2007 Announcement of results for 2006 benefits and enhancement of opportunities.
Publications The following publications may be obtained from Rio Tinto: 2005 Annual report and financial statements 2005 Annual review 2005 Sustainable development review The way we work Rio Tintos statement of business practice Review magazine Rio Tintos quarterly magazine for shareholders Copies of the 2005 annual reports for the following listed Rio Tinto Group companies are also available on request: Bougainville Copper Limited Coal & Allied Industries Limited Energy Resources of Australia Ltd Palabora Mining Company Limited Rio Tinto on the web Information about Rio Tinto is available on our website www.
com Many of Rio Tintos publications may be downloaded in their entirety from this site and access gained to Group company and other websites.
General enquiries If you require general information about the Group please contact the External Affairs department.
For all other enquiries please contact the relevant company secretary or Computershare.
Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press to ISO 14001 environmental standards.
The paper is manufactured to ISO 14001 environmental standards using a mixture of recovered fibres and other fibres from sustainable sources, the pulps used are either elemental or totally chlorine free.
Printed in Australia by Craftsman Press.
Cover image: Iron pellets at Iron Ore Company of Canada, Sept-les, Canada.
All other images are copyright of Rio Tinto.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 200 5 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 81795x 01 cover 27 2 06 9:26 am Page 1 2005 Annual report and financial statements Finding, mining andprocessing the earths minerals Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 01Cover 27 2 06 1:42 pm Page 1 2005 Annual review Finding, mining andprocessing the earths minerals 817982 1010 p1 Flaps 25 2 2006 4:35 PM Page Flap2 Rio Tinto is a leader in finding, mining and processing the earths mineral resources.
The Groups worldwide operations supply essential minerals and metals that help to meet global needs and contribute to improvements in living standards.
In order to deliver superior returns to shareholders over time, Rio Tinto takes a long term and responsible approach to the Groups business.
We concentrate on the development of first class orebodies into large, long life and efficient operations, capable of sustaining competitive advantage through business cycles.
Major products include aluminium, copper, diamonds, energy products, gold, industrial minerals borates, titanium dioxide, salt and talc, and iron ore.
The Groups activities span the world but are strongly represented in Australia and North America with significant businesses in South America, Asia, Europe and southern Africa.
Wherever Rio Tinto operates, the health and safety of our employees is our first priority.
We work as closely as possible with our host countries and communities, respecting their laws and customs.
We minimise adverse effects and strive to improve every aspect of our performance.
We employ local people at all levels and ensure fair and equitable transfer of benefits and enhancement of opportunities.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review Contents The majority of Rio Tinto shareholders choose to receive the Annual review which does not contain 2 Chairmans letter sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the Group as is provided in the Annual report 3 Chief executives report and financial statements.
The Annual report and financial statements complies with Australian and UK 6 Review of operations statutory requirements and contains the full financial statements.
Copies may be obtained free of 18 Exploration charge from the Companies registrars whose details can be found on page 62.
Copies of the 20 Technology Remuneration report and Sustainable development review are also available separately.
Shareholders 22 Sustainable development who wish to receive the full Annual report and financial statements in place of the Annual review 26 Financial information by business unit for future financial years may do so by writing to the Companies registrars.
If you wish to receive 27 Summary financial statements the financial statements and other communications from Rio Tinto electronically, please also 27 Group income statement contact Computershare.
28 Summary balance sheet 29 Reconciliation with Australian IFRS Forward looking statements 29 Net earnings and underlying earnings The Annual review contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the Rio Tinto Group 30 Summary cash flow statement that involve known and unknown risks that are beyond the Groups control.
For example, long term 30 Summary financial data in Australian price assumptions may vary significantly from current levels and may affect the timing and feasibility of dollars, Sterling and US dollars particular developments.
In light of these risks actual results could be materially different from any 31 Australian Corporations Act future results expressed or implied by these forward looking statements which speak only as at the summary of ASIC relief date of this Annual review.
32 Independent auditors statement 33 Senior management Rio Tinto on the web 34 Chairman and executive directors Information about Rio Tinto is available on our website www.
com and many of our 34 Non executive directors publications including the 2005 Annual report and financial statements and the 2005 Annual review 36 Directors report may be downloaded from the site.
39 Remuneration report 52 Corporate governance 57 Audit committee charter 58 Shareholder information 62 Useful addresses 63 Financial calendar 817982 1010 p1 Flaps.
qxd 27 2 06 3:21 pm Page Flap1 Diavik Diamonds 60% Greens Creek 70% Iron Ore Company of Canada 59% QIT-Fer et Titane Lac Allard IOC pellet plant 59% QIT-Fer et Titane Sorel Eagle project Yellowstone Ludlow Decker 50%, Spring Creek Antelope, Cordero Rojo, Kennecott Utah Copper Jacobs Ranch Colowyo 20% Rawhide 51% Cortez Pipeline 40% Resolution project 55% Boron Wilmington plant Corumb Tincalayu Escondida 30% Simandou project Rio Colorado Potash project Murowa 78% Rssing 69% Palabora 47% QIT Madagascar Minerals project Richards Bay Minerals 50% 80% Iron Ore Energy Industrial Minerals Aluminium Operating assets Operating assets Operating assets Operating assets US$4,574 million US$2,301 million US$2,311 million US$3,361 million Gross turnover Gross turnover Gross turnover Gross turnover US$5,497 million US$3,867 million US$2,487 million US$2,744 million Underlying earnings Underlying earnings Underlying earnings Underlying earnings US$1,722 million US$733 million US$187 million US$392 million The Iron Ore group interests The Energy group is represented Rio Tintos Industrial Minerals The Aluminium group includes comprise Hamersley Iron and in coal by Rio Tinto Coal Australia businesses comprise Rio Tinto the wholly owned integrated Robe River operations in Australia, and Coal & Allied in Australia and Minerals, made up of Rio Tinto aluminium subsidiary, Comalco, Iron Ore Company of Canada, by Kennecott Energy in the US.
Borax and Luzenac Talc operations which has operations in Australia, the Corumb mine in Brazil and It also includes uranium interests in the US, South America, Europe New Zealand and Italy.
It also the Simandou, Guinea, and in Energy Resources of Australia and Australia, and Dampier Salt in includes Rio Tintos 51 per cent Orissa, India, projects.
The group and the Rssing Uranium mine in Australia, as well as Rio Tinto Iron & of Anglesey Aluminium in the UK.
includes the HIsmelt direct iron Namibia.
Titanium interests in North America, making plant in Australia.
Major Group operations at February 2005 wholly owned unless otherwise shown indicates smelters, refineries and processing plants 817982 01Cover 27 2 06 3:16 pm Page 2 Grasberg joint venture 40% Weipa ERA 68% Argyle Blair Athol 71% Clermont project 50% Port Hedland 65% Dampier Salt 65% Hail Creek 82% Kestrel 80% Robe River mines: West Angelas 53% Boyne Island 59% Pannawonica 53% Comalco Alumina Refinery Hamersley Iron mines: Brockman Lake MacLeod 65% Gladstone power station 42% Marandoo Queensland Alumina 39% Mt Tom Price Tarong Paraburdoo Yandicoogina Three Springs Channar 60% Eastern Range 54% Northparkes 80% Bengalla 30% Hunter Valley Operations 76% HIsmelt 60% Mt Pleasant project 76% Mt Thorley Operations 61% Warkworth 42% Bell Bay Anglesey Aluminium 51% Tiwai Point 79% Coudekerque Talc fide Luzenac Eurallumina 56% Copper Diamonds Exploration Technology Mineral exploration is conducted With bases in the UK, US and Operating assets Operating assets by four geographically based and Australia, the Technology group US$2,809 million US$1,085 million two global exploration teams, comprises the following units: Gross turnover Gross turnover operating from regional Health, Safety and Environment, US$4,839 million US$1,076 million headquarters and district offices Technical Services, Office of the Underlying earnings Underlying earnings in 30 countries.
Chief Technologist, Project US$2,020 million US$281 million Management, Asset Utilisation and Technical Evaluation.
The Copper group comprises The Diamond group comprises Kennecott Utah Copper and Rio Tintos interests in the Diavik Kennecott Minerals in the US, mine in Canada, the Argyle mine and interests in the copper mines in Australia, and the Murowa mine Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
of Escondida in Chile, Grasberg in Zimbabwe, served by diamond Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press to ISO 14001 environmental standards.
The inks used in the printing of this report are vegetable based.
in Indonesia, Northparkes in sales offices in Belgium and India.
Australia, Palabora in South Cover image: 99.99 per cent purity copper rod from Palabora, South Africa.
Africa and the Resolution All images are copyright of the Rio Tinto Group, except St. Basils Cathedral, page 18, Getty Images: Sizewell B, page 8, Science Photo Library: Airbus A380, page 13, Corbis Photo Library.
remote from mine 817982 1010 p1 26 2 2006 6:15 PM Page 1 6 Iron Ore Powering towards 200m tonnes per year 8 Energy A powerful energy sector player 10 Industrial Minerals Reorganising for strength 12 Aluminium Demand rises higher 14 Copper Copper hot, Molybdenum hotter 16 Diamonds Investing for a bright future 18 Exploration Exploring new horizons 20 Technology Moving ahead with technological advances Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 1 817982 1020 p2 5 5 3 06 11:53 am Page 2 Chairmans letter investments and developments in a number after the 2005 annual meetings and Ashton of new areas.
Calvert and Vivienne Cox joined from In the current environment of strong 1 February 2005.
I believe we have a very economic returns, we are aware of the strong, well qualified and cohesive board potential for our balance sheet to become which provides the right level of support overly strong.
and challenge to our executive team.
Reflecting our large cash flows, we announced a substantial return of capital to Forward outlook shareholders totalling US$4 billion as part of Despite several challenges including high our capital management programme.
This oil prices, structural imbalances, and the comprises a US$1.5 billion special dividend potential for currency fluctuations we equivalent to US$1.10 per share, and a believe the global economy will continue its share buy back programme totalling recent positive trend, even if rates of US$2.5 billion by the end of 2007.
replaces the US$500 million remaining from We are continuing to experience strong the 2005 programme.
short term demand for our metal and The final dividend declared for 2005 mineral products.
Demand from China under the progressive ordinary dividend remains particularly strong but risks remain policy brings total dividends for the year to of occasional speed bumps as the 80 US cents per share, an increase of four countrys social and economic structures Dear Shareholder per cent from 2004. adjust to the high rates of growth.
Overall, Demand was strong throughout 2005 for we expect supply demand balances to most of the metals and minerals we Sustainable development remain tight in 2006 with prices continuing produce, and supply was generally tight.
Mining operates on long time horizons, and to track above the long term trend.
As a result prices of most products were most of Rio Tintos mines and processing At some point the supply position will well above the historical average trend.
The plants have operational lives spanning become more balanced and we will see a buoyant conditions in our sector, together decades.
A key part of our strategy downturn in the cycle.
While we are with Rio Tintos strategic positioning and therefore is to make social and continuing to invest in increased strong operating performance, resulted in a environmental responsibility integral to our production to provide long term supply second successive year of record profits.
We always assurance to our customers, and to However, these favourable conditions seek to align our interests with those of the maintain our market position, we focus on are no basis for complacency.
Our view of communities and environments where our economically robust projects which we the world has not changed fundamentally.
Rio Tinto regards believe can deliver sustained profitability in The reality is that we are in an inherently corporate social responsibility as a vital varying market conditions.
cyclical business even if successive determinant of commercial success.
We are increasingly seeking to leverage cycles have different characteristics.
Our Investors relate positively to companies our global reach and scale by delivering long term strategy for portfolio development, who have values they can identify with and operational excellence, sharing of best investment, capital management and we remain committed to the principles of practice between our businesses, and operational excellence is designed to create sustainable development.
adopting common business systems and shareholder value whatever the prevailing We see a clear responsibility to help to processes across the Group.
address the challenges posed by climate that the continuing efforts of the Groups change, to manage issues related to talented and committed people all over the Results biodiversity, and to maintain effective world will ensure we maintain a strong and Higher prices and increased production product stewardship across the value competitive company, responsive to all volumes in 2005 contributed to underlying chain of our products.
I believe Rio Tinto opportunities which we believe can add earnings of US$4,955 million, US$2,683 has become a leader in our industry in these value for our shareholders.
The board is, million or 118 per cent above 2004.
Net areas but we still have some way to go.
once again, very appreciative of our earnings were US$5,215 million compared employees major contribution in 2005. with US$3,297 million in 2004.
Board developments Cash flow from operations at US$8,257 In September we welcomed Sir Rod million, including dividends from jointly Eddington to the boards on his retirement controlled entities and associates, was also as chief executive of British Airways plc.
a record, and 85 per cent higher than Rod is an Australian and was educated at 2004.
Timely disposal of non core assets the University of Western Australia and Paul Skinner Chairman further strengthened our balance sheet Oxford University where, as a Rhodes which, in turn, helps to underpin our Scholar, he completed a doctorate in extensive capital investment programme engineering science.
He brings valuable and gives us the flexibility to pursue new skills and experience to the board.
investment opportunities when and where Sir Richard Giordano, Leon Davis and they arise.
In 2005 we saw significant John Morschel all retired from the boards 2 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1020 p2 5 26 2 2006 7:31 AM Page 3 Chief executives report The 2005 results were excellent.
The mining industry is experiencing strong prices across most of its products.
We were able to capitalise on the upswing with a strong operating performance that maximised production, while at the same time improving our safety record.
We approved a number of major projects and concluded a number of well executed transactions.
We are also introducing structural business improvements in the Group that are expected to yield long term benefits and position us for continuing strong performance when markets are not as buoyant.
Performance As Chinas industrial output soars and more than a billion people participate in a transformation of their living standards, the demand for the metals and minerals we Rio Tinto are responding to demand energy more efficiently and improve produce has increased rapidly.
In copper, productivity across all our operations.
Chinas large share of world growth, the response has been impacted by Rio Tinto has a long track record of economic conditions were also stronger in significant interruptions in supply.
In creating value through business Japan and the US.
aluminium, in spite of strong demand improvement.
A global approach to The level of demand sent the prices for growth, a period of strong investment in procurement has resulted in savings from copper, molybdenum, iron ore, coking and China has meant demand has been purchases under Group wide contracts, thermal coal, and alumina to historic peaks in satisfied for the metal itself, although while the establishment of Rio Tinto nominal terms.
Only time will tell whether the alumina is in short supply and prices have Shipping to leverage the scale of our bulk 2005 prices for these commodities represent risen significantly.
Finally, in both coking shipments has successfully reduced costs.
For its part, Rio Tinto and thermal coal, there has been some On the operating side, the concept of concentrated on operational delivery, and we response but infrastructure has been a combining business units in common achieved record output in many areas.
geographic areas such as Rio Tinto Coal As a result, all product groups except Current market conditions may result in Australia and Pilbara Iron has led to cost Industrial Minerals increased their a longer period of above average prices effective rationalisation.
Higher costs reduced than we have seen before.
In fact Rio Tinto We are currently entering the next earnings by US$598 million.
has modestly increased its long term price phase in the evolution of business In the current environment some cost forecasts for some products for planning improvement.
Our model of decentralised increases are inevitable.
Other costs are, in and investment purposes.
businesses with strong local management fact, desirable and make good business While the cycle may be longer, there accountability has been a source of sense, such as increased exploration and has been a significant impact on costs.
By making the most of our global project evaluation spending.
Most mining inputs such as energy, scale and reach, we now want to ensure Our business is cyclical.
The increase in supplies, equipment and labour have we maximise the sum of our parts.
demand and consumption with the resultant become more costly and in short supply.
This means leveraging synergies across rise in prices, provides an incentive for the In energy, we paid 40 per cent more for all our businesses through greater industry to invest.
This can lead to fuel and 50 per cent more for natural gas in collaboration and the standardisation of oversupply and some product substitution, the US.
Lead times to procure heavy successful operating practices.
The use of which ultimately depresses prices.
This mining equipment have risen from six improved information technology is part of effect produces spikes in the chart, above to 12 months.
Heavy mobile equipment the process.
and below the average long term price tyres are in very short supply.
Thanks to We are still in the early stages of this trend.
Rio Tinto aims to operate successfully our established purchasing networks we journey, but we are confident it will deliver and create value in all environments.
have been able to secure supplies better considerable value.
Improving performance How long the current strong price than most.
together, as we call our programme, will environment remains depends on how Some specialist skills are also short and create value through a combination of rapidly the industry is able to respond to labour costs in a number of regions have capital efficiency, higher volumes, higher the strong demand for most products.
The cost of oil and gas is revenues and improved productivity leading The response will differ from product to unlikely to return to the prices prevailing to lower costs.
This goes to the core of our product.
These factors may represent a business, which is about first class So far this response has been varied.
structural increase in costs for our industry, operational delivery.
We are developing a In iron ore, major producers including but we constantly look for ways to use real sense of excitement about the scale, Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 3 817982 1020 p2 5 26 2 2006 7:39 AM Page 4 COORDINATED SKILLS RECRUITMENT Extraordinary growth in metals and developing new projects or becoming Solomons Mines.
Rio Tinto project minerals markets has resulted in strong involved in finding major mineral deposits, geologist Sam Roffey is featured as demand for a variety of engineering and says the Group project leader, Graduate swapping Tunbridge Wells in England for mineral science disciplines.
In recent years Recruitment and Development, Errol Muir.
Five years spent exploring Rio Tinto has taken a more globally Rio Tinto has established relationships for copper in Chile and Argentina made her coordinated approach to recruitment to with major universities in Australia, the US fluent in Spanish, but then she was ensure the Group maintains the skills it and the UK for management training and uprooted to become a diamond hunter needs for the present and the future.
About 150 graduates were recruited in campuses emphasises that a career in the Sam is quoted as saying: Ive found 2005 and development of talent internally mining industry is an exciting career choice myself being an environmentalist, donkey is a high priority.
Graduates have a real job with above average pay.
renter, accountant, helicopter navigator and from day one, working with people who are In an article in The Times of London agony aunt.
There has been considerable leaders in their fields.
This is an exciting career supplement What its like to work for responsibility from the very beginning, but time for our industry and some of the Rio Tinto, working for the Group is its always been balanced with a good people who join now could find themselves described as like a scene from King dose of adventure.
Chief executives report continued ambition and potential of the changes we significant joint venture in Russia with upgraded titanium slag plant at QIT in have set in motion.
Due to strong demand, we exploration projects in progress in Australia announced a further expansion to 375,000 Strategy iron ore, India diamonds, Indonesia tonnes per year which will be completed We focus on long life, low cost assets.
nickel, Brazil bauxite, South Africa coal in 2006.
These assets will generate very strong and Turkey copper.
The resource relating to our investment cash flows when markets are buoyant.
Our exploration portfolio is currently the in Madagascar will support a 40 year mine Just as importantly, they also deliver good best we have seen.
Titanium dioxide feedstock reserves are returns when markets are weaker.
Large projects and prospects with the potential more than 12 millon tonnes, with an world class orebodies give us options to to ensure we can maintain our growth additional 39 million tonnes of resources.
At expand capacity in line with demand, as profile.
They provide a variety of new an ilmenite grade of 60 per cent, this we are doing today.
Options can also be development options in all of our main represents the best undeveloped resource created by acquisition, especially where product sectors over the next five years, of this scale and quality.
We are investing synergies exist.
many of which could become long life, US$775 million of which US$585 million will This was demonstrated in our Iron Ore quality assets the hallmark of Rio Tinto.
be for the mine and port in Madagascar group by the development of West Angelas In 2005 we invested US$2.5 billion in the and US$190 million for upgrading related following the acquisition of North Ltd in growth of the business and expect to spend processing facilities in Canada.
Production 2000, and the 2005 agreement to form a an additional US$3 billion in both 2006 and is due to commence in late 2008. joint venture involving Hope Downs.
We are demonstrating that in these Elsewhere, the development of a new Hope Downs iron ore property in Western times of buoyant demand Rio Tinto has the mine at Cortez Hills in Nevada, US was Australia is also a good illustration of our best opportunities for organic growth in its announced, and the Diavik diamond mine ability to evaluate and execute a value history, based on the number and scale of in Canada closed off a second dike to creating transaction quickly.
current and potential projects in our pipeline.
permit mining of additional orebodies.
At Although the bulk of our operations are Reflecting strong demand and our year end we commenced development of in Australia, the US and Canada, we have excellent resource position, we are making an underground mine at Argyle Diamonds invested in many new frontier regions and significant investments in iron ore. At the at a cost of US$910 million and further will continue to do so.
Our exploration beginning of 2005 we had investment of expenditure to extend the life of mine at programme is very broad, but wherever we US$1.3 billion already under way for the Rssing Uranium in Namibia to 2016. conduct development, our projects will be expansion of production and transportation After taking a leading position in the subject to the same rigorous evaluation.
In April we financing and development of the Lihir Our approach is focused and measured committed another US$290 million to gold mine in Papua New Guinea in the we are risk aware, but not risk averse.
expanding three mines, followed in October 1990s, we agreed with Lihir Gold in We are investing in Madagascar, we are by a further US$1.35 billion for additional September to relinquish our management evaluating exciting projects in West Africa port capacity and further mine expansions.
agreement and subsequently sold our iron ore and Argentina potash by solution In Industrial Minerals, in the first half of 14.5 per cent interest in November for mining and we have entered into a the year we completed an expansion of the US$295 million.
4 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1020 p2 5 26 2 2006 7:42 AM Page 5 Summing up Underlying Margins Profit for the Cash flows from % a c e adjusted earnings year a b operations a d The Group is performing well operationally, US$m a b c US$m maximising the volumes of product we deliver into strong markets.
These markets continue to look strong well into 2006.
Whilst alert to merger and acquisition opportunities we are delivering our current projects and have an excellent array of organic growth options.
Notwithstanding our record levels of investment and return of capital to shareholders, we are generating cash that is surplus to our needs, enabling us to 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 Dividends from Underlying adjusted manage and maintain a strong balance jointly controlled earnings but before sheet and retain our capacity to take entities and associates interest and tax, as advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Cash flows from a percentage of consolidated operations gross turnover.
In this buoyant climate we remain focused on business improvement as a priority by implementing a major new Notes Net debt: total programme of renewal that will create a The accounting information for 2004 and 2005 in these charts is drawn up in accordance capital with IFRS: but the information for 2001, 2002 and 2003 is as previously reported in value for shareholders in the future no % a accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
matter what market conditions we face.
b Profit for the year referred to above is measured in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS in 2004 and 2005.
The amounts presented for Rio Tintos success is a tribute to the 2001, 2002 and 2003 represent the profit on ordinary activities after tax under UK dedication and commitment of our GAAP, which also includes amounts attributable to outside shareholders.
In monitoring its financial performance, the Group also focuses on that part of the Profit for the year employees.
I thank my management team attributable to equity shareholders of Rio Tinto, which is referred to as Net earnings, and employees throughout the world for and on an additional measure called Underlying earnings.
This latter measure, which is also based on the amounts attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders, is reported to provide the hard work they have put in and for their greater understanding of the underlying business performance of Rio Tinto operations.
It is defined and reconciled with Net earnings on page 29. c The underlying earnings chart includes adjusted earnings for 2001, 2002 and 2003.
Adjusted earnings was an additional measure reported by the Group under UK GAAP, which was not the same as underlying earnings but is considered broadly comparable in its objective and content.
d The analysis of cash flows from operations between jointly controlled entities and 01 02 03 04 05 associates previously joint ventures and associates under UK GAAP and consolidated operations has been affected by the reclassification of certain operations under IFRS.
e In this report, the turnover of parent companies and their subsidiaries is referred to as Consolidated turnover.
Rio Tinto also reports a turnover measure that includes its share of jointly controlled entities and associates, which is referred to as Gross turnover.
This latter measure is considered informative because a significant part of the Groups Leigh Clifford Chief executive business is conducted through operations that are subject to equity accounting.
6 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1030A p7 Flaps 25 2 2006 4:07 PM Page Flap8 The year was characterised by fast track development of simultaneous projects across mines, rail and ports.
Capacity increases were achieved in a very tight market, with resources fully stretched and significant cost escalation pressures.
Development projects were achieved with less than one per cent of lost time resulting from industrial disputes.
Large price increases for iron ore sales were also achieved, up 71.5 per cent in 2005 and additional supply is anticipated through a new joint venture being progressed for the development of the Hope Downs deposits in the East Pilbara.
The Expansion Projects group, formed in 2003 to manage the combined US$1.6 billion of expansion projects across the Western Australian iron ore operations, continued to increase the capacity of the business, delivering a number of projects on budget and ahead of schedule.
Projects to increase the capacity of Hamersley Irons Yandicoogina mine from 24 to 36 million tonnes and Robe Rivers West Angelas mine from 20 to 25 million tonnes were completed ahead of schedule in the third quarter.
Robe also shipped the 50 millionth tonne of West Angelas ore.
The duplication of 100 kilometres in two sections of the main Pilbara rail line progressed, with the southern section completed well ahead of schedule in midNovember.
The northern section is likely to be completed ahead of schedule and within budget by the second quarter of 2006 to meet the 150 million tonnes per annum main line railing rate expected in the coming year.
Work to connect the Hamersley and Robe power systems resulted in a new substation at Millstream commissioned in September to allow up to 40 megawatts to be transferred between the systems.
The Dampier port upgrade to 116 million tonnes was completed, with the first ore from the new shiploader shipped in September 2005.
Rio Tinto signalled its belief in the continued strength of the world iron ore market by committing US$290 million to expand Hamersleys existing Mount Tom Price and Marandoo mines and construct new mine facilities at Nammuldi.
Supporting these expansion projects was a new Tom Price residential subdivision started during 2005.
In October, US$530 million Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 7 817982 1030A p7 26 2 2006 8:53 AM Page 7 Top operational and project delivery achieved record production in 2005. cent interest in Robe River Iron Associates Rio Tintos Iron Ore group RTIO In Australia, RTIO wholly owns two mines in Western Australia.
RTIO comprises operations and projects across Hamersley Iron in Western Australia.
recruited strongly during 2005 to meet the four continents.
Its contribution to 2005 Hamersley wholly owns five mines and also workforce requirements of the expanding underlying earnings was US$1,722 million, operates the 60 per cent owned Channar Western Australian operations, with more US$1,157 million higher than in 2004. mine and the 54 per cent owned Eastern than 1,000 new employees joining Pilbara Demand for iron ore continued to be Range mine on behalf of joint venture Iron and the Expansion Projects team.
extremely strong across the product range partners.
The Channar mine is a joint Pilbara Iron employs 3,850 people.
throughout 2005, driven by continued venture with an Australian subsidiary of RTIO operates Rio Tintos 59 per cent strong growth in global steel production Sinosteel Corporation and the Eastern interest in Iron Ore Company of Canada and improvements in steel demand.
Range mine is owned in joint venture with acquired in 2000.
In 2005, RTIO assumed Chinese iron ore imports rose 30 per cent the Shanghai Baosteel Group Corporation.
management of Rio Tinto Brasil which year on year, and all parts of RTIO RTIO also includes Rio Tintos 53 per holds a 100 per cent interest in Minerao Locations: Australia, Brazil, Canada was committed to further expand the improvements are proceeding at the additional resources through an agreement Yandicoogina mine from 36 to 52 million Dampier port in parallel with expansion to form a 50:50 joint venture with Hancock tonnes making it the largest in the Pilbara.
These improvements, totalling Prospecting Pty Limited for the An additional US$690 million was US$28 million, and the decommissioning of development of the Hope Downs 1, 2 and committed for a further expansion of the redundant equipment are part of the next 3 and East Angelas 1, 2 and 3 deposits.
Dampier port, increasing capacity from 116 phase of upgrade works at the port.
Detailed feasibility study work was to 140 million tonnes.
At the completion of Additional rolling stock and associated completed for the project during the year.
the stage two expansion, Rio Tintos infrastructure costing US$113 million A number of studies are also underway Pilbara port capacity will approach 200 was also committed during 2005, taking looking at infrastructure to support the million tonnes by end 2007.
Environmental Rio Tintos committed expansion programme development of the Hope Downs mine, issues such as dust and noise are carefully to US$3 billion at year end.
All of the including the expansion of the port at Cape managed as part of an ongoing community capacity expansion programmes are Lambert.
This work and other studies consultation programme across the port underwritten by long term sales contracts.
looking at mine replacement options will be operations.
A number of environmental Rio Tinto has sought to secure progressed in 2006.
Stockpiles of iron ore pellets cooling before shipment at IOC, Canada.
IOCs Humphrey Main Pit at Labrador City, Canada.
817982 1030A p7 Flaps 25 2 2006 5:42 PM Page Flap7 Corumbaense Reunida, known as Iron Ore For all years the amounts presented exclude net interest and other centrally Underlying adjusted reported items.
A reconciliation with net earnings for 2004 and 2005 is set out on Corumb.
In addition, RTIO includes the earnings contribution page 29.
Product group earnings for 2004 and 2005 are based on underlying HIsmelt direct smelting technology US$m earnings as determined under IFRS.
For 2001, 2002 and 2003, they are based on developed in Western Australia, and adjusted earnings, as determined under UK GAAP.
resources held globally, including the Orissa India and Simandou Guinea projects.
The commercial HIsmelt plant built at Kwinana in Western Australia entered its commissioning phase in April 2005, with 01 02 03 04 05 the first quantities of hot metal produced in mid-June 2005.
A loaded train with iron ore crosses the Pilbara region of Western Australia.
In its early years Rssing says Rio Tintos energy strategy is based Rio Tinto, the second largest enjoyed prices for its uranium oxide product on the fundamental principle that the world uranium producer in the world, of up to US$45 per pound.
As unspent needs more energy.
Global energy use is approved in late 2005 a life of uranium from disarmament programmes projected to increase by two thirds by flooded the market in the early 1980s, 2030 and to treble by the end of the mine extension at Rssing demand for uranium oxide, along with the century.
To meet societys burgeoning Uranium in Namibia that will price, went into long term decline.
demand, every possible source of energy add another ten years to an The price reached rock bottom in needs to be expanded.
The world needs a whole portfolio of Survival during the 20 year downturn was options, including fossil, nuclear and The largest and longest running open pit doubly difficult as Rssing was designed renewables.
Our core competencies are uranium mine in the world is to grow as a low grade, high throughput mine.
obviously coal and uranium but Rio Tinto is further with the addition of mining Production cuts meant loss of economies very supportive of expanding renewable equipment and processing facilities at a of scale, but the mine hung on into todays energy sources, whether its hydro, wind, total incremental and sustaining capital new era of higher prices, with uranium or solar cells.
oxide trading at the end of 2005 at US$36 Rio Tinto believes that emissions of Rssing started production in 1976 per pound.
greenhouse gases resulting from human with an expected mine life of 20 years.
In Though uranium by volume and activities are contributing to climate 2006 the mine will celebrate 30 years of revenue is a relatively small part of change.
Today nuclear power offers one of production.
If the extension plans had Rio Tintos portfolio, Rssing together with the most cost effective methods of near proved uneconomic, the mine was to have Energy Resources of Australia ERA make carbon dioxide free electricity generation.
2006 will now mark the the Group a major player in an energy Current expansion and growth prospects start of pre-stripping waste rock to expose sector that may grow significantly in for nuclear power are centred in Asia.
Of new parts of the orebody while mining of the future.
the 27 units under construction worldwide, the current orebody is completed.
By 2008 A new entity, Rio Tinto Uranium, based 16 are located in India, Japan, South there will be full production from the new in London, was formed in 2005 to combine Korea, China and Taiwan.
the marketing functions of Rssing Uranium the last 31 reactors put into service are About half the US$112 million cost will and ERA.
It will undertake a centralised also in east and south Asia.
be for additional shovels, haul trucks and marketing role for Rio Tintos two uranium Rssing, which supplies uranium oxide other mining equipment.
Funds will also go producers through a network of to utilities in North America, Europe and on refurbishment of the processing plant to representatives in key markets.
This will give Asia, started selling uranium oxide to China enable Rssing to return to its full a single point of contact for customers and in 2004.
The expansion of the mines production capacity of 4,000 tonnes per greater efficiencies for ERA and Rssing.
production capacity is a vote of confidence year within the next two years.
The life of Rio Tintos view is that there are social, that nuclear power will play an increasing mine extension will require Rssing to add economic and environmental advantages role in the energy mix of the future.
150 employees to its complement of 830. and disadvantages associated with all forms The go-ahead follows nearly three of energy, including renewables, coal, and Sizewell B nuclear power plant, UK below and far years of economic and other studies on nuclear, but these issues can be managed.
right stockpiles of coal at Hail Creek, Australia and expansion plans and ends a long period of Chief executive Energy, Preston Chiaro, a sample of uranium oxide at Rssing, Namibia.
Underlying earnings increase by 19 per cent of Rio Tintos gross turnover 70 per cent and 15 per cent of underlying earnings.
The Rio Tinto Energy Group portfolio The Energy groups 2005 contribution comprises uranium, thermal coal and coking to underlying earnings was US$733 million, coal operations.
Rio Tinto Energy groups US$302 million higher than in 2004. coal interests are in Australia and the US.
Results benefited from a significant They supply internationally traded and increase in prices received for both thermal domestic US and Australian markets.
Third party infrastructure includes Rssing Uranium in Namibia and issues continued to impede production Energy Resources of Australia which supply growth in both Australia and the US.
uranium oxide for electricity generation.
Operations focused on shifting emphasis to At 31 December 2005, the Energy higher margin products and facilitating the group accounted for 14 per cent of Group further expansion of the new Hail Creek operating assets and, in 2005, contributed mine in Australia into a strong market Locations: Australia, Namibia, US 8 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1030B p9 27 2 06 4:33 pm Page 9 Dragline bucket at the Cordero Rojo coal operations, US.
Energy Underlying adjusted The Energy group is a leading advocate earnings contribution of, and investor in, the sustainable US$m development aspects of the future uses of coal and uranium.
In 2005 the group contributed resources and investment funds to the FutureGen clean coal research project in the US, the COAL21 project in Australia and the International Energy Agency Clean 01 02 03 04 05 Coal Centre.
See chart note in Iron Ore section on page 6.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 9 373 353 157 431 733 817982 1030C p10 25 2 2006 4:09 PM Page 10 Industrial Minerals: Reorganising for strength 10 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1030C p11 Flaps 25 2 2006 4:12 PM Page Flap12 Stackers and stockpiles at Dampier Salt, Beginning in February 2006, Australia.
three of Rio Tintos industrial minerals businesses, Borax borates, Luzenac talc and Dampier Salt, are combining management and systems to form a new and more efficient organisation called Rio Tinto Minerals.
Together with Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium, the two form the Industrial Minerals product group.
The Industrial Minerals portfolio is one of the sources of differentiation between Rio Tinto and its diversified mining sector peers.
The businesses add value not easily replicated elsewhere in the mining industry, providing direct exposure to high growth markets, such as construction, chemicals, pulp and paper, automotive and agriculture.
The decision to take a new approach arises from the need to improve returns from these businesses and take advantage of new opportunities.
Combining the businesses holds the greatest probability for success in achieving major improvements in Industrial Minerals's safety record, competitiveness and options for growth.
Chief executive Industrial Minerals Andrew Mackenzie says the change is a logical step in Rio Tintos continuous efforts to improve performance and develop common systems and practices.
Combining management resources will allow efficiencies of scale and an integrated approach to developing new product applications and markets to better serve customers.
Individually these businesses are quite small.
The objective is to form a business unit that is capable of operating on a scale comparable to other Rio Tinto business units.
The elimination of areas of duplication will offer synergies amounting to tens of millions of dollars.
Focal points for Rio Tinto Minerals and the rest of the product group are to improve safety, achieve operational excellence, integrate an approach to serving common markets to build revenues, Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 11 817982 1030C p11 6 3 06 9:28 am Page 11 One-off costs decrease earnings gross turnover in 2005.
Approximately expense of US$13 million.
Rio Tintos Industrial Minerals group 7,000 people were employed in 2005.
Rio Tinto Boraxs earnings were 48 per produces borates, talc, industrial salt, and Industrial Minerals contribution to cent lower at US$48 million.
The borates titanium dioxide feedstock.
It is a global 2005 underlying earnings was US$187 business was impacted by lower sales leader in the supply and science of these million, 23 per cent lower than in 2004, volumes and increasing energy and products.
Beginning in 2006, Rio Tinto reflecting significant one-off costs of distribution costs.
Rio Tinto Borax also Borax, Luzenac talc and Dampier Salt are US$42 million after tax including provision incurred a one-off restructuring cost of combining their management and systems for restructuring in relation to the formation US$12 million after tax in relation to the to form a new organisation, Rio Tinto of Rio Tinto Minerals.
There were also formation of Rio Tinto Minerals.
Together with Rio Tinto Iron & increased energy and distribution costs at Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium earnings at Titanium, the two will form the Industrial all business units.
Dampier Salt and Rio US$128 million were ten per cent higher Minerals product group effective in 2007.
Tinto Iron & Titanium incurred high initial than in 2004.
Strong price performance At 31 December 2005, Industrial operating costs for commissioning of a across all products, combined with Minerals accounted for 14 per cent of the new plant and the upgraded titanium slag increased volumes and good cost Groups operating assets and contributed UGS expansion respectively.
Rio Tinto performance at Richards Bay Minerals led approximately 12 per cent of Rio Tintos Iron & Titanium also incurred a one-off tax to this strong performance.
Locations: Borates Argentina, Europe, US, Salt Australia Talc Australia, Europe, North America, Ti0 Canada, South Africa Zinc, Lead, Silver US 2 streamline systems to reduce duplication Borates, talc and salt have remarkable materials, electronics, medicines and and capture new opportunities for growth.
qualities that contribute to making our way sporting goods.
The time is right for a cohesive of life more sustainable.
Rio Tinto Borax From mines and mills in Europe, North commercial strategy in developing supplies 43 per cent of the global demand America and Australia, Luzenac supplies a economies like China, Eastern Europe, for refined borates with 2,500 customers in quarter of the world's talc and is a leader the Middle East and India where demand nearly 100 countries.
Borates go into glass in the science of this mineral.
Talc is for higher quality raw materials is rising products, oven-to-table ware, glass fibre naturally water repellent, soft and inert.
In agriculture, borates are an enhances performance in the manufacture The businesses brand names are essential nutrient for plants and form part and use of products that include paper, being preserved 20 Mule Team borates, of a healthy diet.
paints, plastics, ceramics, personal care Luzenac talcs and Dampier salt.
Value Dampier is the worlds largest salt items, agriculture and pharmaceuticals.
will be created through a unified approach exporter.
Salt is essential to life, and Rio Tinto Minerals will maintain its to common markets.
For example testing indispensable to a wide array of chemical foundation businesses strong focus on the use of borates in processing wood pulp and other industries.
Sodium chloride is safety and corporate social responsibility.
has already been supported by Luzenacs used in health care, in water treatment it The development of the new operating knowledge of the paper market.
The relieves stress in aquariums, and as an organisation started in November 2005, transfer of zinc borate sales for fire anti-freeze.
As the main source of chlorine, and will be completed by January 2007. retardants from the Borax brand to salt makes hundreds of products possible, One-off costs decrease earnings Luzenac has also proved successful.
including automotive parts, construction Aerial view of Boraxs facilities and mine in the Mojave Desert, California, US.
817982 1030C p11 Flaps 26 2 2006 9:01 AM Page Flap11 Industrial Minerals Underlying adjusted earnings contribution US$m 01 02 03 04 05 See chart note in Above, Luzenacs talc operations at Three Iron Ore section on page 6.
Springs Talc, Australia and, right, Yellowstone, US.
Fiery sparks during an iron tap at QITs Sorel-Tracy plant, Canada.
323 286 154 243 187 817982 1030D p12 27 2 06 2:08 pm Page 12 Demand rises higher As demand for Rio Tinto Aluminiums When the worlds largest product increases, the business is looking passenger aircraft, the A380 to better understand the overall contribution Airbus, took flight for the first of aluminium in a sustainable society.
This means reconciling the energy consumed in time in 2005, its wings the production of aluminium with the net contained high purity benefit for the global community.
aluminium from Rio Tinto To understand the issue, it is important Aluminium RTA.
to look at the extraordinarily strong bond The special aluminium alloy used is an that links an atom of aluminium to an atom example of how far aluminium has come of oxygen.
It is a bond that can only be over the last century and why it is now broken by a considerable amount of energy the worlds second most important metal in the form of electricity.
This helps explain after steel.
why aluminium was a late bloomer in the Few people realise aluminium is a new industrial sense.
It had to await the age of metal historically speaking only being electricity before the world could experience produced in industrial quantities in the last the benefits of its strength, lightness and 100 years.
And, as living standards rapidly resistance to corrosion.
increase in developing countries such as China and India, aluminiums unique characteristics will see it make an even greater contribution to sustainable societies over the next century.
The use of aluminium in transport is widespread and has helped drive global demand.
High purity aluminium is more reliable from a performance perspective than many other metals and well suited to critical transport applications, such as the A380 Airbus, where quality enhances safety.
Rio Tinto Aluminiums wholly owned subsidiary, Comalco, produces some of the highest purity aluminium in the world.
Made by New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Rio Tinto: 79.4 per cent, the 99.98 per cent purity aluminium is a highly sought after product.
Top, conveyor belts transport bauxite for shipment at Lorim Point, Weipa Australia.
Centre, Comalco Alumina Refinery, Gladstone, Australia.
Bottom, bauxite in the washing process at Comalcos Andoom plant, Weipa, Australia.
Stronger prices increase earnings Aluminium 51 per cent in Wales.
the average three months aluminium price in Rio Tinto Aluminium RTA is made up of At 31 December 2005, the Aluminium 2005 at 86 US cents per pound compared Rio Tintos wholly owned, integrated group accounted for 21 per cent of with 78 US cents per pound in 2004.
The aluminium subsidiary, Comalco, and its Rio Tintos operating assets and in 2005 effect of the weakening US currency reduced 51 per cent share in Anglesey Aluminium.
contributed 13 per cent of gross turnover Aluminiums earnings by US$34 million.
RTA's primary aluminium is produced by and eight per cent of underlying earnings.
RTA is a major supplier of bauxite, smelters at Boyne Island at Gladstone in RTAs contribution to 2005 underlying alumina and primary aluminium to world Queensland 59.4 per cent, Bell Bay 100 earnings was US$392 million, an increase of markets.
per cent in Tasmania, Tiwai Point 79.4 per 18 per cent.
Stronger aluminium prices RTA has a large, wholly owned bauxite cent in New Zealand and Anglesey increased earnings by US$106 million with mine at Weipa on Cape York Peninsula, Locations: Australia, Italy, New Zealand, UK 12 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1030D p13 26 2 2006 6:14 PM Page 13 Aluminium smelting is an energy intensive gas emission reduction programmes.
other opportunities to improve RTAs process in a world that is increasingly These are being built in to annual planning emission reduction performance and to concerned about climate change and cycles and improvement programmes.
A sizeable proportion of RTA will focus strongly on emission greenhouse gases come from industry and reductions across all its sites covering the Aluminiums ability to be recycled in particular from electrical power stations entire production chain from mining through repeatedly with no impact on its attributes, that burn fossil fuels.
RTA will continue to coupled with energy savings of around 95 Some people refer to aluminium as invest in research into the drained cathode per cent compared to production, makes solid electricity and, despite the fact that cell.
This new generation aluminium aluminium a sustainable alternative to only about one per cent of global smelting technology has the potential to many other metals.
Of the 700 million greenhouse gases can be attributed reduce electricity use by ten per cent.
In tonnes of aluminium ever produced, over directly to the aluminium industry, addition, RTA will be looking at technological 500 million tonnes are still in use.
aluminium does have a case to answer.
and public policy options including: Rather than being solid electricity, In 2006 and beyond, RTA will be aluminium is more an enormous store of working to address energy usage and Supporting research and development on energy that is constantly being recycled.
In emissions on both a short and long term near zero emission coal fired electricity this sense, aluminium can be used to basis.
The immediate response is to drive generation.
make a positive contribution to a more onsite energy efficiency and greenhouse Working with stakeholders to identify sustainable lifestyle now and in the future.
A US$150 million mine to the budget of US$750 million.
Rated Underlying adjusted expansion was completed on time to capacity is due to be reached by the end earnings contribution supply the bauxite requirements of the new of 2006.
There is potential for capacity to US$m Comalco Alumina Refinery.
In 2005, RTA be increased to over four million tonnes continued to invest in the Weipa bauxite with stage one and stage two expansions.
mine to underpin the 2004 expansion.
Construction of the first stage of the wholly owned Comalco Alumina Refinery at See chart note in Iron Ore section on page 6.
Gladstone in Queensland was completed 01 02 03 04 05 in late 2004, ahead of schedule and close Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 13 328 256 200 331 392 817982 1030E p14 26 2 2006 7:46 AM Page 14 Copper hot, Molybdenum hotter Kennecott Utah Coppers Bingham Canyon mine outside Salt Lake City, US, has produced more copper metal than any mine in history about 17 million tonnes.
But along with the main payload of copper come several other minerals, notably gold, silver and molybdenum.
Until recently, molybdenum was viewed as a useful but unexciting fellow traveller to the mines overall output and performance.
Today however, thanks to buoyant market conditions and the expansion of the processing facilities at the mine, molybdenum has moved up to become a major earner for Kennecott.
In Above, Kennecott Utah Coppers Bingham Canyon mine, 2005, the contribution to earnings from overlooked by the Oquirrh mountain range, Utah, US.
molybdenum exceeded US$700 million compared with US$30 three years ago.
Kennecott generally produces molybdenum at a rate of between 20 million and 25 million pounds per year.
Production has been as low as ten million pounds but in 2005 it reached 34 million pounds.
Molybdenum oxide prices have been riding high for the past two years, reaching an all time high of US$40 a pound in June 2005.
This price explosion is noteworthy because, apart from a short term surge in the mid 1990s, prices over the last decade were consistently below 14 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1030E p15 Flaps 26 2 2006 6:04 PM Page Flap16 Copper pour at 2,180 Fahrenheit at Kennecott Smelter, Utah, US.
817982 1030E p15 26 2 2006 9:36 AM Page 15 Earnings up 135 per cent group also produces gold and result.
The average price of copper was Rio Tintos Copper group comprises molybdenum as significant by-products.
At 166 US cents per pound compared to 130 Kennecott Utah Copper in the US and 31 December 2005, the group accounted US cents in 2004.
The average price of interests in the copper mines of Escondida for 17 per cent of Rio Tintos operating molybdenum was US$30.7 per pound in Chile, Grasberg in Indonesia, assets and, in 2005, contributed compared to US$14.6 per pound in 2004.
Northparkes in Australia, Palabora in South approximately 23 per cent of gross The average gold price of US$444 per Africa, and the Resolution Copper project turnover, of which 61 per cent was from ounce increased by nine per cent.
The group has management copper, 20 per cent from molybdenum and Kennecott Utah Coppers contribution responsibility for Kennecott Minerals the remainder mostly from gold.
It to underlying earnings was US$1,037 Company in the US.
accounted for 41 per cent of underlying million compared with US$311 million in The groups contribution to underlying earnings in 2005.
Molybdenum production was earnings was US$2,020 million, 135 per Stronger markets, especially for significantly increased due to a refocus of cent higher than in 2004.
The Copper molybdenum, accounted for the improved the mine plan in response to significantly Locations: Australia, Chile, South Africa, US About molybdenum US$5 per pound, and for long periods Prices drifted somewhat in the closing Molybdenum is a metallic were barely half that.
months of 2005 but the current period of element frequently used in alloys Kennecott Rio Tinto: 100 per cent is high prices only the third significant peak with stainless steel and other now the fourth largest molybdenum in the past 25 years is remarkable metals.
It enhances the metals producer in the world and has a ten per because of its prolonged duration.
While a toughness, high temperature cent share of the North American market higher price regime is unlikely to be strength and corrosion for metallurgical molybdenum, ten per cent sustained indefinitely, market factors resistance.
of the market in Europe and four per cent healthy global demand, a shortage of Although steel is its single in Japan.
molybdenum roasting capacity, and reduced biggest market, molybdenum is During the course of 2005, Kennecott output of the metal in China suggest that also widely used in the modified the mines operating plan to a fall to the traditional low price levels is manufacture of super alloys, exploit the favourable conditions in the improbable in the medium term.
lubricants, chemicals and molybdenum market.
It can be boosted by working an area of the mine found in a vast range of steel where molybdenum yields were higher but equipment, from high speed tools where the copper deposits were of a lower such as drills and saw blades to grade.
As a result, less copper was pipework for the offshore oil and produced but the higher molybdenum gas industry.
Molybdenum alloys output more than outweighed this.
are used in a wide variety of civil A further example of responding construction projects for flexibly to the realities of the marketplace example in the exterior cladding can be seen at the nearby Copperton of spectacular buildings like the concentrator plant.
In the past, Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, molybdenum concentrate was put through Malaysia.
a series of processes involving mechanical One of molybdenums most flotation cells and a heat and silica flotation valuable features is that, unlike procedure.
More mechanical cells have other heavy metals, its now been added and the old heat and compounds are of low toxicity.
This makes it an especially This change, coupled with a new suitable alloy material for computerised control system, has boosted manufacturing the vessels used the amount of recoverable molybdenum by in the pharmaceutical, food and up to ten per cent.
A second expansion of chemical industries.
the molybdenum plant will go on line in March 2006, increasing still further its production capacity and improving the quality of the molybdenum concentrate.
Ironically, it was weak molybdenum prices in 2002 which spurred the search for these greater operating efficiencies but the subsequent price surge has made their introduction even more beneficial.
Rio Tintos Copper Underlying adjusted share of earnings from Escondida earnings contribution increased by US$196 million to US$602 US$m million.
Mined production of copper was up five per cent.
The earnings contribution from the Grasberg joint venture increased by US$200 million to US$232 million chiefly as a result of the continuation of full production after the material slippage in 01 02 03 04 05 October 2003.
Palabora recorded a profit See chart note in of US$19 million in 2005 due to improved Iron Ore section on page 6. performance of underground production.
Above, crusher in Palaboras underground mine, South Africa.
Left, gold pour at the Cortez gold mine, Nevada, US.
Far left top, ceramic disk filters dry the final concentrate at Northparkes, Australia.
Far left bottom, the tailings thickeners at Los Colorados ore concentrator, Escondida, Chile.
306 341 440 860 2,020 817982 1030F p16 17 26 2 2006 9:37 AM Page 16 Costing more than US$1 billion, the Argyle and Diavik two projects will help ensure that Rio Tintos production of diamonds Diamonds: keeps pace with market demand over the next ten to 15 years.
The Argyle mine Rio Tinto: 100 per cent in Western Australia produces more diamonds than any other mine in the investing for world.
Since 1985, when the main ore body was developed, it has supplied more than 500 million carats to world markets and is currently producing about 30 million carats a year.
a bright future This prolific source of diamonds is not inexhaustible.
By 2008, open pit operations will cease to be economically viable.
After a comprehensive feasibility study, a decision Rio Tinto is affirming its was made in late 2005 to extend the confidence in the mines life by investing US$760 million on converting to underground mining prospects of its operations.
As a result, Argyles future is now assured until at least 2018.
Diamonds business by Work is already under way on developing the underground operation but undertaking two major it will take three years to bring it fully on capital investment stream.
In the meantime, a further US$150 million will be spent on a new open pit projects, one at Argyle in cutback that will help maintain Argyles production levels in the transition period, Australia and the other at and beyond, as the open pit operation is Diavik in Canada.
wound down and the new underground mine is ramped up.
A vital factor behind the go ahead was a reduction in the royalty payable on the more costly underground production and the waiving of some secondary processing obligations by the Government of Western Australia.
Revised pricing arrangements with Argyles customers, most of whom are in India, will also help ensure the mines economic health.
The orebody will be mined using the block cave technique being employed with success at some of Rio Tintos copper mines.
This is a bulk mining method that does not require ongoing drilling and blasting.
It involves undercutting the orebody to induce fracture and collapse of the ore by gravity.
Ore is then collected underground and sent to the processing plant on the surface via a network of conveyors.
Once in full production, Argyles output will be about 20 million carats a year compared with its historical average of about 34 million carats.
Close up of an uncut Argyle pink diamond.
16 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1030F p17 Flaps 26 2 2006 6:05 PM Page Flap18 Diavik diamond mine in Canadas Northwest Territories.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 17 817982 1030F p16 17 26 2 2006 9:38 AM Page 17 Earnings reflect robust demand accounted for seven per cent of the Murowa.
The rough diamond market The Diamonds group comprises Rio Tintos Groups operating assets and, in 2005, remained strong for most of 2005 with the 60 per cent interest in the Diavik Diamonds made up five per cent of Rio Tintos gross Rio Tinto product offering in great demand.
mine in Canada, the wholly owned Argyle turnover.
Seasonal softening toward the end of mine in Australia, Rio Tintos 78 per cent Diamonds contributed US$281 million the year was mainly due to holidays and interest in the Murowa mine in Zimbabwe, to underlying earnings, an increase of festivals in the key customer markets.
and diamond sales and representative US$93 million from 2004, assisted by The groups focus is the mining, offices in Belgium and India.
a strong diamond market and the solid recovery and sale of rough natural At 31 December 2005, Diamonds performance by Argyle, Diavik and diamonds.
In keeping with Rio Tintos Locations: Australia, Canada, Zimbabwe In Canadas Northwest Territories, work is proceeding apace on facilities that will allow a new diamond pipe to be opened up at the Diavik mine Rio Tinto: 60 per cent.
The four diamond bearing pipes at Diavik lie under the icy waters of Lac fide Gras, which meant a radical mining solution had to be found.
Rio Tintos answer was to create an artificial dike round the site of the orebodies, which lie just offshore of a 20 square kilometre island, and then pump out the lake water so that open pit mining can take place on the dry lake bed.
The original plan for Diavik, which began operating in 2003, was to exploit only two of the four pipes, leaving the other two to be developed in turn at some future date, as and when conditions allowed.
Uncut diamonds, recovered from the Diavik diamond mine, Canada.
However, thanks to the unexpectedly high quality and yield of diamonds from the first two pipes and to buoyant market Improving performance together conditions and a better than expected Rio Tinto has embarked on a new phase of business improvement it has called performance from the on site ore Improving performance together.
Led by Keith Johnson, in addition to his role as chief processing plant, a decision was taken in executive Diamonds, this is a set of internal initiatives to enhance collaboration across all 2004 to advance the development of one of Rio Tintos businesses to deliver additional value.
of the two remaining pipes.
The initiatives build on the Groups existing strengths in core areas such as mining, Construction work began in 2005 on a processing, marketing and asset management.
They also look at fundamental processes second dike that will allow open pit mining such as investment opportunity generation, planning, information technology and how of the A418 orebody from 2008.
The cost key Groupwide functions are organised.
of this new 1.3 kilometre dike will be some By tapping into the expertise of employees worldwide, the Group is systematically US$190 million.
The wall of the new dike identifying where already high standards of performance can be further improved and was closed in October and during the where they should be replicated.
course of 2006 rockfill will be added inside The work began in 2005 and is gaining momentum in 2006 as projects are the dike.
A central concrete cut off wall will introduced at key sites and lessons learned are shared between operations.
Tangible be constructed and grouting will make the results are already being recorded that open up exciting opportunities.
To embed the dike water tight.
Then, in 2007, fish inside improvements being brought about, refinements are being made to the way the Group the dike will be captured and released is organised and, so that the Group works together more closely.
outside the dike, the lake water will be Improving performance together aims to ensure that Rio Tinto maximises value pumped out and pre-stripping and open creation whatever the market conditions.
817982 1030F p17 Flaps 26 2 2006 6:22 PM Page Flap17 values, the group is a leading proponent through its marketing arm, Rio Tinto Diamonds Underlying adjusted of the Kimberley Process and driver Diamonds, in line with strict chain earnings contribution of programmes such as the Business of custody process allowing the sale of US$m Excellence Model and partnerships like diamonds according to their mine source the Council for Responsible Jewellery in order to gain the benefits of origin.
Practices to ensure suppliers, partners and customers operate to acceptable See chart note in Iron Ore standards of social and environmental section on page 6. responsibility.
Rio Tinto sells its diamonds 01 02 03 04 05 Argyle requires all employees and contractors A diamond is inspected for flaws using a to respect the rights and concerns of local hand loupe at Murowa, Zimbabwe.
58 63 113 188 281 817982 1030G p18 26 2 2006 9:39 AM Page 18 Exploring Investors compare mining companies on a number of measures.
One of them is exposure to country risk.
A companys willingness to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in a developing country may be seen as a plus by bold investors, or as a minus by those who are more cautious and conservative.
Increased activity raises expenditure Exploration in 2005 focused on advancing group evaluation team.
Cash expenditure on exploration in 2005 the most promising targets across the Since 2001 five projects have moved was US$264 million and the pre-tax charge spectrum of grassroots, generative, drill from exploration to the next stage of to underlying earnings was US$250 million, test stage, and near mine programmes.
project evaluation including Resolution a US$60 million increase over 2004, Encouraging results were obtained from a copper, Arizona, US, Potasio Rio Colorado reflecting a further increase in iron ore number of locations.
potash, Argentina and Simandou iron exploration in Western Australia, the An order of magnitude study was ore, Guinea.
In addition to these projects, growth of high quality projects in the completed on the La Sampala project near mine exploration has also been Exploration pipeline and further nickel, Indonesia.
In the Pilbara region of undertaken.
Where resources have been acceleration of evaluation on significant Western Australia five new iron ore supplemented or additional resource projects by product groups during the year.
deposits were handed over to the product discovered this has been reported by 18 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1030G p19 26 2 2006 8:02 AM Page 19 new horizons Nearly 90 per cent of the Rio Tinto Groups diamonds had never been recorded assets are located in Canada, the United before.
After years of evaluation the States and Australia, countries with strong first diamonds were produced in democracies and clear regulation.
Expansion options are not to say the Group has been afraid of being studied.
In Russia, Rio Tinto plans to focus on Rio Tinto operated in central Africa in the making greenfield discoveries.
Successful mines have been announced joint venture to participate in developed in South Africa, Namibia and exploration in Russia with Norilsk Nickel will remote areas of Indonesia and Brazil.
provide unrivalled access to Siberias vast Today, as global investment conditions eastern districts.
improve and modern exploration techniques Russia is endowed with great resource are applied in new places, destinations for wealth and is under explored using modern Field crew collecting magnetic data in Arizona, US.
Rio Tinto has experience in ten years, Rio Tintos percentage of assets exploring and mining in northern terrains, outside its traditional homelands is likely and sees itself as well positioned to to increase.
leverage this experience in Russia, given A case in point was a project started the right circumstances.
in 1996 when Rio Tinto Exploration began By linking up with a premier Russian reconnaissance of the Simandou Range in partner that has the contacts, capabilities Guinea, west Africa, following reports of and experience in Russian mining, iron ore mineralisation.
Exploration work led Rio Tintos risk is reduced.
The Group has to the discovery of a new iron ore district opened an office in Moscow and also off the map from Rio Tintos traditional maintains an exploration presence in China operating locations.
A very significant with an office in Beijing.
deposit of high grade and high quality iron The portfolio of advanced exploration ore was outlined and a prefeasibility study projects include nickel in Indonesia, is under way.
There are many more mineral diamonds in India, coking and thermal coal A community consultation in Madhya Predesh, India.
in South Africa, copper in Turkey and Elsewhere, in Madagascar, a country ilmenite in Mozambique.
not previously thought of as a mining As the centre of gravity shifts, centre, Rio Tinto discovered one of the Rio Tintos commitment to exploration will best quality deposits of ilmenite a mineral become increasingly important as a from which titanium dioxide is derived.
Projects are likely 2005, QIT Madagascar Minerals, a to emerge in less familiar territory, but subsidiary of Rio Tinto, started developing subject to the same rigorous investment an ilmenite mine and port at Fort Dauphin criteria and risk management processes as which is expected to be a model of how in the past.
mining can help the developing world.
The group seeks to develop new In neighbouring Zimbabwe, the projects faster and the exploration focus Murowa diamond deposit was discovered may gradually shift the location of the by Rio Tinto geologists in an area where groups activities.
Large drill rig at the Potasio Rio Colorado project, Argentina.
copper mineralisation in Turkey and the US, of US$22 million.
Diamond exploration continued in warranting further follow up drill testing.
During 2005 a single integrated HSEC Canada, southern Africa, Mauritania, Brazil In December Rio Tinto was successful management system was developed and and India.
A number of diamond bearing in winning tenders for the evaluation of the introduced across the Exploration group.
In kimberlite pipes were discovered and La Granja copper project located in December the group received ISO 14001 follow up test work is in progress to gauge northern Peru and the Jarandol concession certification covering the environmental economic potential.
The Indian diamond hosting the Piskanja borate deposit located management activities in its four core programme is showing early promise.
The La Granja bid geographical regions.
Copper exploration continued in comprises a US$60 million investment in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Peru, Chile, Argentina, exploration and feasibility work and staged Mexico and the US.
Drilling encountered payments to the Peruvian government Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 19 817982 1030H p20 25 26 2 2006 8:10 AM Page 20 Moving ahead not immediately available off the shelf.
the bacteria are encouraged to multiply.
Modern technology continues Rio Tinto has direct experience with the They flourish and decompose the to push the boundaries of method at Palabora in South Africa and sulphides, thereby assisting chemical possibility and achievement in Northparkes in Australia as well as from its reactions that dissolve copper out of the joint venture relationship at Grasberg in ore.
The method of metal extraction mining and processing.
It is being employed in the contributes to sustainable development by Advances enable new resources to be US$760 million underground extension of producing copper from previously accessed and produced safely and the Argyle diamond mine in Australia.
economically to supply essential needs to Learning the technology is giving the Group Also contributing to sustainable growing populations.
In 2005, Rio Tintos a unique capability, matched by Rio Tintos development is clean copper smelting Technology group made progress in the organisational depth and breadth.
technology developed in part by Rio Tinto recovery of copper resources.
On the mineral processing side, in late and in use for over ten years at the The majority of metal and mineral 2005 Rio Tinto won the tender in Peru for Kennecott smelter in Salt Lake City, US.
concentrations in the earth are not privatisation of the La Granja copper The technology is now being applied in a accessible with current mining techniques, project.
This is a deposit suited to new copper production plant under most of which cannot reach much deeper conventional open pit mining.
It contains construction in China.
Technologies that more than two billion tonnes of copper ore.
The smelter and refinery project in increase depth and accessibility safely and But with modest grades and difficult China is based on Outokumpu of Finlands economically with a negligible mineralogy it will need low cost processing flash smelting, and the  footprint could yield large technology to extract value.
increases in ore reserves globally.
Instead of looking at La Granja as a The design of the Yanggu Xiang Guang At the Resolution Copper project in the conventional milling operation producing Copper Company plant is the first use of US Rio Tinto: 55 per cent drilling in 2003 concentrates for export, Rio Tinto is flash converting outside Rio Tintos intercepted a large body of mineralisation conducting a feasibility study aimed at Kennecott facilities and will attract licence underneath the historic Magma mine, demonstrating a sulphide bioleach capability fees for Rio Tinto.
with recovery of copper metal using The technology is capable of achieving Studies are under way into the feasibility of bioleaching and electricity electrowinning.
an exceptionally high level of emission developing a new mine beneath the This would be similar to the method control to protect the environment relative workings of the old.
This is expected to being employed at a new dump leach to traditional technologies.
Because the take about ten years.
project at Escondida in Chile in which new smelter is sited in the heart of an If the project is approved, the deeper Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest.
At agricultural region, this was a major factor mine will present a major engineering La Granja it is very early days, but initial in selection of the technology.
The mineralisation is deeper testwork has been encouraging.
The Longer term, the project affords than most copper deposits and the rock is approach shows Rio Tintos willingness Rio Tinto positioning in the rapidly highly stressed.
Located near a to take the path of technical innovation, expanding copper smelting and refining subterranean hotspot, rock temperatures which involves risk but has a business in China, which may have a reach 80F 27C.
These factors have been commensurate upside.
bearing on the Groups future mining mastered elsewhere in the mining industry Bioleaching is the deliberate use of projects, including Resolution Copper.
Block cave common strains of bacteria to speed the Construction of the Yanggu smelter mining technology is being evaluated to chemical release of metals from ores.
The project is on a address the challenges.
adding bacteria charged solutions of dilute fast track for completion in late 2006.
This underground bulk mining method sulphuric acid and ferric sulphate and requires significant and diverse skill sets, blowing air through heaps of broken ore Driving technical improvements It provides a world class technology based identify, share and implement leading The charge for the Technology group, service to the product groups, their practice across Rio Tinto.
Collaboration in including Health, Safety and Environment, businesses and the corporate centre.
knowledge capture and dissemination is a against net earnings was US$41 million, Through the Health, Safety and key requirement for all staff.
compared with US$36 million in 2004.
The Environment unit, assurance is provided to Throughout 2005 Technology group increase was due to the greater level of the board with regard to the development staff were a core part of the Improving activity in all Technology group units.
and implementation of Rio Tintos Safety, performance together programme, driving The Technology group provides a Occupational Health and Environment the implementation of a number of central platform to support Rio Tintos policies and standards.
initiatives to create value for the Group operations, future growth and profitability.
All units in the Technology group through a combination of capital efficiency, 20 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1030H p20 25 26 2 2006 8:11 AM Page 21 with technological advances Monitoring the calcination section of the Comalco Alumina Refinery, Queensland, Australia.
higher volumes, higher revenues and improved productivity.
The total staff in the Technology group at year end was 343 compared with 362 in 2004.
The decrease was due to reassignment of some support functions to the Rio Tinto Shared Services group.
The massive 4km by 2km sulphide ore leaching The extraction level access road in Northparkes pads under contruction at Escondida, Chile.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 21 817982 1030H p20 25 26 2 2006 8:12 AM Page 22 Chain of value sustains thousands The Argyle mine produces a quarter of the Sustainable worlds diamonds by volume.
Since 1983 it has underpinned the economy of its host region in north western Australia.
And since 1989 when Argyle started selling gems into India for cutting and polishing, development it has sustained multiple aspects of Indian industry and society.
The approval in late 2005 of an underground project to extend the life of the mine from 2008 to 2018 therefore prolongs the livelihoods of many, including employees, local businesses, and people involved in the step by step addition of value after the diamonds are recovered from the ground.
The mine extension means the continued direct employment of more than 220,000 cutting and polishing technicians 6,000 kilometres away in India.
Counting the average household size of five per family, the industry accounted for by Argyle in India can be said to support over 1.2 million people.
The diamond business is shaped like a pyramid.
At the top are a handful of major mine producers Rio Tinto is the third largest supplier by value in the world and beneath them the 100 or so dealers who buy direct allocations of stones from the majors.
There are also a large number of cutters and polishers without direct access to mined supply who rely on the secondary market where rough diamonds are traded.
The resulting polished diamonds are then Argyle land agreement.
Rio Tinto has directly Pristine wetlands outside the town of Sept-les negotiated more than 70 mine development and IOCs operations, Canada.
and exploration access agreements with Aboriginal groups.
22 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1030H p20 25 26 2 2006 8:13 AM Page 23 finding the right balance Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 23 817982 1030H p20 25 26 2 2006 1:05 PM Page 24 How to contribute to sustainable businesses, projects, operations and implement the policy in a manner that is development products should contribute constructively to consistent with local priorities in the local Rio Tinto has made a strategic commitment the global transition to sustainable context.
to sustainable development, in the belief development.
The challenge for each business is to that acting responsibly will result in long In implementing the policy, the work with other parties in making term business benefits such as lowering approach is to encourage different parts of judgements about the appropriate balance risks, reducing costs, creating options, and the Group to apply the concept within their between competing interests to arrive at leveraging reputation.
specific social, environmental, economic acceptable tradeoffs.
By addressing these It is corporate policy that Group and governance circumstances, and to challenges, Rio Tinto can make an sold to the jewellery manufacturers.
Further and 50 per cent living locally.
Approval of down the chain are the many thousands of the expansion project came soon after the retail stores.
Argyle community celebrated the Argyle The Argyle expansion project cost of Participation Agreement aimed at ensuring US$910 million underwrites the continued minings contribution to sustainable addition of value to the mined gemstones livelihoods locally.
The agreement was of more than half a billion US dollars per signed by Argyle Diamonds, the indigenous year.
According to a study by accounting traditional owners and the Kimberley Land firm KPMG, the industry in India adds value Council.
It recognises traditional ownership equivalent to US$447 million in diamond of the land, thus providing certainty for cutting and polishing, US$26 million in Argyle and laying the foundations of a jewellery manufacture and US$37 million in sustainable relationship with the local and jewellery retailing for a total value add of regional community.
The terms of the agreement The large volume and small size of emphasise economic participation and Argyle stones has built capabilities in regional development with traditional cutting and polishing that have made India owners financial benefits linked to the one of the largest diamond processing fortunes of the Argyle business.
There is a centres in the world.
The Indo Argyle traditional owner controlled trust to Diamond Council started by Argyle created manage the funds.
The agreement has marketing capabilities that ensure a been described as the most progressive sustainable future for the Indian diamond mining company Aboriginal community industry.
Rio Tintos Business Excellence agreement negotiated in Australia.
Model, a certification scheme to improve While it affords formal recognition of business practices and operating diverse indigenous interests, it is not Top, a diamond is closely inspected prior to conditions among customers, also unique.
In the last decade Rio Tinto has cutting and polishing.
directly negotiated more than 70 mine Bottom, meetings with local villagers in Keith Johnson, chief executive of development and exploration access Mozambique are held regularly to ensure good Rio Tinto Diamonds, says with Argyle to agreements with Aboriginal groups, relations are maintained, and are often continue producing well beyond planned recognising the rights and interests of local concluded with traditonal music and dancing.
closure in 2008, the Argyle brand and its people and contributing to regional signature stone, the pink diamond, will economic development.
continue to play an important role in the Recognising Argyles vital wealth world diamond market.
This is a generating role, the Western Australian particularly good decision for the East Government agreed to provide royalty relief Kimberley area, the Indian cutting and and waive some secondary processing polishing industry and the affordable obligations to enable the expansion of the fashion jewellery industry, each with a mine to go ahead.
This proved degree of dependence on the Argyle fundamental to the economics of the business.
project and helps ensure that Argyle Argyle is the largest single contributor continues to contribute to sustainable to the Kimberley economy with 25 per cent development, not only in its region but in of its present full time workforce indigenous India and around the world.
24 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1030H p20 25 26 2 2006 1:08 PM Page 25 important contribution to the economic 2005 the panel published a set of decision consider the effects of actions on future prosperity and social well being of its host making criteria to help businesses and generations, and that they make a positive societies and the stewardship of the departments incorporate sustainable contribution towards societys transition to environment.
development considerations into their sustainable development.
A Sustainable Development Leadership formal and informal business decision Panel of senior executives was formed in making systems.
2004 to set the direction, priorities and The purpose is to ensure that decisions strategy for Rio Tintos contribution.
After are effective in balancing economic, social wide internal and external consultation, in and environmental aspects, that they The suburbs of Sorel border QITs Sorel-Tracy operations on the St. Lawrence River, Canada.
Amounts relating to jointly controlled Group.
Earnings of subsidiaries are stated before finance items but after the entities and associates not specifically funded by Rio Tinto are deducted before amortisation of the discount related to provisions.
Earnings attributable to jointly arriving at total capital expenditure for the Group.
controlled entities and associates include interest charges and amortisation of e In 2004, Rio Tinto owned a 51 per cent interest in Morro do Ouro, which was discount.
Earnings attributed to business units exclude amounts that are sold on 31 December 2004. excluded in arriving at underlying earnings.
These excluded amounts are shown f Includes Rio Tintos 75.7 per cent interest in Coal & Allied, which is managed by on page 29.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia, a 100 per cent subsidiary of Rio Tinto.
b Gross turnover includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries turnover and the Groups g Includes Rio Tintos interests in Anglesey Aluminium 51 per cent and Comalco share of the turnover of jointly controlled entities and associates.
c Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets before deducting net debt, h On 30 March 2004, Rio Tinto sold its 13.1 per cent shareholding in Freeportless outside shareholders interests which are calculated by reference to the net McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
The sale of the shares does not affect the terms assets of the relevant companies ie net of such companies debt.
For jointly of the Grasberg joint venture referred to below.
controlled entities and associates, Rio Tintos net investment is shown.
i Under the terms of a joint venture agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent d Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments of property, plant and equipment.
The details provided include 100 per cent of of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure j During July 2004, Rio Tinto sold its interests in Somincor and Zinkgruvan.
26 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1050 p26 27 26 2 2006 3:57 PM Page 27 Summary financial statements These summary financial statements have been extracted from the full Companies Act 1985.
The summary financial statements do not financial statements, which have been reported on by the auditors, and contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the which will be filed with the United Kingdom Registrar of Companies and results and affairs of the Group and parent companies as is provided in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
The auditors the full financial statements.
Copies of the 2005 Annual report and report on the full financial statements is unqualified and does not financial statements, which include the full financial statements, may be contain a statement under either S237 2 or S237 3 of the UK obtained from the addresses shown on page 62.
Group income statement Years ended 31 December 2005 2004 US$m US$m Gross turnover including share of jointly controlled entities and associates a 20,742 14,530 Consolidated turnover 19,033 12,954 Operating costs excluding impairment reversals charges 12,436 10,249 Net impairment reversals charges b 3 558 Profit on disposal of interests in businesses including investments c 322 1,180 Operating profit 6,922 3,327 Share of profit after tax of jointly controlled entities and associates 776 523 Profit before finance items and taxation 7,698 3,850 Finance items Exchange losses gains on external net debt and intragroup balances 128 204 Losses gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 51 16 Interest receivable and similar income 82 28 Interest payable and similar charges 173 148 Amortisation of discount 116 87 386 13 Profit before taxation 7,312 3,863 Taxation b, c 1,814 619 Profit for the year 5,498 3,244 attributable to outside equity shareholders b, c 283 53 attributable to equity shareholders of Rio Tinto Net earnings 5,215 3,297 Basic earnings per ordinary share 382.3c 239.1c Diluted earnings per ordinary share 381.1c 238.7c For the purposes of calculating basic earnings per share, the weighted average not held as treasury shares 1,069.1 million plus the average number of Rio Tinto number of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding during the year Limited shares outstanding not held by Rio Tinto plc 295.0 million.
was 1,364.1 million, being the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding Dividends per share: paid during the year 83.5c 66.0c Final dividend per share: declared in the announcement of the results for the year 41.5c 45.0c Special dividend per share: declared in the announcement of the results for the year 110.0c a Gross turnover includes the turnover of jointly controlled entities and c The net tax charge resulting from the profit on disposal of interests in associates of US$1,709 million 2004: US$1,576 million in addition to businesses including investments for the year ended 31 December 2005 was Consolidated turnover, which relates only to subsidiary companies.
US$11 million 2004: US$9 million, and there was no amount attributable to b No tax credits or charges arose from impairment charges and reversals for the outside equity shareholders 2004: charge of US$4 million.
year ended 31 December 2005 2004: credit of US$108 million, and the net charge attributable to outside equity shareholders was US$1 million 2004: US$129 million.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 27 817982 1060 p28 29 26 2 2006 8:18 AM Page 28 Summary balance sheet At 31 December 2005 2004 US$m US$m Non current assets Goodwill 1,020 1,075 Intangible assets 220 189 Property, plant and equipment 17,620 16,721 Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates 1,829 2,016 Loans to jointly controlled entities 159 130 Inventories 141 68 Trade and other receivables 703 770 Deferred tax assets 55 52 Tax recoverable 122 125 Derivatives related to net debt 254 494 Other financial assets 199 156 22,322 21,796 Current assets Inventories 2,048 1,952 Loans to jointly controlled entities 46 Trade and other receivables 2,488 1,832 Tax recoverable 30 29 Derivatives related to net debt 62 29 Other financial assets 469 218 Other liquid resources 5 14 Cash and cash equivalents 2,379 392 7,481 4,512 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts repayable on demand 12 66 Borrowings 1,190 789 Trade and other payables 2,190 1,753 Derivatives related to net debt 8 Other financial liabilities 78 Tax payable 987 142 Provisions 321 193 4,786 2,943 Net current assets 2,695 1,569 Non current liabilities Borrowings 2,783 3,883 Trade and other payables 269 910 Derivatives related to net debt 20 Other financial liabilities 93 Tax payable 51 87 Deferred tax liabilities 2,197 2,135 Provisions 3,865 3,759 9,278 10,774 Net assets 15,739 12,591 Equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders 14,948 11,877 Attributable to outside equity shareholders 791 714 Total equity 15,739 12,591 At 31 December 2005, Rio Tinto plc had 1,068.4 million ordinary shares in issue not held as treasury shares and Rio Tinto Limited had 285.8 million shares in issue, excluding those held by Rio Tinto plc.
The 2005 full financial statements were approved by the directors on 24 February 2006 and signed on their behalf by Paul Skinner Leigh Clifford Guy Elliott Chairman Chief executive Finance director 28 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1060 p28 29 26 2 2006 8:18 AM Page 29 Reconciliation with Australian IFRS Years ended 31 December 2005 2004 US$m US$m Consolidated profit for the year under EU IFRS 5,498 3,244 Increase decrease net of tax in respect of: Goodwill relating to sold operations 129 Consolidated profit for the year under Australian IFRS 5,498 3,115 2005 2004 US$m US$m Total recognised income for the year under EU IFRS 5,096 3,499 Increase decrease net of tax in respect of: Goodwill relating to sold operations 129 Total recognised income for the year under Australian IFRS 5,096 3,370 2005 2004 US$m US$m Total consolidated equity under EU IFRS 15,739 12,591 Increase decrease in respect of: Goodwill 743 741 Total consolidated equity under Australian IFRS 16,482 13,332 The profit, income and equity figures set out above include amounts attributable to outside shareholders in subsidiaries.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS, which differs in certain respects from the version of IFRS that is applicable in Australia Australian IFRS.
The transition to EU IFRS was based on the UK GAAP financial statements as at 1 January 2004.
Under UK GAAP, goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1998 was eliminated directly against equity.
Under IFRS 1, goodwill previously recognised as a reduction in equity is not reinstated on transition to IFRS.
The Australian equivalent, AASB 1, does not include this relief provision.
As a consequence, shareholders funds under Australian IFRS include the residue of such goodwill, which amounted to US$743 million at 31 December 2005.
Also, the profit on disposal of certain operations in 2004 is reduced by US$129 million under Australian IFRS as a result of the balance of goodwill relating to those operations.
Net earnings and underlying earnings Years ended 31 December 2005 2004 US$m US$m Underlying earnings 4,955 2,272 Items excluded from underlying earnings Profits on disposal of interests in businesses including investments 311 1,175 Impairment reversals charges 4 321 Adjustment to Kennecott Utah Copper environmental remediation provision 84 Exchange losses gains on external debt and intragroup balances 87 159 Losses gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 40 8 Losses gains on external debt and derivatives not qualifying as hedges in jointly controlled entities and associates net of tax 12 4 Total excluded from underlying earnings 260 1,025 Net earnings 5,215 3,297 Underlying earnings is an additional measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
Underlying earnings and net earnings both represent amounts attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
Items a to f below are excluded from Net earnings in arriving at Underlying earnings.
a Gains and losses arising on the disposal of interests in businesses including e The currency revaluation of embedded US dollar derivatives contained in investments and undeveloped properties.
contracts held by entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
b Charges and credits relating to impairment of non current assets, excluding those f Other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate if of a similar type, are related to current year exploration expenditure.
of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into c Exchange gains and losses on US dollar debt and intragroup balances.
d Valuation changes on currency and interest rate derivatives which are ineligible for hedge accounting, other than those embedded in commercial contracts.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 29 817982 1070 p30 32 27 2 2006 11:16 AM Page 30 Summary cash flow statement Years ended 31 December 2005 2004 US$m US$m Cash flow from consolidated operations 7,657 3,974 Dividends from jointly controlled entities and associates 600 478 Cash flow from operations 8,257 4,452 Interest received 51 28 Interest paid 179 179 Dividends paid to outside shareholders 169 56 Tax paid 1,017 865 Cash flow from operating activities 6,943 3,380 Cash used in investing activities Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates less acquisitions 321 1,507 Purchase of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 2,552 2,256 Repayments from jointly controlled entities and associates 17 9 Exploration and evaluation expenditure 264 190 Proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 36 41 Sales of other investments 133 261 Purchases of other financial assets 231 30 Government grants received 26 Cash flows from non hedge derivatives not related to net debt 31 77 Cash used in investing activities 2,483 581 Cash flow before financing activities 4,460 2,799 Financing activities Equity dividends paid to Rio Tinto shareholders 1,141 906 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders 877 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares in Rio Tinto 100 26 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares in subsidiaries to outside shareholders 4 7 Cash flow relating to borrowings, liquid resources, derivatives related to net debt 497 1,832 Cash used in financing activities 2,411 2,705 Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 8 9 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,041 85 Summary financial data in Australian dollars, Sterling and US dollars 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 A$m A$m m m US$m US$m 27,195 19,786 11,390 7,938 Gross turnover 20,742 14,530 24,954 17,639 10,451 7,077 Consolidated turnover 19,033 12,954 9,587 5,260 4,015 2,110 Profit before taxation 7,312 3,863 7,208 4,417 3,019 1,772 Profit for the year 5,498 3,244 6,837 4,490 2,864 1,801 Net earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 5,215 3,297 6,497 3,094 2,721 1,241 Underlying earnings a 4,955 2,272 501.2c 325.6c 209.9p 130.6p Basic earnings per ordinary share c 382.3c 239.1c 476.2c 224.4c 199.4p 90.0p Basic underlying earnings per ordinary share a c 363.2c 164.8c Dividends per share to Rio Tinto shareholders 108.85c 90.21c 45.69p 36.22p paid 83.5c 66.0c 200.28c 58.29c 85.24p 23.94p proposed including special dividend 151.5c 45.0c 5,848 3,811 2,449 1,529 Cash flow before financing activities 4,460 2,799 1,793 4,893 760 1,977 Net debt 1,313 3,809 20,407 15,258 8,650 6,164 Equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders 14,948 11,877 a Underlying earnings exclude items totalling US$260 million 2004: US$1,025 amounts are based on the US dollar amounts, retranslated at average or closing million, which are analysed on page 29. rates as appropriate, except for the dividends which are the actual amounts b The financial data above have been extracted from the summary financial payable.
statements set out on pages 27 to 30.
The Australian dollar and Sterling c Basic earnings per ordinary share and basic underlying earnings per ordinary share do not recognise the dilution resulting from share options in issue.
30 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1070 p30 32 26 2 2006 8:19 AM Page 31 Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief Pursuant to section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 Corporations that the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare a separate Act, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued Remuneration report that is merely cross-referenced in the directors an order dated 27 January 2006 that granted relief to Rio Tinto report, instead of including in the directors report the remuneration Limited from certain requirements of the Corporations Act in relation report otherwise required by the Corporations Act.
The separate to the Companys financial statements and associated reports.
The Remuneration report see pages 39 to 51 must include all the order essentially continues the relief that has applied to Rio Tinto information required to be included in a remuneration report under Limited since the formation of the Groups Dual Listed Companies the Corporations Act, as well as the information required by AIFRS DLC structure in 1995.
The order applies to Rio Tinto Limiteds namely, AASB 124 dealing with related party disclosures including financial reporting obligations for financial years and half-years ending remuneration of directors and executives in respect of key between 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2009 inclusive.
management personnel and certain other disclosures.
In essence, instead of being required under the Corporations Act Rio Tinto Limited is also required to comply generally with the to prepare consolidated financial statements covering only itself and lodgement and distribution requirements of the Corporations Act its controlled entities, the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare including timing requirements in relation to those consolidated consolidated financial statements in which it, Rio Tinto plc and their financial statements including any concise financial statements, the respective controlled entities are treated as a single economic entity.
In auditors report and the directors report.
The separate Remuneration addition, those consolidated financial statements are to be prepared: report is also required to be lodged with the Australian Securities and in accordance with the principles and requirements of International Investments Commission at the same time as the consolidated Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union financial statements, and Rio Tinto Limited must not distribute or EU IFRS rather than the Australian equivalents of International make available the Remuneration report without the consolidated Financial Reporting Standards AIFRS except for one limited financial statements and directors report.
At the Companys AGM, it instance in the case of any concise report, and in accordance with is required to allow shareholders to vote on a non binding resolution United Kingdom financial reporting obligations generally: to adopt the Remuneration report, on the same basis as would on the basis that the transitional provisions of International Financial otherwise be required for a remuneration report under the Reporting Standard 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Corporations Act.
Reporting Standards should be applied using the combined Rio Tinto Limited is not required to prepare separate consolidated financial statements previously prepared for Rio Tinto Limited, Rio financial statements solely for it and its controlled entities.
Rio Tinto Tinto plc and their respective controlled entities under Generally Limited is required to prepare and lodge parent entity financial Accepted Accounting Principles in the United Kingdom, under statements for itself in respect of each relevant financial year, in which the DLC merger between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc accordance with the principles and requirements of AIFRS other than was accounted for using merger, rather than acquisition, in respect of related party disclosures under AASB 124, which as accounting reflecting that neither Rio Tinto Limited nor Rio Tinto noted above are instead incorporated into the separate Remuneration plc was acquired by, or is controlled by, the other, and meaning report, and to have those statements audited.
Those financial that the existing carrying amounts, rather than fair values, of assets statements are not required to be laid before the Companys AGM or and liabilities at the time of the DLC merger were used to measure distributed to shareholders as a matter of course.
those assets and liabilities at formation : However, Rio Tinto Limited must: on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc are a single include in the consolidated financial statements for the Group, as a company with their respective shareholders being the shareholders note, Rio Tinto Limiteds parent entity balance sheet, income in that single company : and statement, statement of changes in equity and statement of with a reconciliation, from EU IFRS to AIFRS, of the following cashflows, prepared in accordance with AIFRS: and amounts: consolidated profit for the financial year, total make available the full parent entity financial statements free of consolidated recognised income for the financial year and total charge to shareholders on request, and also include a copy of consolidated equity at the end of the financial year see page 29. them on the Companys website.
Those consolidated financial statements must also be audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom requirements.
Rio Tinto The parent entity financial statements are available for download from Limited must also prepare a directors report which satisfies the the Rio Tinto website at www.
Shareholders may also content requirements of the Corporations Act applied on the basis request a copy free of charge by contacting the Rio Tinto Limited that the consolidated entity for those purposes is the Group, except company secretary.
Auditors independence declaration As lead auditor for the audit of Rio Tinto Limited for the year ended 31 December 2005, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been: a no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit: and b no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit.
This declaration is in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and the entities it controlled during the year.
John OConnor Partner Perth  24 February 2006 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 31 817982 1070 p30 32 26 2 2006 8:19 AM Page 32 Independent auditors statement To the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume We have examined the summary financial statements of the Rio Tinto responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this Group, which comprise the summary Group profit and loss account, statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where the summary Group balance sheet, the summary Group cash flow expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
statement, the reconciliation with Australian IFRS, the note on net earnings and underlying earnings, the directors report and the Basis of opinion remuneration report.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The Auditors statement on the summary Financial statement issued by the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
The directors are responsible for preparing the 2005 Annual Review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you Opinion our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent with the within the 2005 Annual Review with the annual financial statements, the annual financial statements, the directors report and the remuneration directors report and the remuneration report, and its compliance with report of the Rio Tinto Group for the year ended 31 December 2005 the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder and United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by thereunder and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission 27 January 2006.
We also read the other information contained in the order dated 27 January 2006.
2005 Annual review and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material  LLP inconsistencies with the summary financial statements.
The other Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information comprises the items listed in the contents section of the London Annual review, apart from the summary financial statements as defined 24 February 2006 above.
in respect of the members of Rio Tinto plc This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for each Companys members as a body in accordance with  Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 in respect of Chartered Accountants Rio Tinto plc and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 Perth as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission 24 February 2006 order dated 27 January 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited, and for in respect of the members of Rio Tinto Limited 32 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1080 p33 35 26 2 2006 7:53 AM Page 33 Product group chief executives Company secretaries 1 Tom Albanese BS Mineral Economics MS Mining 4 Keith Johnson BSc Mathematics, MBA age 44 Anette Lawless MA, FCIS age 49 Skills and experience: Anette joined Rio Tinto in 1998 Engineering age 48 Skills and experience: Keith was appointed chief Skills and experience: Tom was appointed chief executive, Diamonds in 2003.
He holds degrees in and became company secretary of Rio Tinto plc in 2000.
Before joining Rio Tinto, she spent 11 years with executive of the Copper group and head of Exploration mathematics and management and is a Fellow of the in 2004.
He joined Rio Tinto in 1993 on Rio Tintos Royal Statistical Society.
Prior to joining Rio Tinto he Pearson plc, five of which as company secretary.
She qualified as a chartered secretary in 1989 and became a acquisition of Nerco and has held a series of worked in analytical roles in the UK Treasury, private management positions before being appointed chief consulting and the oil industry.
He joined Rio Tinto in fellow of the ICSA in 1992.
She also holds an MA from the Copenhagen Business School.
executive of the Industrial Minerals group in 2000.
1991 and has held a series of management positions Other external appointments current and recent : including head of Business Evaluation and most recently Other external appointments current and recent : Member of the Regulatory Decisions Committee of the Director of Palabora Mining Company South Africa listed as managing director of Comalco Mining and Refining.
UK Financial Services Authority since 2001.
Executive Committee of International Copper 5 Andrew Mackenzie BSc geology, PhD chemistry Association since 2004. age 49 Stephen Consedine B Bus CPA age 44 Skills and experience: Stephen joined Rio Tinto in Skills and experience: Andrew joined Rio Tinto in 2004 2 Preston Chiaro BSc Hons Environmental as chief executive Industrial Minerals, previously he had 1983 and has held various positions in Accounting, Treasury, and Employee Services before becoming Engineering, MEng Environmental Engineering, age 52 been group vice president, BP Petrochemicals.
He spent Skills and experience: Preston was appointed chief 22 years with BP primarily in the UK and North America company secretary of Rio Tinto Limited in 2002.
He holds a bachelor of business and is a certified practising executive of the Energy group in September 2003.
He in senior positions including head of Capital Markets in heads the Groups climate change and sustainable BP Finance, chief reservoir engineer with oversight of oil accountant.
He joined the Group in and gas reserves and production, head of Government 1991 at Kennecott Utah Coppers Bingham Canyon and Public Affairs worldwide and group vice president mine as vice president, technical services.
In 1995 he Technology which included responsibility for research became vice president and general manager of Boron and development and engineering.
He was chief executive of Rio Other external appointments current and recent : Tinto Borax from 1999 to 2003.
Director of Centrica plc since 2005.
Other external appointments current and recent : Trustee of Demos since 1998.
Director of the World Coal Institute since 2003.
Chairman of the Coal Industry Advisory Board to the 6 Sam Walsh B Com Melbourne age 56 International Energy Agency since 2004.
Skills and experience: Sam was appointed chief Director of Energy Resources of Australia, since 2003. executive of the Iron Ore group in 2004.
He joined Rio Director of Rssing Uranium Limited since 2003.
Tinto in 1991, following 20 years in the automotive Director of Coal & Allied Industries Limited since 2003. industry at General Motors and Nissan Australia.
He has held a number of management positions within the 3 Oscar Groeneveld BE Mining, MSc, DIC age 52 Group, including managing director of Comalco Foundry Skills and experience: Oscar has been with the Group Products, CRA Industrial Products, Hamersley Iron Sales for 30 years and was appointed chief executive of the and Marketing, Hamersley Iron Operations, vice Aluminium group in October 2004.
He has qualifications president of Rio Tinto Iron Ore with responsibility for in engineering, science and management and is also Hamersley Iron and Robe River and from 2001 to 2004 responsible for Rio Tinto Japan, Kennecott Land and chief executive of the Aluminium group.
Sam is also a heads the Groups Safety Leadership Panel.
He has Fellow of the Australian Institute of Management and the occupied senior roles in coal, aluminium and technology Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
and was Copper group chief executive from 1999 to Other external appointments current and recent : 2004.
He was an executive director of the Group from Director of the Western Australian Chamber of 1998 to 2004.
Other external appointments current and recent : Director of the Australian Mines and Metals Association, Australian Aluminium Council since 2004. between 2001 and 2005. International Aluminium Association since 2004.
Director of the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Director of Rio Tinto plc between 1998 and 2004.
Director of Rio Tinto Limited between 1998 and 2004.
Director of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc between 1999 and 2004.
Note Director of Palabora Mining Company Limited between For accounting standards purposes IAS 24 and 1999 and 2004.
AASB 124 the Groups key management personnel as defined, comprises the directors and the six product group chief executives.
12 3 4 5 6 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 33 817982 1080 p33 35 26 2 2006 12:01 PM Page 34 Chairman Non executive directors 1 Paul Skinner BA Hons Law, DpBA Business 4 Dr Ashton Calvert AC, BSc Hons TAS, DPhil 7 Sir Rod Eddington B. Eng M. Eng University of Administration age 61 Oxon, Hon DSc Tas age 60 Western Australia, D. Phil Oxon age 55 Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited since 2001 and was appointed and Rio Tinto Limited since 1 February 2005.
Ashton and Rio Tinto Limited since 2005.
Sir Rod stands for chairman of the Group in November 2003.
Paul was last was elected by shareholders in 2005 notes b, d and e. election in 2006 notes b, d and e. re-elected by shareholders in 2005 and is chairman of Skills and experience: Ashton retired as secretary of Skills and experience: Sir Rod was chief executive of the Nominations committee note b. the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade of the British Airways Plc until the end of September 2005.
Skills and experience: Paul graduated in law from Government of Australia in January 2005 after six and a Prior to his role with British Airways, Sir Rod was Cambridge University and in business administration half years in that position.
He was educated at the Managing Director of Cathay Pacific Airways from 1992- from Manchester Business School.
He was previously a University of Tasmania and, as a Rhodes scholar, also 1996 and Executive Chairman of Ansett Airlines from managing director of The Shell Transport and Trading gained a doctorate in mathematics from Oxford 1997-2000.
He is also Chairman of the EU Hong Kong Company plc and group managing director of The Royal University.
During his career in the Australian foreign Business Co-operation Committee of the Hong Kong Dutch Shell Group of Companies, for whom he had service he held appointments in Washington and, on four Trade Development Council.
During his career he worked in all occasions, in Tokyo, where he was ambassador prior to Other external appointments current and recent : Shells main businesses, including senior appointments his appointment as secretary.
In these and other roles he Director of News Corporation plc since 1999.
Director of John Swire & Son Pty Limited since 1997. in the UK, Greece, Nigeria, New Zealand and Norway.
developed extensive experience of the Asian countries He was CEO of its global Oil Products business from which represent key markets for Rio Tinto.
Non executive chairman of JPMorgan Australia and New Zealand since January 2006.
Other external appointments current and recent : Other external appointments current and recent : Director of Woodside Petroleum Limited since 2005.
Director of CLP Holdings since January 2006.
Director of Standard Chartered plc since 2003.
Director of The Australian Trade Commission between Director of the Tetra Laval Group since 2005.
8 Richard Goodmanson MBA Columbia University, B.
Commerce University of Queensland, Director of The Shell Transport and Trading Company Director of The Export Finance and Insurance plc from 2000 to 2003.
Civil Royal Military College, Duntroon age 58 Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce Director of The Australian Strategic Policy Institute UK since 2005. between 2001 and 2005. and Rio Tinto Limited since 2004.
He was elected by shareholders in 2005 and is chairman of the Committee Member of the board of INSEAD business school since 1999.
5 Sir David Clementi MA, MBA, FCA age 57 on social and environmental accountability notes c, d and e Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited since 2003.
Sir David was elected Skills and experience: Richard is executive vice president and chief operating officer of DuPont and by shareholders in 2003 and stands for re-election in Chief executive 2006 notes a, c and e. holds degrees in civil engineering, economics, commerce and a masters of business administration.
Skills and experience: Sir David is chairman of 2 Leigh Clifford B Eng Mining, M Eng Sci age 58 Prudential plc, prior to which he was Deputy Governor of During his career he has worked at senior levels for Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc McKinsey & Co, PepsiCo and American West Airlines, the Bank of England.
His earlier career was with since 1994 and Rio Tinto Limited since 1995 and was Kleinwort Benson where he spent 22 years, holding where he was president and CEO.
He joined DuPont in appointed chief executive in 2000.
Leigh was last early 1999 and in his current position has responsibility various positions including chief executive and vice re-elected by shareholders in 2004 and stands for chairman.
A graduate of Oxford University and a qualified for a number of the global functions, and for the non US re-election in 2006. operations of DuPont with particular focus on growth in chartered accountant, Sir David also holds an MBA from Skills and experience: Leigh graduated from the Harvard Business School.
University of Melbourne as a mining engineer and gained Other external appointments current and recent : Other external appointments current and recent : a Master of Engineering Science from the same Chairman of Prudential plc since 2002.
Chairman of the United Way of Delaware since January University.
He has held various roles in the Groups coal 2006 director since 2002.
Member of the Financial Reporting Council since 2003. and metalliferous operations since joining in 1970, Director of the Boise Cascade Corporation between including managing director of Rio Tinto Limited and 2000 and 2004.
6 Vivienne Cox MA Oxon, MBA INSEAD age 46 chief executive of the Energy group.
He was a member Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc of the Coal Industry Advisory Board of the International 9 Andrew Gould BA FCA age 59 and Rio Tinto Limited since February 2005.
Vivienne was Energy Agency for a number of years and its chairman elected by shareholders in 2005 notes a and e. Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc from 1998 to 2000. and Rio Tinto Limited since 2002.
Andrew was elected Skills and experience: Vivienne is currently executive Other external appointments current and recent : vice president of BP p. l. c. for Gas Power & Renewables by shareholders in 2003 and stands for re-election in Director Barclays Bank plc since 2004.
He is also chairman of the Audit committee notes and Integrated Supply & Trading.
She is a member of the Director of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc BP group chief executives committee.
She holds a, c and e. between 2000 and 2004.
Skills and experience: Andrew is chairman and chief degrees in chemistry from Oxford University and in business administration from INSEAD.
During her career executive officer of Schlumberger Limited, where he has held a succession of financial and operational in BP she has worked in chemicals, exploration, finance, and refining and marketing.
management positions, including that of executive vice Finance director president of Schlumberger Oilfield Services and Other external appointments current and recent : Non Executive Director of Eurotunnel plc between 2001 president and chief operating officer of Schlumberger 3 Guy Elliott MA Oxon MBA INSEAD age 50 Limited.
He has worked in Asia, Europe and the US.
Appointment and election: Finance director of Rio joined Schlumberger in 1975.
He holds a degree in Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited since 2002.
Guy was last economic history from Cardiff University and qualified as re-elected by shareholders in 2004. a chartered accountant with Ernst & Young.
Skills and experience: Guy joined the Group in 1980 Other external appointments current and recent : after gaining an MBA.
He has subsequently held a Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Schlumberger variety of commercial and management positions, Limited since 2003. including head of Business Evaluation and president of Member of the UK Prime Ministers Council of Science Rio Tinto Brasil.
Other external appointments current and recent : None.
1 23456 34 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1080 p33 35 26 2 2006 6:12 PM Page 35 10 Lord Kerr of Kinlochard GCMG MA age 64 Director of Abraxis BioScience since 2005.
John Morschel Diploma in Quantity Surveying Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc Chairman of Medeus later Zeneus Holdings Limited Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto and Rio Tinto Limited since 2003.
He was elected by between 2004 and 2005. between 1998 and 2005. shareholders in 2004 notes a, d and e. Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline plc between 2000 and Skills and experience: John, who retired at the Skills and experience: After reading history at Oxford 2002. conclusion of the 2005 annual general meetings, was Lord Kerr was a member of the UK Diplomatic Service Rector of Imperial College, London since 2001. educated in Australia and the US, where he spent most for 36 years, heading the Service from 1997 to 2002 as Trustee of the Natural History Museum, London between of his career with Lend Lease Corporation Limited in Permanent Under Secretary at the Foreign Office.
On a 1996 and 2005 and of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew Australia, culminating as managing director.
This was secondment to the UK Treasury he was principal private between 2003 and 2005. followed by two years as an executive director of the secretary to two Chancellors of the Exchequer.
service abroad included spells as Ambassador to the Other external appointments upon leaving the Directors who left the European Union from 1990 to 1995, and to the US from Group : 1995 to 1997.
Secretary-General, EU Constitutional Chairman of Rinker Group Limited since April 2003.
Member of the House of Lords Director of ANZ Banking Group since October 2004. since 2004.
Director of Singapore Telecommunications Limited from Robert Adams BSc MSc Other external appointments current and recent : September 2001.
Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc in Deputy Chairman of Royal Dutch Shell plc since 2005.
Chairman of CSR Limited between May 2001 and April 1991 and of Rio Tinto Limited in 1995 until 2005 Director of The Shell Transport and Trading Company 2003.
Skills and experience: Bob, who died at home in plc 2002-2005.
Chairman of Leighton Holdings Limited between January 2005, joined the Group in 1970 after reading Director of The Scottish American Investment Trust plc November 2001 and March 2004. natural sciences and economics and subsequently since 2002. gaining an MSc from the London Business School.
He Chairman of the Court and Council of Imperial College, had a long distinguished career with Rio Tinto becoming London since 2005. the director with responsibility for planning and Trustee of the Rhodes Trust since 1997. development.
Other external appointments: Trustee of the National Gallery since 2002: Trustee of the Director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc from Carnegie Trust since 2005.
11 David Mayhew age 65 Leon Davis AO, ASAIT, DSc hc Curtin University, Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc University of Queensland, University South Australia, and Rio Tinto Limited since 2000.
He was last re-elected FAIMM, FRACI.
by shareholders in 2003 and stands for re-election in Appointment and election: Director Rio Tinto plc since 2006 note b.
1991 and of Rio Tinto Limited since 1994 until 2005.
Skills and experience: David joined Cazenove in 1969 Skills and experience: Leon, who retired at the from Panmure Gordon.
In 1972 he became the firms conclusion of the 2005 annual general meetings, was dealing partner and was subsequently responsible for the Groups Australia based non executive deputy the Institutional Broking Department and from 1986 until chairman.
He is a metallurgist and during nearly 50 years 2001 when he was appointed Chairman, he was the with the Group he held a number of managerial posts partner in charge of the firms Capital Markets around the world, ultimately as chief executive from Department.
Other external appointments current and recent : Other external appointments upon leaving the Chairman of Cazenove Group plc since 2001.
Group : Chairman of Westpac Banking Corporation since 2000.
12 Sir Richard Sykes BSc Microbiology PhD Director of Huysmans Pty Limited since 2000.
Microbial Biochemistry, DSc, Kt, FRS, FMedSci age 63 Director of Trouin Pty Limited since 2000.
Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc President of the board of The Walter and Eliza Hall and Rio Tinto Limited since 1997.
Sir Richard was Institute of Medical Research since 2003. appointed the senior non executive director in 2005.
Limited between 2000 and 2004. was last re-elected by shareholders in 2004 and is chairman of the Remuneration committee notes b, c Sir Richard Giordano LLB, hon.
and e. Appointment and election: Director of Rio Tinto plc Skills and experience: After reading microbiology at since 1991 and Rio Tinto Limited since 1995 until 2005 the University of London, Sir Richard obtained Skills and experience: Sir Richard, who retired at the doctorates in microbial chemistry and in science from conclusion of the 2005 annual general meetings, was the the University of Bristol and the University of London senior non executive director, a deputy chairman and also respectively.
A former chairman of GlaxoSmithKline plc chairman of the Audit committee.
A lawyer by training, he Sir Richard is a Fellow of the Royal Society.
spent 12 years at BOC Group, first as chief executive, Other external appointments current and recent : then chairman.
In 1993, Sir Richard became a director of Director of Lonza Group Limited since 2003, Deputy Notes British Gas, assuming the role of chairman in 1994.
Richard is also a former chairman of BG Group plc.
a Audit committee Chairman of the Healthcare Advisory Group Apax b Nominations committee Other external appointments upon leaving the Partners Limited since 2002.
Group : c Remuneration committee Chairman of Metabometrix Limited since 2004. d Committee on social and environmental Director of Georgia Pacific Corporation since 1985 Director of Merlion Pharmaceuticals Pte Limited Trustee of Carnegie Endowment for International Peace accountability since 2005. e Independent since 2000.
78 9 10 11 12 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 35 817982 1090 p36 38 27 2 06 1:22 pm Page 36 Directors report The directors are pleased to present their report to shareholders of Annual general meetings Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, together with the Financial The 2006 annual general meetings will be held on 12 April in London and statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 on pages 27 to 32. on 4 May in Melbourne.
Notices of the 2006 annual general meetings are set out in separate letters to shareholders of each Company.
Dual listed structure An explanation of the dual listed companies structure DLC, which Directors unified Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited in 1995, can be found on The names of the directors who served during the year, together with page 59. their biographical details and directorships of other companies in the past three years and the period of each directorship are shown on Activities and review of operations pages 34 to 35.
Robert Adams died on 27 January 2005.
Leon Davis, Details of the Groups results, operations and principal activities, likely Sir Richard Giordano and John Morschel retired with effect from the future developments, significant changes during the year and post conclusion of the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting held on balance sheet events are set out in the Chairmans letter on page 2, the 29 April 2005.
Sir Rod Eddington, who was appointed a non executive Chief executives report on pages 3 to 5 and in the Operational review director on 1 September 2005, retires and offers himself for election at on pages 6 to 25. the 2006 annual general meetings.
Sir David Clementi, Leigh Clifford, As allowed by sections 299 3 and 299A 3 of the Australian Andrew Gould and David Mayhew retire by rotation and, being eligible, Corporations Act 2001, information which may be unreasonably offer themselves for re-election.
Details of directors service contracts prejudicial, regarding likely future developments in, and the expected and letters of appointment can be found on pages 42 and 45 results of, the operations of the Group and its business strategies and respectively.
A table of directors attendance at board and committee prospects has been omitted.
Share capital and buy back programmes Remuneration of directors and executives On 3 February 2005 the Group announced, subject to market A discussion of the Groups policy for determining the nature and conditions, an intention to return up to US$1,500 million of capital to amount of remuneration of directors and senior executives, and of the shareholders during the course of 2005 and 2006, and that this would relationship between that policy and the Groups performance appears include an off-market buy back of Rio Tinto Limited shares through a in the Remuneration report on pages 39 to 51.
The Remuneration report tender process.
forms part of the Directors report and includes details of the nature and On 9 May 2005, Rio Tinto Limited bought back 27,294,139 shares, amount of each element of the remuneration including options of each representing 8.7 per cent of its publicly held issued share capital, under of the directors and of each of the product group chief executives, being an off-market tender and 16,367,000 shares indirectly held by Rio Tinto the key management personnel and highest paid executives of the plc.
All of these shares were purchased at a price of A$36.70 Group.
US$28.36 per share, representing a 14 per cent discount to the relevant market price, and were cancelled.
Secretaries During the year Rio Tinto plc bought back 2,600,000 ordinary Details of the company secretary of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto shares, representing less than one per cent of its issued share capital, Limited together with their qualifications and experience are set out on with a nominal value of 260,000 on the open market for an aggregate page 33. consideration of US$103.2 million, to be held as treasury shares.
Also during the year Rio Tinto plc issued 3,000,155 ordinary shares Indemnities and insurance and Rio Tinto Limited issued 1,130,211 shares in connection with The articles of association and constitution of the Companies require employee share plans.
them to indemnify officers of the Companies, including officers of wholly On 2 February 2006 the Group announced an intention to return up owned subsidiaries, against liabilities arising from the conduct of the to US$4,000 million of capital to shareholders, of which US$1,500 Groups business, to the extent permitted by law.
million would be paid out as a special dividend see below and, subject The Group has therefore during the year paid premiums for to market conditions, the remaining US$2,500 million of capital to be directors and officers insurance.
In broad terms, the insurance applied to buy backs of either Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc shares.
indemnifies individual directors and officers personal legal liability and This would replace the US$528 million remainder of the initiative costs for claims arising out of actions taken in connection with Group announced on 3 February 2005. business.
It is a condition of the insurance policy that detailed terms and Between 1 January 2006 and 10 February 2006, Rio Tinto plc premiums paid cannot be disclosed.
issued a further 817,897 ordinary shares in connection with employee share plans, and bought back a further 4,015,000 shares with a Employment policies nominal value of 401,500 on the open market for an aggregate The average number of people employed during the year by Rio Tinto, consideration of US$195.2 million to be held as treasury shares.
As at including the Groups proportionate share of consolidated companies 10 February 2006 there remained 7,386,518 options outstanding over and equity accounted units, was approximately 32,000 2004: 32,000.
Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 6,470,532 options outstanding over Of these, about 12,000 were located in Australia and New Zealand, Rio Tinto Limited shares.
around 10,000 in the US and Canada and 1,000 in the United Kingdom.
There were no changes to the authorised capital of Rio Tinto plc Rio Tintos employment policies are set out in its statement of during the year.
business practice, The way we work.
Rio Tinto is committed to equality of opportunity for all, as set out in Dividends The way we work, and applies this philosophy to recruitment, Final dividends of 23.35 pence or 54.86 Australian cents per share development and promotion of individuals.
Within this philosophy, together with a special dividend of 61.89 pence or 145.42 Australian each operating company is further encouraged to develop its own cents per share will be paid on 6 April 2006.
Full details of dividends policies and practices to suit individual circumstances.
Group paid and the dividend policy can be found on page 58. companies employ disabled people and accept the need to maintain and develop careers for them.
If an employee becomes disabled and, Corporate governance as a result, is unable to perform his or her current duties, every effort A full report on corporate governance can be found on pages 52 to 56. is made to offer suitable alternative employment and to assist with retraining.
36 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1090 p36 38 26 2 2006 7:02 PM Page 37 Rio Tinto respects the right of employees worldwide to choose for Non audit services themselves whether or not they wish to be represented collectively.
The amounts payable by the Group to  during Group companies actively promote a healthy and safe working 2005 for services other than the statutory audit were: environment through training and communication with employees.
For Audit related services US$5.5 million further information about Group staff and health and safety initiatives, Tax services US$1.6 million please see the 2005 Sustainable development review, which is received Other services US$0.9 million by shareholders with this Annual review.
Copies may also be obtained from Computershare or can be downloaded from the Companys The directors are satisfied that the provision of non audit services by website, details of which are on page 62.
 is compatible with the general standard of Post retirement benefits are provided by Rio Tinto and its major independence for auditors imposed by the Australian Corporations Act subsidiaries in accordance with local conditions and good practice in 2001 on the basis set out in the Audit committee report on page 55. the countries concerned.
Financial instruments Donations Details of the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies Based on the London Benchmarking Group model, worldwide and exposure to risk is described in the Financial review in the 2005 expenditure on community programmes by Rio Tinto managed Annual report and financial statements.
businesses amounted to US$93.4 million 2004: US$87.8 million and is described more fully in the 2005 Sustainable development review or on Value of land the Companys website.
The Groups interests in land consists mainly of leases and other rights Total community spending in Australia amounted to A$76.8 million which permit working of the land and the erection of buildings and 2004: A$69.6 million.
Donations in the UK during 2005 amounted to equipment to extract and treat minerals.
This land is normally carried in 2.7 million 2004: 2.1 million of which 0.5 million 2004: 0.4 million the financial statements at cost.
The market value depends on product was for charitable purposes as defined by the Companies Act 1985 and prices over the long term and therefore will vary with market conditions.
2.2 million 2004: 1.7 million for other community purposes.
As in previous years, no donations were made for political purposes Creditor payments in the EU, Australia or elsewhere, as defined by the UK Companies Act It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payments with suppliers when 1985 as amended by the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums entering into contracts and to meet its obligations accordingly.
Group does not follow any specific published code or standard on payment practice.
Environmental regulation At 31 December 2005, there were 35 days 2004: 23 days Details of the Groups environmental performance is set out in the 2005 purchases outstanding in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and 18 days Sustainable development review.
2004: 24 days purchases outstanding in respect of Rio Tinto plc, based on the total invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Exploration, research and development Group companies carry out exploration, research and development to Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 support their activities.
They also make grants to universities and other The close company provisions of the UK Income and Corporation Taxes institutions which undertake relevant research.
Cash expenditure during Act 1988 do not apply to Rio Tinto plc.
the year was US$264 million 2004: US$190 million for exploration and evaluation and US$20 million 2004: US$16 million for research and The Directors report is made in accordance with a resolution of the development.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors  LLP and  are the auditors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited respectively.
Paul Skinner Leigh Clifford Guy Elliott For each of the persons who were directors at the time this report Chairman Chief executive Finance director was prepared, the following applies: 24 February 2006 24 February 2006 24 February 2006 so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information ie information needed by the Companies auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companies auditors are unaware: and the directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companies auditors are aware of that information.
 LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors of Rio Tinto plc and a resolution to reappoint them as auditors of Rio Tinto plc will be proposed at the 2006 annual general meetings of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
 will continue in office as auditors of Rio Tinto Limited.
 in Australia as the auditors of Rio Tinto Limited are required to provide an Auditors Independence declaration to the directors under Section 307C of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
No person who was an officer of Rio Tinto during the year was a former partner or director of either Companys auditors.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 37 817982 1090 p36 38 26 2 2006 6:37 AM Page 38 Directors report continued Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during 2005 Board Audit Remuneration Committee on social Nominations committee committee and environmental committee accountability Name of Director A B A B A B A B A B 1 Robert Adams 2, 6 Ashton Calvert 11 9 3222 Sir David Clementi 11 8 8 7 4 4 Leigh Clifford 11 11 2, 5 Vivienne Cox 11 10 6 5 3 Leon Davis 44 2 2 4, 7 Sir Rod Eddington 4 4 1111 Guy Elliott 11 11 3 Sir Richard Giordano 43 3 3 2 2 Richard Goodmanson 11 9 4 4 4 3 Andrew Gould 11 7 8 6 4 4 Lord Kerr 11 10 8 8 4 4 9 David Mayhew 11 11 5 5 2 2 3 John Morschel 4 3 2 222 8 Paul Skinner 11 11 3322 Sir Richard Sykes 11 10 4 4 2 1 A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended B Number of meetings attended Notes 1.
Vivienne Cox and Ashton Calvert were appointed on 1 February 2005.
Leon Davis, Sir Richard Giordano and John Morschel retired on 29 April 2005.
Sir Rod Eddington was appointed on 1 September 2005.
Vivienne Cox became a committee member on 27 April 2005 Audit.
Ashton Calvert became a committee member on 1 February 2005 Nominations and CSEA.
Sir Rod Eddington became a committee member on 1 September 2005 Nominations and CSEA.
Paul Skinner ceased to be a committee member on 7 June 2005 CSEA.
David Mayhew ceased to be a committee member on 31 July 2005 Audit.
38 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1100 p39-51 26 2 2006 6:39 AM Page 39 Remuneration report Introduction Corporate governance The board of Rio Tinto has pleasure in presenting the Remuneration The committee reviewed its Terms of Reference in 2005 and concluded report to shareholders.
The report covers the following information: that, in the course of its business, it had covered the main duties set out a description of the Remuneration committee and its duties: in the Combined Code, published by the UK Financial Reporting a description of the policy on directors, product group chief Council, and Principle 9 of the ASX Best Practice Corporate executives and company secretaries remuneration: Governance Guidelines, and was constituted in accordance with the a rsum of the terms of executive directors and product group chief requirements of the Code and the ASX Best Practice Corporate executives contracts and non executive directors letters of Governance Guidelines.
appointment: The board considered the performance of the committee and details of each directors and product group chief executives confirmed that the committee had satisfactorily performed the duties set remuneration and awards under long term incentive plans and the link out in its Terms of Reference.
to corporate performance: The 2004 Remuneration report was approved by shareholders at details of directors and product group chief executives interests in the 2005 annual general meetings.
Rio Tinto shares: and graphs illustrating Group performance, including relative to the HSBC Executive remuneration Global Mining Companies Index.
Board policy Rio Tinto operates in a global market, where it competes for a limited The Remuneration report forms part of the Directors report.
resource of talented, internationally mobile executives.
It recognises that Rio Tinto is subject to a number of different reporting requirements to achieve its business objectives, the Group needs high quality, for the contents of the Remuneration report.
Corporations Act requires certain disclosures in respect of the five Rio Tinto has, therefore, designed an executive remuneration policy highest paid executives below board level, and Australian and to support its business goals by enabling it to attract, retain and International accounting standards AASB 124 and IAS 24 respectively appropriately reward executives of the calibre necessary to produce very both require additional disclosures for key management personnel.
The board has considered the definition of key management personnel The main principles of the Groups executive remuneration policy are: and has decided that, in addition to the executive and non executive to provide total remuneration which is competitive in structure and directors, they comprise the six product group chief executives.
In the quantum with comparator companies practices in the regions and remainder of this report, the executive directors and the product group markets within which the Group operates: chief executives will collectively be referred to as the executives.
to achieve clear alignment between total remuneration and delivered business and personal performance, with particular emphasis on Remuneration committee shareholder value creation: The following independent, non executive directors were members of to link variable elements of remuneration to the achievement of the Remuneration committee during 2005: challenging performance criteria that are consistent with the best Sir Richard Sykes chairman interests of the Group and shareholders over the short, medium and Sir David Clementi long term: Richard Goodmanson to provide an appropriate balance of fixed and variable remuneration: Andrew Gould and John Morschel to 29 April 2005 to provide appropriate relativities between executives globally, in order to support executive placements to meet the needs of the Group.
The committee met four times during 2005.
Members attendance is set out on page 38.
The committees responsibilities are set out in its Terms The composition of total remuneration packages for senior management, of Reference which can be viewed on Rio Tintos website.
They include: including the remuneration of the company secretaries, is designed to recommending remuneration policy relating to the executives to the provide an appropriate balance between the fixed and variable board: components.
This is in line with Rio Tintos stated objective of aligning reviewing and determining the remuneration of the executives and the total remuneration with personal and business performance.
Details of company secretary of Rio Tinto plc: executives remuneration composition are set out in Table 1 on page 46. reviewing and agreeing managements strategy for remuneration and Executive remuneration is explicitly related to business performance conditions of employment for managers other than the executives: through: monitoring the effectiveness and appropriateness of general executive the Short Term Incentive Plan, which is based on assessment of remuneration policy and practice: and personal performance as well as Group and relevant product group recommending any changes to the chairmans fees.
underlying earnings and safety targets established by the Remuneration committee each year: Jeffery Kortum, Group adviser, remuneration, attends the committees the Share Option Plan and Mining Companies Comparative Plan, meetings in an advisory capacity.
The chairman, Paul Skinner, and the which link vesting of options or shares to Rio Tinto total shareholder chief executive, Leigh Clifford, also participated in meetings at the return performance relative to that of other nominated comparator invitation of the committee, but were not present when issues relating to companies.
their own remuneration were discussed.
Anette Lawless, the company secretary of Rio Tinto plc, acts as secretary to the committee, but is not The Groups return to shareholders over the last five years is set out in present when issues relating to her remuneration are discussed.
In 2004, the committee appointed Kepler Associates, an independent remuneration consultancy, to provide advice on executive Remuneration components remuneration matters.
Apart from providing specialist remuneration Base salary advice, Kepler Associates has no links to the Group.
Base salaries for executives are reviewed annually, taking into account To carry out its duties in accordance with its Terms of Reference, the the nature of the individual executives role, external market trends and committee monitors global remuneration trends and developments and business and personal performance.
The Remuneration committee uses draws on a range of external sources of data, including publications by a range of international companies of a similar size, global reach and remuneration consultants Towers Perrin, Hay Group and Watson Wyatt.
complexity to make this comparison.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 39 817982 1100 p39-51 26 2 2006 6:39 AM Page 40 Remuneration report continued Short term incentive plan STIP Prior to any options being released to participants for exercise, the STIP provides an annual cash bonus opportunity for participants and is Groups performance against the criteria relevant to the SOP is designed to support overall remuneration policy by: examined and verified by the external auditors.
If Rio Tinto were subject focusing participants on achieving goals which contribute to to a change of control or a company restructuring, options would sustainable shareholder value: and become exercisable subject to the satisfaction of the performance providing significant bonus differential based on performance against condition measured at the time of the takeover or restructure.
challenging personal, business, and other targets, including safety.
Where an option holder dies in service, qualifying options vest immediately, regardless of whether the performance conditions have The Remuneration committee reviews and approves performance targets been satisfied.
The estate will have 12 months in which to exercise the and objectives for executives annually.
Executive directors STIP payments options.
are linked to three performance criteria: Group financial performance, The maximum grant under the SOP is three times salary, based on Group safety performance and personal performance.
Product group the average share price over the previous financial year.
Under the SOP, chief executives STIP payments are linked to Group and product group no options are granted at a discount and no amount is paid or payable financial performance, product group safety performance and personal by the recipient on receipt of the options.
Executives may, however, be performance.
Group and product group financial performance is partly granted options at a discount under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan, measured on an actual underlying earnings basis and partly on a basis described under Share based remuneration not dependent on normalised for fluctuations of market prices and exchange rates.
The target level of bonus for executives for 2006 is 60 per cent of For SOP grants made prior to 2004: salary, the same as 2005.
Executives may receive up to twice their two thirds of options vest when growth in the Groups adjusted target ie up to 120 per cent of salary for exceptional performance earnings per share under UK GAAP for a three year performance against all criteria.
period is at least nine percentage points higher than US inflation over Detail relating to STIP awards for 2005 is on page 43. the same period, as measured by the US Consumer Price Index: the balance of the grant vests when growth of at least 12 percentage Long term incentives points above US inflation has been achieved: Shareholders approved two long term incentives at the annual general Rio Tinto performance is tested against the performance condition meetings in 2004, the Share Option Plan and the Mining Companies after three years: and Comparative Plan.
there is an annual retest on a three year rolling basis until options fully These are intended to provide the Remuneration committee with a vest or lapse at the end of the option period.
means of linking managements rewards to Group performance.
The committee regards total shareholder return TSR as the most All remaining open options granted on this basis under the Plan appropriate measure of a companys performance for the purpose of approved in 1998 will have vested on or before 7 March 2006. share based long term incentives and a TSR performance measure is therefore applied to both plans.
Mining Companies Comparative Plan MCCP Rio Tintos performance share plan, the MCCP, provides participants Share Option Plan SOP with a conditional right to receive shares.
The conditional awards will Each year, the Remuneration committee considers whether a grant of only vest if performance conditions approved by the committee are options should be made under the SOP, and if so, at what level.
Again, were there to be a change of control or a company arriving at a decision, the committee takes into consideration the restructuring, the awards would only vest subject to the satisfaction of personal performance of each executive as well as local remuneration the performance condition measured at the time of the takeover or practice.
Additionally, if a performance period is deemed to end No options will become exercisable unless the Group has met during the first 12 months after the conditional award is made, that stretching performance conditions.
In addition, before approving any award will be reduced pro-rata.
These conditional awards are not vesting and irrespective of performance against the respective pensionable.
performance conditions, the Remuneration committee retains discretion The performance condition compares Rio Tintos TSR with the TSR to satisfy itself that the TSR performance is a genuine reflection of of a comparator group of 15 other international mining companies over underlying financial performance.
the same four year period.
The composition of this comparator group is Under the plan, approved by shareholders at the 2004 annual reviewed regularly by the committee to provide continued relevance in a general meetings, vesting is subject to Rio Tintos TSR equalling or consolidating industry.
The members of this group relevant to the 2005 outperforming the HSBC Global Mining Index over a three-year conditional award are listed at the bottom of the ranking table on performance period.
The HSBC Global Mining Index covers the mining page 41.
The comparator group for the 2006 conditional award will be industry in 27 countries.
Rio Tintos TSR is calculated as a weighted determined by the Remuneration committee prior to approving the average of the TSR of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
performance equals the index, the higher of one third of the original The maximum conditional award size under the current MCCP is grant or 20,000 options will vest subject to the actual grant level not two times salary, calculated using the average share price over the being exceeded.
The full grant vests if the TSR performance is equal to previous financial year.
or greater than the HSBC Global Mining Index plus five per cent per The following table shows the percentage of each conditional annum.
TSR performance at this level historically has been equivalent to award which will be received by executives based on Rio Tintos four the upper quartile of companies in the index.
Between these points, year TSR performance relative to the comparator group for conditional options vest on a sliding scale, with no options becoming exercisable for awards made after 1 January 2004: a three year TSR performance below the index.
Options granted under the 2004 plan before 31 December 2006 Ranking in comparator group will be subject to a single fixed base retest five years after grant if they Percentage vesting: have not vested after the initial three year performance period, with 1st-2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th-16th options granted after 31 December 2006 not subject to any retest.
150 125 100 83.75 67.5 51.25 35 0 These latter options will, therefore, lapse if they do not vest at the conclusion of the three year performance period.
Options granted during 2006 will be the last which will be subject to a potential re-test.
40 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1100 p39-51 26 2 2006 6:07 PM Page 41 The historical ranking of Rio Tinto in relation to the comparator group is Australia shown in the following table: Leigh Clifford, is a member of the Rio Tinto Staff Superannuation Fund, a funded superannuation fund regulated by Australian legislation.
The Ranking of Rio Tinto versus comparator companies fund provides both defined benefit and defined contribution benefits.
He is a defined benefit member, accruing lump sums payable on Period Ranking out of 16 Period Ranking out of 16 retirement.
Retirement benefits are limited to a lump sum multiple of up 1993 97 4 1998 02 3 to seven times final basic salary at age 62, although, as stated above, 1994 98 4 1999 03 7 Leigh Clifford will retire at age 60.
For retirement after 62, the benefit 1995 99 2 2000 04 11 increases to up to 7.6 times average salary at age 65.
1996 00 2 2001 05 10 Death in service and disablement benefits are provided as lump 1997 01 2 sums and are equal to the prospective age 65 retirement benefit.
Proportionate benefits are also payable on termination of employment Comparator companies for the 2005 Conditional Award were: for ill health or resignation.
Alcan, Alcoa, Anglo American, Barrick Gold, BHP Billiton, Freeport, Executives are not required to pay contributions.
During 2005, Grupo Mexico, INCO, Newmont, Noranda, Phelps Dodge, Placer Company cash contributions were paid into the Rio Tinto Staff Dome, Teck Cominco, WMC Resources and Xstrata.
Superannuation Fund to fund members defined benefit and defined contribution benefits.
Before awards are released to participants, the external auditors and Kepler Associates independently review the Groups TSR performance Other pensionable benefits compared to that of the comparator companies.
The percentage of total remuneration which is dependent on Awards are released to participants as either Rio Tinto plc or performance is substantial.
The committee considers it appropriate that Rio Tinto Limited shares or as an equivalent amount in cash.
In addition, a proportion of this at risk pay should be pensionable.
Annual STIP for MCCP Conditional Awards made after 1 January 2004, a cash awards are pensionable up to a maximum value of 20 per cent of basic payment equivalent to the dividends that would have accrued on the salary.
For Australian participants this results in a defined contribution vested number of shares over the four year period will be made to payment equivalent to 20 per cent of the pensionable component of executive directors and product group chief executives.
STIP and does not impact the defined benefit component.
Shares to satisfy the vesting may be treasury shares, shares The Remuneration committee has determined that for any new purchased in the market, by subscription, or, in the case of Rio Tinto executive directors, STIP will not be pensionable.
Limited, transfers of existing shares.
Details of directors pension and superannuation entitlements are set out in Table 2 on page 48.
Post employment benefits Under current pension arrangements, executives are normally expected Performance and non performance related remuneration to retire at the age of 60, except executives with Australian employment Total remuneration is a combination of fixed and performance related contracts, who would normally be expected to retire at age 62.
In 2004, elements, each of which is described in this report.
In addition, some Leigh Cliffords contractual retirement age was reduced from 62 to 60, executives have specific arrangements for remuneration outside the with a corresponding change to his retirement arrangements.
performance and non performance related remuneration.
These include expatriate secondment packages, which may include items such as United Kingdom housing benefit, assistance with incremental school fees and tax Guy Elliott participates in the non contributory Rio Tinto Pension Fund, a equalisation.
Other compensation includes medical insurance and the funded, Inland Revenue approved, occupational pension scheme.
The provision of a company car and fuel, or an allowance in lieu.
The total fund provides both defined benefit and defined contribution benefits.
In remuneration for executives shown in Table 1 includes these non April 2005, the defined benefit section of the Rio Tinto Pension Fund performance related items, which are specific to the circumstances of was closed to new participants.
Guy Elliott is a member of the defined benefit section, accruing a The performance related, or variable, elements are the short and pension from normal retirement age at 60 of two thirds final pensionable long term incentive plans, which are linked to achievement of business salary, subject to completion of 20 years service.
Proportionally lower and personal performance goals and are, therefore, at risk.
The rest of benefits are payable for shorter service or, if, having attained 20 years the elements of the package are fixed, as they are not at risk, although service, retirement is taken prior to the age of 60.
Members of the some, such as base salary, are also related to performance.
defined benefit section who retire early may draw a pension reduced by Excluding post employment costs and expatriate secondment costs, approximately four per cent a year for each year of early payment from employment costs and other benefits, the proportion of total direct age 50 onwards.
Spouse and dependants pensions are also provided.
remuneration provided by way of variable components, assuming target Pensions paid from this section are guaranteed to increase annually in levels of performance, is approximately 68 per cent for the chief executive, line with increases in the UK Retail Price Index subject to a maximum of 62 per cent for the finance director and between 62 per cent and 68 per ten per cent per annum.
Increases above this level are discretionary.
cent for the product group chief executives.
Variable components During 2005, no Company cash contributions were paid into the comprise the Short Term Incentive Plan, the Share Option Plan and the Rio Tinto Pension Fund as the fund remained fully funded.
Mining Companies Comparative Plan STIP, SOP and MCCP.
The actual Rio Tinto has reviewed its pension policy in the light of the proportion of total direct remuneration provided by way of variable legislation changes being introduced from April 2006, which will remove components is set out in Table 1 on page 46 and may differ from these the earnings cap and introduce a Lifetime Allowance.
The Rio Tinto target percentages depending on Company and personal performance.
Pension Fund is being amended to incorporate a fund specific limit equivalent to the earnings cap for all members previously affected: Share based remuneration not dependent on performance unfunded benefits will continue to be provided, where already promised, Senior management may participate in share and share option plans on pensionable salary above the fund specific limit.
There will be no that apply to all employees at particular locations and for which neither change to the pension promise in place for the current executive grant or vesting is subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition.
director, and the unfunded arrangements described above may be These plans are consistent with standard remuneration practice utilised to deliver this promise.
whereby employees are offered share and option plan participation as part of their employment entitlements in order to encourage alignment Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 41 817982 1100 p39-51 26 2 2006 6:40 AM Page 42 Remuneration report continued with the long term performance of the Company.
Shareholding policy Executives employed in the Rio Tinto plc part of the Group may In 2002, the committee decided that it would be appropriate to participate in the Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan, a savings related encourage executives to build up a substantial shareholding, aiming to plan which is open to employees in the UK and elsewhere.
Under the reach a holding equal in value to two times base salary over five years.
plan, participants can save up to 250 per month, or equivalent in local Details of executives share interests in the Group are set out in Table 3 currency, for a maximum of five years.
At the end of the savings period on page 48. participants may exercise an option over shares granted at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the market value at the time of the grant.
The Remuneration paid in 2005 number of options participants are entitled to is determined by the Performance of Rio Tinto, product groups and individual option price, the savings amount and the length of the savings contract.
executives No consideration is paid or payable by the recipient on receipt of the 2005 was a year of generally very strong operational performance and options.
The UK section of this plan is Inland Revenue approved.
was the second successive year of record results for the Group.
Eligible UK employees, including some of the executives, may also To illustrate the performance of the Companies relative to their participate in the Rio Tinto Share Ownership Plan, an Inland Revenue markets, graphs showing the performance of Rio Tinto plc in terms of approved share incentive plan which was approved by shareholders at TSR over the last five years, compared to the FTSE 100 Index and the 2001 annual general meeting and introduced in 2002.
Under this Rio Tinto Limited compared to the ASX All Ordinaries Index are plan, participant employees can save up to 125 per month, which the reproduced below.
A graph showing Rio Tintos performance relative to plan administrator invests in Rio Tinto plc shares.
Rio Tinto matches the HSBC Global Mining Index is also included to illustrate the these purchases on a one for one basis.
In addition, eligible employees performance of Rio Tinto relative to other mining companies.
The effect may receive an annual award of Rio Tinto shares up to a maximum of of this performance on shareholder wealth is detailed in the table below.
five per cent of salary, subject to a cap of 3,000.
Executives employed in the Rio Tinto Limited part of the Group TSR Rio Tinto plc vs FTSE 100 Total return basis Index 2000 100 may elect to participate in the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan, 350 also introduced in 2001, which is similar to the Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan.
280 210 Service contracts 140 Each of the executives has a service contract with a Group company.
Full details of remuneration provided during service are set out in 70 this report.
0 It is the Groups policy that the service contracts of all executives 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 have no fixed term but be capable of termination giving no more than FTSE 100 Rio Tinto plc 12 months notice.
Notice periods for executives are as follows: TSR A$ Rio Tinto Limited vs ASX All Share Notice periods Total return basis Index 2000 100 Name Date of Notice Remaining 350 Agreement period service period 280 if less than 12 months 210 Executive directors 140 Leigh Clifford 30 Mar 2005 12 months N A Guy Elliott 19 Jun 2002 12 months N A 70 Product group chief executives 0 Tom Albanese 3 Aug 2004 12 months N A 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Preston Chiaro 30 Sep 2003 12 months N A ASX Rio Tinto Limited Oscar Groeneveld 1 Oct 2004 12 months N A Keith Johnson 12 Mar 2004 12 months N A TSR US$ Rio Tinto Group vs HSBC Global Mining Index Andrew Mackenzie 4 May 2004 12 months N A Total return basis Index 2000 100 Sam Walsh 3 Aug 2004 12 months N A 350 280 Termination payments 210 Rio Tinto has retained the right to pay executives in lieu of notice.
Given 140 the wide variety of possible circumstances leading to early termination, the executives service contracts do not provide explicitly for 70 compensation, but in the event of early termination, it is the Groups 0 policy to act fairly in all circumstances and the duty to mitigate would be 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 taken into account.
Compensation would not provide unmerited reward HSBC Global Mining Index Rio Tinto DLC for poor performance.
There were no termination payments made in 2005.
However, a contractual payment was made to Christopher Renwick, a former product group chief executive, who left the Group on 1 December 2004, in respect of housing costs incurred as a consequence of his relocation during employment at the request of the Group.
This payment is shown in Table 1 as a termination benefit in 2005 as it was paid after he left the Group.
42 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1100 p39-51 26 2 2006 6:40 AM Page 43 Rio Tinto shareholder return 2001-2005 To achieve linkage between business financial and personal nonfinancial performance and remuneration, each executive directors STIP Year Dividends Share price Share price Total paid Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited shareholder payment is calculated as a percentage of salary in accordance with the during pence A$ return formula set out below: the year TSR US cents Business financial Personal non financial Target per share 1 Jan 31 Dec 1 Jan 31 Dec % score 0% to 133% score 0% to 150% STIP 2005 83.5 1,533 2,655 39.12 69.00 77.5 60% 75% 25% 2004 66.0 1,543 1,533 37.54 39.12 1.7 Personal targets XX 2003 60.5 1,240 1,543 33.95 37.54 27.9 weight weight and objectives 2002 68.5 1,316 1,240 37.21 33.95 2.3 Group Group 2001 58.5 1,178 1,316 29.44 37.21 15.5 financial safety results performance Rio Tinto Group and product group performance during 2005, and over relevant performance periods ending at 31 December 2005, impacted For each product group chief executive, STIP payments are calculated executives remuneration as follows: as a percentage of salary in accordance with the formula set out below: Share based awards: Target Business financial Personal non financial MCCP Rio Tinto ranked tenth in the sixteen company comparator STIP score 0% to 133% score 0% to 150% group at the completion of the four-year performance period ending 60% 40% 60% 25% 75% 31 December 2005, resulting in zero vesting of the conditional award XX weight weight weight weight made to executives who were directors at the date of the conditional Group Product Product Personal award.
This group included Leigh Clifford, Guy Elliott and Oscar group financial group targets Groeneveld.
The vesting shown in Table 4 on page 49, for other financial results safety and product group chief executives, where relevant, is in accordance with results objectives the performance condition applicable to the 2002 award and represents 25 per cent of the original awards.
SOP Rio Tinto EPS growth over the three years ending The following is a summary of the business, financial and safety STIP 31 December 2005 exceeded the level required by the applicable remuneration outcomes for 2005.
Full details of overall STIP outcomes performance condition and this grant will vest in full on 7 March 2006. are listed below: Strong Group financial performance for 2005 resulted in a STIP score Annual cash bonus at the maximum level 133 per cent of target for this component.
Cash bonuses STIP in respect of the 2005 performance period, to be Financial performance for each product group varied and the paid in March 2006, are set out in Table 1 on page 46 and the Remuneration committee approved STIP scores ranging from percentages awarded to each executive or forfeited are set out in the 80 per cent of target to 133 per cent of target the maximum for this table on page 44.
These bonuses were approved by the committee on component.
the basis of delivered performance against financial, safety and personal Continued improvement in Group safety performance resulted in the targets and objectives for each executive.
Remuneration committee approving a score of 125 per cent of target Financial performance was assessed against underlying earnings maximum is 133 per cent for this component.
targets for the Group and relevant product group as established by the Product group safety performance varied and STIP scores ranged committee at the commencement of the performance period.
The from 80 per cent of target to 140 per cent of target where potential impact of fluctuations in exchange rates and some prices are 150 per cent is the maximum achievable for this component.
outside the control of the Group.
The committee therefore compares, on Total STIP awards for executives ranged from 71 per cent to an equal weighting basis, both actual results and underlying 106 per cent of salary 59 per cent to 88 per cent of maximum.
This approach is designed to ensure that the annual bonus reflects financial results and addresses underlying performance Each of the results set out below therefore reflect a second successive excluding the impact of prices and exchange rates.
The committee year of record results, strong operational performance and portfolio retains discretion to consider underlying business performance in initiatives to secure future value for the business across the Group.
The safety measures included Group or relevant product group lost Leigh Clifford time injury frequency rates LTIFR and overall assessment of progress The committee assessed personal performance as above target and against improvement targets in other safety measures, including all injury the overall STIP award was 157.2 per cent of target 78.6 per cent of frequency rates AIFR.
These measures are chosen as they reflect the maximum.
priority of safety at all Rio Tinto operations.
Guy Elliott Personal performance targets and objectives were established for The committee assessed personal performance as above target and each executive at the start of the performance period.
These comprise a the overall STIP award was 170.3 per cent of target 85.2 per cent of balanced set of measures for each individual that reflect current maximum.
operational performance, as well as progress on initiatives and projects Tom Albanese designed to grow the value of each business unit and the Rio Tinto The committee assessed product group financial performance and portfolio.
The targets and objectives chosen enable personal personal performance as above target and product group safety performance and the benefit accruing to shareholders in the long term performance at target.
The overall STIP award was 157.9 per cent of to be mirrored in each of the executives at risk remuneration.
target 79 per cent of maximum.
Preston Chiaro The committee assessed product group financial performance as below target and safety and personal performance as above target.
The overall STIP award was 120.2 per cent of target 60.1 per cent of maximum.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 43 817982 1100 p39-51 26 2 2006 6:40 AM Page 44 Remuneration report continued Oscar Groeneveld Minimum and maximum total bonuses and grants 2006 The committee assessed product group financial performance and 1 STIP Cash SOP Options MCCP Shares personal performance as above target and safety performance at Potential range of % of March % of March target.
The overall STIP award was 124.9 per cent of target 2,3 2,4 bonus payments in 2006 salary 2006 salary 62.5 per cent of maximum.
March 2007 in Keith Johnson respect of 2006 The committee assessed product group financial performance and Min Max Min Max Min Max personal performance as above target and safety performance as US$ US$ below target.
The overall STIP award was 142.4 per cent of target Leigh Clifford 1,835,136 300 200 71.2 per cent of maximum.
Guy Elliott 1,161,216 200 140 Andrew Mackenzie Tom Albanese 948,000 300 200 The committee assessed product group financial performance as at Preston Chiaro 720,000 300 200 target, personal performance as above target and safety performance Oscar Groeneveld 1,141,920 200 140 as below target.
The overall STIP award was 118.9 per cent of target Keith Johnson 756,864 200 140 59.4 per cent of maximum.
Andrew Mackenzie 839,808 200 140 Sam Walsh Sam Walsh 1,054,080 200 140 The committee assessed product group financial and safety performance and personal performance as above target.
Based on exchange rate 1 US$1.728 and A$1 US$0.732.
Grant Conditional Award based on the average share price during 2005.
STIP award was 176.2 per cent of target 88.1 per cent of maximum.
SOP Options to be granted in 2006 may, subject to achievement of the performance condition, vest in 2009, with a potential re-test in 2011.
The Share based payment long term incentives granted in 2005 maximum value of these options at the date of vesting would be calculated by multiplying the number of vested options by the intrinsic value at that time ie the Options over either Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited shares were difference between the option exercise price and the current market price.
granted to each executive under the Share Option Plan on 9 March 4.
MCCP performance shares to be granted in 2006 may, subject to achievement of 2005.
The Remuneration committee reviewed the performance the performance condition, vest in 2010.
The maximum value of these shares at the date of vesting would be calculated by multiplying the number of vested shares condition applicable to this grant and confirmed that vesting will be by the intrinsic value at that time ie the current market price plus, the value of dependent on Rio Tinto TSR relative to the HSBC Global Mining Index dividends earned on the vested shares during the performance period.
over a three year performance period.
Share options granted are included in Table 5 on page 51.
A conditional award of performance shares in either Rio Tinto plc or External appointments Rio Tinto Limited shares was made to each executive under the MCCP Executive directors are likely to be invited to become non executive on 9 March 2005.
The Remuneration committee reviewed the directors of other companies.
Rio Tinto believes that such appointments performance condition applicable to the conditional award and can broaden their experience and knowledge, to the benefit of the confirmed that vesting will be dependent on Rio Tinto TSR relative to Group.
It is Group policy to limit executive directors external 15 other mining companies.
directorships to one FTSE 100 company or equivalent and they are not The percentages of maximum bonuses made in respect of 2005 allowed to take on the chairmanship of another FTSE 100 company.
In and grants vested in respect of performance periods ending addition the chairman of Rio Tinto is not permitted to take on the 31 December 2005, as well as the percentages forfeited because the chairmanship of another FTSE 100 company, or equivalent.
relevant Company or individual did not meet the performance criteria Consequently, where there is no likelihood that such directorships will required for full vesting, are as follows: give rise to conflicts of interests, the board will normally give consent to the appointment, with the director permitted to retain the fees earned.
Bonuses and grants made during or in respect of 2005 Details of fees earned are set out in the notes to Table 1 on page 46.
1 2 3 STIP Cash SOP Options MCCP Shares Company secretary remuneration % of % of %%%% The board policy described above applies to the company secretary of maximum maximum vested forfeited vested forfeited vested forfeited each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
The secretaries participate 4 Robert Adams 50.0 50.0 100 42.3 57.7 in the same performance based remuneration arrangements as the Leigh Clifford 78.6 21.4 100 100 executives.
The individual performance measures for the secretaries Guy Elliott 85.2 14.8 100 100 annual cash bonus comprise company and personal measures.
Their Tom Albanese 79.0 21.0 100 25 75 personal measures reflected the key responsibilities of the company Preston Chiaro 60.1 39.9 100 25 75 secretarial role and included ensuring compliance with regulatory Oscar Groeneveld 62.5 37.5 100 100 requirements, oversight of good corporate governance practice and the Keith Johnson 71.2 28.8 100 25 75 provision of corporate secretarial services.
5 Andrew Mackenzie 59.4 40.6 N A N A N A N A Sam Walsh 88.1 11.9 100 25 75 Chairman and non executive director remuneration Remuneration policy 1.
Paid in March 2006 in respect of 2005.
Reflecting the boards focus on long term strategic direction and 2.
Vesting of 2003 grant in March 2006.
Vesting of 2002 Conditional Award in February 2006. corporate performance rather than short term results, remuneration 4.
Robert Adams conditional award vested on a pro-rata basis reflecting his period for the chairman and non executive directors is structured with a fixed of employment.
fee component only, details of which are set out below and in Table 1 on 5.
Andrew Mackenzie joined in 2004 after the 2003 SOP and 2002 MCCP awards page 46.
The board as a whole determines non executive directors had been made.
fees, although non executive directors do not vote on any changes to The estimated maximum and minimum total value of bonuses and share their own fees.
Fees are set to reflect the responsibilities and time spent and option based compensation for the 2006 financial year are set out by the directors on the affairs of Rio Tinto.
To reflect the commitment below.
expected from directors, as well as market practice for similar companies, non executive directors base fees were increased from 50,000 to 60,000 in late 2005, the first such increase since 2001.
It is Rio Tintos policy that the chairman should be remunerated on 44 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1100 p39-51 1 3 06 10:25 am Page 45 a competitive basis and at a level which reflects his contribution to the Remuneration paid during 2005 Group, as assessed by the board.
The chairman is not present at any Details of the nature and amount of each element of remuneration paid discussion regarding his own remuneration.
He does not participate in to the chairman and non executive directors during 2005 are set out in the Groups incentive plans or pension arrangements.
No post employment, long term or termination payments were paid and no share based payments made.
Letters of appointment Non executive directors have formal letters of appointment setting out Directors total remuneration as defined under Schedule 7A of their duties and responsibilities.
These letters are available for inspection the Companies Act 1985 at Rio Tinto plcs registered office prior to the annual general meeting and at the meeting itself.
Each non executive director is appointed 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 subject to periodic re-election by shareholders as detailed on page 52.
Chairman There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of any Paul Skinner 1,049 963 non executive directors directorship.
The chairmans letter of appointment summarises his duties as Non executive directors chairman of the Group and was agreed by the Remuneration Ashton Calvert 132 committee.
It stipulates that he is expected to dedicate at least three Vivienne Cox 107 days per week on average to carry out these duties.
The letter Sir David Clementi 138 110 envisages that Paul Skinner will continue in the role of chairman until he Leon Davis 95 275 reaches the age of 65 in 2009, subject to re-election as a director by Sir Rod Eddington 43 shareholders, although the appointment may be terminated by either Sir Richard Giordano 80 191 Rio Tinto or Paul Skinner giving six months notice.
Other than in this Richard Goodmanson 127 8 case, there is no provision for compensation payable on termination of Andrew Gould 142 110 his chairmanship or directorship.
Lord Kerr 130 115 David Mayhew 122 122 Remuneration components John Morschel 43 155 The following table sets out the annual fees payable to the chairman and Sir Richard Sykes 188 127 the non executive directors in A$ as appropriate.
Lord Tugendhat 37 As at As at 31 Dec 2005 1 Jan 2005 Executive directors Base fees: Robert Adams 220 1,777 Chairman 600,000 550,000 Leigh Clifford 3,093 3,150 Other directors 60,000 50,000 Guy Elliott 1,872 1,781 A$150,000 A$125,000 Oscar Groeneveld 1,215 Additional fees: Senior independent director 35,000 30,000 Audit committee chairman 20,000 20,000 Audit committee member 10,000 10,000 Annual general meetings Remuneration committee chairman 15,000 15,000 Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Remuneration report at the Remuneration committee member 5,000 5,000 Companies forthcoming annual general meetings.
Committee on social and environmental accountability chairman 10,000 By order of the board Committee on social and environmental 3,000 Anette Lawless accountability member A$7,500 Secretary Overseas meeting allowances: Remuneration committee Long distance flights over 4,000 4,000 24 February 2006 10 hours per journey A$10,000 A$10,000 Medium distance flights of 2,000 2,000 5-10 hours per journey A$5,000 A$5,000 No additional fee is payable to the chairman or members of the Nominations committee although this arrangement remains subject to review and will depend on the volume of committee business going forward.
In light of the increased volume of committee work, it was decided in June 2005 to introduce a 10,000 fee for the chairman of the Committee on social and environmental accountability and a 3,000 fee for members.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement benefits or allowances to the chairman or non executive directors nor do any participate in any of the Groups incentive plans.
Where the payment of statutory minimum superannuation contributions for Australian non executive directors is required by the Australian superannuation guarantee legislation, these contributions are deducted from the directors overall fee entitlements.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 45 817982 1100 p39-51 2 3 06 4:16 pm Page 46 Remuneration report continued Table 1 Total remuneration of directors and product group chief executives Primary Equity 6 Short term employee benefits and costs Other long Value of share based awards term benefits 7 8 Base Cash Other cash Non-Monetary Secondment Employment Long MCCP SOP SSP 2 3 4 5 9 salary bonus based benefits costs costs service Others 2 benefits 1 Stated in US$000 US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ Chairman Paul Skinner 1,017 31 1 133 Non executive directors 13 Ashton Calvert 101 31 7 13 Vivienne Cox 100 7 13 Sir David Clementi 123 15 16 13,14 Leon Davis 94 5 13 Sir Rod Eddington 35 8 5 13,14 Sir Richard Giordano 61 7 8 Richard Goodmanson 112 15 Andrew Gould 135 7 Lord Kerr 115 15 15 15,16 David Mayhew 108 15 13,14 John Morschel 43 2 16 Sir Richard Sykes 174 15 17,19 Executive directors Robert Adams 2 Planning & Development 76 38 102 4 125 1,155 582 1 Leigh Clifford 18 Chief Executive 1,492 1,348 31 5 160 363 1,651 1,277 2 Guy Elliott Finance 923 906 27 6 256 881 480 10 19 Product group chief executives Tom Albanese Copper & Exploration 730 682 46 932 32 821 680 14 Preston Chiaro Energy 537 393 21 12 1,050 64 652 343 14 Oscar Groeneveld Aluminium 883 642 121 138 129 579 457 2 Keith Johnson Diamonds 607 498 13 22 148 473 203 8 Andrew MacKenzie Industrial Minerals 683 466 11 21 124 414 93 7 Chris Renwick 5 Iron Ore retired 110 Sam Walsh Iron Ore 807 829 76 92 130 630 384 3 2005 Remuneration US$000 8,956 5,802 371 314 2,372 1,685 7,256 4,499 61 Short term employee Long Share based 2005 Totals benefit and costs 19,500 term awards 11,816 2004 Remuneration US$000 9,255 6,688 255 775 3,183 1,994 1,325 3,337 6,582 69 Short term employee Long Share based 2004 Totals benefits and costs 22,150 term 1,325 awards 9,988 Notes 1.
The total remuneration is reported in US dollars.
The amounts with the exception 6.
The value of share based awards has been determined in accordance with the of the annual cash bonus, can be converted into sterling at the rate of 1US$ recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS2 Share-based Payment.
The 0.5491 or alternatively into Australian dollars at the rate of 1US$ A$1.3111, fair value of awards granted under the Rio Tinto Share Option Plan the SOP, the each being the average exchange rate for 2005.
The annual cash bonus is Share Savings Plan the SSP have been calculated at their dates of grant using an payable under the STIP and this may be converted at the 2005 year end exchange independent lattice based option valuation model provided by external consultants, rate of 1US$ 0.5787 to ascertain the sterling equivalent or alternatively, Lane Clark and Peacock LLP.
The fair value of awards granted under the Mining 1US$ A$ 1.3652 to calculate the Australian dollar value.
Companies Comparative Plan the MCCP has been based on the market price of 2.
Other cash based benefits include car, fuel, overseas meeting allowances and shares at the measurement date adjusted to reflect the number of awards cash in lieu of holiday paid to the estate of Robert Adams who died on 27 January expected to vest based on the current and anticipated relative TSR performance.
The amounts shown as paid to non executive directors relate entirely to The non executive directors do not participate in the long term incentive share overseas meeting allowances.
Non monetary benefits include heathcare, 401K schemes.
contributions in the US, the provision of a car, annual leave accruals and 7.
The number of conditional shares awarded to executive directors and product professional advice.
group chief executives under the MCCP for the twelve month period ending 3.
Secondment costs comprise housing, education, tax equalisation and relocation 31 December 2005 are shown under Table 4 of this report.
The MCCP is stated payments made to and on behalf of executive directors and product group chief under primary emoluments to reflect the treatment of the plan as a cash settled executives living outside their home country.
Employment costs comprise social security contributions and accident insurance 8.
The award of options to executive directors under the SOP and SSP during the premiums in the UK and US and payroll taxes in Australia paid by the employer as twelve month period up to 31 December 2005 are shown in Table 5 of this report.
a direct additional cost of hire.
Other share based awards refers to the Rio Tinto All Employee Share Ownership 5.
A payment in respect of long service leave is paid to Australian executive directors Plan where UK executive directors and product group chief executives are and product group chief executives on retirement.
Christopher Renwick received beneficiaries to free shares up to a maximum value of 3,000 US$ 5,463 and such a payment when he retired on 1 December 2004.
No other long term benefit may also contribute to purchase additional shares where the Company will also type payments have been made in the period.
match their personal contributions up to a maximum of 1,500 US$ 2,732 per 46 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1100 p39-51 2 3 06 4:18 pm Page 47 Table 1 Total remuneration of directors and product group chief executives continued Post employment Other benefits 10 11 Post employment costs Termination benefits Remuneration mix Total remuneration 14 12 Pension Defined Medical Post service Gifts Fixed as % At-risk as % Options as % 2005 2004 Currency Benefits Contributions costs payments 2005 Total 2005 Total Total of actual Stated in US$000 US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ payment Chairman Paul Skinner 100.0 1,182 1,085 Non executive directors 13 Ashton Calvert 100.0 139 A$ 13 Vivienne Cox 100.0 120 Sir David Clementi 100.0 154 123 13,14 Leon Davis 1 100.0 100 289 13 Sir Rod Eddington 100.0 48 13,14 Sir Richard Giordano 12 100.0 88 214 Richard Goodmanson 100.0 127 8 Andrew Gould 100.0 142 110 Lord Kerr 100.0 145 128 15,16 David Mayhew 100.0 123 110 13,14 John Morschel 1 100.0 46 163 A$ 16 Sir Richard Sykes 100.0 189 132 17,19 Executive directors Robert Adams 2 Planning & Development 31 16.0 84.0 27.5 2,114 3,686 Leigh Clifford 18 Chief Executive 317 58 36.2 63.8 19.0 6,704 6,511 Guy Elliott Finance 408 41.8 58.2 12.3 3,897 3,079 19 Product group chief executives Tom Albanese Copper & Exploration 157 13 3 46.9 53.1 16.5 4,110 4,043 US$ Preston Chiaro Energy 142 12 6 57.2 42.8 10.6 3,246 2,595 US$ Oscar Groeneveld Aluminium 181 18 46.7 53.3 14.5 3,150 3,383 A$ Keith Johnson Diamonds 312 48.6 51.4 8.9 2,284 1,712 Andrew MacKenzie Industrial Minerals 398 56.1 43.9 4.2 2,217 757 Chris Renwick 5 Iron Ore retired 1,115 100.0 1,225 4,506 A$ Sam Walsh Iron Ore 200 41.5 58.5 12.2 3,151 3,130 A$ 34,701 35,764 2005 Remuneration 2,146 101 9 1,115 14 2005 Totals Post employment costs 2,256 Termination 1,129 34,701 2004 Remuneration 2,127 166 8 2004 Totals Post employment costs 2,301 Termination 35,764 annum.
Under these plans Robert Adams received 338 US$616, Keith Johnson Sir Rod Eddington on 1 September 2005.
Sir Richard Sykes became the senior received 3,500 US$6,374, Andrew Mackenzie received 3,750 US$6,829 and non executive director following Sir Richard Giordanos retirement in April 2005.
American product group chief executives The following directors retired on 29 April 2005, Leon Davis, Sir Richard Giordano receive a Company matching of personal contribution for shares under the US and John Morschel.
401K arrangements up to a maximum of US$12,600.
Messrs Davis, Giordano and Morschel received retirement gifts valued at US$891, personal contributions to the following values: Tom Albanese US$12,600 and US$11,987 and US$891 respectively.
These gifts are shown in the termination Preston Chiaro US$12,083.
The costs shown for defined benefit pension plans and post retirement medical 15.
David Mayhew resigned from the Audit committee on 31 July 2005.
The fees benefits are the service costs attributable to the individual, calculated in disclosed above include 4,167 US$7,589 paid to JP Morgan Cazenove for Mr accordance with IAS19.
The cost for defined contribution plans is the amount Mayhews continued attendance at Audit committee meetings after this date in contributed by the year by the company the capacity of an advisor.
Remuneration mix shows the proportions of total remuneration comprising fixed travelling expenses to attend the Australian AGM were incorrectly disclosed as and variable pay components and the percentage of total remuneration comprising part of his total base salary figure.
The correct base salary figure should have share options only.
Fixed pay is represented by base salary, non monetary and been stated as US$110,000.
other cash benefits, secondment and employment costs, post employment costs, 16.
David Mayhews fees were paid to JP Morgan Cazenove and Sir Richard Sykes termination benefits and voluntary share based awards as detailed in Note 9. fees were paid to Imperial College.
Variable pay is made up of the cash bonus and the values of the share based 17.
Executive directors have agreed to waive any fees receivable from subsidiary and awards related to company performance.
No such emoluments were paid by subsidiary or 12.
The comparative total figures in respect of 2004 have been restated following the associated companies in respect of executive directors during the period 2004: move to International Financial Reporting Standards.
In summary the major two directors waived US$53,022.
changes are the inclusion of employment costs and the recalculation of post 18.
In the course of the year Leigh Clifford received US$110,025 in respect of his non employment costs and the value of share based awards on an annual basis.
Several of the non executive directors held their positions for less than the 19.
With the exception of Robert Adams who died on 27 January 2005, all executive whole financial year.
The following directors were appointed during the period, directors and product group chief executives held their positions for the entire Ashton Calvert on 1 February 2005, Vivienne Cox on 1 February 2005 and reporting period.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 47 817982 1100 p39-51 26 2 2006 6:41 AM Page 48 Remuneration report continued Table 2 Directors pension entitlements as at 31 December 2005 3 Accrued benefits Transfer values Age Years of At At Change in Change in At At Change, net Transfer value service 31 December 31 December accrued benefits accrued benefit 31 December 31 December of personal of change completed 2004 2005 during the year net of inflation 2004 2005 contributions in accrued ended 31 benefit net December 2005 of inflation 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 000 UK directors pension pension pension pension 4 Robert Adams 59 34 389 391 2 2 7,465 7,573 108 41 Guy Elliott 50 25 256 291 35 29 2,915 3,781 866 385 A$000 A$000 A$000 A$000 A$000 A$000 A$000 A$000 Australian director Lump sum Lump sum Lump sum Lump sum 1,2 Leigh Clifford 58 35 12,026 13,147 1,121 534 12,026 13,147 1,121 534 Notes 1.
A$76,538 was credited to the account belonging to Leigh Clifford in the Rio Tinto 3.
Transfer values are calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit Staff Superannuation Fund in relation to the superannuable element of his 2005 Schemes Transfer Values GN 11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the performance bonus.
Faculty of Actuaries and dated 4 August 2003.
The change in accrued benefit net of inflation for Leigh Clifford is the change net of 4.
The 2005 figures show his accrued the Rio Tinto Staff Superannuation Funds investment return and allowing for benefits to 27 January 2005, and transfer value calculated at that date.
Ashton Calvert and Vivienne Cox were 6.
Shares movement due to sale or purchase of shares, or shares received under the appointed non executive directors on 1 February 2005.
Leon Davis, Sir Richard Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Giordano and John Morschel retired on 29 April 2005.
Oscar Groeneveld resigned as a director on 1 October 2004, when his holding in appointed a non executive director on 1 September 2005.
Rio Tinto plc shares was 19,010 and his holding in Rio Tinto Limited was 32,012 2.
Or date of appointment if later.
Or date of retirement or resignation if earlier.
These executives also have an interest in a trust fund containing 835 Rio Tinto plc 4.
Shares obtained through the exercise of options under the Rio Tinto Share Savings shares at 31 December 2005 1 January 2005: 8,219 Rio Tinto plc shares as Plan or the Rio Tinto Share Option Plan.
The number of shares retained may differ potential beneficiaries of The Rio Tinto Share Ownership Trust.
At 10 February from the number of options exercised.
2006 this trust fund contained 835 Rio Tinto plc shares.
Shares obtained through the Rio Tinto Share Ownership Plan and or vesting of 9.
Shares in Rio Tinto plc are ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Shares in Rio Tinto awards under the Mining Companies Comparative Plan.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 49 817982 1100 p39-51 26 2 2006 4:03 PM Page 50 Remuneration report continued Notes to Table 4 1.
The Groups 10th place ranking against the comparator group for the MCCP 2002 6.
The shares awarded under the MCCP 2001 last year vested on 21 February 2005 award will not generate any vesting of the conditional award to any participant who but, as the performance cycle ended 31 December 2004, they were dealt with in was an executive director at the time of the initial grant.
However, product group the 2004 Annual report and financial statements as if they had vested on that chief executives, under this particular cycle, will qualify for a 25 per cent vesting date.
The values of the awards in the 2004 Annual Report and financial statements based on the scales applied to conditional awards made prior to 2004. were based on a share price of 1687p being the closing share price on 2.
Mr Adams MCCP shares vested on 14 February 2005 for Rio Tinto plc shares, the latest practicable date prior to the 28 January 2005 based on the assumption that Rio Tinto achieved median publication of the 2004 Annual report and financial statements.
The actual share ranking on each of the outstanding performance cycles.
This led to a 50 per cent price on 21 February 2005, when the award vested to Guy Elliott was 1759p while vesting in respect of the 2002 and 2003 awards and a 35 per cent vesting in on 25 January 2006 when the cash payment was made to the estate of Robert respect of the 2004 award.
His personal representatives had one year to decide Adams it was 2956p with the result that the values of the awards had been whether to take shares or cash.
A decision to take cash in lieu of shares was understated in respect of Guy Elliott by US$1,286 and Robert Adams by made on 25 January 2006 and the middle market price of Rio Tinto plc shares US$835,521.
that day of 2956p was used to calculate the cash payment.
Leigh Clifford was given a conditional award over 113,324 Rio Tinto Limited shares 3.
Awards denominated in pence were in Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each.
These awards were approved by the shareholders under ASX Awards denominated in A$ were in Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares.
Listing Rule 10.14 at the 2004 annual general meeting.
The fair value of conditional awards granted in 2005 was 703p for Rio Tinto plc 8.
Conditional awards are awarded at no cost to the recipient and no amount and A$18.15 for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
remains unpaid on any shares granted.
No awards would be vested and 5.
The values of the vested awards have been based on a share price of 2867p for unexercisable at the reporting date.
Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each and A$71.65 for Rio Tinto Limited 9.
A full explanation of the MCCP can be found on page 40. ordinary shares, being the closing prices on 17 February 2006.
Or as the date of resignation or retirement if earlier.
dollars has been converted from sterling at the rate of 1.7406 and Australian dollars at the rate of 0.7382, being the exchange rates at close of business on that day.
The Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan RTPSOP, Rio Tinto Limited Share Option 7.
Under the plans no options would be vested and unexercisable at the reporting Plan RTLSOP, Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan RTPSSP and Rio Tinto date.
Limited Share Savings Plan RTLSSP grant options over ordinary shares.
The value of options exercised during 2005 is calculated by multiplying the number Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each stated in pence sterling: Rio Tinto of options exercised by the difference between the market price and the option Limited ordinary shares stated in A$.
Each option is granted over one share.
price on date of exercise.
The closing price of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 was 9.
The fair value per option, granted during 2005, at date of grant was as follows: 2655p 2004: 1533p and the closing price of Rio Tinto Limited shares at RTPSSP three year contract 866p and five year contract 945p: RTLSSP three year 31 December 2005 was A$69.00 2004: A$39.12.
The highest and lowest prices contract A$20.96 and five year contract A$23.18: RTPSOP 409p: RTLSOP during the year were 2657p and 1472p respectively for Rio Tinto plc and A$69.10 A$8.93.
On 7 October 2005, Andrew Mackenzie was granted a five year option and A$38.82 for Rio Tinto Limited.
under the RTPSSP and Sam Walsh was granted a three year option under the 3.
The option price represents the exercise price payable on the options.
The RTPSOP and RTLSOP options were granted on 9 March 2005. was paid or payable by the recipient at the date of grant.
40,216 phantom options over Rio Tinto plc shares were granted to on any shares allocated on the exercise of the options.
Andrew Mackenzie at a price of 1329p per share, exercisable between 22 April 4.
No options lapsed during the year.
Or at date of retirement or resignation if earlier.
In accordance with the Plan rules, Robert Adams outstanding options became exercisable with immediate effect following his death.
His award of options under the 2004 grant was reduced by 17,881 to 59,819 options.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 51 817982 1110 p52 56 26 2 2006 6:43 AM Page 52 Corporate governance The directors of Rio Tinto believe that high standards of corporate Board performance governance are critical to business integrity and performance.
The In 2005, the board conducted a further formal process to evaluate its following report describes how this philosophy is applied in practice.
effectiveness and that of the board committees and individual directors.
As Rio Tintos three main listings are in London, Melbourne and Each directors performance was appraised by the chairman and, in New York, the directors have referred to the Combined Code, published a meeting chaired by the senior non executive director, the non by the UK Financial Reporting Council the Code, the Australian Stock executive directors assessed the chairmans performance, taking into Exchange ASX Best Practice Corporate Governance Guidelines and consideration the views of executive colleagues.
the New York Stock Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance Listing The evaluation process takes place annually and aims to cover Standards, as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, when board dynamics, board capability, board process, board structure, formulating this statement.
corporate governance, strategic clarity and alignment and the During 2005, Rio Tinto applied the principles contained in Part 1 of performance of individual directors.
The directors believe that, through the Code.
The detailed provisions of Section 1 of the Code have been this evaluation process, they comply with the requirements of Clause complied with as described below.
Rio Tinto also complied with the ASX A.
6 of the Code, Principle 8 of the ASX Best Practice Corporate Best Practice Corporate Governance Guidelines.
A statement on Governance Guidelines and the relevant sections of the NYSE Code.
compliance with the New York Stock Exhanges Corporate Governance Listing Standards is set out on page 54.
Independence The board has adopted a policy on directors independence.
The policy, The board which contains the materiality thresholds approved by the board, can be The Companies have common boards of directors which are collectively viewed on the Rio Tinto website.
responsible for the success of the Group and accountable to The tests of director independence in the jurisdictions where shareholders for the performance of the business.
Throughout the rest Rio Tinto is listed are not wholly consistent.
The board has, therefore, of this report, they will be described as the board.
adopted the following criteria for independence: Independence of The board currently consists of 12 directors: the chairman, two management, the absence of any business relationship which could executive directors and nine non executive directors.
The Nominations materially interfere with the directors independence of judgement and committee continually assesses the balance of executive and non ability to provide a strong, valuable contribution to the boards executive directors and the composition of the board in terms of the deliberations or which could interfere with the directors ability to act in skills and diversity required to ensure it remains relevant in the current the best interest of the Group.
Where contracts in the ordinary course environment.
The skills, experience and expertise of each director of business exist between Rio Tinto and a company in which a director together with their terms in office are shown in the biographical details has declared an interest, these are reviewed for materiality to both on pages 34 and 35.
Applying these criteria, the board is satisfied that the majority of the non executive directors, Sir David Clementi, Sir Rod The role and responsibilities of the board Eddington, Richard Goodmanson, Andrew Gould, Lord Kerr, Sir The role of the board is to provide the Group with good governance and Richard Sykes, Ashton Calvert and Vivienne Cox are independent.
The board also reviews the Groups control and David Mayhew, who is chairman of one of Rio Tinto plcs stockbrokers, accountability framework.
The directors have agreed to a formal is not independent.
schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board, Paul Skinner was, until his appointment as chairman in 2003, an including strategy, major investments and acquisitions.
The full list is independent, non executive director in compliance with the Code.
He available on Rio Tintos website.
satisfies the tests for independence under the ASX Best Practice Responsibility for day to day management of the business lies with Corporate Governance Guidelines and the NYSE Code.
the executive team, with the board agreeing annual performance targets The directors biographies are set out on pages 34 and 35. for management against the Groups financial plan.
The board is ultimately accountable to shareholders for the performance of the Election and re-election business.
Directors are elected by shareholders at the first annual general To ensure an efficient process, the board meets regularly and in meetings after their appointment and, after that, offer themselves for 2005 had eight scheduled and three special meetings.
Details of re-election at least once every three years.
Non executive directors are directors attendance at board and committee meetings are set out in normally expected to serve at least two terms of three years and, except the Directors report on page 38. where special circumstances justify it, would not normally serve more The board has regular scheduled discussions on aspects of the than three such terms.
Groups strategy and, in line with best practice, a dedicated annual two day meeting at which in depth discussions of Group strategy take place.
Chairman and chief executive Directors receive timely, regular and necessary management and The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and the other information to enable them to fulfil their duties.
The board has division of responsibilities has been formally approved by the board.
agreed a procedure for the directors to have access to independent professional advice at the Groups expense and to the advice and Board committees services of both company secretaries.
There are four board committees, the Audit committee, Remuneration In addition to these formal processes, directors are in regular committee, Nominations committee and the Committee on social and communication with senior executives from the product groups, at environmental accountability.
Each committee plays a vital role in both formal and informal meetings, to ensure regular exchange of ensuring that good corporate governance is maintained throughout the knowledge and experience between management and non Group.
Committee terms of reference are reviewed annually by the executive directors.
To continue building on the formal induction board and the committees themselves to ensure they continue to be at programmes, which all new non executive directors undertake, they the forefront of best practice: and are posted on the Groups website.
are encouraged to take every opportunity to visit the Groups Minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to the board, with oral operating locations.
reports at the next board meeting.
All committee members are non The chairman also holds regular meetings with non executive executive directors.
directors without the executive directors present.
The Audit committees main responsibilities include the review of accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public financial information: review with management of procedures 52 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1110 p52 56 26 2 2006 6:43 AM Page 53 relating to financial and capital expenditure controls, including internal dealings when in possession of price sensitive information and shortly audit plans and reports: review with external auditors of the scope and before a results announcement, can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website.
results of their audit: the nomination of auditors for appointment by shareholders: and the review of and recommendation to the board for Communication approval of Rio Tintos risk management policy.
Its responsibilities also Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective communication with include the review of corporate governance practices of Group shareholders and the general investment community.
To ensure sponsored pension funds.
The committee has a number of training shareholders are kept informed in a timely manner, the Group has sessions which may cover new legislation and other relevant adopted an External disclosure guidance, which is posted on the information.
The external auditors, the finance director, the Group website appended to the Corporate governance guidance.
controller and Group internal auditor attend meetings.
A copy of the In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tinto has a comprehensive Audit committee charter is reproduced on page 57 and can be found on website featuring in depth information on health, safety and the the Rio Tinto website.
environment, as well as general investor information and Group policies.
The Audit committee is chaired by Andrew Gould and its members Results presentations and other significant events are available as they are Sir David Clementi, Vivienne Cox and Lord Kerr.
David Mayhew happen and as an archive on the website.
attends in an advisory capacity.
The Group also produces a range of informative publications, which The Remuneration committee is responsible for determining the are available on request.
For further details, see page 64. policy for executive remuneration and for the remuneration and benefits Full advantage is taken of the annual general meetings to inform of individual executive directors and senior executives.
Full disclosure of shareholders of current developments and to give shareholders the all elements of directors and relevant senior executives remuneration opportunity to ask questions.
As recommended by the ASX Best can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 39 to 51, together Practice Corporate Governance Guidelines, Rio Tinto Limiteds external with details of the Groups remuneration policies.
The committee is auditor attends the annual general meeting and is available to answer chaired by Sir Richard Sykes and its members are Sir David Clementi, shareholder questions about the conduct of the audit and the Andrew Gould and Richard Goodmanson.
preparation and content of the auditors report.
Rio Tinto Limited The Nominations committee is chaired by the chairman of shareholders are also able to submit written questions regarding the Rio Tinto, Paul Skinner.
The committee is responsible, on behalf of the statutory audit report to the auditors via the Company.
Any questions board, for ensuring that a suitable process is in place to meet the received and answers provided will be made available to the members recruitment requirements of the board.
It reviews the mix, structure and at the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting in May 2006.
Rio Tinto experience of the board and the desired profiles of potential candidates plcs auditors will as usual attend the annual general meeting in London for membership.
In consultation with external search consultancies it and will be available to respond to audit related shareholder questions.
oversees the review and recruitment process to meet vacancies as they The main channels of communication with the general investment arise.
The recruitment process itself includes identification of suitable community are through the chairman, chief executive and finance candidates, followed by a formal assessment of each candidate, leading director, who conduct regular meetings with the Companies major to a final selection process.
Proposals for new members are submitted shareholders.
The senior independent director and other non executive to the full board for approval.
directors are also available as appropriate.
The committee also reviews the time required to be committed to The Group organises regular investor seminars which provide a two Group business by non executive directors and assesses whether non way communication with investors and analysts: the valuable feedback executive directors are devoting sufficient time to carry out their duties.
is communicated to the board.
An annual survey of major shareholders In addition to Paul Skinner, the committee consists of Ashton Calvert, opinion and perception of the Group is presented to the board by the Sir Rod Eddington, David Mayhew and Sir Richard Sykes.
Under the Groups investor relations advisors.
Code, two members of the committee are not considered independent: Paul Skinner, following his appointment as chairman, and David Statement of business practice Mayhew.
The Code specifically allows the chairman to chair the The way we work provides the directors and all Group employees with Nominations committee, but, nevertheless, the committee a summary of the principal policies and procedures in place to help composition is not fully aligned with recommended practice in the ensure that high governance and business standards are UK.
The board takes the view, however, that the skills and experience of communicated and achieved throughout the Group.
the members of the committee makes the current composition both Main policies are adopted by the directors after wide consultation, efficient and effective.
externally and within the Group.
Once adopted, they are communicated The Committee on social and environmental accountability reviews to business units worldwide, together with guidance and support on the effectiveness of management policies and procedures in place to implementation.
Business units are then required to devote the deliver those standards in The way we work, Rio Tintos statement of necessary effort by management to implement and report on these business practice, which are not covered by the other board policies.
committees and, in particular, those relating to health, safety, the The following policies are currently in place: sustainable environment and social issues.
The overall objective of the committee is development: health, safety and the environment: communities: human to promote the development of high quality business practices rights: access to land: employment: political involvement: and business throughout the Group and to develop the necessary clear accountability integrity: while guidance documents have been issued for corporate on these practices.
Members of the committee, which is chaired by governance: compliance: external disclosures, including continuous Richard Goodmanson, are Ashton Calvert, Sir Rod Eddington and disclosure, antitrust and code of ethics covering the preparation of Lord Kerr.
financial statements and risk analysis.
These policies and guidances apply to all Rio Tinto managed businesses.
Executive directors other directorships There is also a Groupwide whistle blowing programme called Executive directors are likely to be invited to become non executive Speak-OUT.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns, directors of other companies.
For full details of the Group policy and including any suspicion of a violation of the Groups financial reporting fees, see page 44 and pages 46 to 47. and environmental procedures, through an independent third party and without fear of recrimination.
A process has been established for the Directors dealings in shares investigation of any matters reported with clear lines of reporting and Rio Tinto has a Group policy in place to govern the dealing in Rio Tinto responsibility in each Group business.
securities by directors and employees.
The policy, which prohibits Where the Group does not have operating responsibility for a Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 53 817982 1110 p52 56 26 2 2006 6:44 AM Page 54 Corporate governance continued business, Rio Tintos policies are communicated to the business mining and related assets.
The directors recognise that creating partners and they are encouraged to adopt similar policies of their own.
shareholder value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
Rio Tintos report on social and environmental matters follows the The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal Association of British Insurers guidelines.
This report can be found on controls and for reviewing its effectiveness in providing shareholders page 56 to 58 of the full Annual report and financial statements, and on with a return on their investments that is consistent with a responsible the Companys website.
Details of the Groups overall and individual assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, businesses social and environmental performance continue to be operational and compliance controls, and risk management procedures.
published on Rio Tintos website and in the Sustainable development Because of the limitations inherent in any such system this is designed review.
to manage rather than eliminate risk.
Accordingly, it provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Responsibilities of the directors The directors have established a process for identifying, evaluating The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of was in place during 2005 and up to and including the date of approval the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the 2005 Annual report and financial statements.
The process is and cash flows for that period.
This includes, in respect of Rio Tinto plc, reviewed annually by the directors and accords with the guidance set preparing financial statements in accordance with UK company law out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
which give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs, and Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive for preparing a Remuneration report which includes the information committee and the Disclosures and procedures committee regularly required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the UK Companies Act 1985 and review information related to the Groups control framework.
This Australian Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures.
information is presented to the Audit committee to enable its members Details of the directors responsibilities in respect of Rio Tinto Limited to assess the effectiveness of the internal controls.
In addition, the board are set out on page 31.
To ensure that these requirements are satisfied, and their committees monitor the Groups significant risks on an the directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate ongoing basis.
internal controls and procedures for financial reporting throughout the Assurance functions, including internal auditors and health, safety Group.
and environmental auditors, perform reviews of control activities and The directors consider that the financial statements present a true provide regular written and oral reports to directors and management and fair view and have been prepared in accordance with applicable committees.
The directors receive and review minutes of the meetings accounting standards, using the most appropriate accounting policies of each board committee, in addition to oral reports from the respective for Rio Tintos business and supported by reasonable and prudent chairmen at the first board meeting following the relevant committee judgements and estimates.
The accounting policies have been meeting.
Certain risks, for example natural disasters, cannot be mitigated to The directors have received a written statement from the chief an acceptable degree using internal controls.
Such major risks are executive and the finance director to this effect.
In accordance with transferred to third parties in the international insurance markets, to the ASX Best Practice Recommendation 7.2, this written statement relies extent considered appropriate.
on a sound system of risk management and internal compliance and Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses and administrative controls which implements the policies adopted by the board and offices complete an internal control questionnaire that seeks to confirm confirms that the Groups risk management and internal compliance that adequate internal controls are in place and operating effectively.
The and control systems are operating efficiently and effectively in all results of this process are reviewed by the executive committee and it is material respects.
then presented to the board as a further part of their review of the The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and Groups internal controls.
This process is continually reviewed and other members of staff who are required to exercise judgement in the strengthened as appropriate.
course of the preparation of the financial statements are required to In 2002, the Group also established a Disclosure and procedures conduct themselves with integrity and honesty and in accordance with committee, which was tasked with reviewing the adequacy and the ethical standards of their profession and or business.
effectiveness of Group controls and procedures over the public The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting disclosure of financial and related information.
The committee has been records, in accordance with the UK Companies Act 1985 and the presenting the results of this process to the directors and will continue Australian Corporations Act 2001.
They have a general responsibility for to do so.
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the The Group has material investments in a number of joint ventures assets of Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Where Rio Tinto does not have managerial The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity control, it cannot guarantee that local management of mining assets will of the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation comply with Rio Tinto standards or objectives.
Accordingly, the review of and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in their internal controls is less comprehensive than that for the Groups other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve managed operations.
consideration of this and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial The New York Stock Exchange statements since they were initially available on the website.
In November 2003, the SEC approved the new corporate governance listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The Going concern Company, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern the NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant ways in which its basis.
The directors report that they have satisfied themselves that the corporate governance practices differ from these standards.
Companies and the Group are a going concern since they have The Company has reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the believes that its corporate governance practices are broadly consistent foreseeable future.
with them, with one exception where the Company does not meet the strict requirements set out in these standards.
Boards statement on internal control The standards state that companies must have a nominating Rio Tintos overriding corporate objective is to maximise long term corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent shareholder value through responsible and sustainable investment in directors and with written terms of reference which, in addition to 54 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1110 p52 56 26 2 2006 6:44 AM Page 55 identifying individuals qualified to become board members, develops policies or approved by the Audit committee.
and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the Company.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations committee, Audit committee information about which is set out on page 53.
This committee does not The Audit committee meets the membership requirements of the Code, develop corporate governance principles for the boards approval.
The the ASX Corporate Governance Guidelines and the NYSE Code.
The board itself performs this task and approves the Groups overall system Group also meets the composition, operation and responsibility of governance and internal controls.
requirements in respect of audit committees mandated by the Australian Stock Exchange.
The Audit committee is governed by a written charter New Zealand corporate governance statement approved by the board, which the Audit committee reviews and Rio Tinto Limited is listed with the ASX and New Zealand Stock reassesses each year for adequacy.
A copy of this charter is reproduced Exchange NZX, which both have their own corporate governance on page 57. rules.
As an overseas listed issuer, Rio Tinto Limited is deemed to The Audit committee comprises the four members set out below.
satisfy the NZX rules while it remains ASX listed.
Additionally the NZX Vivienne Cox became a member of the committee with effect from April rules require Rio Tinto Limited to disclose in its annual report any home 2005.
The members of the committee are independent and are free of exchange corporate governance rules and principles which materially any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying differ from those of the NZX.
Although the ASX corporate governance out their responsibilities.
David Mayhew attends the meetings in an guidelines are substantially the same as the NZX regime, the following advisory capacity.
differences may be considered material: The Australian equivalent of a number of the NZX rules including Report of the Audit committee restrictions on buy backs, financial assistance and rules governing The Audit committee met eight times in 2005.
It monitors auditors are contained in the Corporations Act 2001 rather than in the developments in corporate governance in the UK, Australia and the ASX Listing Rules.
US, to ensure the Group continues to apply high and appropriate The ASX guidelines extend beyond the NZX rules to specifically standards.
address risk management, internal controls and stakeholder Many of the new US requirements have long been best practice interests and require the public disclosure of internal policies and and are incorporated into the committees charter, reproduced on procedures.
The charter is subject to regular discussion and has been The ASX guidelines recommend that a majority of directors must be reviewed in the light of new requirements and emerging best practice.
independent whereas the NZX rules require one third of directors and There is in place a set of procedures, including budgetary at least two directors to be independent.
Independence is defined guidelines, for the appointment of the external auditor to undertake non similarly under both rules but there are differences.
audit work, which aims to provide the best possible services for the The ASX Listing Rules do not require shareholder approval of major Group at the most advantageous price.
The committee reviews the transactions and related party transactions to the extent required by independence of the external auditors on an annual basis and a process the NZX rules.
is also in place to review their effectiveness to ensure that the Group continues to receive an efficient and unbiased service.
The committee Despite these regulatory differences, the directors believe that advised the directors that the Audit committee is satisfied that the Rio Tinto Limiteds corporate governance practices are consistent provision of non audit services by the external auditors during 2005 is with the intentions underlying the NZX Corporate Governance Best compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors Practice Standards.
imposed by the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Furthermore, as part of its responsibility to foster open communication, the committee meets Principal auditors with management, the external auditors and the internal auditor Rio Tinto has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence of separately.
the Groups principal auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provide a range of accounting and other professional services that might Financial expert compromise their appointment as independent auditors.
The The Audit committee reviewed the SEC requirements for audit engagement of the Groups principal auditors to provide statutory audit committees financial experts and the Combined Code requirement that services, certain other assurance services, tax services and some other at least one committee member should have recent and relevant specific services are pre-approved annually by the Audit committee.
Following a detailed review, the committee engagement of the Groups principal auditors to provide other permitted recommended to the board that Andrew Gould and Sir David Clementi services are individually subject to the specific approval of the Audit be identified as the Audit committees financial experts in the 2005 committee or its chairman.
Annual report and financial statements.
The board has concluded that Prior to the commencement of each financial year, the Groups Andrew Gould and Sir David Clementi possess the requisite skills, finance director submits to the Audit committee a schedule of the types experience and background to qualify for the purpose of C. 3.1. of the of services that are expected to be performed during the following year Code as well as fulfilling the SEC criteria.
The Audit committee may impose a US dollar limit on the total value of other permitted services that can be provided.
Any non 2005 financial statements audit service provided by the Groups principal auditors, where the The Audit committee has reviewed and discussed with management the expected fee exceeds a pre-determined level, must be subject to the Groups audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December Groups normal tender procedures.
However, in exceptional 2005. circumstances the finance director is authorised to engage the Groups We have discussed with the external auditors the matters principal auditors to provide such services without going to tender, but if described in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountant the fees are expected to exceed US$250,000 then the chairman of the Auditing Standard No.
90, Audit committee communications, and in the Audit committee must approve the engagement.
International Standard on Auditing UK and Ireland 260, Communication The Audit committee adopted policies for the pre-approval of of Audit Matters with those charged with governance ISA 260, permitted services provided by the Groups principal auditors during including their judgements regarding the quality of the Groups January 2003.
These are regularly reviewed by the committee.
accounting principles and underlying estimates.
Engagements for services provided by the Groups principal auditors The committee has discussed with the external auditors their since the adoption of these policies were either within the pre-approval independence, and received and reviewed their written disclosures, as Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 55 817982 1110 p52 56 26 2 2006 6:44 AM Page 56 Corporate governance continued required by the US Independence Standards Boards Standard No.
1, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees and ISA 260.
Based on the reviews and discussions referred to above, the committee has recommended to the board of directors that the financial statements referred to above be included in this Annual report.
Andrew F J Gould Chairman Sir David Clementi Vivienne Cox Lord Kerr Report of the Nominations committee The Nominations committee report of its activities covers a period of considerable change in composition of the board.
Three long serving non executive directors retired during 2005.
They were Sir Richard Giordano, Leon Davis and John Morschel.
The committee therefore focused on the recruitment, with input from an external search advisers, of replacements with appropriate skills and experience.
Ashton Calvert and Vivienne Cox joined the board on 1 February 2005, and Sir Rod Eddington joined the board on 1 September 2005.
Each is an independent director who brings an experience profile which will ensure that the overall quality of the board is maintained.
The committee also reviewed matters relating to the succession plans for the senior executive team.
As part of his annual performance assessment of individual directors, Paul Skinner, who is chairman of the Nominations committee, has reviewed the time committed by directors to Group business and confirmed this to be appropriate in each case.
Paul Skinner Chairman Ashton Calvert, AC Sir Rod Eddington David Mayhew Sir Richard Sykes 56 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1120 p57 26 2 2006 4:02 PM Page 57 Audit committee charter Discuss with management and the external auditors managements Scope and authority choice of accounting principles and material judgments, including The Company is required by the UK Listing Authority UKLA, the New whether they are aggressive or conservative and whether they are York Stock Exchange NYSE, and the Australian Stock Exchange ASX to common or minority practices.
Each of the UKLA, the NYSE and the ASX Recommend to the boards that the annual and interim financial also lay down rules and guidelines for the composition of the Committee statements and Form 20-F reviewed by the committee or the chairman and the work to be undertaken by it.
These requirements, where not self representing the committee for this purpose be included in the Group's evident, have been incorporated into this Charter.
The primary function of the Audit committee is to assist the boards of Review the regular reports prepared by the internal auditor including the directors in fulfilling their responsibilities by reviewing: effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls.
The financial information that will be provided to shareholders and the External auditors public: Review and recommend to the boards the external auditors to be The systems of internal controls that the boards and management have proposed to shareholders, following a commercial tender if deemed established: necessary.
The Groups auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes.
Review with the external auditors the planned scope of their audit and In carrying out its responsibilities the committee has full authority to subsequently their audit findings including any internal control investigate all matters that fall within the terms of reference of this Charter.
Accordingly, the committee may: Periodically consult with the external auditors out of the presence of Obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties management about the quality of the Groups accounting principles, at the cost of the Group: material judgments and any other matters that the committee deems Have such direct access to the resources of the Group as it may appropriate.
reasonably require including the external and internal auditors.
Periodically review the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant Composition professional and regulatory requirements.
The Audit committee shall comprise three or more non executive directors, Review and approve the fees and other compensation to be paid to the all of whom shall be independent.
The chairman of the Audit committee external auditors.
will be an independent director, who is not also the chairman of the Review and approve any non audit work and related fees to be carried boards.
The boards will determine each directors independence having out by the external auditors.
regard to the Independence Policy adopted by the boards, which includes Ensure that the external auditors submit a written statement outlining all consideration of any past and present relationships with the Group which, of its professional relationships with the Group including the provision of in the opinion of the boards, could influence the directors judgment.
services that may affect their objectivity or independence.
Review and All members of the committee shall have a working knowledge of discuss with the external auditors all significant relationships they have basic finance and accounting practices.
At least one member of the with the company to determine their independence.
committee will have accounting or related financial management expertise, Internal auditor as determined by the boards.
Review the qualifications, organisation, strategic focus and resourcing of A quorum will comprise any two committee members.
The committee may invite members of the management team to Review and approve the internal audit plans.
attend the meetings and to provide information as necessary.
Periodically consult privately with the internal auditor about any Meetings significant difficulties encountered including restrictions on scope of The committee shall meet not less than four times a year or more work, access to required information or any other matters that the frequently as circumstances require.
Audit committee minutes will be committee deems appropriate.
confirmed at the following meeting of the committee and tabled as soon Risk management as practicable at a meeting of the boards.
Review and evaluate the internal processes for determining and The Companys senior financial management, external auditors and managing key risk areas.
internal auditor shall be available to attend all meetings.
Ensure the company has an effective risk management system and that As part of its responsibility to foster open communication, the macro risks are reported at least annually to the board.
committee should meet with management, the external auditors and the Require periodic reports from nominated senior managers: internal auditor, at least annually, to discuss any matters that are best dealt confirming the operation of the risk management system including with privately.
advice that accountable management have confirmed the proper operation of agreed risk mitigation strategies and controls: and Responsibilities detailing material risks.
The boards and the external auditors are accountable to shareholders.
Address the effectiveness of the Companys internal control system with The Audit committee is accountable to the boards.
The internal auditor is management and the internal and external auditors.
accountable to the Audit committee and the finance director.
Evaluate the process the Company has in place for assessing and To fulfil its responsibilities the committee shall: continuously improving internal controls, particularly those related to Charter areas of material risk.
Review and, if appropriate, update this Charter at least annually.
Other matters Financial reporting and internal financial controls The committee shall also perform any other activities consistent with this Review with management and the external auditors the Groups charter that the committee or boards deem appropriate.
This will include financial statements, Form 20-F, stock exchange and media releases in but not be limited to: respect of each half year and full year.
Review of the corporate governance practices of Group sponsored Review with management and the external auditors the accounting pension funds: policies and practices adopted by the company and their compliance Review of the Groups insurance cover: with accounting standards, stock exchange listing rules and relevant Review the Groups tax planning and compliance: legislation.
Review the Groups whistleblowing procedures for financial reporting.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 57 817982 1130 p58 61 26 2 2006 6:45 AM Page 58 Shareholder information DIVIDENDS SHARE PRICES Under Rio Tintos long standing progressive dividend policy, the aim is Rio Tinto plc pence per share to increase the US dollar value of ordinary dividends over time, without 2005 High Low cutting them in economic downturns.
1st quarter 1,851 1,472 The rate of the total annual dividend, in US dollars, is determined 2nd quarter 1,762 1,557 taking into account the results for the past year and the outlook for the 3rd quarter 2,346 1,724 current year.
The interim dividend is set at one half of the total ordinary 4th quarter 2,657 2,073 dividend for the previous year.
Under Rio Tintos dividend policy the final ordinary dividend for each year may be expected to be at least equal to 2005 2004 2003 the previous interim dividend.
Year end 2,655 1,533 1,543 The majority of the Groups sales are transacted in US dollars, High 2,657 1,574 1,543 making this the most reliable measure of the Groups global business Low 1,472 1,212 1,093 performance.
It is Rio Tintos main reporting currency and consequently the natural currency for dividend determination.
Dividends determined Rio Tinto Limited Australian dollars per share in US dollars are translated at exchange rates prevailing two days prior 2005 High Low to the announcement and are then declared payable in sterling by 1st quarter 47.93 38.82 Rio Tinto plc and in Australian dollars by Rio Tinto Limited.
For the 2nd quarter 45.90 41.40 2005 interim and final dividends the exchange rates were US$1.7704 3rd quarter 60.01 45.12 and US$1.7774 to the pound and US$0.7615 and US$0.7564 to the 4th quarter 69.10 54.27 Australian dollar respectively.
The value of investments and any income from them is The 2005 final and special dividend will be paid on 6 April 2006. not guaranteed and can fall as well as rise depending on market On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited can receive movements.
You may not get back the original amount invested.
dividends in sterling and shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can receive dividends in Australian dollars.
For information, please contact Share price information Computershare, whose details are given on page 62.
Closing share prices are published in most newspapers and share prices during the day are available on the Rio Tinto and other Dividends to Rio Tinto ADR holders websites.
In the UK the Rio Tinto plc share price is also available on The 2005 final and special dividend of 151.5 US cents per share or CEEFAX and TELETEXT and can be obtained through the Cityline 606 US cents per ADR will be by JPMorgan on 7 April 2006.
The service operated by the Financial Times: telephone 0906 843 3880: dividends for 2005 total 760 US cents per ADR.
calls are currently charged at 60p per minute plus VAT, in addition to any mobile phone charges.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP The DRP gives shareholders the opportunity to use their cash dividend MARKET LISTINGS to purchase Rio Tinto shares in the market, free of commission.
For Australia and New Zealand further information on the DRP please contact Computershare.
Rio Tinto Limiteds shares are listed on the Australian Stock Exchange Limited and the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
Dividend mandates Shareholders can have their dividends credited directly to their bank, Europe building society or credit union account.
If you wish to take advantage The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock of this arrangement, please contact Computershare or download the Exchange LSE.
As a constituent of the Financial Times Stock relevant form from their website.
Exchange 100 Index FTSE 100 Index, Rio Tinto plc shares trade through the Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS system.
In addition to its primary listing on the LSE, Rio Tinto plcs shares are also listed on Euronext and on Deutsche Brse.
58 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1130 p58 61 26 2 2006 6:46 AM Page 59 United States The effect of the dividend imputation system on non resident Rio Tinto plc shares are listed in the form of American Depositary shareholders is that, to the extent that the dividend is franked, no Receipts ADRs on the New York Stock Exchange and are traded under Australian tax will be payable and there is an exemption from dividend the symbol RTP.
Rio Tinto Limiteds ADRs are traded in the over withholding tax.
counter market under the symbol RTOLY.
During February 2006 A withholding tax is normally levied at the rate of 15 per cent when Rio Tinto Limited served notice that it would terminate its programme on unfranked dividends are paid to residents of countries with which 10 April 2006.
Each ADR represents four shares in the relevant Company.
Most Western countries have a taxation JPMorgan Chase Bank NA is the depositary bank for both ADR treaty with Australia.
A rate of 30 per cent applies to countries where programmes.
All enquiries regarding ADR holders accounts and there is no taxation treaty.
dividends should be directed to the ADR administrator at JPMorgan.
Since 1988, all dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited have been fully Rio Tinto is subject to the US Securities and Exchange franked.
It is the Companys policy to pay fully franked dividends Commission SEC reporting requirements for foreign companies.
annual report on Form 20-F will be filed with the SEC and this and other filings can be viewed on the SEC web site at www.
Dividend reinvestment plan DRP Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested in TAXATION the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash and Taxation of UK resident individuals arranged the investment.
The dividend should therefore be included in Taxation of dividends the annual tax return as assessable income.
UK dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the dividend.
The shares acquired should be added to shareholding at the date Individuals who are not liable to income tax at the higher rate will have of acquisition at the actual cost of the shares, which is the amount of no further tax to pay.
Higher rate tax payers are liable to tax on UK the dividend applied by the shareholder to acquire shares and any dividends at 32.5 per cent which, after taking account of the tax credit, incidental costs associated with the acquisition, including stamp duty, produces a further tax liability of 25 per cent of the dividend received.
will form, part of the cost base or reduced cost base of the shares for capital gains tax purposes.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP The taxation effect of participation in the DRP will depend on individual Capital gains tax circumstances.
Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends The Australian capital gains tax legislation is complex.
If shareholders reinvested in the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the have acquired shares after 19 September 1985 they may be subject to cash and arranged the investment.
The dividend should therefore be capital gains tax on the disposal of those shares.
included in the annual tax return in the normal way.
Generally, disposal of shares held on capital account would give The shares acquired should be added to shareholdings at the rise to a capital gain or loss.
A capital gain arises when the proceeds date and at the net cost shown on the share purchase advice.
The on disposal are greater than the cost base of shares.
A capital loss actual cost of the shares for Rio Tinto plc shareholders including the arises when the proceeds on sale are less than the cost base or stamp duty stamp duty reserve tax will form the base cost for capital reduced cost base.
Where a capital gain arises on shares held for at gains tax purposes.
least 12 months, individual, trust and superannuation fund shareholders may be eligible for a capital gains tax discount.
Capital gains tax Shareholders are advised to seek the advice of an independent Shareholders who have any queries on capital gains tax issues are taxation consultant on any possible capital gains tax exposure.
advised to consult their financial adviser.
A leaflet which includes details of relevant events since 31 March DUAL LISTED COMPANIES STRUCTURE 1982 and provides adjusted values for Rio Tinto plc securities as at that In December 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the date is available from the company secretary.
dual listed companies merger the DLC merger which was designed to place the shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same Taxation of Australian resident individuals position as if they held shares in a single enterprise owning all of the Taxation of dividends assets of both Companies.
As a condition of its approval of the DLC Dividend imputation system merger, the Australian Government required Rio Tinto plc to reduce its The basis of the Australian dividend imputation system is that when shareholding in Rio Tinto Limited to 39 per cent by the end of 2005.
Australian resident shareholders receive dividends from Rio Tinto The current holding is approximately 37.5 per cent.
Limited, they may be entitled to a credit for the Australian tax paid by Following the approval of the DLC merger, both Companies the Company in respect of that income, depending on the tax status of entered into a DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing the shareholder.
Agreement through which each Company agreed: The application of the system results in the Australian tax paid by a to ensure that the businesses of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto the Company being allocated to shareholders by way of franking credits Limited are managed on a unified basis, attaching to the dividends they receive.
Such dividends are known as b to ensure that the boards of directors of each Company is the franked dividends.
A dividend may be partly or fully franked.
The same, and current Rio Tinto Limited dividend is fully franked and the franking c to give effect to certain arrangements designed to provide credits attached to the dividend are shown in the distribution statement shareholders of each Company with a common economic interest provided to shareholders.
The extent to which a company will frank a dividend depends on the credit balance in its franking account.
Credits to this account can In order to achieve this third objective the Sharing Agreement provided arise in a number of ways, including when a company pays company for the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights attached tax or receives a franked dividend from another company.
The dividend to each Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto Limited share to be is required to be included in a resident individual shareholders fixed in an Equalisation Ratio which has remained unchanged at 1:1. assessable income.
In addition an amount equal to the franking credits The Sharing Agreement has provided for this ratio to be revised in attached to the franked dividend is also included in the assessable special circumstances where for example certain modifications are income of the resident individual, who may then be entitled to a rebate made to the share capital of one Company, such as rights issues, of tax equal to the franking credit amount included in their income.
bonus issues, share splits and share consolidations, but not to the Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 59 817982 1130 p58 61 26 2 2006 6:46 AM Page 60 Shareholder information continued share capital of the other.
Outside these specified circumstances, the ADR holders may instruct JPMorgan how to vote the shares Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the approval of shareholders represented by their ADRs.
under the Class Rights Actions approval procedure described under After 4 May 2006, the votes of the joint electorate and the results of Voting at shareholders meetings.
In addition, any adjustments are votes on which separate approvals are required will be announced to the required to be confirmed by the auditors.
stock exchanges and advertised in the Financial Times and The One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to Australian.
The results may also be obtained on the shareholder helpline, a wide range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple in the UK Freephone number 0800 435021, or in Australia toll free jurisdictions.
Where these rules differ, in many instances it means that, within Australia 1800 813 292, or from the Rio Tinto website.
as a Group, Rio Tinto complies with the strictest level.
Consistent with the creation of a single combined enterprise under SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION the DLC merger, directors of each Company are to act in the best Computershare Investor Services PLC and Computershare Investor interests of the Rio Tinto Group.
Identified areas where there may be a Services Pty Limited are the registrars for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto conflict of the interests of the shareholders of each Company must be Limited respectively.
All enquiries and correspondence concerning approved under the Class Rights Actions approval procedure.
shareholdings, other than shares held in ADR form, should be directed To ensure that directors of each Company are the same, to the respective registrar.
Their addresses and telephone numbers are resolutions to appoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders given on page 62.
Please notify Computershare promptly in writing of of both Companies voting as a joint electorate as described under any change of address.
Voting at shareholders meetings and it is a requirement that a director Shareholders are able to obtain details about their own of one Company must also be a director of the other Company.
Full details, including how to gain secure access to this personalised enquiry facility, are given on the Dividend rights Computershare website.
The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that Consolidation of share certificates is without taking into account any associated tax credits.
Dividends are If your certificated shareholding in Rio Tinto plc is represented by several determined in US dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, individual share certificates, they can be replaced by one consolidated translated and paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
The Companies certificate: there is no charge for this service.
Share certificates should are also required to announce and pay their dividends and other be sent to Computershare together with a letter of instruction.
distributions as close in time to each other as possible.
In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient Share certificates name change distributable reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised Share certificates in the name of The RTZ Corporation PLC remain valid capital distribution, it would be entitled to receive a top up payment notwithstanding the name change to Rio Tinto plc in 1997. from the other Company.
The top up payment could be made as a dividend on the DLC Dividend Share or by way of a contractual Share warrants to bearer payment.
All outstanding share warrants to bearer of Rio Tinto plc have been If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law converted into registered ordinary shares under the terms of a scheme applicable to one of the Companies then they may depart from the of arrangement sanctioned by the court in 2001.
Holders of any Equalisation Ratio.
However should such a departure occur then the outstanding share warrants to bearer should contact the Rio Tinto plc relevant Company would put aside reserves to be held for payment on company secretary for an application form to obtain their rights to the relevant shares at a later date.
Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
Low cost share dealing service The DLC Dividend Share can also be utilised to provide the Group Stocktrade operates the Rio Tinto low cost share dealing service which with flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to provides Rio Tinto plc shareholders with a simple telephone facility for be paid between the two parts of the Group.
Such dividend payments buying and selling Rio Tinto shares.
Basic commission is 0.5 per cent would be of no economic significance to the shareholders of either up to 10,000, reducing to 0.2 per cent thereafter subject to a Company, as they would have no effect on the Groups overall minimum commission of 15.
Further information is available from resources.
Stocktrade, which is a division of Brewin Dolphin Securities, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Their details are given Voting at shareholders meetings on page 62.
Under the Groups DLC structure, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Some transactions may be subject to the money laundering Rio Tinto Limited take decisions on significant matters, including the regulations and you may be required to provide certain personal details appointment of directors, through a joint electoral procedure.
Such to Stocktrade prior to any purchase or sale of shares.
matters are submitted for approval by shareholders of both Companies at separate meetings, but voting as a joint electorate.
Individual Savings Account ISA This is achieved through the special arrangements whereby votes Stocktrade offers an ISA for UK residents wishing to hold Rio Tinto plc cast at a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting are reflected at the shares in an ISA account.
Existing PEPS or ISAs may also be corresponding Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting, and vice versa.
As part of the special voting arrangements, the shares in Rio Tinto Further information on ISAs can be obtained from Stocktrade, Limited held by Rio Tinto plc are used solely to reflect the Rio Tinto plc whose details are given on page 62. shareholder vote at the corresponding Rio Tinto Limited meeting.
Voting on joint decision matters are by poll at each shareholder meeting Corporate nominee service with each poll being left open long enough to allow the votes cast at Computershare, in conjuction with Rio Tinto plc, have introduced a the other meeting to be carried with the poll at the corresponding corporate nominee service for private individuals.
can be obtained from Computershare.
Matters which are not of concern to one set of shareholders or which affect the two Companies shareholders differently will require the Publication of financial statements separate approval of one or both sets of shareholders.
Shareholders currently receiving the Annual review, who wish to receive 60 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1130 p58 61 26 2 2006 6:46 AM Page 61 a copy of the full Annual report and financial statements, free of charge, for this and future years, should contact Computershare.
Alternatively if shareholders wish to receive these reports electronically, rather than in paper form, they should register their instruction on the Computershare website.
They are also available on the Rio Tinto website.
Registered holders of ADRs will have the annual and US GAAP reports sent to their record address.
Brokers or financial institutions which hold ADRs for shareholder clients are responsible for forwarding shareholder information to their clients and will be provided with copies of the Annual review for this purpose.
Full parent entity financial statements for Rio Tinto Limited are available free of charge from the Rio Tinto Limited company secretary on request.
These financial statements are also available on the Rio Tinto website.
Unsolicited mail and telephone calls Rio Tinto is aware that some shareholders have had occasion to complain that outside organisations, have used information obtained from the Companies share registers, for their own purposes.
Rio Tinto, like other companies, cannot by law refuse to supply such information provided that the organisation concerned pays the appropriate statutory fee.
Shareholders in the UK who wish to reduce the amount of unsolicited mail and telephone calls they receive, should register with The Mailing Preference Service and The Telephone Preference Service whose details are on page 62.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 61 817982 1140 p62 63 26 2 2006 6:47 AM Page 62 Useful addresses Registered offices US investor relations consultant Rio Tinto plc Makinson Cowell US Limited 6 St Jamess Square One Penn Plaza London SW1Y 4LD 250 West 34th Street Registered in England No.
co. uk P O Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Unsolicited mail and telephone calls Bristol BS99 7NH The Mailing Preference Service FREEPOST 29 LON20771 Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0000 London W1E 0ZT Facsimile: 44 0 870 703 6119 UK residents only, Freephone: 0800 435021 Telephone: 0845 703 4599 Website: www.
com 62 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 1140 p62 63 26 2 2006 6:47 AM Page 63 Financial calendar 2 February 2006 Announcement of results for 2005 22 February 2006 Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2005 final and special dividend 24 February 2006 Record date for 2005 final and special dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 28 February 2006 Record date for 2005 final and special dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares and ADRs 16 March 2006 Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2006 final and special dividend 6 April 2006 Payment date for 2005 final and special dividend 7 April 2006 Payment date for 2005 final and special dividend for holders of ADRs 12 April 2006 Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc 4 May 2006 Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited 3 August 2006 Announcement of half year results for 2006 9 August 2006 Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2006 interim dividend 11 August 2006 Record date for 2006 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 15 August 2006 Record date for 2006 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 16 August 2006 Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2006 interim dividend 7 September 2006 Payment date for 2006 interim dividend 8 September 2006 Payment date for 2006 interim dividend for holders of ADRs February 2007 Announcement of results for 2006 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 63 817982 1140 p62 63 26 2 2006 6:47 AM Page 64 Publications The following publications may be obtained from Rio Tinto: 2005 Annual report and financial statements 2005 Annual review 2005 Sustainable development review The way we work Rio Tintos statement of business practice Review magazine Rio Tintos quarterly magazine for shareholders Copies of the 2005 annual reports for the following listed Rio Tinto Group companies are also available on request: Bougainville Copper Limited Coal & Allied Industries Limited Energy Resources of Australia Ltd Palabora Mining Company Limited Rio Tinto on the web Information about Rio Tinto is available on our website www.
64 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 01Cover 27 2 06 3:16 pm Page 2 Grasberg joint venture 40% Weipa ERA 68% Argyle Blair Athol 71% Clermont project 50% Port Hedland 65% Dampier Salt 65% Hail Creek 82% Kestrel 80% Robe River mines: West Angelas 53% Boyne Island 59% Pannawonica 53% Comalco Alumina Refinery Hamersley Iron mines: Brockman Lake MacLeod 65% Gladstone power station 42% Marandoo Queensland Alumina 39% Mt Tom Price Tarong Paraburdoo Yandicoogina Three Springs Channar 60% Eastern Range 54% Northparkes 80% Bengalla 30% Hunter Valley Operations 76% HIsmelt 60% Mt Pleasant project 76% Mt Thorley Operations 61% Warkworth 42% Bell Bay Anglesey Aluminium 51% Tiwai Point 79% Coudekerque Talc fide Luzenac Eurallumina 56% Copper Diamonds Exploration Technology Mineral exploration is conducted With bases in the UK, US and Operating assets Operating assets by four geographically based and Australia, the Technology group US$2,809 million US$1,085 million two global exploration teams, comprises the following units: Gross turnover Gross turnover operating from regional Health, Safety and Environment, US$4,839 million US$1,076 million headquarters and district offices Technical Services, Office of the Underlying earnings Underlying earnings in 30 countries.
remote from mine Rio Tinto 2005 Annual review 817982 01Cover 27 2 06 1:42 pm Page 1 2005 Annual review Finding, mining andprocessing the earths minerals
