qxd 15 3 06 07:59 Page 114 11 4 Principal subsidiary undertakings At December 31, 2005 Incorporated within the UK held by Rolls-Royce Group plc Rolls-Royce plc Principal trading holding company Incorporated within the UK held by Rolls-Royce plc unless otherwise stated Civil aerospace Rolls E. L. Turbofans Limited Engine support services holding company 1 Rolls-Royce General Partner Limited Management company Rolls-Royce Total Care Services Limited Aftermarket support services Marine 2 Rolls-Royce Marine Electrical Systems Limited Marine electrical systems Rolls-Royce Marine Power Operations Limited Nuclear submarine propulsion systems Energy Rolls-Royce Fuel Cell Systems Limited Development of fuel cell systems Financial services and corporate Rolls-Royce Aircraft Management Limited Sales finance and other financial services 3 Rolls-Royce Capital Limited Sales finance and other financial services Rolls-Royce International Limited International support and commercial information services Rolls-Royce Leasing Limited Engine leasing Rolls-Royce Overseas Holdings Limited Holding company 4 Rolls-Royce Overseas Investments Limited Holding company Rolls-Royce Power Engineering plc Power generation and marine systems Rolls-Royce Power Ventures Limited Provision of project development capabilities 5 Vinters Engineering plc Holding company Vinters plc Holding company 1 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Supplies Limited.
2 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Power Engineering plc.
3 This subsidiary acts as an agent of Rolls-Royce plc.
4 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Overseas Holdings Limited.
5 The interest is held by Vinters plc.
The above companies operate principally in the UK and the effective Group interest is 100 per cent, other than Rolls-Royce Fuel Cell Systems Limited which is 75 per cent.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 2005 Group Financials.
qxd 15 3 06 07:59 Page 115 115 Incorporated overseas held by Rolls-Royce plc unless otherwise stated Civil aerospace Brazil Rolls-Royce Brasil Limitada Repair and overhaul 1 France Rolls-Royce Technical Support SARL Project support 2 Germany Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG BR700 series engine development and manufacture Italy Europea Microfusioni Aerospaziali S. p. A.
Manufacture of castings 3 USA Rolls-Royce Corporation Design, development and manufacture of gas turbine engines 4 USA Rolls-Royce Engine Services Oakland Inc. Repair and overhaul Defence 5 USA Rolls-Royce Defense Services Inc. Repair and overhaul Marine 6 China Rolls-Royce Marine Shanghai Limited Manufacture and supply of marine equipment 7 Finland Rolls-Royce OY AB Manufacture of winches and propeller systems 7 Norway Rolls-Royce Marine AS Design and manufacture of ship equipment holding company 8 Norway Ulstein Holding AS Holding company 7 Sweden Kamewa Holding AB Holding company 9 Sweden Rolls-Royce AB Manufacture of propeller systems 10 USA Rolls-Royce Commercial Marine Inc. Aftermarket support services 5 USA Rolls-Royce Naval Marine Inc. Design and manufacture of ship propellers Energy 11 Canada Rolls-Royce Canada Limited Industrial gas turbines and aero-engine sales, service and overhaul 1 India Rolls-Royce Energy Systems India Private Limited Project management and customer support 1 Singapore Rolls-Royce Pte Limited Engine and turbine compression systems, spares 5 USA Rolls-Royce Energy Systems Inc.
Turbine generator packages Financial services and corporate Canada Rolls-Royce Holdings Canada Inc. Holding company 1 Guernsey Nightingale Insurance Limited Insurance services 1 India Rolls-Royce Operations India Pvt Limited Provision of support services 12 USA Rolls-Royce North America USA Holdings Co. Holding company 13 USA Rolls-Royce North America Holdings Inc. Holding company 1 The interests are held by Rolls-Royce Overseas Holdings Limited.
2 The interest is held as follows: 49.5 per cent Rolls-Royce Erste Beteiligungs GmbH, 50.5 per cent Rolls-Royce Zweite Beteiligungs GmbH.
3 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Asset Management Inc. 4 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Defense Services Inc. 5 The interests are held by Rolls-Royce North America Holdings Inc. 6 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Marine Asia Limited.
7 The interests are held by Vinters International Limited.
8 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Marine AS.
9 The interest is held by Kamewa Holding AB.
10 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Naval Marine Inc. 11 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Holdings Canada Inc. 12 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Overseas Investments Limited.
13 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce North America USA Holdings Co.
The above companies operate principally in the country of their incorporation.
The effective Group interest is 100 per cent, other than Europea Microfusioni Aerospaziali S. p. A. which is 51 per cent.
A list of all subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
