Operating and Financial Review Rotork 07 continued Annual Report 2005 The key drivers for the Groups businesses relate to investment in oil actuator activities, but we did see good levels of demand for electric and gas, water and waste water and power generation installations actuators especially on the export and receiving terminals.
The power around the world with demand being generated by new and market was particularly active for the year under review.
Sales of expanded capacity, upgrades to existing facilities and replacements.
actuators into this market were heavily weighted towards Asia, in This is often linked to projects which are aimed at improving the particular China and India.
The water market also remains a key efficiency, safety and environmental performance of plants.
Valve focus of our activities: we were successful in winning a number of actuators are critical components and their long-term reliability and important projects around the world, however as a percentage of our performance is extremely important to users.
They also act as a key total units ordered, it fell due to this market lagging behind the interface between plant control systems and related hardware.
exceptional growth in power and oil and gas.
Rotorks reputation for quality, worldwide support and technical innovation is crucial to its leadership position in the field.
The broad UK Operations geographic spread of our operations and applications means that we The UK domestic market remained quiet for much of the year as the have a large number of repeat customers around the world and no water companies moved from AMP 3 to AMP 4.
Encouragingly we one customer accounts for more than 5% of our revenue in any year.
saw an increase in quote activity towards the end of the year.
We also saw an increased level of business for power station work over the Electric Actuators prior year.
The principal markets for electric actuators are oil and gas, water and waste water treatment and power generation.
As a percentage of unit The Bath plant remains our main electric actuator assembly plant.
actuator order input oil and gas represented 37% 38%, water and It performed particularly well during the year reaching record output waste water 24% 30%, power generation 31% 24% and levels.
Improvements to the supply chain, coupled with some strategic miscellaneous 8% 8% with the prior years figures in brackets.
The dual source arrangements, meant that we did not see a re-occurrence oil and gas markets received much general attention during the year of the supply difficulties experienced in 2004.
Despite severe increases due to the relatively high oil and gas prices affecting the costs to in some raw material and energy costs our component cost increases consumers of energy.
Much of the focus for investment by the oil and were kept well under control due to continued procurement initiatives.
gas companies remained on upstream activities, such as exploration Further engineering and procurement cost initiatives were worked on and production.
However there was evidence that downstream during the year which should help mitigate further material and activities were beginning to receive more focus due to shortages in energy cost increases in 2006. refining and storage capacity.
The majority of the electric actuators we sell into this sector go into downstream operations such as Our Bath and Leeds Service and Retrofit organisations developed their refinery offsites, storage and distribution facilities.
Liquefied Natural businesses well during the year, in terms of both their capabilities and Gas LNG investment was also particularly active.
opportunities in this business area reside with our fluid power Rotork IQ and IQT intelligent electric actuators with Pakscan 2-wire digital control have been installed on a specialised area of the plant that manufactures the worlds largest, most advanced and efficient commercial airliner.
The Rotork actuators are installed at Toulouse, where a huge new production plant has been built for the Airbus A380.
The actuators control the sequence by which jet fuel, stored in six tanks, is pumped into the A380s 310,000 litre fuel tanks to clean them and then pumped back through filters for storage and re-use.
08 Rotork Operating and Financial Review Annual Report 2005 continued Turnover by business segment Turnover by geographical destination Electric Gears Fluid system Europe Americas Rest of World 71% 11% 18% 42% 13% 12% 75% 29% 29% 05 05 04 72% 12% 16% 04 45% 28% 27% 0m 50m 100m 150m 200m 0m 50m 100m 150m 200m Europe Elsewhere all three sales companies in South East Asia had excellent Although the business environment was somewhat subdued in some performances.
The Korean and Japanese subsidiaries also managed of our European markets, especially France, our sales subsidiaries improved profit performances despite relatively poor domestic performed well, in some cases boosted by projects won through their investment levels.
Rotork Australia increased its profits and performed local valve makers for export to the Middle and Far East.
The Italian and well while our South Africa subsidiary had a disappointing performance.
Spanish operations increased profits over 2004, while the Dutch, The Middle East is a key business area for the Company, although German and French companies performed well and ended the year with orders for projects from this region are frequently routed through strong order books and good prospects for the current year.
Business European and American OEMs.
Project activity was driven by high from Eastern Europe and Russia was at similar levels to the prior year.
levels of investment in oil and gas, including LNG activities as well A new Rotork company has been registered in Russia in place of the as other infrastructure projects.
existing sales office as we believe that there will be growing opportunities for our products in this important oil and gas economy.
The Malaysian manufacturing plant experienced strong order intake especially in the first half of the year and had by the end of the third The Americas quarter managed to increase its capacity to cope with the increased The US subsidiary based in Rochester, N. Y. had a very successful year.
The AWT product, which is made in the plant, is an It built on its strength in the water and waste water business with the important addition to our product range, which has assisted our municipalities who continued to make investments in expanding and marketing effort in a number of important non oil and gas markets.
We also saw modest improvements in the prospects for oil and gas business, especially in Mexico.
The Rotork Fluid System company benefited from increased export business won by US valve Rotork Fluid System design, assemble and market heavy-duty fluid makers who were assisted by a relatively weak US dollar.
Jordan power valve actuators which are operated either pneumatically or Controls, our subsidiary manufacturing process control actuators based hydraulically.
The main markets served by our product are oil and gas in Milwaukee, saw an improvement in its order intake and financial related and unlike the electric actuators the bulk of these products performance.
A largely new management team has been put into are destined for upstream applications, transmission and LNG plants place to help further develop this element of our business.
These areas are benefiting from increased investment by most of the international oil and gas companies.
The principal The Canadian subsidiarys performance saw an improvement over the assembly plant is based in Lucca, Italy, with product also assembled in prior year due to a better performance in the West.
The Venezuelan Rochester N. Y. and, with the acquisition of PCI, Northern Germany.
subsidiary continued to perform well in a difficult environment.
We continued to see exceptional growth levels from this business The Far East and the Rest of the World with order input up 45.8% 30.4% output up 35.8% 18.4% and Rotork benefits from a strong presence and reputation in Asia, and it is net profits up 23.9% 21.1%.
The figures, excluding the acquisition this area which has seen the most significant growth in the period.
China of PCI, are in brackets.
I am pleased to report that margins recovered and India represent the biggest market opportunities and we achieved considerably in the second half of the year due to project timings and exceptional growth at our operations in both countries.
Much of this some relief from the $ exchange rate.
It was also notable that the related to power plant construction, but it was encouraging to see a division made good progress towards reaching its target of representing strong increase in business from Chinese tank farm and gas projects.
The 71% increase in the order book year on Our Indian subsidiary has assembly plants in Chennai and Bangalore and year means that it is well placed to meet that target in 2006. continues to achieve excellent margins from these plants.
The decision PC Intertechnik PCI was purchased in March for 6.5m.
It has an was taken to make actuators in China and to this end a new company excellent reputation for the design and manufacture of high pressure has been registered and a plant leased in Shanghai to assemble both actuators.
This acquisition has done much to enhance our product gearboxes and electric actuators in order to become more deeply offerings and strengthen our marketing position in Germany, Eastern embedded in this market with its continuing growth opportunities.
Europe and Russia and has also substantially added to our Operating and Financial Review Rotork 09 continued Annual Report 2005 HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS DESIGNED TO THE HIGHEST POSSIBLE STANDARDS OF ENGINEERING We have been at the forefront of actuation technology since the company was founded in 1957 and we enjoy an unrivalled reputation for commitment to quality.
Many of our installations are in hostile environments, so our actuators must keep working in the toughest situations.
Rotork IQ intelligent electric valve waste water is returned to the local actuators have been installed throughout watercourse in line with the latest EU and the advanced new Reading Sewage Environment Agency standards.
Approximately 150 plant serves a population approaching Rotork Profibus enabled actuators control 300,000 as well as a local brewery, so the movement of flows throughout the there is an emphasis on odour control site, from the fully enclosed inlet works to that is unique to this site.
the tertiary filters from where the treated 10 Rotork Operating and Financial Review Annual Report 2005 continued At Rotork we firmly believe our Our manufacturing processes have Supplying the best equipment reputation is based on reliability, also been developed to ensure is crucial to our success.
backed by a proven and successful absolute quality and total reliability.
Providing a totally reliable track record over many years.
We Every actuator is tested individually service is just as important.
ensure that maximum reliability is before it leaves one of our purposeengineered into every aspect of our built production plants.
equipment, with the result that we have what is probably the most reliable actuator anywhere in the world.
The profits were impacted by The key strategies of this business are to expand its marketing reach IFRS intangible amortisation and other initial ownership costs.
and reduce the costs of its products as it operates in a price sensitive environment.
Good progress is being made on both of these fronts.
The division continued to build its worldwide marketing reach and During the year the US operation continued to make inroads into the benefited from its investment in leveraging Rotorks worldwide sales important North American market and in January 2006 we acquired the companies coverage of the market.
Most of these now have business assets of Omag Snc for 1.1m.
The new company will be specialist fluid power capabilities including the ability to package named Rotork Gears Srl.
Omag is a respected gears manufacturer and product locally by designing and mounting bespoke control packages supplier to the Italian heavy duty industrial valve industry and is based in on actuators supplied from the assembly plants.
This acquisition provides the division with a manufacturing and operations in Canada, Spain, France and The Netherlands all recorded sales base in the globally significant Italian valve market in addition to good increases in business and profitability.
The Italian plant again its sites in Leeds, the USA, the Netherlands and China.
Small scale saw a significant increase in sales and profits while the US operation manufacture of gearboxes commenced in Shanghai at the start of 2005. turned a first half loss into a profit and met its targets for the year.
As already mentioned a new larger plant is being set up in Shanghai of which half will be devoted to gearbox manufacture.
It is anticipated that The business benefited from its expanding product range.
In gearbox assembly will commence in the second quarter of this year in particular products that have been introduced within the past two the new plant.
The business also completed a successful cost years, including the electric hydraulic and gas over oil range, sold engineering exercise on two of its smaller gearbox ranges prior to well.
During the year a range of sub-sea products was designed and tooling up for Chinese assembly.
It is planned that the exercise will move successfully sold into a challenging area of business which is set to onto the other main product ranges this year.
expand over the next few years.
Research & Development Rotork Gears The last quarter saw the successful introduction of a new generation Rotork Gears experienced good levels of demand in most of its markets, controller for our IQ and IQT actuators.
In addition to extending our the main exception being the UK.
Order intake for the year was up market leading diagnostics this new platform allows easier set up and 6.4%, sales output up 7.1% and operating profits up 19.8% with both configuration through language specific menus.
A unique feature the Leeds and Dutch plant in Losser performing well.
allows alternate languages to be added post manufacture enabling the product to be optimised to meet the needs of our international customer base.
Operating and Financial Review Rotork 11 continued Annual Report 2005 SOLID RELIABILITY BUILT ON EXPERIENCE GAINED IN EVERY OPERATING ENVIRONMENT An all new infra-red setting device has also been developed that Quality facilitates the rapid transfer of logged data between the actuator and Even prior to ISO 9001: 2000, Rotork was completely committed to the control or maintenance room.
The new device is suitable for use the key principles of customer focus and continual improvement.
within all of the areas where actuators are installed and will in future Recent LRQA audits of the main manufacturing site in Bath have be shipped as standard.
As such, it will eliminate the need for third yielded no formal findings and have included very positive summaries, party tools and increase the customers access to data stored within commenting on the evident commitment to improvement.
applied to the review, testing and validation of new products prior to release in the market place, has also been noted favourably.
One Bringing all of this together is a new version of our PC based Insight significant innovation was the gated Design Review process where diagnostic software which for the first time allows the actuators all new products and significant changes to established ones, are embedded software to be non-intrusively upgraded in the field.
In assessed at every critical development stage.
Prototypes are scrutinised addition to enhancing our manufacturing flexibility and allowing for potential build or field reliability problems, as well as compliance more rapid product introduction, the feature also enables post with agreed specifications.
A simple and highly effective traffic light installation upgrade, which is in keeping with our strategy of offering system is employed to note the status of each design, manufacturing through life support and maintenance.
Any red lights at a Design Review drive further consideration of the aspect in question before proceeding to the next During 2005 we have continued to develop and enhance our network gate in the project.
This has had a major, positive impact, preventing offerings including research into various technologies that could projects progressing with inherent problems, which prove intractable increase the speed and flexibility of field communications.
The most recent new product introductions are a Our proprietary Pakscan system has also been the focus of testament to these controls.
New and significantly revised products significant development work.
have been implemented with minimal initial build issues and excellent field reliability performance from day one.
Following the success of introducing our IQ technology into the Skilmatic and RFS products our UK based development engineers One very powerful tool in identifying improvement opportunities is have been working closely with those at our US subsidiary Jordan regular review of Key Performance Indicators KPI.
Studying actual Controls on a number of longer term developments focused on the against target performance in principal customer facing objectives, process control market.
highlights areas requiring particular focus.
Similarly, a comprehensive Vendor Rating VR mechanism, measuring suppliers against quality, 12 Rotork Operating and Financial Review Annual Report 2005 continued We are geared to supporting our customers worldwide.
Our aim is to provide local support from a global network.
Well equipped, Rotork trained engineers and technicians work out of 76 offices worldwide and offer both on site and factory service.
Operational data from actuators can be downloaded and analysed using IQ Insight software, and sent via email for analysis at one of our many service centres.
Our specialist teams offer predictive maintenance and retrofit valve motorisation backed by a quick, responsive service.
DEDICATED SUPPORT WHEREVER YOU ARE WHATEVER YOU NEED Operating and Financial Review Rotork 13 continued Annual Report 2005 delivery, service and cost parameters, has proved extremely effective Dividends in driving improvement in suppliers performance.
Both the KPI and The Groups strong cash generation in the year has resulted in a closing VR systems are run on the same traffic light system as Design cash balance of 27.2m.
In view of there being no immediate Reviews any red is a trigger for immediate corrective relief.
requirement for this within the Group the Board is recommending that additional dividends be paid during 2006 which will distribute 10m of Pensions this back to shareholders.
At the time that the last additional dividend It has been clear over the last couple of years that deficits in defined was paid from 2004 profits, we said that in a year where we made such benefit pension schemes have been adversely affected by a number of a distribution, we would recommend that the ongoing, or core factors.
The present assessment of life expectancy is leading to an dividends be increased by an amount lower than earnings growth.
increase in liabilities of schemes generally as these go through their actuarial valuation process.
The steady reduction in bond yields over the The Board are therefore recommending payments of the following recent past also increases scheme liabilities through less aggressive dividends in the current year: discounting of future costs as well as the projection of lower future income levels for schemes.
The effect of these issues on Rotork is felt Final proposed dividend for 2005 of 9.90p to be paid on through the main UK defined benefit scheme.
We have taken action to 26 May 2006 to shareholders on the register on 5 May 2006 mitigate costs within the scheme and have taken no new entrants into Additional interim dividend for 2006 of 5.80p to be paid on the scheme since 2002.
In addition, members have accepted increases 27 July 2006 to shareholders on the register on 16 June 2006 in their level of contributions recognising the additional costs being Regular interim dividend for 2006 to be announced with interim borne by the employer companies.
Although we have not prepared a results to be paid on 28 September 2006 to shareholders on the complete update to the actuarial valuation since the last full valuation register on 8 September 2006 in 2004, it is the opinion of the schemes actuary that there is a risk Additional interim dividend for 2006 of 5.80p to be paid on that the deficit has risen since that time and that a significant shortfall 21 December 2006 to shareholders on the register on will be seen at the next valuation in March 2007.
This would bring the 1 December 2006. actuarial deficit closer to the numbers reported in these accounts under IAS 19.
In view of this the Board has decided to make a further cash The final proposed dividend for 2005 represents a 2% increase over contribution of 10m over and above the employers regular the final for 2004.
The two dividends payable in July and December contributions to address this in some large part.
The first tranche of between them represent the distribution of 10m additional dividend this, 2m, was paid to the trustees in December 2005, and the balance for 2006. will be spread through 2006 and early 2007.
It is believed that by taking this action now the strength of the fund at the March 2007 Treasury actuarial valuation will be much sounder than would have been the The Groups treasury function in Bath manages financial risks to the case.
This will not affect the Companys results as the underlying cost to Group.
These primarily relate to foreign currency exposure as a result of the business is taken into account in the IAS 19 calculations.
the international nature of the Groups business, and managing cash.
The main currency exposure results from trading transactions Tax between our production plants, trading companies and customers Rotork is an international business with 60% of the Groups profits around the world.
Overall around 30% of our income streams are being earned outside the UK.
A number of these jurisdictions have denominated in US dollars actual or near equivalent, 20% in euros rates of corporate tax higher than that in the UK.
The effective rate of and 15% in sterling.
The rest is a mix of other convertible currencies tax on profit was 33% in the year 2004: 33%.
We anticipate the across the operating companies.
The main instrument for covering rate of tax applicable to 2006 to be broadly similar to that in 2005. this transaction exposure is the simple forward cover derivative contract, and this is used for known exposures only where we can Performance Indicators accurately predict income.
No speculative or non trading hedging The Group measures its performance internally through a range of takes place within the Group.
indicators largely income and cash focussed.
We have for some time published a number of these in graphical form, augmented more The weighted average rates for translation of our two main trading recently by information on total shareholder return.
currencies into sterling over the last few years have been: International Financial Reporting Standards US dollar Euro On June 21 2005 the Group released audited restated accounts for 2002 1.52 1.58 2004 under IFRS.
These accounts have been used as the comparative 2003 1.66 1.44 numbers in this report and as a consequence there is no reference to UK 2004 1.83 1.46 GAAP generally accepted accounting principles within the Group 2005 1.80 1.46 financial statements.
14 Rotork Operating and Financial Review Annual Report 2005 continued Overall then the movement in average rates between 2004 and 2005 Internal Audit has meant that the effect of currency on our trading profits has been The Group has an effective and well-developed internal audit function relatively small, under 500k, although there are balance sheet that has been moulded over many years.
Audit work is performed by differences due to the spot rates at the two year ends having moved, senior finance staff from a number of our business units based on a materially in the case of the dollar.
As a guide a one cent movement in common training process and audit work programme developed with the US dollar can have a 150k effect on profit if taken over a full year, assistance from our Group auditors, KPMG.
This methodology and a one cent movement in the euro an equivalent effect of 150k.
In provides feedback through regular reviews, and allows members of recent years we have developed overseas component sources and this the team to experience the control environment in different business trend continued in the year.
The production units outside the UK source areas while enabling us to develop a common message throughout primarily in their own currencies, with the exception of the main facility the Group.
The audit programme has inbuilt key performance in the US which sources mainly from the UK.
This approach to indicators which are reported on, together with summaries of work international sourcing provides a further hedge to the effect of currency performed and issues raised, to each Audit Committee meeting movements on our businesses.
Conversion of profit into cash is traditionally strong in Rotork due largely Environment to the business model, which does not require a large capital base to 2005 saw a major milestone in the development of the Environment support it.
It is believed that this model allows management of the Management System EMS at the main Bath site when it achieved divisional businesses to focus on customer facing issues and profitability independent verification of compliance with ISO 14001.
The benefits to a greater degree than on capital and production.
Receivables of the management system itself are equally remarkable.
With new collection has been good again in the year and Group debtor days over environmental legislation being introduced on a regular basis, having the last three years have seen the benefit of initiatives internally focussing proper mechanisms in place to address the new requirements has on this.
Inventory has increased over the last two years due in part to proved invaluable.
There have also been some significant cost benefits, the increasing complexity of our product range, the impact of the mainly from reducing waste to landfill by 46% during 2005.
As one of Rotork Fluid System business which has very large projects as a feature the sites most significant environmental impacts, waste stream of its business, and the high work in progress at the end of December management has proved a focal point of the EMS.
The reduction in resulting from the very strong order book at the end of the year.
waste to landfill was achieved both by minimising waste generation and by increased recycling, especially of wood and cardboard.
MAXIMISED EFFICIENCY THE BEST POSSIBLE SOLUTION Whether its electric, hydraulic or pneumatic we ensure our customers receive the most cost effective and best engineered solution possible.
Low long term cost of ownership and peak performance go hand in hand with Rotork.
Operating and Financial Review Rotork 15 continued Annual Report 2005 While exempt from the specific provisions of the WEEE and RoHS Everyone associated with Rotork is indebted to his vision, enterprise directives, Rotork is making every effort to reduce the environmental and energy in founding Rotork and setting it on its path in becoming impact of its products.
Wherever possible, new product components one of the most successful UK engineering companies.
Anyone who are marked with the appropriate standard EU recycling marks or labels.
worked with Jeremy was instantly aware of his restless search for the Information has also been included in product handbooks regarding right answer to any problem, his willingness to discard conventional the materials the units contain and any specific advice re disposal.
wisdom and ability to think from first principles.
Rotork remains committed to meeting the requirements for inclusion in When I joined Rotork from a large industrial group over 30 years ago the FTSE4Good index and to the 10 principles of the Global Compact.
I was immediately attracted to the culture of the Company which Rotork is very conscious of the need for improved awareness of reflected Jeremys unique contribution to the world of business, environmental issues and the need to minimise the Groups engineering and, in our case, valve actuators.
Although Rotork has seen environmental impact.
During 2005 a project was launched to improve many changes since his retirement in 1984 I believe that many of his the Groups reporting of environmental performance data.
This project principles still form the Companys core values.
The most important of is now well advanced and the number of subsidiaries reporting their these were his innovative approach to product design, his international environmental data has increased significantly from 7 to 30.
Over the outlook to business and markets, his encouragement of young talent next two years, this project will further extend reporting on Rotorks and his keen interest in the welfare of everyone working for the global operational impacts and, where possible, take action to reduce Company.
There is a tribute to Jeremy on pages 16 and 17 of this Report.
Details of Rotorks global environmental performance are published in the Rotork Environmental Report on the Rotork website at Employees www.
com I would again like to thank all of our employees for the dedication and enthusiasm which they display in furthering Rotorks business.
It is Jeremy Fry particularly encouraging when their commitment to serving our customers It was with great sadness that we learnt of the death of our founder, is rewarded by the level of financial success experienced in 2005.
Jeremy founded Rotork Engineering Company in 1957 and began operations with about a dozen employees from his home in Bath, Widcombe Manor.
Jeremy recognised the potential of developing a valve actuator in an era when almost all valves were manually operated.
Bill Whiteley Chief Executive 27 February 2006 At South Ferriby we have recently completed a comprehensive modernisation project for the UK Environment Agency to improve operation and safety at a Victorian tidal gateway on the Humber Estuary in Lincolnshire.
The Rotork actuators ensure that the lock keeper can accurately control the positions of the gateway and the levels in the locks.
The gateway and locks allow for the passage of boats whilst maintaining the overall water level.
Today, although the majority of traffic is for pleasure, the river is still a significant environmental asset and plays a vital role in land drainage.
