Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements present the financial record for the years ended 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2004.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings in the group operate in the local currency of the country in which they are based.
From an operational perspective, the group regards these operations as being US dollar-based as the transactions of these entities are, insofar as is possible, evaluated in US dollars.
In management accounting terms all companies report in US dollars.
The directors of the company regard the US dollar as the functional currency of the group, being the most representative currency of its operations.
Therefore the consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars.
The exchange rates of rand to US dollar used in preparing the consolidated financial statements were as follows: Weighted Closing average rate rate Year ended 31 March 2004 7.06 6.39 Year ended 31 March 2005 6.22 6.26 The weighted average exchange rates have been calculated based on an average of the exchange rates during the relevant year and weighted according to the turnover of the groups businesses.
Accounting policies Accounting convention The consolidated and company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and with accounting standards applicable in the United Kingdom.
A summary of the more important group accounting policies is set out below.
Segmental analyses Segmental analyses are in accordance with the basis on which the businesses are managed.
Future UK accounting developments The full implementation of FRS 17 Retirement Benets has been delayed.
The disclosures as required by FRS 17 in the current year, which give an indication of the possible impact on the financial statements when fully implemented, are set out in note 34.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial information of the subsidiary and associated undertakings of the relevant businesses owned by SABMiller plc.
The results of subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired are included in the consolidated profit and loss account up to, or from, the date control passed or in the case of associated undertakings, the date significant inuence ceased or commenced.
Details of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are given on pages 117 to 120.
Where the groups interest in subsidiary undertakings is less than 100%, the share attributable to outside shareholders is reected in minority interests.
Some of the SABMiller businesses have a local statutory accounting reference date of 31 December, but since 31 March 1999 these have been consolidated in the financial statements on a basis coterminous with the groups accounting reference date.
In addition, the associated undertaking, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory accounting reference date of 30 June.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2005, this company has been included based on financial statements drawn up to 31 December 2004, but taking into account any changes in the subsequent period from 1 January 2005 to 31 March 2005 that would materially affect the results.
Acquisitions and disposals On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identiable separable assets and liabilities acquired.
Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined by reference to market values, where available, or by reference to the current price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar obligations entered into, or by discounting expected future cash ows to present value, using either market rates or the risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash ows.
Where the fair value of the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the identiable separable assets and liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Where the fair value of the separable net assets acquired exceeds the fair value of the consideration given, the difference is treated as negative goodwill.
Both purchased and negative goodwill are accounted for as indicated below.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired business, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging or crediting the gross amount of any related goodwill to the extent that it has not previously been taken to the consolidated profit and loss account.
Accounting policies continued Associated undertakings An associated undertaking is an entity, other than a subsidiary undertaking, in which the group has a long-term interest and in respect of which the group exercises a significant inuence over the operational and financial policies.
The results of associated undertakings have been accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associated undertaking is accounted for as indicated below.
Goodwill The consolidated financial statements adopt the provisions of FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets which was effective for financial accounting periods ending on or after 23 December 1998.
Prior to 31 March 1998, purchased and negative goodwill was set off directly against shareholders funds in the acquisition period.
This adjustment will be charged or credited in the profit and loss account on subsequent disposal of the businesses to which it relates.
In respect of years subsequent to 31 March 1998, the purchased goodwill that arose has been capitalised.
The Companies Act, 1985, requires that capitalised goodwill be subject, normally, to systematic amortisation.
In the case of goodwill which is regarded as having a limited useful economic life, the groups accounting policy is to amortise the goodwill through the consolidated profit and loss account over the directors estimate of the useful life, being 20 years for the goodwill that has arisen to date.
The directors assessment of the useful life of this goodwill is based on the nature of the business acquired, the durability of the products to which the goodwill attaches and the expected future impact of competition on the business.
Where goodwill is regarded as having an indefinite useful life, it is not amortised.
The useful economic life is regarded as indefinite where goodwill is capable of continued measurement and the durability of the acquired business can be demonstrated.
Where goodwill is not amortised the directors perform an annual impairment review and any impairment would be charged to the profit and loss account.
As described in note 12 the directors consider the purchased goodwill in ABI to have an indefinite life.
In this regard, in order to give a true and fair view, the financial statements depart from the requirement to amortise goodwill over a nite period, as required by the Companies Act.
Instead annual impairment reviews are undertaken and any impairment that is identied would be charged to the profit and loss account.
It is not possible to quantify the impact of this departure from the Companies Act, because no nite life for goodwill can be identied.
Goodwill previously written off against shareholders funds is not subjected to an annual impairment review and any impairment arising would therefore only be recognised upon disposal of the undertaking which originally gave rise to such goodwill.
Trademarks The fair value of businesses acquired includes trademarks which are recognised in the balance sheet where the trademark has a value which is long term.
Acquired trademarks are only recognised where title is clear, the trademark could be sold separately from the rest of the business and the earnings attributable to it are separately identiable.
Where the acquired trademark is seen as having a nite useful economic life, it is subject to amortisation, which in respect of trademarks currently held is 10 years, being the period for which the group has exclusive rights to those trademarks.
Turnover Turnover represents the net invoice value of goods and services provided to third parties.
It includes excise duties and taxes levied on casino winnings but excludes value added tax.
Turnover is stated net of price discounts, promotional discounts and similar items.
Turnover is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred to the customer.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, as follows: Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
Finished goods and work in progress: Raw materials cost plus direct costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Research and development Research and development expenditure is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
SABMiller plc 69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Tangible xed assets and depreciation Land and buildings, which have been adapted to specialised functions, are recorded at historical cost.
All other land and buildings, which are used for general purposes, were previously revalued every three years on the basis of open market value for existing use by recognised professional valuers.
On adoption of FRS 15 Tangible xed assets in a prior year, the group resolved to retain the book value of land and buildings which were revalued at 1 April 1998, but not to adopt a policy of revaluation in the future.
These values are retained subject to the requirement to test assets for impairment in accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of xed assets and goodwill.
All buildings are depreciated as indicated below.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
In respect of all other tangible xed assets, depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less the estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 20 50 years Leasehold land and buildings Shorter of the lease term or 50 years Plant, vehicles and systems 2 30 years Containers, including returnable bottles 1 10 years The group regularly reviews its depreciation rates to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
profit or loss on the sale of an asset is the difference between the disposal proceeds and the net book value, including any revaluation, of the asset.
Any amount in the revaluation reserve relating to such an asset is transferred directly to shareholders funds and is not included in the profit for the financial year.
Impairment In accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of xed assets and goodwill xed assets are subject to an impairment review if circumstances or events change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
The review is performed by comparing the carrying value of the xed asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the net realisable value and value in use.
The net realisable value is considered to be the amount that could be obtained on disposal of the asset.
The value in use of the asset is determined by discounting, at a market-based pre-tax discount rate, the expected future cash ows resulting from its continued use, including those arising from its final disposal.
When the carrying values of xed assets are written down by any impairment amount, the loss is recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which it incurred.
Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal of a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset will only be up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, income producing units are considered to be groups of assets and liabilities that generate income, and are largely independent of other income streams.
They also include those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more than one income stream.
Investments Fixed asset investments, other than subsidiary and associated undertakings, are stated individually at the lower of cost and their recoverable amount which is determined as the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Current asset investments are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In determining net realisable values, market values are used in the case of listed investments and directors estimates used in the case of unlisted investments.
Capitalisation of interest and other costs Financing costs and certain direct costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during the period of development or construction are capitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
Deposits by customers Bottles and containers in circulation are recorded within xed assets and a corresponding liability is recorded in respect of the obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Deposits paid by customers for branded returnable bottles and containers are reected in the balance sheet under creditors due within one year.
Any estimated liability that is anticipated may arise in respect of deposits for unbranded containers and bottles is shown in provisions for liabilities and charges.
Accounting policies continued Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future periods has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Foreign currencies The financial statements denominated in US dollars have been prepared on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in US dollars at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate where the transaction is covered by a forward foreign exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
All differences are taken to the consolidated profit and loss account with the exception of differences on long-term foreign currency instruments, to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign equity investments, in which case they are taken directly to shareholders funds together with any exchange difference on the carrying amount of the related asset.
The profit and loss accounts and cash ow statements of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant reporting period, other than material exceptional items which are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction and assets including goodwill and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the relevant balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between profit and loss accounts translated at average and closing rates, are shown as a movement in shareholders funds and in the consolidated statements of total recognised gains and losses.
Leasing commitments Assets held under finance leases which result in group companies receiving substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are capitalised as tangible xed assets and depreciated over their useful lives.
The capital element of future obligations under the leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet classied, as appropriate, as a creditor due within or after one year.
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account over the period of the lease term to reect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each financial year.
Rentals paid on operating leases are charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Pensions A number of dened contribution and dened benefit pension schemes are operated by the group in accordance with local regulations.
The assets of each scheme are held separately from those of the group and are administered by trustees.
Contributions to the dened benefit schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the employees working lives.
The regular cost is attributed to individual years using the projected unit credit method.
Variations in pension cost, which are identied as a result of actuarial valuations, are amortised over the average expected remaining working lives of employees in proportion to their expected payroll costs.
Differences between the amounts funded and the amounts charged to the consolidated profit and loss account are treated as either provisions or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Contributions to dened contribution schemes are expensed as incurred.
Share options and share trusts The intrinsic value of options granted, being the difference between the market value of the shares on the date of grant and the exercise price of the option, is charged to the profit and loss account over the period to which the performance criteria relate.
Shares held by ESOP trusts and other similar vehicles are deducted from equity in arriving at shareholders funds, and are excluded from the weighted average number of shares in issue used in the calculation of earnings per share.
SABMiller plc 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Post-retirement medical benets Certain group companies provide post-retirement medical benets to qualifying employees.
The expected costs of these benets are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualied actuaries and contributions are made to the relevant funds over the expected service lives of the employees entitled to those funds.
The estimated cost of providing such benets is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the employees working lives within the group.
Capital instruments Capital instruments, other than equity shares, are classied as liabilities if they contain an obligation to transfer economic benets and otherwise are included in shareholders funds.
The finance costs recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares are allocated to periods over the term of the instrument at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Financial instruments excluding derivative financial instruments Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other access to economic benets.
Such assets consist of cash, equity instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to transfer benets and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
When these criteria no longer apply, a financial asset or liability is no longer recognised.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary amounts, the relevant financial assets and liabilities are offset.
Interest costs are charged against income in the year in which they are incurred.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are taken to net interest payable over the life of the instrument.
Where the fair value of an asset falls below its carrying value, any difference is, in the case of xed assets, provided for if it is regarded that impairment exists.
In the case of current assets, provision is only made to the extent that it is considered as resulting in a lower net realisable value.
Derivative financial instruments The derivative instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange and interest rate risks, comprise interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Such derivative instruments are used to alter the risk prole of an existing underlying exposure of the group in line with the groups risk management policies.
Interest rate differentials under swap arrangements and forward rate agreements used to manage interest rate exposures are recognised by adjustment to net interest payable.
Premiums or discounts arising on the purchase of derivative instruments are amortised over the shorter of the life of the instrument and the underlying exposure.
Currency swap agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts are valued at closing rates of exchange.
Resulting gains and losses are offset against foreign exchange gains or losses on the related borrowings or, where the instrument is used to hedge a committed future transaction, are deferred until the transaction occurs and shown within debtors or creditors as appropriate.
Where the instrument ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedge transaction or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, matures or is extinguished, then the instrument is valued at the appropriate market rate, after having taken account of selling costs.
Any resultant gains and losses are reected in operating income in the consolidated profit and loss account.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
