Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements present the financial record for the years ended 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2004.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings in the group operate in the local currency of the country in which they are based.
From an operational perspective, the group regards these operations as being US dollar-based as the transactions of these entities are, insofar as is possible, evaluated in US dollars.
In management accounting terms all companies report in US dollars.
The directors of the company regard the US dollar as the functional currency of the group, being the most representative currency of its operations.
Therefore the consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars.
The exchange rates of rand to US dollar used in preparing the consolidated financial statements were as follows: Weighted Closing average rate rate Year ended 31 March 2004 7.06 6.39 Year ended 31 March 2005 6.22 6.26 The weighted average exchange rates have been calculated based on an average of the exchange rates during the relevant year and weighted according to the turnover of the groups businesses.
Accounting policies Accounting convention The consolidated and company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and with accounting standards applicable in the United Kingdom.
A summary of the more important group accounting policies is set out below.
Segmental analyses Segmental analyses are in accordance with the basis on which the businesses are managed.
Future UK accounting developments The full implementation of FRS 17 Retirement Benets has been delayed.
The disclosures as required by FRS 17 in the current year, which give an indication of the possible impact on the financial statements when fully implemented, are set out in note 34.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial information of the subsidiary and associated undertakings of the relevant businesses owned by SABMiller plc.
The results of subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired are included in the consolidated profit and loss account up to, or from, the date control passed or in the case of associated undertakings, the date significant inuence ceased or commenced.
Details of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are given on pages 117 to 120.
Where the groups interest in subsidiary undertakings is less than 100%, the share attributable to outside shareholders is reected in minority interests.
Some of the SABMiller businesses have a local statutory accounting reference date of 31 December, but since 31 March 1999 these have been consolidated in the financial statements on a basis coterminous with the groups accounting reference date.
In addition, the associated undertaking, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory accounting reference date of 30 June.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2005, this company has been included based on financial statements drawn up to 31 December 2004, but taking into account any changes in the subsequent period from 1 January 2005 to 31 March 2005 that would materially affect the results.
Acquisitions and disposals On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identiable separable assets and liabilities acquired.
Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined by reference to market values, where available, or by reference to the current price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar obligations entered into, or by discounting expected future cash ows to present value, using either market rates or the risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash ows.
Where the fair value of the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the identiable separable assets and liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Where the fair value of the separable net assets acquired exceeds the fair value of the consideration given, the difference is treated as negative goodwill.
Both purchased and negative goodwill are accounted for as indicated below.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired business, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging or crediting the gross amount of any related goodwill to the extent that it has not previously been taken to the consolidated profit and loss account.
