Annual financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 Index 62 Statement of directors responsibilities 63 Independent auditors report 64 Consolidated profit and loss accounts 65 Consolidated balance sheets 66 Consolidated cash ow statements 67 Consolidated statements of total recognised gains and losses 67 Consolidated reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 115 Balance sheets of SABMiller plc 116 Notes to the balance sheets of SABMiller plc 117 Principal subsidiary undertakings 119 Principal associated undertakings Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to financial position of the company and the The groups external auditors, prepare financial statements for each financial group, and to enable them to ensure that  LLP, have audited year that give a true and fair view of the state the financial statements comply with the the financial statements and their unqualied of affairs of the company and the group and Companies Act, 1985.
They are also report appears on page 63. of the profit or loss of the group for that responsible for safeguarding the assets of the The directors approval of the financial period.
In preparing those financial company and the group and hence for taking statements appears on page 65. statements, the directors are required to: reasonable steps for the prevention and A copy of the financial statements of the Select suitable accounting policies and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
group is placed on the companys website.
then apply them consistently: In preparing the accompanying financial The directors are responsible for the Make judgements and estimates that are statements, UK generally accepted maintenance and integrity of statutory and reasonable and prudent: accounting principles and Financial Services audited information on the companys State whether applicable accounting Authority regulations have been followed, website.
Information published on the internet standards have been followed, subject suitable accounting policies have been used, is accessible in many countries with different to any material departures disclosed and and reasonable and prudent judgements and legal requirements.
Legislation in the United explained in the financial statements: and estimates have been made.
Any changes to Kingdom governing the preparation and Prepare the financial statements on the accounting policies are approved by the dissemination of the financial statements may going concern basis unless it is board and the effects thereof are fully differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
inappropriate to presume that the group explained in the financial statements.
The directors have reviewed the groups budget and cash ow forecasts.
On the basis The directors confirm that they have of this review, and in the light of the current complied with the above requirements in financial position and existing borrowing preparing the financial statements.
facilities, the directors are satisfied that The directors are responsible for keeping SABMiller plc is a going concern and have proper accounting records which disclose continued to adopt the going concern with reasonable accuracy at any time the basis in preparing the financial statements.
