Denitions An explanation of some of the terms and abbreviations used in this Net interest cover EBIT annual report.
This is the ratio of profit before interest, taxation and exceptional items to net nancing costs before exceptional items.
Net operating assets Financial denitions This is the sum of xed assets, stocks and debtors less interest free Adjusted earnings liabilities.
A reconciliation of this number is provided in note 3.
This comprises the profit for the financial year after adjusting for Operating margin % profits and losses on items of a capital nature, as well as the impact This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing of exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
profit before interest and taxation as a percentage of turnover, Adjusted profit before tax including associates.
This is dened as profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and Operating return % exceptional items.
This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing profit Cash operating margin % before interest and taxation, including associates, as a percentage This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing EBITDA of net operating assets, excluding goodwill.
as a percentage of turnover, excluding associates.
Return on equity % Cash operating return % This is calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by shareholders funds.
This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing the sum Total borrowings of EBITDA and cash dividends received from associates and other This comprises the sum of the interest bearing liabilities included investments, as a percentage of net operating assets, adjusted for in creditors due within and after one year.
cumulative goodwill eliminated against shareholders funds and accumulated depreciation and amortisation.
UK GAAP Stands for Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the UK and EBITA is the overall body of regulation establishing how company accounts This is calculated by expressing earnings before interest, taxation and must be prepared in the United Kingdom.
This includes not only goodwill amortisation.
accounting standards but also UK company law.
EBITA margin % This is calculated by expressing earnings before interest, taxation and goodwill amortisation as a percentage of turnover Non-financial denitions including associates.
ACNielsen EBITDA ACNielsen is a leading global provider of marketing research This comprises net cash inow from operating activities, before information.
Its principal clients are retailers and manufacturers of working capital movements.
fast moving consumer goods FMCGs.
Effective tax rate % BEE This is calculated by dividing the tax charge for the year by Black Economic Empowerment has been created by the government the profit before taxation excluding exceptional items and in South Africa to help redress the imbalances in South African goodwill amortisation.
The empowerment process has been identied as being crucial to the future viability of the countrys Free cash ow economy.
This comprises net cash inow from operations plus dividends received from associates and other investments, and cash from CSD the sales of tangible xed assets and investments less net interest Carbonated soft drinks such as Coca-Cola, Fanta, etc.
paid, taxation paid and cash paid for capital expenditure on Channel marketing tangible xed assets.
Channel marketing is a term used to describe the focus of sales and Net asset value per share marketing effort of a brand on a particular style outlet and towards a This is calculated by dividing shareholders funds by the closing specically identied type of customer.
number of shares in issue.
