Administration SABMiller plc Investor relations Registrar South Africa Registration No.
com Computershare Investor Services 2004 Pty Ltd, Telephone 44 20 7659 0100 70 Marshall Street, Company secretary Johannesburg, AOC Tonkinson Corporate accountability PO Box 61051, corporate.
com Marshalltown 2107, Registered ofce South Africa Dukes Court, Duke Street, Independent auditors Telefax 27 11 370 5487 Woking, Surrey, England  LLP, Telephone 27 11 370 5000 GU21 5BH 1 Embankment Place, Telefax 44 1483 264103 London, England United States ADR depositary Telephone 44 1483 264000 WC2N 6RH The Bank of New York, Telefax 44 20 7822 4652 ADR Department, Head ofce Telephone 44 20 7583 5000 101 Barclay Street, One Stanhope Gate, New York, NY 10286, London, England Registrar United Kingdom United States of America W1K 1AF Capita Registrars, Telefax 1 212 815 3050 Telefax 44 20 7659 0111 The Registry, Telephone 1 212 815 2051 Telephone 44 20 7659 0100 34 Beckenham Road, Internet http: www.
com Beckenham, Kent, England Toll free 1 888 269 2377 Internet address BR3 4TU USA & Canada only http: www.
com Telefax 44 20 8658 3430 Telephone 44 20 8639 2157 outside UK Telephone 0870 162 3100 from UK The paper used in this report is produced using elemental chlorine-free EFC pulps.
The manufacturing mill is certied to ISO 9002 Quality Assurance standard, the ISO 14001 Environmental standard and registered with For more information EMAS the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme.
please visit our website at www.
com or see this years Corporate Accountability Report 2005.
Enhancing the health and well-being of our staff page 13 Encouraging responsibility page 16 Bringing CSR to life: Botswana page 22 responsibility pays As one of the worlds largest brewers, SABMiller recognises that operating in a socially and environmentally responsible manner is more than just an ethical duty.
In our view, it is key to sustained growth and superior shareholder returns.
This corporate accountability report, our eighth in as many years, explains why and highlights some of the steps we took in the last year to make a more positive social and environmental contribution for the good of our business, our shareholders and the communities in which we operate.
Further information can be found at www.
Contents 2 Who we are, why we care 16 Encouraging responsibility 4 Our year reviewed 18 Investing in communities 6 The key trends 20 Engaging with stakeholders 8 Supporting local suppliers 22 Bringing CSR to life: Botswana 10 Reducing our environmental footprint 24 Assurance statement 13 Enhancing the health and well-being of our staff IBC Contacts Key progress during the year ended 31 March 2005 Injected over US$4,378 million into local economies around the globe by paying taxes and salaries.
Over US$6,187 million was spent with our suppliers.
Surveyed the environmental and social standards of our top 100 suppliers.
Reduced our average water consumption by 1%, lowering our cost base.
Developed a new environmental strategy, which will increase focus on further reducing water, energy, waste and packaging use.
Intensied our efforts to limit the impact of HIV Aids among our staff and their dependants.
Shared our learning on tackling HIV Aids with key stakeholders.
Implemented initiatives to encourage responsibility, including the roll-out of our alcohol manifesto and code of commercial communication.
Strengthened our corporate social responsibility CSR team, to respond more effectively to the key social and environmental trends which affect our business.
In South Africa 20% less glass is used in Carling Black Label bottles than in 1986.
SABMiller is one of the worlds largest brewers, with a turnover of US$14,543 million and operations in more than 40 countries.
Supported by over 40,000 staff, we produce and market over 150 brands of beer, including Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Carling Black Label, Miller Lite, Miller Genuine Draft, Castle Lager and Pilsner Urquell.
SABMiller also owns Appletiser and is one of the worlds largest bottlers of Coca-Cola products.
who we are, Europe Number of breweries: 18 Number of employees: 11,424 North America Brands include: Pilsner Number of breweries: 8 Urquell, Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Number of employees: 5,760 Lech, Dreher, Gambrinus Brands include: Miller Light, Miller Genuine Draft, Miller High Life, Milwaukees Best Africa and Asia Number of lager breweries: 61 Number of Sorghum breweries: 29 Number of bottling plants: 11 Central America Number of employees: 6,995 Number of breweries: 2 Brands include: Kilimanjaro, Number of bottling plants: 6 Haywards, St Louis, Castle Number of employees: 6,873 Milk Stout, Coca-Cola, Fanta Brands include: Pilsener, Bahia, Suprema, Regia Extra, Coca-Cola, Fanta South Africa including Beer South Africa and Other Beverage Interests Number of breweries: 7 Number of bottling plants: 10 Number of employees: 9,616 Brands include: Castle Lager, Countries where SABMiller Carling Black Label, Sterling has production facilities Light, Coca-Cola, Appletiser Figures current at 6 June 2005 for operations.
Employees are for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Key statistics by geography EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation contribution % Employees % North America 20% Beer South Africa 29% North America 14% Beer South Africa 14% Central America 4% Other Beverage Interests 10% Central America 17% Other Beverage Interests 9% Europe 19% Hotels and gaming 3% Europe 28% Central Administration 1% Africa & Asia 15% Africa & Asia 17% Before central administration costs.
Not included in the scope of this report.
2 SABMiller plc why we care Our ability to grow profitably is intimately connected with the quality of the natural environment and the health and prosperity of the societies in which we operate.
Thats why we run an extensive corporate social responsibility CSR programme which we believe responds to these key trends: Supporting local farmers and other suppliers Reducing our environmental footprint by: brewing more beer but using less water reducing our carbon emissions working towards a low waste brewery reducing packaging use while encouraging more recycling or reuse Enhancing the health and well-being of our staff Investing in the communities in which we operate Encouraging responsibility in relation to our products Engaging with our stakeholders and having a robust and transparent CSR governance process in place.
SABMiller plc 3 our year Foreword by the chairman of the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC The most effective and responsible way for any business to contribute to society is to grow profitably.
This creates employment, generates tax revenues for public services and satisfies consumers demands for the companys products and services.
In terms of profitable growth, SABMiller undoubtedly makes a significant contribution.
In tax and excise duties alone, it injects over US$2,916 million a year into the economies of the 40 countries in which it operates.
It also employs over 40,000 people, paying them US$1,462 million, and has created tens of thousands of additional jobs by supporting local suppliers and other business partners.
However, to continue to benefit society as a whole, as well as its shareholders, the company has to work with stakeholders to address a number of pressing social and environmental issues that stand in the way of its ability to sustain its growth and profitability.
Some of these issues, such as the mounting pressures on our natural resources, are common to all businesses.
Others are particular to the locations where SABMiller operates: HIV Aids in Africa is a case in point.
And some relate very specically to the brewing industry, notably the question of how to encourage responsibility in relation to our products.
As the chairman of the CARAC, a board committee of the company, Ive been encouraged by SABMillers progress in tackling these challenges.
The group has stepped up its drive to encourage Ive been encouraged by product responsibility through campaigns to discourage irresponsible drinking, reduced average water consumption and continued to SABMillers progress in make impressive strides in tackling HIV Aids, as well as improved performance against key indicators.
Its willingness to engage with tackling the challenges.
stakeholders, for example via its involvement with the Commission for Africa and the World Economic Forum, is equally welcome.
However, there is still room for improvement, for example in reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
A new CSR strategy, due to be implemented this year, will help to communicate and further embed CSR into our business and, most importantly of all, will help the company to improve yet further its already proud record of long-term profitable growth.
Robert Fellowes Senior non-executive director, SABMiller plc and CARAC chairman 4 SABMiller plc reviewed Chief executives statement There are two ways to assess our progress in addressing our main social and environmental objectives.
The first is to analyse our key performance indicators, reported in detail on our website see www.
In many cases, these demonstrate admirable advances.
Our water consumption, for example, has continued to decline, with further improvements expected, and our corporate social investment has grown.
However, although these indicators provide useful snapshots of measurable progress, they conceal a second achievement that is harder to measure yet critical to our success the growing integration of CSR into how we operate.
The importance of this is illustrated by our approach to HIV Aids, which in many of our businesses in Africa is now treated like any other business issue: clear targets are set and it is discussed at management meetings.
Directors are also actively involved in the HIV Aids education programme, acting as peer educators.
As a result, staff awareness and understanding of HIV Aids has improved signicantly.
The proportion of staff agreeing to voluntary counselling and testing has also exceeded our targets in many countries.
A similar strategy has been applied to the issue of responsible drinking by embedding the principles behind our alcohol manifesto and code of commercial communication for alcohol beverages into how our businesses operate.
All our operating units now follow the criteria laid down in the manifesto and code, which includes strict directives on how to responsibly market our brands.
Ultimately, its about leading by example and reecting the behaviours in our own organisation that we require others to adopt, including our suppliers.
As the following pages describe, we have some outstanding examples of CSR leadership and many of these are producing impressive, tangible results.
As CSR becomes more fully integrated in our business, I am sure we will have even more progress to report in the coming years.
We have some outstanding examples Graham Mackay of CSR leadership and Chief executive, SABMiller plc many of these are producing impressive, tangible results.
SABMiller plc 5 page 8 The need to support local suppliers We work with local farmers in various countries to help them produce economically sustainable ingredients for our products.
We also provide commercial assistance to local packaging companies and other suppliers.
Initiatives like these not only reduce our costs, they inject greater vitality into local economies and all the multiplier effects this entails, including the creation of additional employment.
the key trends We approach CSR holistically, from the start of the supply chain to the end, from the production of the raw materials required for our award-winning beers, to reporting our progress on the key trends to our stakeholders.
page 10 The need to reduce our environmental footprint significant financial and environmental savings have been made through a broad spectrum of measures, from fuel-switching initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to recycling water and reducing waste.
Reusable and recyclable packaging has also been developed.
6 SABMiller plc page 13 page 16 The need to encourage responsibility SABMiller recognises that discouraging irresponsible drinking benets us all.
During the year we rolled out our alcohol manifesto, which commits all our companies to specic principles, and started to implement our code of commercial communication which in practice provides The need to strict guidelines for marketing alcoholic beverages.
We also support numerous enhance the alcohol-awareness campaigns.
health and well-being of our staff Employee well-being, development and training are encouraged across the group.
In Africa SABMiller runs a comprehensive and highly successful HIV Aids programme for its staff and their dependants.
This includes voluntary counselling and testing, as well as fully funded anti-retroviral treatment for those who test HIV positive.
page 18 The need to invest in communities Our investments in local health programmes, training schemes for young entrepreneurs and other projects help local communities thrive, socially and economically.
This is in our interest as well as theirs.
During the year our corporate social investment contribution increased by over 30% to US$16.9 million.
page 20 The need to engage with stakeholders To ensure our business is in tune with stakeholders issues and able to respond positively, we proactively engage in a wide range of discussions with stakeholders at a global and local level.
This is underpinned by ever improving governance and management processes, as well as a strong commitment to hold ourselves accountable to our stakeholders.
This report is just one example of this commitment.
SABMiller plc 7 supporting lo c high standard, using a range of incentives, Using local suppliers enables us to reduce our costs from payment guarantees to training.
and respond quickly to market opportunities.
To help Today, nearly 3,500 farmers in 20 districts are producing over 1,000 tonnes of sorghum them thrive and grow with us, we provide technical annually, injecting US$1.3 million into local assistance and other types of support, including economies and enabling many of the farmers to employ more business advice.
staff and expand their small holdings.
Government excise Creating new markets for African farmers was simply too high for the average duty revenues have also risen.
By using a locally-produced grain in Uganda, Ugandan, largely due to the high cost of Equally dramatically, Eagle weve not only managed to create a topimporting the barley and other ingredients Lager has become our selling beer but also helped the government not readily available in the country.
top-selling brand in Uganda, crack a major problem.
To overcome this issue, Nile Breweries, with 20% of the market.
Until we launched the new beer, Eagle our Ugandan subsidiary, teamed up with the A similar scheme is under Lager, over 60% of Ugandas alcohol was government to develop a more affordable development in Zambia.
produced by unlicensed private breweries, beer made from sorghum, an inexpensive, depriving the government of excise duty local grain.
This involved two key challenges.
and exposing consumers to all the risks First, we had to develop a variety of sorghum Eagle lager has of unregulated beer production.
that could be used for brewing.
Second, we become our top-selling The root of the problem was easy to had to encourage local subsistence farmers brand in Uganda, with identify.
The price of ofcially regulated beer to grow the new variety and to a sufciently 20% of the market.
8 SABMiller plc Farmers in the Taung region of South Africa we are helping the farmers to grow maize, enabling them to sustain their incomes beyond the barley season.
Diversifying the supply base Success depends on a broad spectrum of skills from all sections of the population, including minority groups.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, Miller underlined their commitment to harnessing the expertise of minority groups by increasing the amount they spent with minority-owned businesses in the US by over 20%.
Their Trenton brewery in Ohio increased its spend with such suppliers by 66%.
SAB Ltd has been equally active in supporting previously disadvantaged groups in South Africa: business owned by these groups now accounts for 17.3% of total local purchases in South Africa, compared to 11.7% a year ago.
ocal suppliers In South Africa, weve also provided over labour.
However, we also recognised that a generally encouraging.
For example, 85% 200 farmers in the countrys North West more constructive, long-term solution was of suppliers surveyed had a minimum Province with the training, technical required.
In particular, we needed to help employment age of 18, while the rest assistance and other support needed to the families be less dependent on the sugar operated within national legal limits: 90% grow barley, a crop not normally produced harvest as their primary source of income.
recognise the right to organise: 96% had in this part of the country.
This has given Our solution is to establish an agricultural health and safety policies: and 68% had us an alternative, local source of barley, training programme for children to show them an environmental policy.
reducing our business risks, and has how to grow alternative crops when they are generated around US$3.7 million of extra adults.
The scheme, which will be run by a revenue for local suppliers.
Now were full-time manager, is currently being developed training the farmers to grow maize, enabling in conjunction with government and local Future commitments them to sustain their incomes beyond the non-governmental organisations NGOs.
Develop and agree a group-wide code barley season.
of conduct for environmental and social Monitoring all our suppliers issues for all our suppliers and develop Training tomorrows farmers ethical standards ways of implementing the code and Central America We expect our suppliers to aspire to the ensuring compliance with it.
When we discovered that parents at one of same high social and environmental Build on the findings of our ethical our Honduran sugar suppliers were bringing standards as us.
To identify areas where procurement survey to assess high risk in their children to help them harvest the they could improve their standards, the group suppliers in greater detail and work with sugar, our first reaction was to put an corporate accountability team conducted them to overcome any difficulties.
immediate stop to this practice.
SABMiller an ethical procurement survey of our 100 has a clear and strictly applied policy on child largest suppliers in 2004.
The results were SABMiller plc 9 reducing o u environm e Operating in an environmentally responsible manner doesnt just reduce our production costs, it is a prerequisite for long-term growth: all our products depend on sustainable supplies of natural resources, notably water.
To safeguard these assets, we are improving our extensive environmental programme.
Brewing more beer, but using less water According to estimates from the United Nations Environment Programme, two-thirds of the worlds population will be living in water-stressed countries within the next 25 years.
Given that 95% of an average In 2004, Dreher, our bottle of beer is water, we have to be mindful Hungarian business, won of the water we use.
the Green Frog award for Over the last 25 years, the SABMiller group best Central European and the brewing industry as a whole have environmental report.
reduced their water consumption by nearly 75%, on average, and were committed to making even greater advances, reected in the progress made during the year ended 31 March 2005.
Over this period, SABMillers weighted group average water consumption declined from 4.79 hectolitres of water per hectolitre of beer to 4.75, against an industry average of 5.
Although this drop appears relatively small, it conceals substantial improvements in various markets, notably Africa, where our operating units reduced their water consumption by 10% on average.
This was achieved through a variety of measures.
In South Africa, many of our breweries recycle water by cascading it into different parts of the production process.
For example, water used to rinse bottles and cans is also used for the pasteurisation process, saving 5.5 kilolitres per hour, while cooling and brewery rinse water is redeployed to wash oors and crates.
Our soft drinks businesses have also made savings, cutting water consumption by around 3%.
10 SABMiller plc our mental footprint To ensure all operations optimise Reducing our carbon footprint A fuel-switching scheme could reduce opportunities to recycle water in line with There is now widespread agreement among the amount of CO produced by our 2 internationally recognised standards of good leading scientists that global warming is a Rosslyn brewery in South Africa by nearly practice, we have produced a detailed policy reality, fuelled by worldwide production of 800,000 tonnes over a 21 year-period.
that provides clearly dened standards carbon dioxide CO, the main greenhouse The scheme, which is currently being 2 and guidelines for reclaiming and recycling gas.
Although the effects of climatic change evaluated, involves switching the primary water which is being implemented around on our business are difficult to predict, fuel source for the brewery from coal to the business.
anecdotal evidence indicates that it is already natural gas and using biogas recovered having an impact.
In South Africa, for example, from the efuent treatment process as the our business can no longer depend on the secondary fuel.
Funding for the project is Western Cape Province as the sole source being sought under the Kyoto Protocols of barley due to the recent unreliability of Clean Development Mechanism.
its crops, forcing alternative sources to As part of its goal to reduce greenhouse be investigated.
gases by 18% per barrel of beer, Miller Like all industries, the brewing industry has developed a Greenhouse Gas is part of the problem and the solution.
Their Milwaukee produce CO in direct ways: by the energy brewery, meanwhile, has agreed to buy 2 we use to brew our beers and as a direct 50,000 kilowatt hours of clean, non-fossiloutput of the fermentation process.
Currently, fuel electricity every month, under the SABMillers CO emissions 15.23 kg voluntary Energy For Tomorrow 2 CO hectolitre of beer are comparable to the programme.
2 brewing industrys average and have declined Some breweries in Poland, the Czech from our 2003 gure of 15.51 kg CO hl.
Republic and Honduras as well as in the Rain garden soaks 2 However, we are committed to achieving USA use biogas from efuent treatment up pollutants lower levels, reected in various initiatives as a fuel for the boilers.
A pallet storage area at one of Millers undertaken during the year ended breweries in the USA has been 31 March 2005: transformed into a rain garden, creating a green environment and reducing the volume of polluted water that ows into an adjacent river during heavy storms.
Water Emissions Until recently, rain water from the car park at the brewery in Milwaukee used to SABMiller group average water consumption SABMiller group average ow into storm drains, carrying pollutants by volume hectolitres of water per hectolitre of beer CO emissions by volume kg hl 2 into the Menomonee River.
Now the for lager beer for lager beer water is channelled into a rain garden, hl water hl kgCO hl 2 stocked with native plants and 6 18 perennial owers.
5 15 Created by the brewery in partnership 4 12 with the Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewer 3 9 District and Triad Engineering Co. the garden acts as a natural bio-lter, 2 6 soaking up many of the pollutants, as 1 3 well as excessive volumes of water, reducing the risk of ooding.
01 02 03 04 05 02 03 04 05 SABMiller plc 11 Lower waste breweries Less packaging more recycling A new and more systematic waste Packaging accounts for a significant Hungary makes big management programme in Africa will enable percentage of our raw material costs.
To help power savings us to use our resources more efficiently, as cut its cost, as well as the environmental Our brewery in Hungary, which was the well as minimise the costs of unavoidable impacts of discarded packaging, we have first in the Hungarian food industry to waste.
Under the programme, which was made significant progress in developing introduce the ISO 14001 environment introduced in 2003, all our African businesses reusable and recyclable packaging.
management system, received a major will conduct regular audits of each stage of In Botswana, for example, Kgalagadi environmental award for cutting its the production process.
This will help them Breweries Ltd introduced an eco-friendly heat usage by 45% over 1997 to 2003. identify ways to produce less waste, as well cardboard bottle tray made from kraft board, During the last four years, Dreher has as opportunities to recycle it or dispose of replacing bleached virgin board.
We also also reduced its water consumption by it in a more cost-effective,  Collect-a-Can in South Africa and 25% and increased its recycling ratio friendly manner.
Botswana, a non-profit organisation that from 3% to 38%.
In addition, the recovers used steel packaging.
business received the independently Many of our companies across the world adjudicated Green Frog Central have also introduced lighter packaging, which European Environmental Reporting lowers our transport costs and requires less Award for the achievements presented energy to produce.
SAB Ltd, for example, and quality of its environmental report.
has reduced the weight of its handy bottles by 12% and the amount of tin plate in its cans by 10%.
Its corrugated transport trays are also now 8% lighter.
Future commitments Develop a robust template to understand the full extent of our carbon footprint, for example in our supply chain, and how to manage it Develop a fuller understanding of our direct and indirect water usage across the life cycle of our products in order to support sustainable water consumption Foster a better understanding across the group of our 12 waste categories, including their relative risks, minimum standards and best practice Introduce group environmental guidelines for packaging Develop a robust template to understand our full eco-footprint.
In Botswana, like many of our businesses around the world, we support recycling programmes for our packaging.
12 12 SABMiller plc enhancing the health and well-being of our staff Our staff are our biggest asset.
To ensure we optimise their productivity, we invest heavily in health programmes, training initiatives and other schemes, with strong emphasis on enabling local employees to realise their full potential.
SABMiller plc 13 Our learning and development vision for ABI has made great strides over the past three years to embrace a culture that encourages life-long learning and the development of people.
Lowering the human and commercial rates, we run awareness, counselling and Expanding the reach of our costs of HIV Aids testing ACT promotional and information HIV Aids programme HIV Aids is a major problem in Africa, with an campaigns within each business.
So far, 62% Were developing a group-wide HIV Aids estimated 25 million people infected, and a of staff in Africa have participated in VCT, strategy that will extend beyond our own growing concern in other parts of the world rising to as high as 87% in some countries, operations.
In Africa, for instance, were where SABMiller operates, including Asia such as Uganda.
investigating how we could use our and Eastern Europe.
Apart from its Employees and their dependants distribution network to raise awareness well-documented human consequences, who test HIV positive are provided with a of HIV Aids in local communities, as well especially in the absence of affordable anticomprehensive programme of managed as ways of working with people in our retroviral treatment, it poses a significant risk healthcare, including ongoing counselling, supply chain, particularly those involved in to our ability to run our business and sustain lifestyle management and anti-retroviral agriculture, where access to information is our sales growth.
treatment, fully funded by the company.
HIV Aids initiatives will also For example, it can impact our staffs An estimated 50% of those who are HIVplay a central role in our corporate social productivity through ill-health and positive are on the managed healthcare investment CSI strategy.
absenteeism and also reduce the size of programme, with anti-retrovirals provided our markets, as well as our customers to all those who need them.
Understanding the barriers to changing To limit these impacts, weve developed Preventing new infections: Education is the key behaviour: We conduct knowledge, attitude a comprehensive strategy to tackle HIV Aids to prevention.
All staff in Africa receive at least and practice KAP surveys before we start among our staff and their dependants and four hours of HIV Aids education a year through each programme and then at regular intervals help those already infected.
This is now being small, interactive workshops held during work in order to understand what measures need applied at each of our businesses in Africa.
hours and run by peer educators volunteers to be taken to help staff avoid and deal with from all levels of each business who have HIV Aids.
The surveys measure factors Managing existing infections: All staff are undergone appropriate training.
The content such as myths and misconceptions about offered voluntary counselling and testing of workshops varies between countries and transmission, as well as staffs current sexual VCT, with guaranteed anonymity and over time, depending on the insights gained behaviour.
All the data is anonymous and condentiality.
To stimulate high take-up from annual KAP surveys.
Sharing our learning: We have begun to hold shareholder workshops to share our Pioneering best practice experiences with NGOs and other Our HIV Aids campaign for our staff in According to studies, the campaign stakeholders.
Our first was in Chatham Zambia has proved so effective that its now has led to a substantial, measurable House, London in November 2004, with considered by the countrys Government increase in employees knowledge and further workshops planned for June 2005. as an example of best practice for other understanding of HIV Aids, encouraging public and private sector organisations.
almost 50% of staff to undertake Empowering local staff It also won The Coca-Cola Companys voluntary counselling and testing.
With around 40,000 staff in over 40 Best HIV Aids Programme award.
countries, SABMiller has the scale and diversity of talent needed to drive the 14 SABMiller plc Information kiosks have been set up in our Polish operations to provide employees with company updates.
To unlock the full very successful and we now have a focused commercial potential of our staff, all our equity drive at junior management levels.
Future commitments businesses strive to create a motivating, Adopt and implement a global group-wide rewarding and enabling working environment, Creating a more positive working HIV Aids strategy and continue to share our with a particularly strong emphasis on environment in Poland learning with external stakeholders developing local staff as business leaders.
Staff in Poland feel more involved in their Continue to work towards localisation of These individuals understand the local local company and are more likely to see senior management roles environment, including the challenges and problems as opportunities, thanks to a new Review our existing human resources opportunities, better than anyone and hold internal communication programme designed policies to identify any significant gaps with the key to our sustained growth.
to create a greater sense of openness.
international codes on human rights Our brewery in Tanzania, which is one of The programme was introduced after an Examine the HIV Aids issues within our the countrys largest employers, epitomises employee survey in 2003 revealed that many supply chain our determination to nurture local talent.
Over staff felt isolated in their departments and Improve group-wide internal the last three years, Tanzania Breweries Ltd unaware of what was happening in the rest communications.
has introduced a programme to enable of the business.
Now theyre kept fully local staff to acquire new skills and a fuller informed.
Info-kiosks have been set up to understanding of the business, as well as provide company updates, the staff magazine a general sense of ownership.
This has comes out more frequently and a six-monthly included training programmes, workshops board roadshow has been introduced, and rotating staff between different roles.
giving staff regular, direct access to the As a result, four local staff have been management team.
promoted to senior positions previously The company has also launched the held by expatriates and there are now just SABMiller performance management 11 expatriates in the business, out of a programme.
Under this group-wide scheme, workforce of nearly 1,500. staff have regular one-on-one meetings with their managers to jointly set their goals and Achieving equity representation at ABI to discuss their performance and other Our learning and development vision for issues.
In addition, regular employee surveys Amalgamated Beverage Industries ABI in are conducted and the results freely shared South Africa has made great strides over the with all staff.
The latest survey not only past three years to embrace a culture that showed improved morale but also a greater encourages life-long learning and the willingness among staff to discuss their development of people.
Key elements of our concerns more openly.
activities include competency acquisition and skills training programmes.
In recent years our particular focus has been aimed at equipping previously disadvantaged people with the necessary skills and competencies to move up the career path.
This programme has been SABMiller plc 15 In South Africa: Our Theres so much to live for campaign invited the public to send in photographs they felt encouraged responsible drinking.
encouraging responsibility Putting responsible drinking at the it in the day-to-day activities of our global Excessive and under-age forefront of our business operations.
In South Africa, for example, an alcohol consumption is We launched a major programme to integrate on-line training programme has been the principles of responsible drinking into developed which will enable all employees to not in anyones interest, our business processes, including how we gain an intimate knowledge of the alcohol least of all ours.
This includes: manifesto through an interactive process.
Copies of the alcohol manifesto have been Promoting responsibility internally: We translated where necessary and widely published and distributed The Responsible distributed.
Way, a communication pack that provides our businesses with all the information and Strengthening internal marketing compliance: guidance needed to implement our alcohol To advise employees on the code and to manifesto and, in particular, the code of facilitate understanding and compliance, commercial communication the code.
workshops for marketing, sales and Awareness programmes to bring the alcohol corporate affairs staff have been held in manifesto to life have been actioned, and South Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, good progress has been made in embedding Zambia, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, India, the 16 SABMiller plc Czech Republic, Poland, the USA and in the Head Ofce also involved: SABMiller plc UK.
These workshops utilise practical donated money to Addaction, a UK drug SABMiller alcohol examples of acceptable and unacceptable and alcohol treatment charity to fund an manifesto commercial communication to drive home educational pack which aims to help young SABMiller believes it has a legitimate precisely what is expected from our people to make informed choices about and positive role to play in encouraging employees.
Training events have also been alcohol and educate them about alcohol responsibility in relation to alcohol arranged for advertising agencies and all misuse.
This is the first time that Addaction consumption, and in helping to combat others involved in the development of has undertaken a project in partnership with alcohol abuse.
The alcohol manifesto commercial communication at our an alcohol beverage producer.
applies to all SABMiller group companies.
For further information visit Marketing compliance committees have Soft sell www.
been established in the individual countries to Our soft drinks businesses are investigating ensure all marketing activities conform to the innovative alternatives to carbonated codes provisions.
Our nutritional, non-alcoholic malt staffed by management representatives from US says Lets Keep Talking: As part of its drinks, which are increasingly popular in across the functions and meet on a regular Live Responsibly campaign Miller has a threeAfrica, demonstrate the potential of this basis to review advertising and promotional pronged strategy that focuses on preventing market.
In addition, we have good practice campaigns.
Miller, which has had a underage access to alcohol, effective selfguidelines for marketing soft drinks to minors compliance committee fully operational for regulation and safe roads.
The company and, as a major bottler of Coca-Cola, nearly five years, has further strengthened its recently launched an updated guide for adhere to The Coca-Cola Companys review processes.
parents to help them discuss responsible principles when handling below the line choices with their children, particularly those communication and trade marketing for Combating underage drinking in the 15-20 age bracket.
Written with the their brands.
Our drive to discourage irresponsible drinking assistance of experts in education, family intensied during the year ended 31 March therapy, law enforcement and student health, 2005 with a number of new campaigns the Lets Keep Talking booklet provides building on existing themes: pointers for discussions about smart Future commitments decisions about alcohol, as well as guidelines Continue to roll-out and embed the alcohol Polish campaign has major impact: A national on the types of questions parents should ask.
manifesto and code of commercial campaign to prevent the sale of alcohol to The booklet, a companion to Lets Talk, a communication underage drinkers in Poland, led by our local publication targeted to parents of the 6-11 Develop new and innovative ways of business unit in collaboration with the health age group, also contains information on how promoting responsibility sector, has had a substantial impact.
Since to prepare kids for life at college, the laws Work with international bodies and the the multi-media campaign was launched at governing underage drinking and the risks of industry globally to seek joint solutions to the end of 2004, under the slogan Alcohol alcohol abuse.
So far more than 50,000 problems associated with irresponsible no minors allowed, the proportion of shop copies of the document have been alcohol consumption.
assistants selling alcohol to minors has distributed through community organisations, plummeted from 77% to 48%.
Millers own distribution network and via the Moreover, 80% of people who saw or web, where downloadable pdfs are available heard the TV, radio and press advertisements www.
Responsible use of alcohol campaigns said they were now more likely to reproach across the group included activities in the shop assistants who sold alcohol to minors Hitting hard in South Africa: The South US where Miller continued to promote the and to demand proof of age from people African Breweries Ltd, working with the local need for identication in beer outlets to who attempt to buy alcohol if they appear industry association, funded a second series prevent under-21s from buying its products, underage.
of hard-hitting TV commercials designed to and in Poland where a major campaign to The campaign, which was supported by discourage underage drinking.
This campaign prevent the sale of alcohol to minors has the countrys state agency for addressing which utilises the concept of Good idea, bad been undertaken.
alcohol-related problems and the national idea, talks to young people in their own Brewing Industry Association, also involved language emphasising the pitfalls of underage the distribution of promotional and drinking and illustrating how it is simply not educational materials to around 80,000 retail cool to do so.
This was complemented by a outlets.
These included good practice general responsibility photographic campaign guidelines, entitled The art of saying no and challenging consumers to best illustrate the badges stating I don't sell alcohol to line Theres so much to live for.
Posters and stickers for doors Responsibly.
Live responsibly, which had an and cash registers were also provided.
pl was established and a telephone hotline installed to report sales of alcohol to minors.
SABMiller plc 17 investing in communities Economically and socially strong communities are pivotal to our success.
They provide us with a source of skilled labour and raw materials, as well as markets for our products.
To help them ourish, we invest in a range of community programmes, from schemes to encourage young entrepreneurs to public health projects.
Promoting healthier lifestyles care to preventing sexually transmitted Nurturing young entrepreneurs Over 3,000 families near one of our breweries diseases such as HIV Aids.
The year-long Nearly 3,500 young ethnic entrepreneurs in in India will soon have access to advice on project, which only recently started and the US have acquired new insights into how to prevent and cure common ailments, covers 10 villages in the Medak district of the how to turn a great idea into a successful such as diarrhoea and acute respiratory state of Andhra Pradesh, will also establish business under Millers Urban Entrepreneurs diseases, thanks to a new project funded community-based organisations to help Series.
Moreover, 40 of these have received by our business in India.
embed health promotion within local grants of up to US$20,000 each to put their Although the project will also provide first communities covered by the scheme.
aid and treatments for simple ailments via SABMiller has been equally active in In the year ended 31 March 2005 fortnightly mobile clinics, its main aim is to supporting health initiatives in Africa.
In a US$1 million was invested in the scheme which educate families how to protect and improve remote area of north-west Tanzania, for provides grants to individuals who submit the their health, for example by employing higher example, were funding the maternity facilities best business plans, and includes a series of standards of hygiene and taking part in of a local clinic.
Patients will no longer have seminars and workshops where aspiring young immunisation programmes.
to walk 10 kilometres to receive medical help, entrepreneurs receive advice on how to develop Working in close collaboration with public as they previously did, enabling them to a robust business plan and manage the health centres, trained community health receive immediate assistance and recover business once it gets off the ground.
workers and peer educators will provide more rapidly.
Similar schemes are run in other parts of advice on a range of issues, from antenatal the world.
KickStart in Africa, for example, provides financial support, access to SABMillers commercial expertise and a personal business mentor for entrepreneurs with the most promising business plans.
During the year, SABMiller increased its Originally conceived in South Africa, it was launched in Botswana in 2004 and attracted investment in community programmes to over 600 applications for assistance.
In Europe, our local operations in Romania US$16.9 million, equivalent to 0.8% of the joined forces with the Romanian Ministry of Education, Research and Youth to support companys pre-tax profit.
an educational programme to help young Romanians develop the commercial expertise 18 SABMiller plc heading Below: Awards ceremony for Millers Urban Entrepreneurs Series.
A health clinic funded by our business in Tanzania.
Kabelo Mdipolai, one of the first winners of KickStart Botswana, will use the funding he won for new equipment to help him grow the business.
needed to succeed in business, including leadership and presentational skills.
The programme will train 25 professors and 250 Adding value to local economies students and offer business internships to the most promising students.
SABMiller group companies injected over US$4,378 million into local economies during US programme reaches out to communities the year ended 31 March 2005 in the form of local corporation tax and excise duties and Miller has renewed its corporate social payments to local staff.
investment programme and will focus its support in five main areas, encapsulated in the Distribution of cash value added % Corporate social investment spend % letters of the new programmes name, REACH.
The causes include: Responsibility, Employment, Aids HIV, Cultural diversity, and Heritage initiatives.
Targeted at local communities where Miller has breweries, the programme has so far sponsored a wide range of organisations, from the Hispanic community outreach programmes to support for local HIV Aids charities.
Remuneration of employees for their services 2005: 21.8% Education 18% Pay direct and excise taxes to state treasuries 2005: 43.5% Welfare 14% Provide lenders with a return on borrowings 2005: 3.4% Health 9% Future commitments Provide shareholders with cash dividends 2005: 8.7% Environment 6% We will publish, and begin to implement, a Corporate social investment 0.8% of pre-tax profit 2005: 0.3% Arts and culture 8% new corporate social investment CSI strategy, Cash retained in the business to fund future growth 2005: 22.3% based on discussions with stakeholders in Other 45% the year ended 31 March 2005.
The strategy will take into account new challenges and In addition, US$6,187 million was spent with our suppliers.
The percentage of these supplies opportunities.
sourced from within the country of operation ranges across the group from below 20% to 90%.
SABMiller plc 19 engaging with stak e Our licence to operate in both a regulatory and socio-economic sense depends on the support of all our stakeholders, from governments and local communities to our employees, suppliers and investors.
Maintaining an open and honest dialogue with these groups, including reporting our progress, is critical to our success and provides valuable insights to help us improve our performance.
Developing partnerships policies and procedures to address the groups and other organisations.
To improve with stakeholders problems of alcohol abuse.
We also held the quality and level of engagement with Many of the challenges and opportunities we constructive discussions on this issue with stakeholders, we have introduced a new tool face as a business can only be addressed the World Health Organisation and the for our Africa & Asia businesses, A guide to by sharing information, ideas and resources European Commission for Health and communication excellence, to help them with other organisations and individuals, Consumer Safety.
In addition, we worked evaluate their performance with stakeholders particularly our stakeholders.
During the year closely with the Commission for Africas and identify ways to strengthen it.
So far six ended 31 March 2005, we continued to business group, as well as with Socially countries in Africa have been evaluated, and expand and strengthen our partnerships with Responsible Investment SRI groups and areas for improvement identied.
other bodies, including NGOs and At a group level, the company continues development agencies.
Monitoring and reporting our CSR activities to co-sponsor the work of the International Locally, our businesses regularly meet We monitor and report the CSR activities of Center for Alcohol Policies ICAP to develop with government representatives, civil society all businesses where SABMiller has day-today management control, either as a result of a majority shareholding or through management agreements.
Business interests which fall outside these criteria, such as Accountability structure those in China, are excluded from the scope of this report.
SABMiller plc board Corporate accountability and risk Internal reporting and assurance: Non-executive chairman: Meyer Kahn assurance committee 2 executive directors Non-executive chairman: Robert Fellowes Performance measures are collected locally 10 non-executive directors every six months, signed by the local managing director and reported to the groups board.
In addition social and environmental issues are considered as part of the groups risk management processes, SAB issues committee SABIC SABMiller excom Chairman: Tony van Kralingen set out in more detail in the annual report.
External reporting: At a group level, we report our progress in this document and on our website www.
com, where we also Miller issues committee Group corporate post our consolidated group performance accountability department Chairman: Norman Adami data.
During the year, our businesses in Botswana, South Africa, Hungary and Poland produced their own local CSR reports.
20 SABMiller plc keholders Developing a group CSR strategy Increased investment at the centre Our group corporate accountability team has been strengthened by the recruitment of a new UK-based team.
Alan, Helen, David and Jenni are members of the group team.
Sue Clark, director of Dr Alan Knight, head of Helen Mant, group David Grant, group Jenni Gilles, group corporate affairs corporate accountability corporate accountability environment manager HIV Aids manager manager Independent assurance: We value the As a decentralised company, the group principle of independently assured reporting.
sets the CSR positions and policies, while Broadening our scope This year, The Corporate Citizenship individual businesses have autonomy to In line with our commitment to pay Company has assured the relevance of the decide how to full these at a local level.
Our closer attention to the social and issues covered in this report and the reliability business in the Czech Republic, for example, environmental impacts of all stages of its content.
Due to the ongoing review of runs a programme called The Citizens of our supply chain, we intend to play our CSR strategy, we have decided against a Choice which enables members of the public a more active role in sharing our own detailed verication process.
to vote on community-based projects that standards and policies with our should receive funding from the company.
associates and other business interests CSR governance and management The programme addresses group policies but where we do not have direct The corporate accountability and risk it focuses on local issues.
assurance committee CARAC, a nonexecutive body, is responsible for reviewing External validation of our CSR activities how the executive committee excom Our continued inclusion in the Dow Jones discharges its environmental and social Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good Index and duties.
The director of corporate affairs, who the Socially Responsible Investment Index of sits on both CARAC and excom, provides the the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa link between the two bodies.
testies to the success of our CSR programme, although we recognise there is still room for improvement.
Future commitments Continue to report at a group level with more regular web-based reporting Encourage more of our businesses to Let us know what you think about our produce local CSR reports for their Corporate Accountability Report and stakeholders, where appropriate.
Graham Mackay with Peter Hain, MP, at the how we can improve it.
Email us at: House of Commons in London.
com SABMiller plc 21 Lon Mtongana, managing director of Kgalagadi Breweries, explains what CSR means to his business in Botswana.
bringing CSR to Take the case of HIV Aids.
Around one in three of the population are infected with the virus.
If we lose staff to the virus, The way to build a bigger, stronger we dont just lose personal friends, we lose the investment weve made in business that benets everyone is to tackle developing their skills.
These skills cant todays social and environmental challenges be replaced overnight.
As a result we now run a very successful HIV Aids voluntary positively, not to take a defensive position.
counselling and testing programme for our staff and their dependents.
This is supported Look for reasons how you can improve, by fully funded anti-retroviral treatment for those who test HIV positive, as well as not for reasons why you cant.
educational programmes for all staff, partly run by peer educators, including an HIV Lon Mtongana, managing director of Kgalagadi Breweries Ltd KBL positive employee see opposite.
Water scarcity is another issue.
Water is our main ingredient by volume but we operate in a dry country, reected in the Dear reader dangerously low levels of the Gabarone Its easy to be cynical about corporate social Dam, so it is also a costly ingredient.
We responsibility, particularly in the wake of have to nd ways to conserve it to keep various high-prole corporate scandals over our costs down and our margins up.
However, when you have weve made good progress here, cutting to deal with the daily realities of running a our consumption by 2% by reusing and business, as I do as the managing director recycling water, as well as by simple of the Kgalagadi Breweries in Botswana, measures such as encouraging staff to its clear that the only way you can survive and turn off taps after theyve used them.
thrive as a major business is if you operate in a Using disposable cans as our main socially and environmentally responsible way.
packaging also helps as it means we dont This is especially true in Botswana.
need to wash returned bottles.
True, this As its a mature market, the only significant can create litter but we tackle this problem way we can generate shareholder value for by running a Collect a Can recycling our investors is by protecting and improving scheme, with rewards for schools that our margins.
And the main obstacles collect the most.
To date, around half of standing in the way of achieving this goal are our cans are recycled.
22 SABMiller plc Botswana Number of clear beer breweries: 1 Number of Sorghum breweries: 4 Number of CSD plants: 1 Number of employees in clear beer: 605 Number of employees in Sorghum: 477 Brands include: St. Louis, Castle Lager, Carling Black Label, Amstel, Castle Light, Hansa, Lion, Miller Genuine Draft, Coke, Fanta life: Botswana However, our CSR programme isnt just educated.
What they lack are business Around 50% of all our about keeping our costs down, it is about skills and experience.
To help cultivate this cans are recycled.
empowering local people to grow socially commercial expertise, we have introduced and economically so we can grow too.
Its the KickStart programme for aspiring enlightened self-interest.
Thats why we have entrepreneurs, discussed earlier in this report.
things better for our a policy of only purchasing products and Above all, we have to protect our society.
We know we services from suppliers in Botswana, unless regulatory licence by ensuring our drinks are can always do better but they cannot be obtained locally, plus a marketed responsibly and helping consumers were very proud of what we have achieved substantial outsourcing programme.
It is also enjoy them in a responsible way, which we and we intend to achieve even more by why we invest a lot in developing our local do by working with the government and continuing to act responsibly.
staff just eight of our 1,000 plus staff are other stakeholders through alcohol now expatriates and in developing an awareness campaigns.
entrepreneurial culture in the country as a Although all these and other measures are whole.
One of the many great strengths of in our commercial interest, we are also, of Lon Mtongana Botswana is that people are very well course, human.
We genuinely want to make Managing director they now understand more about the Positive, and proud disease and recognise that it is possible Lesos story to live a full, rewarding life being HIV I had worked on the packaging line of positive without harming others.
KBL in Botswana for 18 years when I Now I work as a full-time counsellor discovered I was HIV positive.
I was and peer educator, helping to change devastated.
However, over time I realised staffs attitudes to the virus and I had a unique opportunity to help people encourage others to approach it in a to try to encourage people to test and more positive, informed manner.
I think to change their lifestyles to protect this has helped encourage more people themselves.
After discussing with my to come forward for testing as they see manager, the human resources director that the company does not discriminate and the managing director, and undergoing and supports individuals and their extensive counselling I eventually disclosed dependents through provision of free my status to my fellow employees.
treatment, support and ongoing Leso left with a Kgalagadi Although some were initially unsupportive, counselling.
Breweries Ltd colleague SABMiller plc 23 assurance statement We have asked The Corporate Citizenship Company to conduct an independent review of our corporate accountability reporting for the year ended 31 March 2005.
This is SABMillers eighth successive for corporate social investment.
In these issues is to engage more with annual corporate accountability report overview, we have found that SABMiller local partners, industry peers and other a commendable track record during a has taken a clear step forward in its stakeholders, and indeed this is one of its period when the company has grown commitment to social responsibility, with key trends.
As the company moves towards substantially and so undergone profound an enlarged corporate accountability team its second decade of accountability change.
The world has changed too, and located in the UK head ofce to take reporting, we believe such engagement will with it expectations about international forward action.
increasingly become the key challenge.
Is SABMiller facing up to Looking ahead, the challenge is to make current challenges and where does the a reality of the new trends.
SABMiller faces several critical dilemmas.
Can the commitment to support local The Corporate Citizenship Company has suppliers become mainstream in the face of worked with SABMiller since 1999.
This competitive pressures and global economic year our work has focused on providing trends?
On the environment, the company The Corporate Citizenship Company external assurance and commentary on has a good record of minimising the direct London, 6 June 2005 the companys corporate accountability impacts of its own operations: moving to www.
co. uk reporting, both this report and the further address the full sustainability footprint from information and data provided on-line.
supplies of ingredients to end consumers Our detailed findings and commentary will need to involve others in the value are available in a full statement at chain outside the companys direct www.
And on HIV Aids, what are the The year has seen a review of CSR responsibilities of a single company with strategy, with the aim of identifying the key business interests in India and China in trends for the business.
Good progress has helping to prevent the scourge of Aids been made during the year on previous reaching the levels in Asia now seen commitments too, such as rolling out in southern Africa, with catastrophic the group-wide approach to alcohol consequences?
responsibility, examining supply chain One way and arguably the only standards and developing a new approach way that SABMiller will be able to tackle 24 SABMiller plc Contacts SABMiller plc Registration No.
3528416 Company secretary AOC Tonkinson Registered ofce Dukes Court, Duke Street, Woking, Surrey, England GU21 5BH Telefax 44 1483 264103 Telephone 44 1483 264000 Head ofce One Stanhope Gate, London, England W1K 1AF Telefax 44 20 7659 0111 Telephone 44 20 7659 0100 Corporate accountability corporate.
com Telephone 44 20 7659 0100 Investor relations investor.
com Telephone 44 20 7659 0100 This Corporate Accountability Report is published as a companion document to the SABMiller plc Annual Report 2005.
Both are also available on the corporate website.
com The paper used in this report is produced using elemental chlorine-free EFC pulps.
com or see this years Annual Report and Accounts 2005.
