Denitions DMA Organic growth Dened Market Areas, a collective term used by the Miller Brewing Refers to a companys growth rate, excluding any growth from Company to describe its 61 differentiated markets in the USA.
Economy segment PET Taking an index where the bulk of the market volume is at a price PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic which index of 100, the economy sector would index at around 85. is used for bottling alcoholic and non alcoholic drinks.
Normally, all brands in this segment will be local brands.
In the beer Worthmore segment market, the economy segment is usually dominated by local brands.
The worthmore segment is dominated by international brands.
They FAB are brands which consumers perceive to offer greater value than Flavoured alcoholic beverage.
A ready-mixed alcoholic drink, often mainstream brands and for which they are willing to pay a premium.
containing some form of fruit avouring.
FAB also stands for fruit Mainstream brands are priced at about a price index of 100, alcohol beverage which specically refers to a ready-mixed alcoholic worthmore brands index at around 120 and above.
As a result, the drink containing fruit avouring as opposed to non-fruit avouring worthmore segment, although small in volume terms, often generates such as caramel.
a disproportionate level of profit, when compared to the mainstream and economy segments.
A ready mixed alcoholic drink specically STRATE derived from a malt base, often containing some form of fruit STRATE stands for Share Transactions Totally Electronic and is an avouring.
unlisted company owned by the Johannesburg Securities Exchange JSE and Central Securities Depository Participants CSDP and Mainstream segment exists to allow share transactions in South Africa to be settled Mainstream represents the group of brands that constitute the bulk electronically.
of the market volume at a price index of 100.
Key to this group is the leading volume brand in any market.
Brands tend to be mainly local.
Premium segment Premium segment is an alternative term for the worthmore segment.
Shareholders diary Financial reporting calendar and annual general meeting Annual general meeting July Announcement of interim results, for half-year to September November Preliminary announcement of annual results May In accordance with the Model Code, restraints on trading in group securities operates for two-month periods prior to release of interim and preliminary results announcements until noon on the day of publication of these announcements.
Annual financial statements published June Dividends Declared Paid Ordinary: Interim November Late December Final May August STRATE Dealings and settlements on the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa JSE are now exclusively in electronic form through the STRATE system such that share certicates are no longer good for delivery on that exchange.
Shareholders resident in South Africa who currently retain their share certicates and who may wish to deal on the JSE are advised to contact Computershare Johannesburg or their professional adviser regarding the options available to enable them to do so through the STRATE system.
