Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the eighteenth Annual General Meeting of 11 That the Companys Articles of Association be amended as follows: The Sage Group plc will be held at North Park, Newcastle upon Tyne, i that Article 66 in the Articles of Association be deleted in its entirety NE13 9AA at 10.00am on Thursday 2 March 2006 for the following purposes: and replaced by the following: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, of which The directors other than alternate directors shall not, unless otherwise resolutions 1 to 8 inclusive and 12 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions determined by an ordinary resolution of the Company, be less than two and resolutions 9, 10 and 11 will be proposed as special resolutions: nor more than 15 in number.
1 To receive and consider the audited accounts for the year ended ii that the sum of 500,000 in Article 78 be deleted and replaced with 30 September 2005 together with the reports of the directors and the sum of 750,000. the auditors.
12 That: 2 To declare a final dividend recommended by the directors of 1.953 pence a the rules of the Sage Group Savings-Related Share Option Plan the per ordinary share for the year ended 30 September 2005 to be paid on SAYE Plan, the main features of which are summarised in the 8 March 2006 to members whose names appear on the register at the Directors Report forwarded to shareholders with the Notice of Annual close of business on 10 February 2006.
General Meeting and a copy of which is produced to the meeting and 3 To re-elect Mr G S Berruyer as a director.
initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be approved 4 To re-elect Mr T C W Ingram as a director.
and the directors be authorised to do all such acts and things as they may consider necessary or expedient to carry the SAYE Plan into effect 5 To re-elect Mr R Verni as a director.
including making any changes to the rules of the SAYE Plan necessary 6 To re-appoint Messrs  LLP as Auditors to the or desirable for approval by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs: and Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
b the directors be authorised to establish such schedules to the SAYE Plan 7 To approve the Remuneration Report forwarded to shareholders with this as they may consider necessary in relation to employees in jurisdictions Notice of Annual General Meeting.
outside the United Kingdom, with such modifications as may be necessary or desirable to take account of local securities laws, exchange 8 That: control and tax legislation, provided that any ordinary shares made a subject to and in accordance with Article 6 of the Companys Articles of available under such schedules are treated as counting against the Association, the directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to relevant limits on individual and overall participation in the SAYE Plan.
a maximum nominal amount of 4,284,395: b all previous authorities under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 By Order of the Board shall cease to have effect: and M J Robinson c this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Secretary Meeting of the Company.
9 That: Registered office: North Park a subject to and in accordance with Article 7 of the Companys Articles of Newcastle upon Tyne Association, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for NE13 9AA cash and that, for the purposes of paragraph 1 b of Article 7, the 11 January 2006 nominal amount to which this power is limited is 642,659: and b the power given to directors by this resolution be extended to sales for cash of any shares which the Company may hold as treasury shares.
10 That the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the directors shall determine PROVIDED THAT: i the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be acquired pursuant to this authority is 128,531,858 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company: ii this authority shall expire on 31 March 2007, or if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting: and iii the minimum price which may be paid for each such ordinary share is its nominal value and the maximum price is the higher of 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses.
"1 Financial Highlights and Overview 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Chief Executives Review 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 10 Financial Review 13 Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Statement 23 Remuneration Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 37 Notes to the Accounts 61 Independent Auditors Report 62 Notice of Meeting 64 Financial Calendar Notes: In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" must be properly i A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo's specifications and must contain the and vote instead of him."
A proxy need not also be a member.
information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The ii To be valid, a Form of Proxy and any power of attorney or other authority if any message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an under which it is signed or a duly certified copy thereof must be lodged with the amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent ID 7RA01 by the Sussex, BN99 6UQ, or received via the sharevote website, no later than 10.00am latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
The completion and return of a Form of Proxy will this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the not prevent a member who wishes to do so from attending and voting in person.
timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the In relation to appointing a proxy through the CREST electronic proxy appointment issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner service, please see note vi below.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
iii Copies of the service contracts and terms of appointment of the directors are available for inspection at North Park, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE13 9AA during CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service normal business hours on any weekday weekends and public holidays excepted providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in and will be available at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will during the meeting.
therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a iv The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service Regulations 2001, specifies that only those members registered in the register of provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 28 February 2006 or, in the event that such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means this meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, any adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the register of members after 6.00pm on 28 February 2006 or, in the event that this the CREST system and timings.
meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set attend or vote at the meeting.
out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. v If you return paper and electronic proxy instructions, those received last by the Registrar before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
You are advised to read the website terms and conditions of use carefully.
Electronic communication facilities are available to all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged.
vi CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s of that meeting by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
