Notes to the Accounts For the year ended 30 September 2005 1 Accounting policies Based on past experience, the directors consider that, taken together, these assets enhance in value over time.
This results from better customer and a Basis of accounting channel management and brand development, which improves returns on These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost acquired businesses.
convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable The carrying value of this goodwill will continue to be reviewed annually for accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
The true and fair override impairment and adjusted to the recoverable amount if required.
In order to provisions of the Companies Act 1985 have been invoked as detailed in give a true and fair view, the financial statements depart from the specific note c below.
A summary of the more important Group accounting requirements of the company legislation to amortise goodwill over a finite policies, which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
The directors consider this to be necessary for the reasons given b Basis of consolidation above.
Because of the indefinite life of these intangible assets, it is not The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial statements of possible to quantify the impact of this departure.
the Company and its subsidiaries prepared to 30 September 2005.
Impairment review The need for any goodwill impairment write-down is Subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the Group financial assessed by comparison of the carrying value of the asset against the statements using the acquisition method of accounting.
Accordingly, the higher of net realisable value or value in use.
The value in use is determined Group profit and loss account and statement of cash flows include the from estimated discounted future cash flows.
results and cash flows from the effective date of acquisition.
No profit and loss account is presented for The Sage Group plc as permitted by Section The discount rate used in performing the impairment review is the Groups 230 of the Companies Act 1985. weighted average cost of capital which is currently 7.4%.
c Goodwill In order to reflect the underlying local currency asset, goodwill is accounted Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value attributed to investments in for in local currency and retranslated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling businesses or subsidiary undertakings over the fair value of the underlying at the date of the balance sheet.
net assets at the date of their acquisition.
In accordance with FRS 10, for d Revenue recognition acquisitions made on or after 1 October 1998, goodwill has been Turnover represents amounts invoiced to third parties after deducting credit capitalised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to notes, allowances, trading discounts and sales tax.
The Group derives that date was eliminated against reserves in accordance with the revenue from software licences, customer support and other products and accounting standard then in force.
If a subsidiary or business is services.
Customer support includes telephone support and maintenance subsequently sold or closed, any goodwill arising on consolidation that was updates.
Other products and services include the sale of business forms eliminated against reserves or that has not been amortised through the and training.
profit and loss account is taken into account in determining the profit or loss on sale or closure.
Software licences The Group recognises the revenue allocable to software licences and upgrades upon shipment of the software product or upgrade, The directors have concluded that they should evaluate the life of goodwill when there are no significant obligations remaining, when the fee is fixed on a case by case basis, amortising goodwill in instances where a fixed life and determinable and when collectability is considered probable.
Goodwill which is not amortised, is subject to an appropriate, the Group provides a reserve for estimated returns under the annual impairment review.
Accordingly, goodwill capitalised on businesses standard acceptance terms at the time the revenue is recorded.
acquired since 1 October 1998 has been assessed as having an indefinite life, except in the case of one acquisition which has been assigned a 20 Customer support and maintenance Revenue allocable to customer year useful economic life and is being amortised over this period.
This is support and maintenance is recognised on a straight-line basis over the because the main intangible assets that the Group has acquired are term of the support and maintenance contract.
Revenue not recognised in customer bases, channels of distribution and brands.
However, none of the profit and loss account under this policy is classified as deferred income these intangible assets qualify as a separable net asset under FRS 10, in the balance sheet.
therefore they have not been accounted for separately.
Other products and services Revenue allocable to other products and services is recognised as the products are shipped, or services are provided.
36 37 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 30 September 2005 e Tangible fixed assets j Deferred tax Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Deferred tax is accounted for under FRS 19, which requires a form of full Depreciation on tangible fixed assets is provided down to an assets provision for accounting for deferred tax, called the incremental liability residual value over its useful economic life as follows: approach.
Deferred tax is provided on timing differences where the Group has an obligation to pay more tax in the future as a result of those timing Freehold buildings 50 years differences.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if it is considered more Long leasehold land and buildings over period of lease likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Plant and equipment 15%33.3% per annum straight-line As permitted by FRS 19, the Group has adopted a policy of not discounting Fixtures and fittings 15% per annum straight-line deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Motor vehicles 25% per annum straight-line k Pension schemes f Development costs The Group operates money purchase pension schemes for certain of its All costs associated with the research and development of software are employees.
The contributions are charged to the profit and loss account as written off as incurred.
g Stocks l Investments Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provision for any diminution in value.
h Leasing Where assets are acquired by finance leasing arrangements which give rights approximating to ownership, the amount representing the purchase price of such assets is included in tangible fixed assets and the related obligations are included as creditors.
The interest elements of the rental obligation are charged in the profit and loss account over the period of the lease and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
All other leases are operating leases and the annual rentals are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
i Foreign currency translation Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the year-end.
Trading results are translated at the average rate prevailing during the relevant period.
Differences arising on the re-translation of the net investments and the results for the year are taken directly to reserves together with differences on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in foreign enterprises.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
1 Financial Highlights and Overview 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Chief Executives Review 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 10 Financial Review 13 Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Statement 23 Remuneration Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 37 Notes to the Accounts 61 Independent Auditors Report 62 Notice of Meeting 64 Financial Calendar
