Accounts 2004 05 Accounting Policies and Definitions 107 Notes to the Group Accounts 116 Group Profit and Loss Account 112 Company Balance Sheet 167 Statement of Total Recognised Notes to the Company Balance Sheet 168 Gains and Losses 113 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings Reconciliation of Movements and Other Investments 169 in Shareholders Funds 113 Independent Auditors Report 170 Group Cash Flow Statement 114 Five Year Summary 171 Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow Glossary of Financial Terms and to Movement in Net Debt 114 US Equivalents 172 Group Balance Sheet 115 Accounting Policies Infrastructure Division Power Systems The transmission and distribution businesses within the groups authorised area of and Definitions Scotland and the distribution business of Manweb operating in Definitions Merseyside and North Wales.
Business segment definitions ScottishPower defines business segments for management United States reporting purposes based on a combination of factors, PacifiCorp A  electric utility that includes principally differences in products and services and the the generation, transmission and distribution and sale of regulatory environment in which the businesses operate.
electricity to retail, industrial and commercial customers in Business segments have been included under either portions of six western states: Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, continuing operations or discontinued operations as Washington, Idaho and California.
The operations also include appropriate.
wholesale energy sales and purchase transactions with various The business segments of the group are defined as follows: entities.
The state regulatory commissions and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC regulate the retail and Continuing operations wholesale operations.
The subsidiaries of PacifiCorp support its United Kingdom electric utility operations by providing coal mining facilities UK Division Integrated Generation and Supply The and services and environmental remediation.
generation of electricity from the groups own power stations, the purchase of external supplies of coal and gas for the PPM Energy PPM The competitive energy development, generation of electricity, the purchase of external supplies of origination and marketing business serving wholesale electricity and gas for sale to customers, together with related customers in North American markets.
Electricity products and billing and collection activities, gas storage, sale of gas to services are provided from gas generation and renewable wind industrial and domestic customers and the sale of electricity to generation resources located in the western and mid-western electricity suppliers, in Scotland, Northern Ireland, England & US.
Natural gas storage and hub services are provided from gas Wales and full participation in the New Electricity Trading storage facilities located in Canada and the US.
Arrangements NETA in England & Wales.
NETA was replaced by the British Electricity Trading and Transmission Arrangements BETTA with effect from 1 April 2005.
107 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Accounts 2004 05 Discontinued operations Basis of consolidation United Kingdom The group Accounts include the Accounts of the company and Southern Water The provision of water and wastewater its subsidiary undertakings together with the groups share of services in the south east of England, together with related results and net assets of associated undertakings and joint billing and collection activities.
The disposal of the Southern ventures.
Water business was completed on 23 April 2002.
For commercial reasons certain subsidiaries have a different year end.
The consolidation includes the Accounts of Revenue cost definitions these subsidiaries as adjusted for material transactions in the Cost of sales The cost of sales for the group, excluding period between the year ends and 31 March.
Southern Water, reflect the direct costs of the generation and purchase of electricity and the purchase and transportation of Use of estimates natural gas.
The preparation of Accounts in conformity with generally For Southern Water, cost of sales represented the cost of accepted accounting principles requires management to make extracting water from underground and raw water surface estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of reservoirs and of its treatment and supply to customers and the assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and collection of wastewater and its treatment and disposal.
liabilities at the date of the Accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual Transmission and distribution costs The cost of transmitting results can differ from those estimates.
units of electricity from the power stations through the transmission and distribution networks to customers.
It includes Turnover the costs of metering, billing and debt collection.
This heading is Turnover comprises the sales value of energy and other considered more appropriate to the electricity industry than the services supplied to customers during the year and excludes standard Companies Act heading of distribution costs.
Value Added Tax and intra-group sales.
Turnover from the sale of energy is the value of units supplied during the year and Administrative expenses The indirect costs of businesses, the includes an estimate of the value of units supplied to customers costs of corporate services, property rates, goodwill between the date of their last meter reading and the year end, amortisation and impairment of goodwill.
based on external data supplied by the electricity and gas market settlement processes.
Prior to the disposal of Southern Other definitions Water in April 2002, turnover also included the sales value Company or ScottishPower Scottish Power plc.
of water and wastewater services.
Group Scottish Power plc and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Interest Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects is Associated undertakings Entities in which the group holds a capitalised gross of tax relief during the period of construction long-term participating interest and exercises significant influence.
and written off as part of the total cost over the operational life of the asset.
All other interest payable and receivable is Joint ventures Entities in which the group holds a long-term reflected in the profit and loss account as it arises.
interest and shares control with another company external to the group.
Financial instruments Debt instruments All borrowings are stated at the fair value of Subsidiary undertakings Entities in which the group holds a consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
The issue long-term controlling interest.
costs and interest payable on bonds are charged to the profit and loss account at a constant rate over the life of the bond.
Accounting Policies Premiums and discounts arising on the early repayment of Basis of accounting borrowings are recognised in the profit and loss account as The Accounts have been prepared under the historical cost incurred and received.
convention, modified to include the revaluation of certain tangible fixed assets, and in accordance with applicable accounting Interest rate swaps Forward rate agreements These are used standards in the UK and, except for the accounting policy for to manage debt interest rate exposures.
Amounts payable or Commodity contracts, described below, comply with the receivable in respect of these agreements are recognised as requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Further details explaining adjustments to interest expense over the period of the this departure are contained in Note 20 i to the Accounts.
The cash flows from, and gains and losses arising on 108 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 terminations of, these contracts are recognised as returns on Commodity contracts Where there is no physical delivery investments and servicing of finance.
Where associated debt is associated with commodity contracts, they are recorded at fair not retired in conjunction with the termination of an interest value on the balance sheet and movements reflected through swap, gains and losses are deferred and are amortised to the profit and loss account.
Gas and electricity forwards and interest expense over the remaining life of the associated debt futures are undertaken for hedging and proprietary trading to the extent that such debt remains outstanding.
Where the instrument is a hedge, the fair values are initially reflected on the balance sheet and subsequently Interest rate caps Swaptions Options Premiums received and reflected through the profit and loss account to match the payable on these contracts are amortised over the period of the recognition of the hedged item.
Where the instrument is for contracts and are disclosed as interest income and expense.
proprietary trading the fair values are reflected through the The accounting for interest rate caps and swaptions is profit and loss account.
Recognition of unrealised gains on otherwise in accordance with interest rate swaps detailed commodity contracts in the profit and loss account is not in above.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors consider that compliance with these requirements Cross-currency interest rate swaps These are used both to would lead to the accounts failing to give a true and fair view hedge foreign exchange and interest rate exposures arising on of the results of the group.
Further details of the effect of this foreign currency debt and to hedge overseas net investment.
accounting policy are provided in Note 20 i to the Accounts.
Where used to hedge debt issues, the debt is recorded at the hedge contracted rate and accounting is otherwise in Taxation accordance with interest rate swaps detailed above.
Where In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 19 used to hedge overseas net investment, spot gains or losses are Deferred tax, full provision is made for deferred tax on a nonrecorded on the balance sheet and in the statement of total discounted basis.
recognised gains and losses, with interest recorded in the profit and loss account.
The cash flows from, and gains and losses Intangible assets arising on the termination, repricing or maturity of, crossLong-term gas purchase contracts acquired as part of currency interest rate swaps hedging overseas net investments acquisitions are capitalised, as intangible fixed assets, separately are recognised as returns on investments and servicing of from goodwill, provided their fair value can be measured finance to the extent they relate to interest and as financing to reliably on initial recognition.
As these contracts do not have the extent they represent spot gains or losses.
readily ascertainable market values, fair value is limited to the amount that does not create or increase any negative goodwill, Forward contracts The group enters into forward contracts for in accordance with FRS 10.
These intangible fixed assets are the purchase and or sale of foreign currencies in order to amortised over the period of the contracts.
manage its exposure to fluctuations in currency rates and to hedge overseas net investment.
The cash flows from forward Goodwill purchase contracts are classified in a manner consistent with Purchased goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the the underlying nature of the hedged transaction.
Hence, purchase consideration over the fair value of the net assets unrealised gains and losses on contracts hedging forecast acquired.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 31 March transactions are not accounted for until the maturity of the 1998 was written off against reserves.
On disposal of trading contract.
Foreign currency debtors and creditors that are entities, the goodwill previously included in reserves is charged to hedged with forward contracts are translated at the contracted the profit and loss account matched by an equal credit to reserves.
rate at the balance sheet date.
Spot gains or losses on hedges Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 April 1998 has been of the overseas net investments are recorded on the balance capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account over sheet and in the statement of total recognised gains and losses its estimated useful economic life.
Goodwill arising on overseas with the interest rate differential reflected in the profit and loss acquisitions is regarded as a currency asset and is retranslated at account.
the end of each period at the closing rate of exchange.
The carrying value of goodwill is reviewed for impairment Hydroelectric and temperature hedges These instruments are in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the used to hedge fluctuations in weather and temperature in the carrying value may not be recoverable.
On a periodic basis, the group estimates and records a gain recognised in the period in which they are identified.
or loss in the profit and loss account corresponding to the total expected future cash flows from these contracts.
109 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Accounts 2004 05 Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation and are As lessor Rentals receivable under finance leases are allocated generally depreciated on the straight line method over their to accounting periods to give a constant periodic rate of return estimated operational lives.
Tangible fixed assets include on the net cash investment in the lease in each period.
The capitalised employee, interest and other costs which are amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded in directly attributable to construction of fixed assets.
the balance sheet as a debtor at the amount of the net Land is not depreciated except in the case of mines see investment in the lease after making provisions for bad and below.
The main depreciation periods used by the group are doubtful rentals receivable.
Years Investments Coal, oil-fired, gas and other generating stations 22 45 Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings and Hydro plant and machinery 20 100 joint ventures are stated in the balance sheet of the parent Other buildings 40 Transmission and distribution plant 20 75 company at cost, or nominal value of shares issued as Towers, lines and underground cables 40 60 consideration where applicable, less provision for any Vehicles, computer software costs, miscellaneous equipment and fittings 3 40 impairment in value.
The group profit and loss account includes the groups share of the operating profits less losses, Composite depreciation rates applied to the groups regulated net interest charge and taxation of associated undertakings and utility plants in the US for the year ended 31 March 2005 were joint ventures.
The group balance sheet includes the investment 3.0% 2004 3.0%, 2003 3.2%.
in associated undertakings and joint ventures at the groups The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for share of their net assets.
Other fixed asset investments are impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances carried at cost less provision for impairment in value.
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For those assets with estimated remaining useful economic lives of more Own shares held under trust than 50 years, impairment reviews are undertaken annually.
Own shares held under trust have been deducted in arriving at Impairment losses are recognised in the period in which they shareholders funds in accordance with Urgent Issues Task are identified.
Force Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts UITF 38.
Purchases and sales of own shares are disclosed as changes in Mine reclamation and closure costs Provision is made for shareholders funds.
mine reclamation and closure costs when an obligation arises Revised UITF 17 Employee share schemes Revised UITF out of events prior to the year end.
The amount recognised is 17 requires that the profit and loss account charge be the present value of the estimated future expenditure determined as the intrinsic value of the share options granted.
determined in accordance with local conditions and The group has taken advantage of the exemption within requirements.
A corresponding tangible fixed asset is also Revised UITF Abstract 17 not to apply its requirements to created of an amount equal to the provision.
This asset, Inland Revenue approved savings-related share option schemes together with the cost of the mine, is subsequently depreciated and equivalent overseas schemes.
on a unit of production basis.
The unwinding of the discount is included within net interest and similar charges.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Shares in the company purchased for the LTIP are held under Decommissioning costs Provision is made for the estimated trust.
The cost of awards made by the trust under the LTIP, decommissioning costs at the end of the producing lives of the being the difference between the fair value of the shares and groups power stations on a discounted basis.
Capitalised the option price at the date of grant, is taken to the profit and decommissioning costs are depreciated over the useful lives of loss account on a straight line basis over the period in which the related assets.
The unwinding of the discount is included performance is measured.
within net interest and similar charges.
Stocks Leased assets Stocks are valued at the lower of average cost and net As lessee Assets leased under finance leases are capitalised realisable value.
and depreciated over the shorter of the lease periods and the estimated operational lives of the assets.
The interest element of US regulatory assets the finance lease repayments is charged to the profit and loss Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.
71 Accounting account in proportion to the balance of the capital repayments for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation FAS 71 outstanding.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged establishes US GAAP for utilities in the US whose regulators have to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
110 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 the power to approve and or regulate rates that may be charged to Environmental liabilities customers.
FAS 71 provides that regulatory assets may be Provision for environmental liabilities is made when capitalised if it is probable that future revenue in an amount at least expenditure on remedial work is probable and the group is equal to the capitalised costs will result from the inclusion of that obliged, either legally or constructively through its cost in allowable costs for ratemaking purposes.
Due to the different environmental policies, to undertake such work.
Where the regulatory environment, no equivalent GAAP applies in the UK.
amount is expected to be incurred over the long-term, the Under UK GAAP, the groups policy is to recognise amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future regulatory assets established in accordance with FAS 71 only expenditure and the unwinding of the discount is included where they comprise rights or other access to future economic within net interest and similar charges.
benefits which have arisen as a result of past transactions or events which have created an obligation to transfer economic Foreign currencies benefits to a third party.
Measurement of the past transaction Group The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are or event and hence the regulatory asset, is determined in translated to sterling at the average rate of exchange for each accordance with UK GAAP.
quarter of the financial year.
The net assets of such subsidiaries and the goodwill arising on their acquisition are translated to Grants and contributions sterling at the closing rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet Capital grants and customer contributions in respect of date.
Exchange differences which relate to the translation of additions to fixed assets are treated as deferred income and overseas subsidiaries and of matching foreign currency borrowings released to the profit and loss account over the estimated and derivatives are taken directly to group reserves and are shown operational lives of the related assets.
in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Pensions Company Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at The group provides pension benefits through both defined the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
At the year end, benefit and defined contribution arrangements.
The regular monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign cost of providing pensions and related benefits and any currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the variations from regular cost arising from the actuarial balance sheet date or, where applicable, at the hedged valuations for defined benefit schemes are charged to the profit contracted rate.
Any gain or loss arising on the restatement of and loss account over the expected remaining service lives of such balances is taken to the profit and loss account.
current employees following consultations with the actuary.
Any difference between the charge to the profit and loss Exchange rates account and the actual contributions paid to the pension The exchange rates applied in the preparation of the Accounts schemes is included as an asset or liability in the balance sheet.
were as follows: Year ended 31 March Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged against 2005 2004 2003 profits as incurred.
Average rate for quarters ended: 30 June $1.81 $1.62 $1.46 30 September $1.82 $1.61 $1.55 Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 31 December $1.87 $1.71 $1.57 Certain additional post-retirement benefits, principally 31 March $1.89 $1.84 $1.60 healthcare benefits, are provided to eligible retirees within the Closing rate as at 31 March $1.89 $1.84 $1.58 groups US businesses.
The estimated cost of providing such benefits is charged against profits on a systematic basis over A glossary of terms used in the Accounts and their US the employees working lives within the group.
equivalents is set out on page 172.
