Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by law to prepare preparation of a Directors Report and Directors consolidated financial statements of Serco Group Remuneration Report which comply with the plc and its subsidiaries together, the Group in requirements of the Companies Act 1985. accordance with the Companies Act 1985, International Financial Reporting Standards The Directors are also responsible for the and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the The Directors are responsible for preparing the preparation and dissemination of financial Annual Report and the financial statements.
statements may differ from legislation in The Directors are required to prepare financial other jurisdictions.
statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have elected to prepare financial statements Approved by the Board of Directors and signed for the company in accordance with UK GAAP.
on its behalf: Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Joanne Roberts IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Secretary requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, Serco House financial performance and cash flows.
This requires 16 Bartley Wood Business Park the faithful representation of the effects of Bartley Way transactions, other events and conditions in Hook accordance with the definition and recognition Hampshire criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses RG27 9UY set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and 1 March 2006 Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the 58 Annual review and accounts 2005
