Investor information Registrars please contact Computershare directly on the Computershare Investor Services maintains number provided above, or alternatively look our register of members and makes dividend under the home page section on the payments to our shareholders.
Please direct any Computershare website.
correspondence about your holding including change of address and dividend mandate Electronic mailing instructions to Computershare at this address.
Where the law allows, you can now choose not to receive a paper copy of the documentation Computershare Investor Services PLC we send out.
Instead we can send you an email PO Box 82 notification every time a new shareholder document The Pavilions is posted on our website.
This will include the Bridgwater Road annual and interim reports and other shareholder Bristol BS99 7NH communications.
You can then view the document s on our website at www.
Computershares shareholder website is at www.
A dedicated shareholder To receive documents electronically you will need services helpline is available on to register on line on the Computershare website.
This is a secure, straightforward online service The helpline is open during working hours UK operated free of charge by Computershare.
time if you have any questions about your holding in the company.
Postal share dealing services Serco has arranged with Cazenove & Co a simple, Shares in issue low-cost method of buying and selling its shares At 31 December 2005 there were 468,231,512 by post.
Shares are bought and sold on the day Serco Group plc Ordinary 2p Shares in issue.
For a dealing form, please contact the postal dealing department Dividend mandate at Cazenove.
Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building society account.
To take advantage of this Cazenove & Co. Ltd facility, please complete the dividend mandate form Share Dealing Service attached to your dividend cheque or contact 20 Moorgate Computershare by phone, fax or post.
London EC2R 6DA United Kingdom The form is also available from the Computershare website.
Tel: 44 0 20 7155 5155 Dividend re-investment plan The terms and conditions for this service are shown The Serco Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP on the last page of the form.
gives shareholders the chance to re-invest their dividends in Serco shares instead of receiving cash.
Unsolicited mail We are legally obliged, whenever requested, to If you participate in the DRIP, your cash dividend provide copies of our shareholder register to any will be paid directly to Computershare, who will third parties, so from time to time you may receive calculate the number of shares to which you unsolicited mail.
You can limit the amount of are entitled and buy them on the stock market.
unsolicited mail you receive by contacting: Because participants share purchases are aggregated, the dealing costs are relatively low.
The Mailing Preference Service Freepost 22 To register, simply complete a form and send it to London W1E 7EZ the registrar.
For further information about the DRIP United Kingdom www.
