SEVERN TRENT PLC 10 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS WASTE MANAGEMENT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 BIFFA Key strengths High quality IT infrastructure delivers efficiencies and customer service Modern, specialist fleet with high levels of fuel and operational efficiency Over 30 landfill sites throughout the UK, all with ISO14001 certification Over one million tonnes of waste recycled and composted in 2004 2005, one year ahead of target Special waste expertise based on innovation, new technologies and understanding of new legislation Outlook New legislation and increased landfill tax will impact on all aspects of our business.
But changes in legislation also create new business opportunities in pre-treatment, special waste and integrated waste management.
With the Hales integration now complete, Biffa is in a good position to maximise those opportunities, and to achieve good organic growth in 2005 2006.
Biffa is one of the largest integrated waste management companies in the UK.
It provides collection, landfill and special waste services to over 90,000 commercial industrial customers and almost one million households through its local authority contracts.
Biffas infrastructure includes the operation of over 30 landfill sites, 13 special waste treatment facilities, and a collection fleet of over 1,650 specialist vehicles.
The company employs over 5,000 people in the UK and Belgium.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 11 Turnover up 10.0% to 696.3m 633.1m Turnover from Collection up 9.3%, Landfill up 9.9%, Special Waste up 11.6% and Belgium up 12.8% Strong IT infrastructure delivering synergies and efficiencies CULTURE CHANGE Raising the bar in health and safety performance Biffas goal is to be a leader in health and safety in the waste industry and a benchmark for others.
Our aim is to ensure the safety of everyone who comes into contact with our operations whether they are employees, customers, contractors or members of the public.
The waste industry has traditionally had a Other initiatives in 2004 2005 include was very highly rated with six UK locations poor record on health and safety, compared introducing new personal protective achieving four star ratings.
Biffa is equipment and uniforms, installing new Recognition has also been achieved with the determined to improve on this record.
hardware such as reversing-aid cameras recent award of OHSAS 18001 certification to our fleet, providing manual handling In 2002, we launched a company-wide occupational health and safety audit training across the whole organisation culture change programme to promote and covering health and safety performance and holding a health and safety improve health and safety across all our in the fleet workshops.
Regular workshops which include employees from all our different business One of the real benefits of the culture change functions are held to discuss the importance programme is that our employees across all of health and safety.
These have proved operational and support functions are given highly effective in identifying potentially the opportunity to make suggestions to dangerous practices, and in spreading the improve health and safety.
The results of our Above key messages of the programme If we cant various culture change programme initiatives Manual handling training provided for all manage the risk, we dont do it and think are evident.
Employees are continually Following the British Safety Council's audit of Main image encouraged to question their behaviour and the company's locations, Biffa's performance Gavin George, Biffa.
attitudes towards health and safety issues.
FIND OUT MORE More information on Biffa is available at: www.
co. uk Details of Biffaward, the landfill tax credit scheme, can be found at: www.
org SEVERN TRENT PLC 12 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS WASTE MANAGEMENT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Biffa achieved a good performance in Collection 2004 2005.
Following the acquisition of Biffas Collection division works with Hales Waste Control in 2003 2004, we industrial commercial customers and completed the integration of that business local authorities across the UK.
ahead of schedule, and realised the planned synergies from the deal.
The division won a number of large new commercial industrial accounts.
In the In addition to the Hales integration, three municipal sector, the securing of new other themes ran through the business: a contracts and the extension of existing drive to make Biffa the health and safety contracts brought the total of municipal leader in its industry: legislation: and the contracts now managed to 50.
They included upgrading of our IT capabilities.
important new seven-year contracts in the London boroughs of Wandsworth and In terms of legislation, European directives Havering.
The division also re-won contracts such as the Landfill Directive, Road Transport in Swale Kent, Tandridge, and West Directive and Hazardous Waste Regulations Berkshire, evidence of previous good Directive are having a fundamental effect on performance.
the way we run our business.
We are on track in our preparations for these Directives, and Biffa continued to invest in new facilities and ready for the opportunities they create.
New facilities were set up in South Shields, Middlesbrough, The IT programme had two aspects.
In our St Albans, Southampton and Bridlington.
collection fleet we installed in-cab technology Unfortunately in June 2004, a fire caused linked directly to our IT network.
As well as serious damage to the new Bursom recycling Top improving our operational efficiency and plant, built as part of the 300 million Cell preparation, Redhill landfill site.
customer service, this technology helped us integrated waste management contract with win important new municipal contracts.
The plant is now back Above Specialist collection vehicle.
also upgraded our mainframe capabilities, in operation and the technology is the only ensuring greater IT security and business one of its kind in the UK.
Overall, in the Collection division, turnover Performance increased to 394.2 million 360.6 million.
Turnover for waste management increased Profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation by 10.0% in 2004 2005 to 696.3 million.
and exceptional charges was 54.0 million, Turnover in the UK was 629.5 million, up up 4.7% on the previous year.
9.7% on the previous financial year: turnover in Belgium was 66.8 million, up 12.8%.
Landfill Biffa operates more than 30 landfill sites Biffas profit before interest, tax, goodwill in the UK.
The Landfill division as a whole amortisation and exceptional items increased received the ISO 14001 environmental by 5.3% to 83.4 million, or 10.5% before management certification in 2004 2005. incremental pension charges of 4.1 million.
Goodwill amortisation was 22.9 million The division made good progress on 21.3 million.
Profit before interest and compliance with the implementation tax was 60.5 million 47.0 million.
For example, Biffa continued the process of obtaining Pollution There were no further costs for the Prevention and Control PPC permits, and integration of Hales in 2004 2005, and the 11 of the 38 permits applied for had been planned annualised synergies of 7.5 million obtained by the end of the year.
PROFIT BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Up 5.3% at 83.4m Goodwill amortisation 22.9 million and exceptional items of nil.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 13 The Landfill Directive also created new interest, tax, goodwill amortisation Outlook business openings.
Biffa implemented and exceptional items was 8.2 million Legislation will continue to provide both four stable non-reactive cells for asbestos 7.0 million.
The Landfill disposal in key strategic areas.
It also formed Directive and increases in landfill tax from a strategic partnership with a Canadian Belgium April 2005 will stimulate demand for company, Biogenie, to remove and treat Biffa has 11 operational facilities in Belgium.
alternatives to landfill, but our pre-treatment, contaminated soil from brownfield As well as contributing to the balance sheet, recycling and special waste activities will construction sites.
the business adds value to Biffa by providing benefit from that.
We believe that the market experience of operating in a recycling and already recognises our strengths in those In 2004 2005 the effect of the Landfill recovery culture well in advance of the UK.
areas, and we are positive about prospects Directive on business volumes was limited.
For example, since Belgian householders for the year ahead.
Indeed, in the first months of the year, have greater responsibility for separation the division benefited from an increase of of wastes, lessons can be learned when higher margin contaminated waste work developing pre-treatment and automatic in the run up to implementation of the sorting facilities in the UK.
Landfill England and Wales Regulations in July 2004.
Despite difficult market conditions, Biffas turnover in Belgium was 66.8 million, up Turnover for the division was up 9.9% 12.8%.
Profit before interest, tax, goodwill to 179.3 million.
Profit before interest, tax, amortisation and exceptional items was goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 3.3 million 3.2 million.
Landfill volumes were up 5% overall.
Unit Corporate responsibility revenues, excluding landfill tax, were up by 5%.
Biffa recognises its responsibility to contribute positively to communities and Special Waste the environment.
Biffaward, the companys The Special Waste division works with landfill tax credit scheme, has distributed customers in many sectors to manage over 70 million to over 800 community hazardous waste materials.
Services include and environment projects since it was set packaged waste services like Hazpak, Wasteup in 1998.
In 2004 2005, it distributed Safe and Backtrack, which all performed approximately 7 million ranging from a well in 2004 2005.
The division also grant to an unemployed workers centre to a leads the companys integrated waste project to restore wildlife habitats in the Fens.
management contracts, which encompass all aspects of Biffas business collection, Towards the end of the year, Biffa produced pre-treatment, recycling and landfill an award-winning interactive educational CD Below capabilities, as well as its special waste to help primary and secondary schoolchildren Waste-safe, secure transportation expertise.
During 2004 2005, the integrated learn about waste and recycling, and how of hazardous waste materials.
waste management team helped to recycle they can do their bit to protect the over 23,000 tonnes of waste for clients.
The Special Waste division also manages Biffa continued in its commitment to report Biffas power generation activity.
With new biennially on its environmental performance, capacity added at a number of UK sites in but this year extended the report to include 2004 2005, Biffas power generation interests more social issues, making this years report in the UK exceeded 100MW by year end.
its first Corporate Responsibility report.
Turnover in Special Waste was 56.0 million in 2004 2005, up 11.6%.
Profit before In August 2004 Biffa completed its integration of the Hales Waste Control business, well ahead of schedule.
All planned synergies from bringing together the Biffa and Hales businesses were delivered, and there were no further integration costs in 2004 2005.
