Other prior year comparatives have not been restated in the above table.
Following the implementation of FRS 19 Deferred Tax, the 2001 results were restated to reflect a deferred tax charge under the new accounting standard.
Gearing has been calculated as net debt divided by the sum of net equity and net debt.
SEVERN TRENT PLC 76 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Shareholder enquiries Financial calendar and results announcements If you have a question about your shareholding in the company you should Annual General Meeting contact our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the International Convention Centre, 26 July 2005, who are responsible for making dividend Broad Street, Birmingham, B1 2EA.
at 11.00am payments and updating the register of shareholders, including details of changes Dividend payments in respect of the year to names and addresses.
You should also ended 31 March 2005: contact the registrars if you would like Interim dividend paid 6 April 2005 to have your dividends paid directly into Proposed final dividend payable 31 August 2005 your bank or building society account.
The registrars contact details are: The results of the group will normally Telephone helpline: 0870 600 3967 be published at the following times: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Interim results for the six months to 30 September: December Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Preliminary results for the year to 31 March: June Online communication Report and accounts for the year to 31 March: June Shareview is operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars and gives you access to services Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2005 over the internet that enable you to check details of your shareholding at any time.
Number To register for the service, please go to Number of % of of shares % www.
Category shareholders shareholders million of shares Individual and joint accounts 85,568 92.29 44.1 12.75 Shareholders can also elect to receive Other 7,147 7.71 301.9 87.25 communications from the company electronically.
If you do, you will receive an Total 92,715 100.00 346.0 100.00 email notification when the Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting Number become available on our website.
To register Number of % of of shares % for this service please contact Lloyds TSB Size of Holding shareholders shareholders million of shares Registrars.
com provides news and 10,000-49,999 467 0.5 10.1 2.9 details of the companys activities, latest 50,000-99,999 151 0.2 10.3 3.0 results, information on the share price Over 100,000 356 0.4 274.4 79.3 and links to our businesses websites.
Total 92,715 100.0 346.0 100.0 Includes insurance companies, nominee companies, banks, pension funds, other corporate bodies, limited and public limited companies Cautionary statement There are a number of factors that could This document is not an offer to sell, This document contains certain forwardcause actual results and developments to exchange or transfer any securities of Severn looking statements with respect to Severn differ materially from those expressed or Trent Plc or any of its subsidiaries and is not Trents financial condition, results of implied by these forward-looking statements.
soliciting an offer to purchase, exchange or operations and business and certain of These factors include, but are not limited to, transfer such securities in any jurisdiction.
Severn Trents plans and objectives with changes in the economies and markets in Securities may not be offered, sold or respect to these items.
which the group operates: changes in the transferred in the United States absent regulatory and competition frameworks in registration or an applicable exemption from Forward-looking statements are sometimes, which the group operates: the impact of legal the registration requirements of the US but not always, identified by their use of a or other proceedings against or which affect Securities Act of 1933 as amended.
date in the future or such words as the group: and changes in interest and anticipates, aims, due, could, may, exchange rates.
should, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates.
By their All written or verbal forward-looking very nature forward-looking statements are statements, made in this document or made inherently unpredictable, speculative and subsequently, which are attributable to involve risk and uncertainty because they Severn Trent or any other member of the relate to events and depend on group or persons acting on their behalf are circumstances that will occur in the future.
expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Severn Trent does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
THIS IS SEVERN TRENT SEVERN TRENT PLC IS A LEADING PROVIDER OF WATER, WASTE AND ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES.
WE ARE DETERMINED TO ENSURE THAT CUSTOMERS GET THE BENEFIT OF HIGH QUALITY AND COST EFFECTIVE SERVICES WHILE INVESTORS RECEIVE AN APPROPRIATE RETURN.
FIRMLY EMBEDDED IN OUR CORPORATE STRATEGY IS A COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY, PARTICULARLY HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE, AND SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT.
YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE ABOUT SEVERN TRENT PLC AND THE BUSINESSES WITHIN OUR GROUP BY VISITING OUR WEBSITE WWW.
COM Contents 01 Financial highlights 22 Financial review 45 Statement of total recognised 02 Chairmans statement 24 Board of Directors gains and losses 04 Group Chief Executives review 26 Directors report 45 Reconciliation of movements 06 Review of operations Water and 32 Remuneration report in shareholders funds sewerage 40 Directors responsibilities in relation 46 Notes to the financial statements 10 Review of operations Waste management to the financial statements 75 Five year summary 14 Review of operations Laboratories 41 Independent auditors report to 76 Information for shareholders 16 Review of operations Water purification the members of Severn Trent Plc and operating services 42 Group profit and loss account 18 Review of operations Other businesses 43 Balance sheets 19 Review of operations Corporate 44 Group cash flow statement responsibility 44 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 For more information about Severn Trent Plc and its businesses see our website www.
com This document is printed by St Ives Westerham Press on Mohawk Options 100% PC, supplied by Paper Resources Ltd.
The paper is manufactured in accordance with FSC standards from 100% post-consumer recycled waste and only wind energy is used during the papermaking.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Severn Trent Plc, Registered office: 2297 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3PU Telephone: 44 0 121 722 4000 Registered number: 2366619 ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 For more information about Severn Trent Plc and its businesses see our website www.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Severn Trent Plc, Registered office: 2297 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3PU Telephone: 44 0 121 722 4000 Registered number: 2366619 SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS 33 Shareholder enquiries Financial calendar and results announcements If you have a question about your THIS IS SEVERN TRENT shareholding in the company you should Annual General Meeting contact our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the International Convention Centre, 26 July 2005, who are responsible for making dividend Broad Street, Birmingham, B1 2EA.
at 11.00am payments and updating the register of shareholders, including details of changes Dividend payments in respect of the year to addresses and names.
You should also ended 31 March 2005: SEVERN TRENT PLC IS A LEADING contact the registrars if you would like Interim dividend paid 6 April 2005 to have your dividends paid directly into Proposed final dividend payable 31 August 2005 your bank or building society account.
PROVIDER OF WATER, WASTE AND The Registrars contact details are: The results of the group will normally Telephone helpline: 0870 600 3967 be published at the following times: ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES.
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Interim results for the six months to 30 September: December Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Preliminary results for the year to 31 March: June WE ARE DETERMINED TO ENSURE THAT CUSTOMERS GET THE BENEFIT Online communication Report and accounts for the year to 31 March: June Shareview, is operated by Lloyds TSB OF HIGH QUALITY AND COST EFFECTIVE SERVICES WHILE INVESTORS Registrars and gives you access to services Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2005 over the internet that enable you to check RECEIVE AN APPROPRIATE RETURN.
details of your shareholding at any time.
FIRMLY EMBEDDED IN OUR CORPORATE STRATEGY IS A COMMITMENT TO Category shareholders shareholders million of shares Individual and joint accounts 85,568 92.29 44.1 12.75 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY, PARTICULARLY HEALTH AND SAFETY AND Shareholders can also elect to receive Other 7,147 7.71 301.9 87.25 communications from the company ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE, AND SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT.
If you do, you will receive an Total 92,715 100.00 346.0 100.00 email notification when the Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE ABOUT SEVERN TRENT PLC AND THE Number become available on our website.
To register Number of % of of shares % BUSINESSES WITHIN OUR GROUP BY VISITING OUR WEBSITE for this service please contact Lloyds TSB Size of Holding shareholders shareholders million of shares Registrars.
Total 92,715 100.0 346.0 100.0 Includes insurance companies, nominee companies, banks, pension funds, other corporate bodies, limited and public limited companies Cautionary Statement There are a number of factors that could This document is not an offer to sell, This document contains certain forwardcause actual results and developments to exchange or transfer any securities of Severn looking statements with respect to Severn differ materially from those expressed or Trent Plc or any of its subsidiaries and is not Trents financial condition, results of implied by these forward-looking statements.
soliciting an offer to purchase, exchange or operations and business and certain These factors include, but are not limited to, transfer such securities in any jurisdiction.
of Severn Trents plans and objectives changes in the economies and markets in Securities may not be offered, sold or with respect to these items.
which the group operates: changes in the transferred in the United States absent regulatory and competition frameworks in registration or an applicable exemption Forward-looking statements are sometimes, which the group operates: the impact of legal from the registration requirements of the but not always, identified by their use of or other proceedings against or which affect US Securities Act of 1933 as amended.
Contents a date in the future or such words as the group: and changes in interest and 01 Financial highlights 22 Financial review anticipates, aims, due, could, may, exchange rates.
02 Chairmans statement 24 Board of Directors should, expects, believes, intends, 04 Group Chief Executives review 26 Independent auditors statement plans, targets, goal or estimates.
By All written or verbal forward-looking 06 Review of operations Water and 26 Summary Directors report their very nature forward-looking statements statements, made in this document or sewerage 28 Summary group profit and loss account are inherently unpredictable, speculative made subsequently, which are attributable 10 Review of operations Waste management 29 Summary group balance sheet and involve risk and uncertainty because to Severn Trent or any other member of the 14 Review of operations Laboratories 29 Summary group cash flow statement they relate to events and depend on group or persons acting on their behalf are 16 Review of operations Water purification 30 Summary remuneration report circumstances that will occur in the future.
expressly qualified in their entirety by the and operating services 33 Information for shareholders factors referred to above.
Severn Trent does 18 Review of operations Other businesses not intend to update these forward-looking 19 Review of operations Corporate statements.
responsibility SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 01 GROUP TURNOVER GROUP PROFIT EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDEND BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, GOODWILL BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS ITEMS AND DEFERRED TAX Down 0.5% at 55.6p Final dividend Up 3.3% to 438.6m of 30.30p bringing 2,081m Goodwill amortisation 30.1 million the total for the and net exceptional charge of 14.8 million.
year to 48.51p 2005 2004 % change Turnover m 2,081 2,015 3.3 Profit before interest pre goodwill and exceptionals m 439 441 0.5 Profit before interest pre exceptionals m 409 411 0.6 Profit before interest post exceptionals m 394 422 6.8 Profit before tax pre goodwill and exceptionals m 262 273 3.8 Profit before tax pre exceptionals m 232 243 4.4 Profit before tax post exceptionals m 217 254 14.6 Earnings per share pre exceptionals and deferred tax p 55.6 61.4 9.4 Earnings per share post exceptionals and deferred tax p 40.3 53.5 24.7 Gearing % 56.8 55.4 2.5 Final dividend p 30.30 29.27 3.5 Interim dividend p 18.21 17.77 2.5 Total dividend for the year p 48.51 47.04 3.1 An exceptional charge of 14.8 million in 2004 2005 comprises a profit of 7.6 million on disposal of fixed assets, a net loss on sale and termination of operations of 9.4 million and a charge of 13.0 million relating to restructuring.
An exceptional credit of 11.6 million in 2003 2004 comprised a 19.8 million profit on the sale of land and buildings, a 2.7 million credit from the release of part of the 25.0 million exceptional charge made in 2001 2002 in respect of certain of Systems CIS-Open Vision contracts in the US and a 10.9 million charge in respect of Hales Waste integration costs.
We have We announced in January 2005 that Severn control over disposal through having a large Trent Water would accept Ofwats Final Price landfill operation, probably joint second in Determination for 2005-2010.
This is the terms of void space, together with a number single most important event for the group of strategic alliances to take recovered in 2004 2005. materials.
We have excellent special waste capabilities through our treatment centres.
Ofwats final AMP4 Determination allows No other company has these combined Severn Trent Water to raise prices by 24% strengths in the UK.
before inflation, equivalent to around 53 per property over the five year period.
Even New legislation and increased landfill tax will after this rise, Severn Trent Waters average impact on all aspects of Biffas business.
But household bills will remain among the lowest changes in legislation also create new in its sector.
business opportunities in pre-treatment, special waste and integrated waste The efficiency targets set by Ofwat are management.
With the Hales integration now extremely challenging.
The Determination complete, Biffa is in a good position to includes a reduction in the allowance for maximise these opportunities and to develop capital maintenance costs, particularly in good organic growth going forward.
respect of mains renewal, and a reduction in the costs allowed for alternative sludge Severn Trent Laboratories, the worlds disposal methods.
The Determination includes leading environmental testing company, has sufficient costs to fund only half of Severn experienced extremely challenging market Trent Waters pension deficit.
In addition, there remain other areas Legislation and public concern will drive the such as electricity costs, business rates and growth of markets like indoor air quality, food operational areas where the Determination microbiology, endocrine disrupters, and allows for smaller cost increases than are perchlorate testing.
STL has put in place the forecast in the company plan.
expertise and facilities to keep it at the forefront of these and other emerging Severn Trent Water is already performing markets.
at or close to Ofwats operating and capital efficiency frontiers.
We want to continue this The Water purification and operating services so plans are being put in place to maintain business continues to perform well.
HeadSevern Trent Water as one of the most efficient quartered in the US, it supplies technology and companies in the water sector, in terms of expertise to private and public sector clients both operating costs and capital investment.
The water purification market will continue to grow and our strong We are determined to improve our market position and brand recognition will performance to meet all these challenges.
enable us to compete vigorously.
While much of our management focus has This business exploits technology and been concerned with the Ofwat Determination, capability from our UK water expertise so is we have continued to develop our waste attractive to Severn Trent going forward.
management company, Biffa, into a leading integrated waste management company.
Corporate responsibility Severn Trent was named as the leading utility We have achieved scale in the important in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the Industrial Commercial collection area where fourth consecutive year.
This is the first time Severn Trent produced satisfactory results overall in 2004 2005.
Excluding the impact of exchange rates, turnover rose in all the main businesses of water and sewerage, waste management, laboratories and water purification and operating services.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 03 that any utility has won this category four management, also retired at the end of dedicated and highly trained staff whose times in a row.
We thank him for hard work and commitment ensures we 38 years of service and wish him well.
have the ability to achieve our objectives.
Severn Trents award was made after He certainly deserves his OBE for services an assessment of the quality of our to the water industry and to engineering.
Outlook management and performance in terms of The finalisation of the AMP4 Determination integrating economic, environmental and I am extremely grateful to Martin Flower, senior provides greater certainty for Severn Trent social considerations into business strategies, independent non-executive Director, who Water going forward and sets challenging while continuing to enhance competitiveness agreed to become Deputy Chairman from 6 but clear financial and service targets, which and brand reputation.
July 2004 to ensure continuity on the Board the company is well positioned to deliver.
and support for our new management team.
Biffa anticipates organic growth within Our businesses are one of the UKs largest the competitive waste sector in the UK managers of renewable carbon which is Colin Matthews arrived in September 2004 as a result of its technology, its scale and biodegradable waste and sewage sludge, as Acting Managing Director of Severn Trent through new opportunities driven by waste that can be utilised to generate renewable Water and took over as Group Chief Executive legislation.
Reduced federal spending on electricity.
We handle approximately 12% on 1 February 2005, on the retirement of the environment is expected to continue the of the UKs waste renewable carbon Robert Walker.
difficult market conditions for Laboratories excluding agriculture.
The UK market Colins wide experience with Americas for Laboratories is expected to remain In 2004 2005 we generated around 690 General Electric Company, British Airways, strong.
The Services business is expected GWh of renewable electricity which equates Transco and Hays means we have appointed to continue to grow in line with favourable to 5% of the UKs renewable electricity.
a first class individual with an engineering market conditions.
and operational background who can build The objective over the next five years is to Group results on the success of our businesses.
We are ensure customers in the groups regulated Overall, the Severn Trent group has delivered fortunate to have him lead our group.
and non-regulated businesses get the a satisfactory performance in 2004 2005, benefits of high quality and cost effective with group profit before tax, goodwill As indeed we are with Tony Wray, who joined services while ensuring that investors receive amortisation and exceptional items at 262.2 the Board as Managing Director of Severn an appropriate return.
million, a decrease of 3.8% after incremental Trent Water on 7 March 2005 from Eircom, pension charges of 31.3 million.
Group having been previously Director Asset The Board of Severn Trent Plc intends to profit before tax and exceptional items was Management and then National Operations maintain, as a minimum, group dividends 232.1 million 242.8 million and group Director, Transco.
in real terms at least up to 2009 2010. profit before tax was 217.3 million Our shareholders can be confident in this 254.4 million.
We also welcomed Rachel Brydon Jannetta as a dividend floor for the next five years.
and Mark Wilson to the Board in September Our objective is, of course, to do better The Board is proposing a final dividend of 2004.
Rachel is President and CEO of Severn with real growth over the AMP4 period.
30.30p 29.27p to be paid on 31 August Trent Laboratories, based in the US.
This would give a total dividend for Group Finance Director, having been Finance the year of 48.51p, an increase of 3.1%.
and Regulation Director in Severn Trent Water.
Management and staff As you know, I succeeded David Arculus as Since my appointment as Chairman, we have Sir John Egan Chairman of Severn Trent Plc on 1 January carried out a rigorous Board effectiveness Chairman 2005.
I am delighted to take up my role as review with the help of independent Chairman as I regard Severn Trent as one of consultants, which has generated a number the best managed companies in the utility of actions to secure improvements to Board sector.
John Banyard, executive Director of Severn Although I am relatively new to Severn Trent Trent Water with responsibility for asset I have discovered already that there is a SEVERN TRENT PLC 04 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 Severn Trent is a successful group I deeply regret to report one employee with tremendous strengths and great fatality this year where a Biffa refuse collector opportunities that is my clear conclusion was hit by a reversing vehicle.
As with any after four months as Group Chief Executive serious accident we have undertaken a and nine months as an executive Director.
rigorous investigation and audit to reduce the possibility of this, or any similar incident, For five months, from September 2004, happening in future.
I focused exclusively on Severn Trent Water which after all accounts for around 77% Overall the group recorded a RIDDOR of our profits.
Since becoming Group CEO Reportable Incident Rate of 22.93 per I have been immersed in all the businesses 1,000 employees: this represents a 4% in the group.
improvement rate on last years figure.
We are looking to accelerate the rate of As a result I am able now to lay out the two improvement in this and future years.
top priorities for our company both of which are operational.
Water and sewerage In 2004 2005 we completed the AMP3 The first is to deliver and hopefully beat the programme, reaching the Ofwat targets and operational performance required by the outperforming them in many cases.
We were regulatory settlement for Severn Trent Water among the leading water and sewerage from 2005-2010. companies in Ofwats overall performance and relative efficiency assessments.
The second is to build on our waste companys operational success story by re-focusing on The challenge now is to at least deliver organic growth and return on investment.
the performance required by the Price Determination agreed in January 2005.
Improving operational performance goes hand in hand with improving financial We have already streamlined the top performance.
There is a false argument management structure to achieve a which implies that the way to achieve cost shortening of the lines of communication reduction is to cut corners and reduce from the top to the bottom to continue to standards.
I believe the opposite, the way to drive efficiencies through the organisation.
secure cost reduction is to raise professional standards across the whole organisation.
Operational efficiencies will be achieved in the following ways: However good we become in health and safety, quality or environmental performance, Headcount reduction: We cannot deliver we must always have an ambition to get operational efficiencies without reducing better.
As we get the processes in place to employee numbers within the group, largely raise these professional standards then our through improved technology.
There are financial performance will also improve.
three particular areas in which we continue to invest: replacing back office systems around Health and safety financing and purchasing: continuing to We have established three key health and upgrade our customer interface systems: and safety principles for all employees: maintaining, but also improving, our capability If a job cannot be done safely, dont do it to manage our remote sites automatically.
Always look for safety hazards Never ignore a safety hazard: fix it or Overheads: We can reduce our property report it costs by consolidating office accommodation and depots.
My team and I are highly focused on improving operational performance.
Indeed, we are already analysing and scrutinising all our businesses in greater detail both to ensure continual improvement, but also to be certain we can demonstrate their value to the group as a whole going forward.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 05 Procurement: We are reducing the number Biffas management achieved healthy organic Severn Trent Water International, which of suppliers and working with them in a turnover growth throughout the 1990s.
More provides management and consultancy more intense and collaborative way, taking recently, the UK Waste and Hales acquisitions services in Europe and the developing world, cost out of the total system and sharing the have accounted for a more substantial part was awarded an exciting 25 year PFI contract benefits with them.
This is in contrast to of Biffas turnover growth.
That is why the worth approximately 1 billion with Costain.
expending more energy in determining who two key challenges for us within Biffa are to This groundbreaking deal for the provision of pays than in reducing cost.
re-establish a focus on organic growth and water and wastewater services to MoD sites to improve the return on investment.
in England is now up and running.
Our capital expenditure amounts to a total of 2.6 billion over the five year period.
There Laboratories Other businesses are some 900 significant projects, a huge The business in the US operated in a difficult We will take the opportunities that we can to programme for us to manage.
We are looking market last year.
There has been a significant restructure some of our smaller businesses to work with 20 named key contractors reduction in return on total investment in the to make sure that we are focused on doing reduced from 50 in the past.
course of the year, which we must confront.
the right thing for our main business activities.
We shall: One particularly key initiative is to replace We are scaling down our engineering Standardise designs as far as we can, a number of laboratory information consultancy, Charles Haswell, and merging not just whole plants but also elements management systems with a single standard it into the Water business.
All of their skill within the plants system that covers the whole network.
is now devoted to Severn Trent Water and Invest in preparation work in order to Customers buy not simply tests, but also we are no longer pursuing external contracts.
reduce the cost of the delivery data.
Customers want that data with faster Our Severn Trent Water International interest Ensure good discipline around design turn round times and standardised reporting in Portugal has been sold and we are freeze and establish target pricing and they want to be able to transfer and restructuring Severn Trent Systems so use data in their own systems.
Having we can focus on our in-house IT needs We are also looking to make sure that our different IT systems in our laboratories whilst satisfying our existing obligations suppliers are incentivised financially to drive is an impediment to exploiting our scale.
for continuous improvement and that they, The first five laboratories already have like us, are motivated on an RPI minus the new system up and running and it is Outlook type incentive arrangement.
It will be rolled My team and I are highly focused on out to the others in the course of the next improving operational performance.
Indeed, Other industries have already demonstrated 12 months.
In 2006 2007 we expect to we are already analysing and scrutinising the value of implementing these procurement see significant operational improvements all our businesses in greater detail both to principles.
ensure continual improvement, but also to be certain we can demonstrate their value Waste management Water purification and operating services to the group as a whole going forward.
Biffas growth represents a real success story This business includes the Water Purification in terms of acquiring UK Waste, then Hales, business, the Contract Operations business, and successfully integrating them.
Equally, Severn Trent Water International and the the marketplace in which Biffa has been smaller Metering Services and Pipeline operating has been flat overall and the bulk Services businesses.
of Biffas recent growth has been from the acquisition of Hales.
Therefore the question The simplification of these activities in recent of organic growth is important.
years has stabilised the business and in the Colin Matthews last couple of years we have seen a gradual Group Chief Executive We believe that the myriad of regulatory improvement in returns.
Although this is of developments which are scheduled year in a modest scale, this is a business which is year out for the next five years are going to closely related to Water in the UK.
It exploits drive opportunities for revenue growth.
This our technology and capability and, from a is a marketplace which is going to favour the stable base, is now back on a growing and bigger players in this industry and we are improving trend.
Turnover by business 5 % of group total in 2004 2005 4 3 1Water 47%1,015.1m 1 2Waste 32%696.3m 3Laboratories 7%162.6m 4 Water Purification and Operating Services 10% 208.1m 2 5 Other 4% 86.8m SEVERN TRENT PLC 06 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS WATER AND SEWERAGE ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 SEVERN TRENT WATER Key strengths Outlook Track record of outperforming regulatory The efficiency targets Ofwat set Severn contract Trent Water for AMP4 are extremely testing.
However, our overall efficiency has been Good performance in Ofwat efficiency assessed by Ofwat as above average and we and performance assessments are confident about our ability to meet the Drinking and wastewater quality regulatory targets and AMP4 obligations.
consistently above average We will continue to supply high quality Excellent record in biodiversity, community water and sewerage services to domestic relations and employment practices and business customers, while delivering appropriate returns to investors.
Severn Trent Water provides water and sewerage services to around 3.7 million household and business properties in England and Wales.
It employs over 5,000 people in the Midlands region.
Industry regulators have recognised it as one of the leading companies in its sector in terms of water quality, efficiency and overall performance.
It also has a strong track record on customer service.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 07 Turnover up 6.1% to 1,015.1m 956.7m AMP3 regulatory outputs delivered High levels of performance for customer service, water and wastewater quality REGULATORY REVIEW AMP4 sets the scene for 2005-2010 December 2004 brought the final Determination of Ofwats AMP4 price review for 2005-2010.
It was the culmination of a long process that involved almost every department in the company.
Above Ofwats final AMP4 Determination allowed assessments.
This is intended to encourage Upgrading sewerage infrastructure.
Severn Trent Water to raise prices by 24% top performing companies to continue before inflation, equivalent to around 53 per improving in future.
It will allow us to meet Main image Terry Welch, Severn Trent Water.
Even after this rise, new environmental standards, and to make Severn Trent Waters average household bills improvements such as reducing sewer will remain among the lowest in its sector.
flooding, and improving the taste and odour of drinking water in specific areas.
The Although the Determination was lower than investment programme will cost some the amount asked for, it will enable Severn 2.6 billion, and equates to around 720 Trent Water to maintain the high levels of for every household.
customer service, water quality and environmental compliance achieved over the The efficiency targets set by Ofwat were last five years.
In recognition of our previous stringent, despite the fact Severn Trent is performance we were given an incentive performing at or close to Ofwats operating reward of 0.1%.
We are also one of only two and capital efficiency frontiers.
As part of the water and sewerage companies to have organisational changes necessary to meet qualified for an enhanced incentive at the these targets, the company will have to cut 2009 price review in all of Ofwats efficiency 300-350 jobs over two years.
FIND OUT MORE More information on Severn Trent Water is available on our website: www.
co. uk The site includes more detailed information about Severn Trent Waters plans for the 2005-2010 AMP4 programme.
Details of Severn Trents AMP3 performance and AMP4 obligations and targets can also be found on: www.
uk SEVERN TRENT PLC 08 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS WATER AND SEWERAGE ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 Performance In 2003 Ofwat and Severn Trent agreed new Severn Trent Water performed strongly leakage targets, of 505Ml d, for March 2005, in 2004 2005, and exceeded its financial and we put in place a programme on leakage targets for the year.
Turnover from water control and monitoring to realise this.
We and sewerage increased by 6.1% to 1,015.1 will continue with our programme of mains million.
The allowed increase in charges for replacement and active leakage detection 2004 2005 was 4.7%, including inflation.
in AMP4 to improve our leakage figures.
Profit before interest, tax, goodwill Serving our customers amortisation and exceptional items rose by Research undertaken by Severn Trent Water 0.6% to 339.9 million, after incremental in association with several industry bodies pension charges of 21.7 million.
Profit shows that customers main priorities are Above before interest and tax was 334.5 million a consistent supply of clean, safe water, Filter maintenance, Wanlip sewage treatment works.
Among the headline projects we embarked on or Completing the 2000-2005 contract completed in 2004 2005 in order to In 2004 2005 we completed the AMP3 achieve that were: schemes to protect the programme, reaching the Ofwat targets, quality of drinking water from boreholes: and outperforming them in many cases.
We schemes to prevent sewer flooding: projects were among the leading water and sewerage to improve cryptosporidium removal at water companies in Ofwats overall performance treatment works and phosphorus removal and relative efficiency assessments.
schemes at a number of sewage works.
Direct operating costs in 2004 2005 rose by Our enhanced water treatment process 41.8 million to 420.1 million.
This increase won a prestigious industry award in 2004, arose from the completion of the AMP3 which recognised both the technical programme and from incremental pension achievement of the project, and the charges.
The rise was partially offset by way it was implemented.
In real terms, the increase was 29.7 million after the Severn Trent Water believes that the way pension charges: or 8.0 million before we work with customers, and not just the pension charges.
quality of services we provide, is important.
We continued work on two major IT projects In 2004 2005 we invested some 452 million.
The first, TARGET, is a more We continued to deliver efficiencies against effective billing system that makes processes the 2 billion investment programme for such as changing details when moving 2000-2005.
Over the AMP3 period we house, for example, much easier for achieved average capex efficiencies of customers.
More than two million customers around 5% measured against the Retail were switched to this system in 2004 2005.
Prices Index, or around 13% measured against the Construction Output Price Index.
The second, ICE, or Improved Customer Experience, is a process management application designed to improve customers experience when they deal with our call centres.
We made good progress on rolling out ICE in 2004 2005, and will continue the process in 2005 2006.
Severn Trent invested more than 2 billion in 2000-2005.
Our programme of work included some 9,000 individual projects and jobs, all with the aim of ensuring high quality water and wastewater throughout our region.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 09 Corporate responsibility worked with WaterAid and Central TV on a Severn Trent Water contributes positively to project to take three young reporters to the communities in our region.
Their experiences were screened hundreds of projects, all with a sustainability on nightly news bulletins to give viewers an agenda and many with an educational focus.
insight into life without the clean water and As well as teaching children about the water sanitation that the UK takes for granted.
cycle, our educational work in 2004 2005 promoted the benefits of drinking water.
Outlook With the AMP3 process concluded, Severn We launched a five year Biodiversity Plan in Trent Water can focus on ensuring that we 1999 and achieved virtually all the targets deliver the new contract.
We have now launched a revised set in AMP4 are challenging, we have a action plan for 2004-2010.
We are one of strong track record on efficiency, cost control, seven organisations taking part in the pilot productivity and customer service.
We of a new biodiversity benchmarking scheme are confident that we can maintain and, created by The Wildlife Trusts.
in some cases, improve on this record, while continuing to deliver good returns Energy management is another important to investors.
aspect of our environmental agenda.
Severn Trent Water has installed combined heat and Autumn 2005 sees the introduction of power CHP units at around 30 sewage works, the new competition regime for business which increased our total generation capacity customers using more than 50 megalitres to 27MW in 2004 2005. of water a year.
We have good relationships with business customers in our region We actively promote equality and welcome and are well placed to retain our business diversity in all aspects of our business, and accounts.
We also believe we have the encourage employees to seek a good workpotential to win new national accounts and life balance.
In March 2005, Severn Trent customers outside our region.
There are Water was named as one of the top ten big good opportunities in this field and we companies to work for in the UK, in a have put in place the necessary systems nationwide survey by The Sunday Times for operating in the new regime.
Health and safety is the core of our Below obligations to our employees, customers and Combined heat and power units, the communities where we work.
Over the Minworth sewage treatment works.
past two years we have instilled a strong management focus on improving our health and safety record.
In 2004 2005 there was a 24% reduction in reportable incidents.
A number of Severn Trent Waters facilities won British Safety Council five-star awards in 2004 2005.
We support the charity WaterAid in order to help people worldwide gain access to safe water and sanitation.
Severn Trent Water PROFIT BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Up 0.6% at 339.9m Goodwill amortisation nil and exceptional charges of 5.4 million.
SEVERN TRENT PLC 10 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS WASTE MANAGEMENT ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BIFFA Key strengths High quality IT infrastructure delivers efficiencies and customer service Modern, specialist fleet with high levels of fuel and operational efficiency Over 30 landfill sites throughout the UK, all with ISO14001 certification Over one million tonnes of waste recycled and composted in 2004 2005, one year ahead of target Special waste expertise based on innovation, new technologies and understanding of new legislation Outlook New legislation and increased landfill tax will impact on all aspects of our business.
But changes in legislation also create new business opportunities in pre-treatment, special waste and integrated waste management.
With the Hales integration now complete, Biffa is in a good position to maximise those opportunities, and to achieve good organic growth in 2005 2006.
Biffa is one of the largest integrated waste management companies in the UK.
It provides collection, landfill and special waste services to over 90,000 commercial industrial customers and almost one million households through its local authority contracts.
Biffas infrastructure includes the operation of over 30 landfill sites, 13 special waste treatment facilities, and a collection fleet of over 1,650 specialist vehicles.
The company employs over 5,000 people in the UK and Belgium.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 11 Turnover up 10.0% to 696.3m 633.1m Turnover from Collection up 9.3%, Landfill up 9.9%, Special Waste up 11.6% and Belgium up 12.8% Strong IT infrastructure delivering synergies and efficiencies CULTURE CHANGE Raising the bar in health and safety performance Biffas goal is to be a leader in health and safety in the waste industry and a benchmark for others.
Our aim is to ensure the safety of everyone who comes into contact with our operations whether they are employees, customers, contractors or members of the public.
The waste industry has traditionally had a Other initiatives in 2004 2005 include was very highly rated with six UK locations poor record on health and safety, compared introducing new personal protective achieving four star ratings.
Biffa is equipment and uniforms, installing new Recognition has also been achieved with the determined to improve on this record.
hardware such as reversing-aid cameras recent award of OHSAS 18001 certification to our fleet, providing manual handling In 2002, we launched a company-wide occupational health and safety audit training across the whole organisation culture change programme to promote and covering health and safety performance and holding a health and safety improve health and safety across all our in the fleet workshops.
Regular workshops which include employees from all our different business One of the real benefits of the culture change functions are held to discuss the importance programme is that our employees across all of health and safety.
These have proved operational and support functions are given highly effective in identifying potentially the opportunity to make suggestions to dangerous practices, and in spreading the improve health and safety.
The results of our Above key messages of the programme If we cant various culture change programme initiatives Manual handling training provided for all manage the risk, we dont do it and think are evident.
Employees are continually Following the British Safety Council's audit of Main image encouraged to question their behaviour and the company's locations, Biffa's performance Gavin George, Biffa.
attitudes towards health and safety issues.
FIND OUT MORE More information on Biffa is available at: www.
co. uk Details of Biffaward, the landfill tax credit scheme, can be found at: www.
org SEVERN TRENT PLC 12 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS WASTE MANAGEMENT ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 Biffa achieved a good performance in Collection 2004 2005.
Following the acquisition of Biffas Collection division works with Hales Waste Control in 2003 2004, we industrial commercial customers and completed the integration of that business local authorities across the UK.
ahead of schedule, and realised the planned synergies from the deal.
The division won a number of large new commercial industrial accounts.
In the In addition to the Hales integration, three municipal sector, the securing of new other themes ran through the business: a contracts and the extension of existing drive to make Biffa the health and safety contracts brought the total of municipal leader in its industry: legislation: and the contracts now managed to 50.
They included upgrading of our IT capabilities.
important new seven-year contracts in the London boroughs of Wandsworth and In terms of legislation, European directives Havering.
The division also re-won contracts such as the Landfill Directive, Road Transport in Swale Kent, Tandridge, and West Directive and Hazardous Waste Regulations Berkshire, evidence of previous good Directive are having a fundamental effect on performance.
the way we run our business.
We are on track in our preparations for these Directives, and Biffa continued to invest in new facilities and ready for the opportunities they create.
New facilities were set up in South Shields, Middlesbrough, The IT programme had two aspects.
In our St Albans, Southampton and Bridlington.
collection fleet we installed in-cab technology Unfortunately in June 2004, a fire caused linked directly to our IT network.
As well as serious damage to the new Bursom recycling Top improving our operational efficiency and plant, built as part of the 300 million Cell preparation, Redhill landfill site.
customer service, this technology helped us integrated waste management contract with win important new municipal contracts.
The plant is now back Above Specialist collection vehicle.
also upgraded our mainframe capabilities, in operation and the technology is the only ensuring greater IT security and business one of its kind in the UK.
Overall, in the Collection division, turnover Performance increased to 394.2 million 360.6 million.
Turnover for waste management increased Profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation by 10.0% in 2004 2005 to 696.3 million.
and exceptional charges was 54.0 million, Turnover in the UK was 629.5 million, up up 4.7% on the previous year.
9.7% on the previous financial year: turnover in Belgium was 66.8 million, up 12.8%.
Landfill Biffa operates more than 30 landfill sites Biffas profit before interest, tax, goodwill in the UK.
The Landfill division as a whole amortisation and exceptional items increased received the ISO 14001 environmental by 5.3% to 83.4 million, or 10.5% before management certification in 2004 2005. incremental pension charges of 4.1 million.
Goodwill amortisation was 22.9 million The division made good progress on 21.3 million.
Profit before interest and compliance with the implementation tax was 60.5 million 47.0 million.
For example, Biffa continued the process of obtaining Pollution There were no further costs for the Prevention and Control PPC permits, and integration of Hales in 2004 2005, and the 11 of the 38 permits applied for had been planned annualised synergies of 7.5 million obtained by the end of the year.
PROFIT BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Up 5.3% at 83.4m Goodwill amortisation 22.9 million and exceptional items of nil.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 13 The Landfill Directive also created new interest, tax, goodwill amortisation Outlook business openings.
Biffa implemented and exceptional items was 8.2 million Legislation will continue to provide both four stable non-reactive cells for asbestos 7.0 million.
The Landfill disposal in key strategic areas.
It also formed Directive and increases in landfill tax from a strategic partnership with a Canadian Belgium April 2005 will stimulate demand for company, Biogenie, to remove and treat Biffa has 11 operational facilities in Belgium.
alternatives to landfill, but our pre-treatment, contaminated soil from brownfield As well as contributing to the balance sheet, recycling and special waste activities will construction sites.
the business adds value to Biffa by providing benefit from that.
We believe that the market experience of operating in a recycling and already recognises our strengths in those In 2004 2005 the effect of the Landfill recovery culture well in advance of the UK.
areas, and we are positive about prospects Directive on business volumes was limited.
For example, since Belgian householders for the year ahead.
Indeed, in the first months of the year, have greater responsibility for separation the division benefited from an increase of of wastes, lessons can be learned when higher margin contaminated waste work developing pre-treatment and automatic in the run up to implementation of the sorting facilities in the UK.
Landfill England and Wales Regulations in July 2004.
Despite difficult market conditions, Biffas turnover in Belgium was 66.8 million, up Turnover for the division was up 9.9% 12.8%.
Profit before interest, tax, goodwill to 179.3 million.
Profit before interest, tax, amortisation and exceptional items was goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 3.3 million 3.2 million.
Landfill volumes were up 5% overall.
Unit Corporate responsibility revenues, excluding landfill tax, were up by 5%.
Biffa recognises its responsibility to contribute positively to communities and Special Waste the environment.
Biffaward, the companys The Special Waste division works with landfill tax credit scheme, has distributed customers in many sectors to manage over 70 million to over 800 community hazardous waste materials.
Services include and environment projects since it was set packaged waste services like Hazpak, Wasteup in 1998.
In 2004 2005, it distributed Safe and Backtrack, which all performed approximately 7 million ranging from a well in 2004 2005.
The division also grant to an unemployed workers centre to a leads the companys integrated waste project to restore wildlife habitats in the Fens.
management contracts, which encompass all aspects of Biffas business collection, Towards the end of the year, Biffa produced pre-treatment, recycling and landfill an award-winning interactive educational CD Below capabilities, as well as its special waste to help primary and secondary schoolchildren Waste-safe, secure transportation expertise.
During 2004 2005, the integrated learn about waste and recycling, and how of hazardous waste materials.
waste management team helped to recycle they can do their bit to protect the over 23,000 tonnes of waste for clients.
The Special Waste division also manages Biffa continued in its commitment to report Biffas power generation activity.
With new biennially on its environmental performance, capacity added at a number of UK sites in but this year extended the report to include 2004 2005, Biffas power generation interests more social issues, making this years report in the UK exceeded 100MW by year end.
its first Corporate Responsibility report.
Turnover in Special Waste was 56.0 million in 2004 2005, up 11.6%.
Profit before In August 2004 Biffa completed its integration of the Hales Waste Control business, well ahead of schedule.
All planned synergies from bringing together the Biffa and Hales businesses were delivered, and there were no further integration costs in 2004 2005.
SEVERN TRENT PLC 14 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS LABORATORIES ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 STL SERVING THE CUSTOMER Severn Trent Laboratories opened eight new service centres in the US and two in the British Isles in 2004 2005, responding to local market requirements, demand from customers, and opportunities for business growth.
Above Key strengths Expert analysis in accredited laboratories.
Market leaders in the US and UK Reputation for technical excellence and responsive customer service Record of innovation and being at the forefront of new markets Client portfolio of leading US and UK companies New service centres extend geographical strength FIND OUT MORE More information on Severn Trent Laboratories is available at: www.
com SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 15 In the US market conditions were very New indoor air quality IAQ testing facilities challenging in 2004 2005 as federal funding were set up within existing laboratories in for environmental clean up projects was Florida, Texas and California to serve the severely impacted by diversion of funds growing market for IAQ and mould testing.
to the militarys activities in Iraq and other The new facilities, combined with the overseas locations.
Budget deficits at local expertise and reputation of our subsidiaries state and national levels also reduced P&K Microbiology Services and Aerotech, demand while general enforcement levels create a very strong position in this market.
In addition the US One particularly key initiative is to replace a encountered the worst hurricane season number of individual laboratory information in over 100 years STL has six laboratories management systems with a single standard in the hurricane belt: one in Florida was badly system that covers the whole network.
damaged and all six experienced power outages, service disruption and downtime.
QED Environmental Systems STLs groundwater sampling equipment Against this difficult background, turnover division QED won a $3 million contract was down 4.4% to 162.6 million while profit to supply a major mining and chemicals before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation company in Australia with air stripper and exceptional items was down 30.9% to units, which remove VOCs volatile organic 15.0 million.
Part of the shrinkage can be compounds.
This is the largest contract in attributed to the effect of the dollar exchange QEDs history.
The air strippers are being rate movements but US margins were used in a high profile project to remove severely impacted by pricing pressures legacy contamination from groundwater.
driven by the reduction in demand.
Turnover Top was up 1.9% in the US excluding the impact The UK business Service centres provide convenient local services.
of exchange rates, and by 6.4% in the UK.
Market conditions in the UK were much Profit before interest and tax was 10.9 better than in the US.
The Landfill Directive Above Soil sampling and confirmation testing of million 17.7 million.
created new opportunities and we enjoyed stockpiled materials.
growing demand for contaminated land Serving the customer testing, driven by the development of STLs strategy to combat the current market brownfield construction sites.
The service challenges in the US and return to growth centres in Ireland and Scotland performed is to focus on service standards and further strongly, winning new analytical contracts.
develop strengths in high growth and newly emerging market segments.
In order to Outlook increase penetration in specific locations, Although we do not expect market conditions STL opened eight new service centres in the in the US to ease in 2005 2006, there are US and two in the British Isles.
These service opportunities for growth.
STL expects to centres provide convenient local services carry out increased sediment testing work such as delivery of sample containers and in connection with the initiative to clean up related supplies as well as sample collection the Great Lakes and increased opportunities and shipping.
Some service centres also offer in the IAQ market and food hygiene markets project management and limited analytical are also expected to provide growth.
STL has capabilities and are complemented by other the expertise in place to compete strongly value added products such as the web-based in newly emerging market areas such as MySTL electronic project management system.
testing for endocrine disrupters, perchlorate As well as offering greater convenience to contamination, fragrance allergens, and flame existing customers, these new service centres retardants.
In the UK, legislation like the brought us closer to new clients in the US, Landfill Directive and the Water Framework Scotland and Ireland.
Directive will continue to create growth opportunities.
PROFIT BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Down 30.9% at 15.0m Goodwill amortisation 4.1 million and exceptional items of nil.
SEVERN TRENT PLC 16 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS WATER PURIFICATION AND OPERATING SERVICES ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 SEVERN TRENT SERVICES TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Severn Trent Services continued to invest in technology and product development in 2004 2005 that put them at the forefront of emerging markets ranging from water purification and contract operations to water metering and infrastructure projects.
Above Key strengths Tetra Nitrifying Submerged Aerated Filter NSAF and Deep Bed Filter DBF, Crankley Point.
Strong market position and brand recognition Strategy focusing on high margin business opportunities Continually expanding product and technology base Emphasis on cost control and operational efficiency FIND OUT MORE More information on Severn Trent Services is available at: www.
com SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 17 Severn Trent Services comprises two into our ultrafiltration systems.
Throughout Outlook divisions: Water purification and Operating the world, inge is known for its leadership The water purification market will continue services.
The latter includes the Contract and innovation in this rapidly growing market, to grow, and Severn Trent Services strong Operations business, Seven Trent Water so this is an important new relationship.
market position and brand recognition will International, and the smaller Metering enable us to compete vigorously.
There are Services and Pipeline Services businesses.
Operating services good growth opportunities in arsenic Turnover in the Operating services division removal and ultrafiltration and RO membrane Before the impact of exchange rate was 131.4 million, up by 2.5%.
Forthcoming legislation, like US movements, there was overall organic the impact of exchange rates, turnover was regulations on ballast water which come into growth across these businesses.
effect in 2006 2007, will create new openings and margins benefited greatly from the for our Electro Chlorination technology.
restructuring programme and cost controls There was good performance across the implemented in 2002 2003, and our strategy business.
Contract Operations, which carries In the US, budget deficits have worked of focusing on higher margin business.
out operating and maintenance contracts for to the advantage of the Contract operations customers in the US, decreased its turnover business, with states and municipalities Turnover decreased by 1.4% to 208.1 by 0.3% to 75.0 million.
Turnover in US$ relying more heavily on public-private million, but excluding the impact of exchange was up by 8.8%.
Among the contracts partnerships to supply water and waste rates, turnover increased by 5.2%.
Profit announced during 2004 2005 was an eighttreatment services.
before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation year leachate control contract, worth $65 and exceptional items was up 16.5% at million, at Fresh Kills Landfill in New York.
The outlook for Water metering and Contract 19.8 million.
Profit before interest and operations also looks positive.
The strong tax was 21.0 million 13.8 million.
Severn Trent Water International STWI, reputation of both businesses will stand us which provides management and consultancy in good stead as we pursue new contracts Water purification services in Europe and the developing world, and market opportunities.
Turnover in the Water purification division had an excellent year.
The UK Ministry of decreased by 7.5% to 76.7 million.
This Defence awarded a 25 year PFI contract was a result of two main factors: exchange worth approximately 1 billion to a subsidiary movements: and lower revenues in the UK, of STWI, called Coast to Coast Water C2C.
where customers were waiting for the This ground-breaking deal, called Project resolution of the AMP4 process before Aquatrine Package C, is for the provision commissioning new projects.
Excluding of water and wastewater services to the impact of exchange rates, turnover approximately 1,500 MoD sites in England was down by 0.8%.
The US side of the and commenced on 30 March 2005. business performed well, with turnover in US$ up 4.1%.
Turnover at STWI was up by 13.1%.
We continued our work to expand our The Metering services business increased Below product and technology base.
It won a $4 million SmartMeter advanced water metering technology.
our partnership with Lanxess formerly part contract to replace domestic water meters of Bayer AG on our Sorb33 system for in Qatar with its SmartMeter line of meters.
removing arsenic from drinking water to This new global water metering product, cover the industrial and municipal launched in 2003 2004, is well suited to the wastewater sector as well.
We were delighted difficult water conditions in the Middle East, with this agreement, which creates significant so there are good prospects in that market.
Pipeline services turnover was down by We also entered into a new alliance 16.2%.
State and federal budget deficits collaboration with inge AG, to incorporate in the US mean there is limited investment their ultrafiltration UF membrane products in infrastructure projects.
PROFIT BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Up 16.5% at 19.8m Goodwill amortisation 3.1 million and exceptional credit of 4.3 million.
SEVERN TRENT PLC 18 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS OTHER BUSINESSES ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 Total turnover for Other businesses Property Waters AMP4 programme.
It worked with comprising Systems, Property, Engineering Severn Trent Property undertook a strategic Yorkshire Water as a key member of its consultancy and Insurance in 2004 2005 review of its activities in 2004 2005 and Eastern Area Wastewater Capital Solution was 86.8 million, down 41.0%.
Profit decided to focus on wholly-owned sites, team, and it contributed to the Dublin Port before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation rather than expand its joint venture Tunnel Project in Ireland.
Its Health and and exceptional items was 4.8 million, operations.
As a result of this decision, the Safety Management System was certified down 12.7% on the previous year.
Loss company sold its 51% interest in Thorpe to the OHSAS 18001 standard.
before interest and tax was 8.9 million Park, Leeds to its joint venture partners, profit 8.2 million.
The company After a review of the business towards the has now relinquished all interest in the end of 2004 2005, the decision was taken Systems Thorpe Park office park, although it retains that the best way forward for Haswell was to The Systems group comprises two main interests in peripheral sites.
limit its work to Severn Trent Water projects.
Aseriti These already accounted for approximately provides IT services and solutions for water, At Daventry International Rail Freight 70% of turnover in 2004 2005.
Therefore, gas and electricity utilities worldwide.
Its Terminal, planning permission has now been once existing projects have been completed, principal product is the CIS-Open Vision CIS granted for a further 2 million square feet Haswell will cease trading with external customer information and billing system.
and work continues on infrastructure design clients, and it will eventually be absorbed and costings.
Marketing of the site will begin into Severn Trent Water.
In Australia, Aseritis CIS continues to be the in 2005 2006, with the aim of securing cornerstone application for five major energy substantial pre-lettings before building work Insurance utilities operating in a highly competitive starts in 2006.
Derwent Insurance, Severn Trents captive deregulated market.
insurer, provides insurance cover to Severn The Tournament Fields office scheme at Trent group companies.
In 2004 2005 Aseriti implemented CIS Warwick progressed well during the year.
The at Severn Trent Water, successfully migrating principal infrastructure has been completed, the water companys unmetered customers.
and marketing of the site is underway.
The system was used to produce annual Discussions are in hand with a number of bills for over 3 million accounts in February potential occupiers which could lead to March 2005. building work starting in 2005 2006.
During the year Aseriti commenced a plan In Birmingham a site of 90 acres owned by to re-focus its activities.
It has curtailed its Severn Trent Water has been allocated for operations in the US and in the UK it has employment use, and an outline planning ceased providing IT services to external application has been submitted.
Severn customers and will limit this work to Severn Trent Property is hopeful that consent for Trent Water and other group companies.
development will be granted shortly, which It will continue to market CIS from the UK.
will lead to the project being taken over by Severn Trent Property.
Worksuite is the work management business of the Systems group, and does much of Engineering its business in North America.
The business Charles Haswell & Partners is Severn Trents made a number of sales to blue-chip utilities engineering consultancy business, providing in 2004 2005 and is a market leader in expertise in a variety of engineering and its field.
Despite this, 2004 2005 was a environmental disciplines.
difficult trading year, and profits were below expectations.
Certain licence sales made Haswell made a major contribution to the in 2004 2005 are contingent upon Worksuite successful delivery of Severn Trent Waters client activities, and therefore revenue capital programme for 2004 2005.
It was recognition for these sales will not occur also appointed as one of the three consulting until 2005 2006. engineers that will work on Severn Trent FIND OUT MORE www.
co. uk SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Key strengths Leading utility in Dow Jones World Sustainability Index for the fourth consecutive year Renewable energy generating capacity of 131MW Placed 13th in the Guardians Giving List in 2004, the highest-ranking utility Strong culture of work-life balance, training and diversity One of first companies in sector to support the United Nations Global Compact Outlook In 2005 2006 and beyond, Severn Trent will continue to promote responsible corporate behaviour across our businesses.
We will work to identify emerging CR issues and opportunities, and we will continue to anticipate issues that might be raised by the socially responsible investment SRI community and other stakeholders.
Main image Amanda Richards, Biffa.
Severn Trent is one of the UK's leading suppliers of environmental goods and services.
We believe this is consistent with sustainable development and with being a good corporate citizen.
We also believe that demonstrating corporate responsibility enhances both the non-financial and financial assets of the company and therefore increases shareholder value.
SEVERN TRENT PLC 20 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 Embedding CR in our business were one of the first utility companies in the Both Severn Trent Water and Biffa have Severn Trents policies on corporate UK to do so.
The Compact consists of ten biodiversity action plans in place.
Severn responsibility are steered by our Corporate principles concerning businesses Trent Water launched its first five year plan Responsibility committee.
To reflect the responsibilities on human rights, labour in 1999 and achieved virtually all the targets importance we place on this area, the policies, the environment, and anti-corruption.
It has now launched a revised committee is chaired by the Group Chief Our support for the Compact reflects our action plan for 2004-2010.
It consists of non-executive and existing commitment to responsible executive directors and includes the managing environmental and employment practices, Workplace directors of the four main businesses.
but it also represents a broadening of our CR We actively promote equality, diversity and values to cover human rights issues.
As part health and safety, and encourage employees In June 2004, the Corporate Responsibility of this broader commitment, we have begun to seek a good work-life balance.
committee absorbed Severn Trents working in partnership with other utilities to Charitable Contributions committee.
This incorporate human rights criteria into our The group has a Lifestyle flexible benefits enables us to consider charitable giving in supply chain assessments.
scheme for its UK based employees, and we the overall context of our corporate are expanding this year by year.
citizenship and our work with communities.
Our support for the principles of the Global Compact, and for corporate responsibility in In March 2005, Severn Trent Water was Severn Trent has a detailed corporate general took many forms in 2004 2005, and named as one of the top ten big companies responsibility policy that defines how our is evident across our business.
Below we to work for in the UK in a nationwide survey vision and values on corporate responsibility summarise some of the tangible ways in by The Sunday Times newspaper.
The survey are incorporated in our daily activities.
This which we put our values into practice in acknowledged the companys strengths in includes a Code of Conduct, which was 2004 2005. leadership, treatment of staff and revised in 2004 2005 following extensive contribution to society.
consultations with employees and external Environment stakeholders.
In 2004 2005 our work included mitigating We actively promote diversity, and business our impact on climate change, increasing the units have developed their own diversity Our vision and values volume of waste handled for recycling by Biffa, strategies and action plans.
At Biffa, for As an environmental services company, our promoting biodiversity and improving our example, 400 managers and supervisors activities are of intrinsic benefit to society.
took part in diversity and equality awareness Our ability to deliver business success training in 2004 2005.
Severn Trent Water and the way in which we deliver it, makes Our work to mitigate our impact on climate took part in a benchmarking exercise for a significant contribution to building a change focuses on both short term and Race for Opportunity, a campaign organised sustainable future in the UK and beyond.
The case study by Business in the Community.
It came As part of our commitment to achieving opposite describes how we generate energy runner up in the best newcomer in the a sustainable future, we seek to: from our renewable carbon resources.
Conserve the natural resources that we At the same time, we continually monitor manage our fuel related transport emissions.
Biffas There has also been a strong management Safely dispose of the waste we handle programme to improve fuel efficiency focus on improving health and safety Maintain the infrastructure necessary includes using ultra low sulphur diesel, performance across the group.
to sustain our business in the future and installing smoke emission meters at Comply with the highest environmental workshops to check that each trucks engine This year health and safety targets were set standards is running at optimum efficiency.
Biffa also that included the need to undergo a number Provide a safe working environment where have a target to use biodiesel in 50% of fleet of British Safety Council audits.
The overall our people are valued and respected vehicles by April 2006. group target was to achieve an average score Support the communities in which we live of 3.5 stars per site.
The best performers and work We continued to work with the Carbon were Severn Trent Water who were awarded Trust on our carbon management model.
5 Stars at seven sites and Laboratories Translating values into practice This projects a potential greenhouse gas who received a 5 Star award for a site in In June 2004 we formally expressed our emissions scenario for 2020 for the group, the US.
4 Stars were awarded to seven sites support for the UN Global Compact, and helping us to target where and how we can operated by Biffa and one Laboratories site reduce emissions.
In the face of strong competition, Severn Trent has been named as the utilities sector leader in the global Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the fourth consecutive year.
No other utility has achieved this distinction.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 21 Community these criteria, and supported hundreds of them about the water cycle and promoting All parts of the group aim to contribute local projects.
the benefits of drinking water.
Biffa produced positively to the communities in which an interactive educational CD to teach they operate.
This includes involving Severn Trent is also a leading corporate schoolchildren how they can do their communities in our plans wherever supporter of WaterAid.
Its support in own bit to protect the environment.
possible, and establishing long-term 2004 2005 ranged from our annual community liaison groups at some sites.
corporate donation, to sending volunteers to WaterAid projects in Africa, to employee Our community investment guidelines fundraising and awareness initiatives.
focus on three main areas: environmental education: the built environment: and the Education is a strong theme of our natural environment.
In 2004 2005 our staff community activities.
Severn Trent Water worked with ten partner charities that met works with children and schools, teaching RENEWABLE ENERGY Mitigating our impact on the climate Greenhouse gas emissions are an inevitable result of Severn Trents operations, but we have rigorous programmes to measure, monitor and mitigate those emissions.
Above Energy management is an important part of Biffa captures landfill gas and uses it to Renewable energy generation, Severn Trents work to mitigate the impact produce electricity.
During 2004 2005 it Risley landfill site.
of our operations on the climate.
As well as expanded its generation facilities to include trying to maximise energy efficiency we also smaller landfill sites, and it invested in more significantly reduce our net greenhouse gas mobile facilities to ensure it can respond emissions through renewable electricity to changing emissions patterns.
Severn Trent Water uses combined heat and Biffa and Severn Trent Water between them power CHP units to convert the methane manage 12% of the UKs renewable carbon from digested sewage sludge into electricity.
We call it renewable By the end of the year, their combined carbon because of the important link generation capacity had reached 131MW, between the responsible disposal of these up from some 110MW in 2003 2004. biodegradable materials waste and sewage During 2004 2005 Severn Trent generated sludge and the opportunity to generate around 690GWh of electricity, which equates valuable renewable energy from their disposal.
to 5% of the UKs total renewable electricity During 2004 2005 both Severn Trent Water production.
and Biffa steadily increased their renewable energy generation capacity.
FIND OUT MORE More information is available at: www.
com  The site includes more detailed information about Our Code of Conduct.
You can also view or download a copy of the code.
SEVERN TRENT PLC 22 FINANCIAL REVIEW ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 Group results The main cash outflows were capital Taxation Group turnover was 2,081.2 million expenditure and financial investment of The charge for current tax was 40.9 million 2,015.1 million, an increase of 3.3% over 483.1 million 484.3 million, equity 33.3 million, of which 1.0 million 2.4 last year.
The growth in turnover was mainly dividends of 162.0 million 157.7 million million was attributable to exceptional items.
due to the contributions of Severn Trent and net financing costs of 151.3 million The current tax charge of 39.9 million Water and Biffa which were partially offset 148.3 million.
The increase in net debt attributable to profit after interest and by exchange rate impacts in Laboratories was 140.9 million 243.5 million.
goodwill amortisation but before exceptional and Services and lower activity in Property.
items is an effective rate of 17.2% 12.7%.
Net debt at 31 March 2005 was 2,890.0 The current tax rate has benefited from an Group profit before interest, tax, goodwill million 2,749.1 million.
Gearing, reflecting adjustment in respect of prior periods.
amortisation and exceptional items was down the provision for deferred tax, was 57% 0.5% to 438.6 million 440.6 million.
The groups net interest charge Pensions was covered 4.3 times 4.4 times by profit SSAP24, the applicable standard for Severn Goodwill amortisation was 30.1 million before interest, tax, depreciation, goodwill Trent, uses the results of the last formal 29.8 million.
There was a net exceptional amortisation and exceptional items.
actuarial valuations to determine the pension charge of 14.8 million profit of 11.6 charge in the group's accounts.
Exceptional items has been followed in determining the group's There was a net exceptional charge in the pension charge for 2004 2005.
Group profit before interest, tax and year of 14.8 million comprising the net of: exceptional items was 408.5 million An operating charge of 13.0 million for The group has four defined benefit pension 410.8 million.
Group profit before interest redundancy costs in Severn Trent Water schemes, of which the Severn Trent Pension and tax was 393.7 million 422.4 million.
in relation to planned manpower Scheme STPS is by far the largest.
Formal reductions arising from the AMP4 price actuarial valuations have been undertaken After net interest charges of 176.4 million review: for the STPS and another scheme, the Severn 168.0 million, group profit before tax, A charge of 13.7 million, of which 9.9 Trent Senior Staff Pension Scheme, as at 31 goodwill amortisation and exceptional items million relates to goodwill previously March 2004.
As a result of these valuations was down 3.8% to 262.2 million 272.6 written off to reserves, resulting from the there are incremental pension charges of million.
Group profit before tax and closure of Systems' US CIS business and 31.3 million for the group in 2004 2005. exceptional items was 232.1 million the termination of external sales from 242.8 million, a decrease of 4.4%.
Systems' UK IT services business and On an FRS17 basis, the estimated net Group profit before tax was 217.3 million from Engineering consultancy: position before deferred tax of the group's 254.4 million.
A 4.3 million credit from the disposal of defined benefit pension schemes and the the Group's investment in an associated group's unfunded pension liabilities for The total tax charge for the year was 77.8 undertakings in Portugal: and senior staff was a deficit of approximately million 69.6 million of which current tax A 7.6 million credit from the profit on 309 million as at 31 March 2005.
This represented 40.9 million 33.3 million sale of fixed assets in Severn Trent Water compares to a deficit of approximately 368 and deferred tax was 36.9 million 36.3 million as at 31 March 2004 with the value million.
Minority interests were 0.7 million In 2003 2004 there was a net exceptional of assets increasing over the last year by a 0.7 million.
Profit after tax and minority credit of 11.6 million comprising the net greater amount than the value of liabilities.
of a 19.8 million profit on the sale of fixed Net of deferred tax, the estimated net deficit assets, arising from the sale of land and on an FRS17 basis as at 31 March 2005 was Earnings per share, adjusted to exclude property by Severn Trent Water: a 2.7 approximately 217 million.
On an FRS17 exceptional items and deferred tax, million credit from the release of part of basis, the funding level has improved from decreased by 9.4% to 55.6 pence 61.4 the exceptional charge made in 2001 2002 around 72% at 31 March 2004 to around pence as a result of increased pensions, in respect of certain of Systems' CIS-Open 78% at 31 March 2005. interest and tax charges.
Basic earnings per Vision contracts in the US: and a charge share are 40.3 pence 53.5 pence.
of 10.9 million in waste management As at 31 March 2005 the group's defined for Hales integration costs.
benefit pension schemes had total assets Operating activities generated a net cash of approximately 1,079 million, of which inflow of 699.2 million 733.1 million.
around 69% was invested in equities.
Group turnover was 2,081.2 million 2,015.1 million, an increase of 3.3% over last year.
The growth in turnover was mainly due to the contributions of Severn Trent Water and Biffa which were partially offset by exchange rate impacts in Laboratories and Services and lower activity in Property.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 23 Treasury management foreign currencies, principally the US dollar the comparative figures in our first full year The groups treasury affairs are managed and the euro.
The groups current policy is to IAS financial statements.
centrally and in accordance with its Treasury hedge an element of the currency translation Procedures Manual and Policy Statement.
risk associated with certain foreign currency Significant changes will arise for the The treasury operations primary role is to denominated assets.
accounting treatment of retirement benefits, manage liquidity, funding, investment and fixed assets and renewals accounting, the groups financial risk, including risk from The long term credit ratings of Severn Trent deferred tax, dividends, goodwill and volatility in interest and to a lesser extent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited are: financial instruments.
It is expected that currency rates and counterparty credit risk.
the overall net impact will be to reduce Long term Severn Trent Severn Trent Its activities are subject to a set of controls net assets and increase earnings volatility.
ratings Water Limited Plc commensurate with the magnitude of the Further details will be made available on Moodys A2 A3 borrowings and investments under its 19 September 2005.
The Board determines matters of treasury policy and its approval is required Supplementary information for certain treasury transactions.
Exchange rates For supplementary information including Approximately 3.1% of the groups profit the groups preliminary results presentation, It is the groups strategy to access a broad before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation see the Severn Trent website range of sources of finance to obtain both and exceptional items, and 1.9% of its net www.
the quantum required and the lowest cost operating assets are denominated in US compatible with the need for continued dollars, and approximately 3.6% of its profit availability.
before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, and 0.7% of its net The group uses financial derivatives solely operating assets, are denominated in euros.
for the purpose of managing risk associated The trading results of overseas subsidiaries Mark Wilson with financing its normal business activities.
are translated to sterling at the average rate Group Finance Director The group does not hold or issue derivative of exchange ruling during the year and their financial instruments for financial trading net assets are translated at the closing rate purposes.
The group uses a limited number on the balance sheet date.
of currency swaps and interest rate swaps to redenominate external borrowings into the International Accounting Standards currencies and interest rate coupon required The group will be required to prepare its for group purposes.
financial statements under International Accounting Standards IAS for the year The groups policy for the management of ending 31 March 2006, with the groups interest rate risk requires that no less than first published results under IAS being 50% of the groups borrowings should be at the 2005 2006 Interim Results.
fixed interest rates, or hedged through the use of interest rate swaps or forward rate The groups programme of work to prepare agreements.
At 31 March 2005, interest rates for the adoption of IAS has continued for some 66% of the groups net debt of throughout the year.
Key finance employees 2,890 million were so fixed, at a weighted have been trained in IAS and the differences average interest rate of 6% for a weighted from UK GAAP that are likely to impact the average period of 17.4 years.
The groups systems have been modified to enable reporting under IAS.
The groups business does not involve Work is now underway to determine the significant exposure to foreign exchange adjustments required to construct the opening transactions.
Cross currency swaps are balance sheet for IAS as at 1 April 2004 and employed to exchange foreign currency to prepare the balance sheet as at 31 March borrowings for sterling.
The group also has 2005 and the profit and loss account for the investments in various assets denominated in year then ended.
These statements will form SEVERN TRENT PLC 24 BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 Derek Osborn CB 64 Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA 53 Mark Wilson BA ACA 47 Mr Osborn joined the Board in September 1998.
Ms Cassoni joined the Board in September 2001.
Mr Wilson joined the Board as Group Finance He is Chairman of Stakeholder Forum, Jupiter She is currently Group Finance Director of Royal Director on 1 September 2004.
Prior to this, he was Global Green Investment Trust and the international Mail plc, having previously been Group Finance Finance and Regulation Director for Severn Trent advisory board of ERM CVS and is a member of the Director at Britannic Assurance plc from 1998 to Water Ltd from 1995 and was also a non-executive UK Commission on Sustainable Development.
Ms Cassoni qualified as an accountant with Director of Paypoint until August 2004.
Previously was Director General of Environment Protection in Deloittes where she rose to be Corporate Finance Mr Wilson worked for Arthur Andersen, both in the Department of the Environment from 1990 to Manager.
She later moved to the Prudential London and Hong Kong, and for International 1995, Chairman of the Management Board of the Corporation, becoming Group Finance Director Leisure Group.
European Environment Agency from 1995 to 1999, of the Prudentials UK Division in 1994.
She is a Chairman of the UK Round Table on Sustainable non-executive Director of GFI, a company listed Sir John Egan KBE MSc BEng 65 Development from 1999 to 2000 and Chairman on the New York Stock Exchange, a member of the Sir John Egan joined the Board on 1 October 2004, of the International Institute for Environment and CBI Economic Affairs Committee and a member becoming Chairman on 1 January 2005.
He is also Development from 1998 to 2002. of the Financial Reporting Councils Accounting Chairman of Inchcape plc and Harrison Lovegrove Standards Board.
& Co Ltd. Sir John worked in the motor industry Martin Houston BSc MSc DIC 47 until 1990 at General Motors, Massey Ferguson Mr Houston joined the Board in September 2003.
Colin Matthews MA CEng MBA 49 and British Leyland, rising to become Chairman He is Executive Vice President and Managing Mr Matthews joined the Board as a non-executive and Chief Executive of Jaguar plc.
He was Chief Director of BG Groups North American, Caribbean Director in October 2003.
He was appointed Group Executive of BAA plc from 1990 to 1999 and and Global Liquified Natural Gas business and Chief Executive Designate in September 2004 and Chairman of MEPC from 1998 to 2000.
He was a member of the Group Executive Committee.
He became Group Chief Executive on 1 February 2005. also President of the Confederation of British joined BG Group in 1983 and has held a number of He is a Chartered Engineer who has worked for the Industry from 2002 to 2004.
Sir John was knighted technical and commercial roles with a predominantly American General Electric Company and then at in the Queens Birthday Honours List in 1986 international focus.
He is a fellow of the Geological British Airways, first as Director of Engineering then and is a deputy lieutenant of the County of Society of London.
as Director of Technical Operations, responsible for Warwickshire.
all aircraft maintenance, IT and procurement.
He was Group Managing Director of Transco from 2001 to 2002 and CEO of Hays Plc from November 2002 to June 2004.
Board Committees Corporate Responsibility Executive Committee Remuneration Committee Senior independent Membership of Board Committee C S Matthews Chairman M C Flower Chairman non-executive Director Committees is as detailed C S Matthews Chairman M J Bettington M L Cassoni M C Flower below: M J Bettington R S Brydon Jannetta J D G McAdam R S Brydon Jannetta P P Davies and Secretary Secretary P P Davies Group General Counsel Audit Committee P J Gavan P J Gavan and Company Secretary J B Smith Chairman L F Graziano L F Graziano Nominations Committee P P Davies, LL.
Solicitor M L Cassoni F A Osborn A P Smith Sir John Egan Chairman F A Osborn A P Smith P K Tandon M C Flower Secretary P P Davies A P Wray J Van Den Arend Schmidt J D G McAdam Secretary P P Davies M R Wilson F A Osborn A P Wray Secretary P P Davies SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 25 Tony Wray BSc Hons 43 Martin Bettington BSc MechEng MBA 52 John Smith FCCA, Hon.
FRIBA 47 Mr Wray joined the Board on 7 March 2005.
He Mr Bettington joined the Board in November 1994.
Mr Smith joined the Board in November 2003. is Managing Director of Severn Trent Water Ltd.
He is the Managing Director of Severn Trents waste He is a member of H M Treasurys Public Services Prior to this, he was Director Networks at Eircom, management business, Biffa Waste Services Ltd.
Productivity Panel and the 100 Group of Finance the Republic of Irelands telephone operator.
Mr Bettington was previously employed by BET Plc, Directors.
After training as an accountant, Mr Smith He joined British Gas in 1983 and held various Biffas former holding company.
He holds an MBA joined the British Railways Board, rising to head their managerial positions before becoming Head from Manchester Business School.
In 1989 he moved to the of Asset Management.
In 2000 he was Director BBC where he was Finance Director for eight years of Asset Management, Transco, then National John McAdam BSc PhD 57 and became Chief Operating Officer in June 2004.
Operations Director, Transco, before being appointed Dr McAdam joined the Board in September 2000.
He is also Chief Executive of the BBCs trading arm, to implement the merger integration of Lattice He is Chief Executive of ICI PLC.
He joined ICI in BBC Worldwide.
Mr Smith has held a non-executive Transco and National Grid Group into National 1997 following the acquisition of the Specialty directorship with Vickers Plc, was a member of the Grid Transco.
Chemical Businesses from Unilever and was advisory board of Zurich Financial Services UK and appointed Executive Vice President Coatings and was a Director of the Royal Television Society.
He Rachel Brydon Jannetta FCCA 45 Chief Executive of ICI Paints in 1998.
He joined the also served for three years on the Accounting Mrs Brydon Jannetta joined the Board on 1 Board of ICI PLC soon after, when he also became Standards Board until November 2004.
She is President and CEO of responsible for Corporate Research & Technology Severn Trents US and UK laboratories businesses.
and he was appointed Chief Executive in 2003.
Martin Flower BA 58 A Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Dr McAdam is a member of the University of Mr Flower joined the Board in June 1996 and was Accountants, Mrs Brydon Jannetta qualified as an Surrey Business Advisory Board and the University appointed Deputy Chairman on 6 July 2004.
He accountant in 1984 with Gerber Landa and Gee, of Cambridge Chemistry Advisory Board.
is the senior independent non-executive Director.
an accounting firm based in Glasgow.
She then He was also appointed as a Director of The Morgan spent eight years in retail management, latterly Crucible Company Plc in December 2004 and as with an Asda Plc group company, before joining a non-executive Director and Chairman-elect of Severn Trent in 1993 as Managing Director of Croda International Plc in May 2005.
In May 2004 its UK laboratories operation.
he retired as Chairman of Coats Ltd, where he had previously been Group Chief Executive.
Left to right Derek Osborn Martin Houston Marisa Cassoni Colin Matthews Mark Wilson Sir John Egan Tony Wray Rachel Brydon Jannetta Martin Bettington John McAdam John Smith Martin Flower Non-executive Director SEVERN TRENT PLC 26 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 We have examined the summary financial aware of any apparent misstatements or the Auditing Practices Board for use in the statement of Severn Trent Plc.
material inconsistencies with the summary United Kingdom.
Respective responsibilities of directors Opinion and auditors This statement, including the opinion, has In our opinion the summary financial The directors are responsible for preparing been prepared for and only for the company's statement is consistent with the annual the Annual Review 2005 in accordance with members as a body in accordance with financial statements, the directors' report applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and and the directors' remuneration report to you our opinion on the consistency of the for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended summary financial statement within the this opinion, accept or assume responsibility 31 March 2005 and complies with the Annual Review 2005 with the annual for any other purpose or to any other person applicable requirements of Section 251 financial statements, the directors' report and to whom this statement is shown or into whose of the Companies Act 1985 and the the directors' remuneration report, and its hands it may come save where expressly regulations made thereunder.
compliance with the relevant requirements of agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and  LLP the regulations made thereunder.
We also Basis of opinion Chartered Accountants and Registered read the other information contained in the We conducted our work in accordance with Auditors Annual Review 2005 and consider the Bulletin 1999 6, 'The auditors' statement on Birmingham implications for our report if we become the summary financial statement' issued by 6 June 2005 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activities Number of ordinary eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
5 shares of 65 19p each % The principal activities of the group The Board and the Nominations Committee Fidelity 20,709,4075.99 continued to be the supply of water and support and recommend the proposed International Limited sewerage services, waste management and reappointments.
the provision of environmental services.
Legal & General 11,259,833 3.26 These are described in more detail, together Corporate governance Investment Management with a review of the groups business and The company attaches great significance Limited future developments, on pages 6 to 21. to the maintenance of good corporate governance procedures and adherence Directors Final dividend to best practice recognising that they play A list of Directors and their background Subject to approval at the Annual General their part in creating a framework which can details appear on pages 24 and 25.
Full Meeting AGM, the recommended final provide increased benefits for shareholders.
details of their service contracts and dividend of 30.30p 2004: 29.27p for each emoluments can be found in the Summary ordinary share will be paid on 31 August The Board is pleased to report that, in Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 32.
2005 to shareholders on the register at the an index of the FTSE 100 UK companies close of business on 24 June 2005.
This, compiled by FTSE and Institutional Sir John Egan was appointed as a nontogether with the interim dividend of 18.21p Shareholder Services, the company was executive Director on 1 October 2004.
2004: 17.77p per share, which was paid on ranked in the top 10 for good corporate Mrs R S Brydon Jannetta and Mr M R Wilson 6 April 2005, brings the total for the year to governance practice.
were appointed as executive Directors on 48.51p 2004: 47.04p.
Mr A P Wray joined During the year to 31 March 2005 the the Board as an executive Director on Share capital company complied with the principles set 7 March 2005.
Resolutions will be proposed at this years out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on AGM to renew the Directors authority to: Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 Mr A S Perelman and Mr B Duckworth Allot relevant securities within the the Combined Code, save and except as retired from the Board on 31 August 2004. meaning of Section 80 of the Companies follows: Mr J K Banyard, Mr T D G Arculus and Mr R Act 1985 : The former Chairman, Mr T D G Arculus, M Walker retired from the Board on 30 Issue equity securities for cash without was appointed as chairman of mmO2 December 2004, 31 December 2004 and first having to offer these securities to in July 2004 but was requested by 2 February 2005 respectively.
existing shareholders: and the Board to remain in office until ake market purchases of the companys 31 December 2004 to provide some Sir John Egan became Chairman of the own ordinary shares.
continuity while a number of Board company on 1 January 2005, Mr M C Flower changes took place and also while was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Full details of these resolutions are included the AMP4 Final Determination was company on 6 July 2004 and Mr C S in the Notice of the AGM which is circulated awaited by Severn Trent Water: Matthews took over as Group Chief Executive to all shareholders.
Mr R M Walker, former Group Chief on 1 February 2005.
Executive, was granted permission by Substantial shareholdings the Nominations Committee to phase In accordance with the companys Articles As at 6 June 2005 the company had an increase in the number of FTSE 100 of Association Mr M J Bettington, Mrs R S been notified of the following substantial non-executive directorships he could Brydon Jannetta, Ms M L Cassoni, Sir John shareholdings: hold, above the current policy of one such Egan, Mr M C Flower, Mr M R Wilson and appointment, during the period up to his Mr A P Wray retire at the AGM and, being retirement.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 27 The Board Employees Warwickshire Investors in People Good The Board currently consists of five executive The group employed 16,583 people as at Practice Awards.
Directors and seven non-executive Directors.
Of these The Board has reviewed the status of the 5,053 30% were employed in the water and Ethics and diversity non-executive Directors and has confirmed sewerage business, 5,510 33% in the waste Following a review of the groups Code of that it regards them as being independent.
management business, 2,891 17% in the Business Principles and Conduct, a revised At the time of his appointment, Sir John laboratories business, and 2,387 14% in Code of Conduct has been produced.
Group Egan was considered by the Board to be the water purification and operating services companies continue to meet, as a minimum, independent.
In addition, the Board is business.
Approximately 30% of employees legislative requirements of the countries in satisfied that he is able to devote sufficient are based outside the UK, mainly in the US, which they operate.
time to his duties as Chairman of the Belgium and Italy.
Disclosure whistleblowing procedures are Most group companies have their own in place in all group companies to deal with All Directors who joined the Board during intranets which form a major communication allegations of breaches of that Code and the year have undertaken induction training.
channel with their employees, in addition to supporting values including bullying, Furthermore, the training needs of all Directors in-house magazines, tool-box talks and team harassment and fraud.
have been reviewed and appropriate training briefings.
Employee opinion surveys are used identified as part of a continuing process.
to provide feedback on a range of issues.
Diversity profiles across the group continue to be monitored and reported regularly.
The Board is satisfied that it has a sufficient Group companies continue to maintain The company benchmarks its policies and number of non-executive Directors with positive relationships with the recognised practices in this area against best practice recent and relevant financial experience, as trade unions and with other elected organisations such as Race for Opportunity can be seen from the Directors biographies representatives.
The groups meeting of the and Employers Forum on Disability.
European Consultative Council is an annual opportunity to promote dialogue with Health and safety During the year the Board, with the help of employee representatives and further At Severn Trent we see the effective an outside facilitator, carried out a formal enhance their understanding of the future management of health and safety as a key evaluation of its performance and that of issues facing our businesses in Europe.
priority that makes good business sense.
To its Committees, individual Directors and support this core value we have established Company Secretary.
The evaluation drew Following the introduction of new pension three health and safety principles for all particular attention to the fact that, although options for new UK based employees in April employees: the company had performed well in recent 2004, the company continues to monitor If a job cannot be done safely, dont do it years and the Board had a clear its pension provision, with the objectives of Always look out for safety hazards understanding of its remit, there were reducing risk and maintaining affordability.
Never ignore a safety hazard: fix it or opportunities to improve its functioning.
report it The groups Lifestyle flexible benefits scheme In May 2004 an employee of Severn was further extended amongst UK based The Group Health and Safety Executive Trent Water raised a number of allegations employees and from October 2004 over Committee now meets on a monthly basis relating, in particular, to alleged accounting 8,000 employees were eligible to participate.
and includes health and safety professionals.
inaccuracies and regulatory returns in respect The meetings are chaired by the Group Chief of which an announcement was made on 22 Employee share ownership is encouraged Executive who reports on health and safety November 2004.
This can be viewed on the through the operation of a number of performance to the Board each month.
employee share plans, including a Save As  LLP Forensic You Earn Scheme and a Share Incentive Plan.
Auditors Services was appointed by the company The auditors report on the full annual to carry out a thorough and independent The group continues to focus on the accounts of the group for the year ended investigation and in the light of their findings development of employees at all levels, with 31 March 2005 was unqualified and did the Board was, and remains, of the view that annual performance appraisals used to drive not contain a statement under either section the matters raised have no effect upon the the direction of and demand for training 237 2 accounting records or returns integrity of the accounts and that Severn activities.
Management development and inadequate or accounts not agreeing with Trent Waters customers have not been training has been a core activity in all group records and returns or 237 3 failure to overcharged.
However, as such findings companies, operating via a range of obtain necessary information and revealed evidence of some behaviour which providers including leading business schools explanations of the Companies Act 1985. the Board believed fell short of the high such as INSEAD, Warwick and Aston as well standards it expects from employees, a as tailored, in-house programmes.
Following the Audit Committees review of disciplinary investigation was instigated the Auditors, the Board wishes to change which, though substantially complete, Several group companies participate in the Auditors from  is likely to continue at least until Ofwats external accreditation schemes such as LLP PwC to Deloitte & Touche LLP review of these matters is completed.
Investors in People and it is particularly Deloittes.
PwC, having completed the pleasing when these accreditations are audit for the year ended 31 March 2005, The Board, with the support of the Audit retained following periodic reassessment have agreed that they will not seek Committee, has taken, and intends to take, such as in Metering Services.
We were reappointment at the AGM.
Accordingly, a such actions as it thinks appropriate to delighted that Severn Trent Water gained resolution proposing the appointment of ensure the maintenance of both high ethical recognition as one of The Sunday Times Deloittes as Auditors will be put to the AGM.
and professional standards and resilient Top 10 Best Big Companies to Work For and effective controls throughout all group and were also listed in the Guardians By order of the Board companies.
The company is supporting publication Britains Top Employers 2005.
Solicitor Ofwat in its review of these allegations.
Severn Trent Laboratories also received Group General Counsel and Company external commendations, being a finalist Secretary in two categories of the Coventry and 6 June 2005 SEVERN TRENT PLC 28 SUMMARY GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2004 ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 2005 2004 m m Turnover: group and share of joint ventures 2,084.2 2,018.5 Less: share of joint ventures' turnover 3.0 3.4 Group turnover 2,081.2 2,015.1 Operating costs before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 1,654.3 1,586.4 Goodwill amortisation 30.1 29.8 Exceptional restructuring costs 13.0 Exceptional integration costs 10.9 Exceptional provision release 2.7 Total operating costs 1,697.4 1,624.4 Group operating profit 383.8 390.7 Share of operating profit of joint ventures and associates 11.7 11.9 Exceptional net loss on sale and termination of operations 9.4 Exceptional profit on disposal of fixed assets 7.6 19.8 Profit before interest, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 438.6 440.6 Goodwill amortisation 30.1 29.8 Profit before interest and exceptional items 408.5 410.8 Exceptional items 14.8 11.6 Profit before interest 393.7 422.4 Net interest payable 176.4 168.0 Profit after interest before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 262.2 272.6 Goodwill amortisation 30.1 29.8 Profit after interest before exceptional items 232.1 242.8 Exceptional items 14.8 11.6 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 217.3 254.4 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities current tax 40.9 33.3 deferred tax 36.9 36.3 Total taxation 77.8 69.6 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 139.5 184.8 Equity minority interests 0.7 0.7 Profit for the financial year 138.8 184.1 Dividends 167.4 162.0 Retained loss profit for the financial year 28.6 22.1 Earnings per share pence Basic 40.3 53.5 Adjusted basic before exceptional items and deferred tax 55.6 61.4 Important note: The Annual Review and summary financial statement does not contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results of the group and of the state of affairs of the company or of the group nor of the policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration.
For further details, the Annual Report and Accounts 2005, which includes the Directors report and the Auditors report on the financial statements, should be consulted.
A copy can be obtained, free of charge, by writing to the Company Secretary at 2297 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3PU.
Alternatively it can be accessed on the website at www.
Shareholders can elect to obtain the full Annual Report and Accounts for all future financial years by contacting the companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details appear on page 33.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 SUMMARY GROUP BALANCE SHEET AT 31 MARCH 2005 29 2005 2004 restated m m Fixed assets 5,950.8 5803.9 Current assets 656.2 648.5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,225.5 1,223.7 Net current liabilities 569.3 575.2 Total assets less current liabilities 5,381.5 5,228.7 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2,557.3 2,440.6 Provisions for liabilities and charges 624.2 572.0 Net assets 2,200.0 2,216.1 Capital and reserves 2,198.1 2,213.7 Minority shareholders' interest equity 1.9 2.4 2,200.0 2,216.1 Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 6 June 2005.
Sir John Egan Mark Wilson Chairman Group Finance Director SUMMARY GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2004 2005 2004 restated restated m m m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 699.2 733.1 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 3.5 1.9 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 151.3 148.3 Taxation 36.5 19.5 Capital expenditure and financial investment 483.1 484.3 Acquisitions 3.4 170.6 Equity dividends paid 162.0 157.7 Net cash outflow before use of liquid resources and financing 126.8 245.4 Management of liquid resources 30.4 45.2 Financing Increase in debt 106.1 283.1 Issue of shares 5.5 5.6 Share purchase by employee share trust 4.1 3.2 107.5 285.5 Increase decrease in cash 11.1 5.1 SEVERN TRENT PLC 30 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 Remuneration Committee should form a significant proportion of The Remuneration Committee determines, the total remuneration package and Remuneration arrangements for executive on behalf of the Board, the companys typically comprise at least 50% of total Directors policy on the remuneration of executive remuneration if paid at the maximum: The remuneration arrangements for executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The total remuneration package for onDirectors comprise the following elements: target performance should be fully Base salary and benefits: The Committee also determines the competitive in the relevant market: Annual bonus plan: remuneration policy for the next band of Packages are structured flexibly to meet Long Term Incentive Plan: 11 senior executives.
The policy framework critical resource needs and retain key Post-retirement benefits.
for remunerating all senior executives is executives.
consistent with the approach taken for Details of each of the above elements are as executive Directors.
The Committee seeks to take a prudent and follows: responsible approach taking into account The Committee is comprised exclusively of the interests of shareholders, customers, Base salaries and benefits independent non-executive Directors of the employees and the local community.
Base salaries are a fixed cash sum payable company.
The members of the Committee monthly.
The companys policy is to set the during the year were: Personal shareholdings salary for each executive Director within a M C Flower Chairman The company, with effect from April 2004, range having regard to the market median J D G McAdam adopted guidelines which expect executive for similar roles in publicly quoted M L Cassoni Directors to have a minimum holding of companies of a comparable size.
The Group Chief The Committee members have no personal Executive is expected to hold shares to Salaries for individual Directors are reviewed financial interest, other than as shareholders, the value of 1.5 x base salary and other annually by the Committee and generally in the matters to be decided.
Salaries are set with reference to individual performance, The constitution and operation of the Through a variety of share schemes, all experience and contribution, together with Committee comply with the Combined Code employees are encouraged to hold shares developments in the relevant employment on Corporate Governance of the Financial in the company.
Services Authority the Combined Code.
In setting performance related remuneration External directorships The non-salary benefits for executive the Committee has regard to the provisions Executive Directors are encouraged to take Directors comprise the use of a company car set out in Schedule A to the Combined Code.
on external non-executive directorships, or allowance, fuel, private medical insurance, though normally only one other FTSE 100 life assurance, retirement gifts, attendance Advisers appointment.
In order to avoid any conflicts at retirement functions and an incapacity To ensure that the companys remuneration of interest all such appointments are subject benefits scheme.
practices are market competitive, the to the approval of the Nominations Committee has access to detailed external Committee.
Executive Directors are normally Annual bonus plan research on market data and trends from only able to retain the fees arising from one Executive Directors are eligible for annual experienced specialist consultants.
bonuses to encourage improved performance, measured by reference to both financial and The Chairman of the Board, Sir John Egan Chairman and other non-executive Directors non-financial factors.
Performance targets previously Mr T D G Arculus, the Group The remuneration policy for non-executive are established by the Committee.
Chief Executive, Mr C S Matthews previously Directors, other than the Chairman, is Mr R M Walker, the Group Human determined by the Board, within the limits The performance requirements are stretching Resources Director, Mr A P Smith previously set out in the Articles of Association.
and involve an assessment of up to ten Mr J W Oatridge and the Director of parameters for each executive Director.
Annual Corporate Development, Mr P K Tandon also Remuneration comprises an annual fee for bonus payments are not taken into account provide advice and are invited to attend acting as a non-executive Director of the in calculating their pension entitlements.
The some meetings as required to respond to company and additional fees for acting as: bonus potential for the Group Chief Executive specific questions raised by the Committee.
Chairman of a Board Committee: is 60%, for the Managing Directors of Biffa This specifically excludes any matter Member of a Board Committee: and Severn Trent Laboratories it is 75%, concerning their own remuneration.
The Senior non-executive Director: and the bonus potential for other executive Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Trustee of a company pension scheme: Directors is 50%.
Non-executive Director of a subsidiary company.
The maximum bonus payable to other Remuneration policy executives below Board level also ranges The companys continuing remuneration Non-executive Directors are not eligible to from 50-75% and their plan is structured in policy for executive Directors is to review participate in incentive plans nor is any a similar way as that for executive Directors.
regularly and update as appropriate the pension provision made except as detailed in framework to provide remuneration in a relation to Mr Arculus.
Long-term incentives form and amount which will attract, retain, A Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP for motivate and reward high calibre individuals.
Non-executive Directors receive payment of executive Directors was approved by To achieve this, the remuneration package is part of their fees in the form of shares in the shareholders at the 1997 AGM and amended based on the following principles: company which, from May 2004, have to be with shareholder approval at the 2001 AGM.
Incentives are aligned with the interests retained for the period of their appointment.
of shareholders and seek to reward the The performance for the 2002, 2003 and creation of long-term value: The non-executive Directors do not have 2004 LTIPs is measured by reference to a Reward elements are designed to service contracts or consultancy agreements combination of Total Shareholder Return reinforce the link between performance with any group company, but they do have TSR and Economic Profit EP targets.
Performance related elements letters of appointment with the company.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 31 Total shareholder return Directors service agreements and letters Source: Thomson Financial of engagement 220 Severn Trent plc FTSE 100 Index A new model service contract was approved 200 by the Committee in 2004.
All current 180 executive Directors have signed the model 160 contract and accordingly, service agreements 140 120 for all executive Directors have notice periods 100 of 12 months.
They also provide for a 80 maximum damages payment in the case of 60 redundancy or termination in breach of the 40 agreement by the company of up to 175% 20 0 of base salary which was calculated as a 31 March 00 31 March 01 31 March 02 31 March 03 31 March 04 31 March 05 conservative pre-estimate of the value of This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2005, of 100 invested in Severn Trent on 31 March 2000 salary, fixed benefits and on target bonus.
compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
The FTSE 100 was chosen as the comparator because the Any damages payments will not be made company is a constituent of that index.
automatically and will be subject to both The maximum allocation that may be made The Scheme is a funded Inland Revenue phasing and mitigation.
Contracts also to an individual executive Director in any approved final salary occupational pension permit the Committee to take into account year is such number of shares as have a scheme which provides: a view of the extent of poor performance market value equal to 100% of base salary.
A normal retirement age of 60 years: on the part of the executive Director.
Any Shares are allocated annually by the An overall pension at normal retirement payment will not include amounts in respect Committee but are not released to executive age of two-thirds of final pensionable of awards which have been made under the Directors for a period of three years salary, subject to the completion of 20 companys LTIP over which the Committee thereafter, provided that the TSR has years pensionable service: retains absolute discretion.
There are no achieved a prescribed ranking in comparison Life cover of 4 x pensionable earnings: specific contractual payments or benefits with a number of selected comparator A pension payable in the event of which would be triggered in the event of companies and that the EP targets have also retirement on grounds of ill health: a change in control of the company.
The performance criteria are A dependents pension on death of twospecific to each Award.
For the performance thirds of the members pension.
periods effective from 1 April 2002, 1 April 2003 and 1 April 2004, Mr R M Walker The company has a future obligation in received an allocation of shares equivalent to respect of Messrs A S Perelman, R M Walker 100% of his salary and the remaining and M R Wilson who joined the Scheme executive Directors received allocations after 1 June 1989 and are therefore subject equivalent to 70% of their salaries.
to the Inland Revenue earnings cap the Cap 2004 2005: 102,000, to pay the For the 2002 Award the comparator group difference between their pension entitlement consists of: AWG Plc, Kelda Plc, Pennon based upon the relevant portion of their Group Plc, Shanks Plc, United Utilities Plc salary and the maximum amount payable had and Waste Recycling Group Plc.
For the 2003 the cap not been in place.
The obligation is and 2004 Awards, the comparator group unfunded.
additionally contains Northumbrian Water Plc.
From April 2004, all new UK based executive For the executive Directors the 2002, 2003 Director appointments, are provided with a and 2004 LTIP awards will be triggered if the cash supplement in lieu of the unfunded companys TSR performance is at the arrangement.
median or above and the EP meets the scaled targets set.
EP is calculated by Forward-looking statement reference to a post tax rate of return of 7.5%.
The Committee will keep the existing remuneration arrangements, as detailed In 2004, the Committee carried out a in this report, under review during the next detailed review of the long-term incentive year to ensure that the companys reward arrangements for executive Directors and programmes remain competitive and provide other key senior executives.
No significant outcome of that review was that shareholders changes to the reward arrangements should be asked to approve the introduction for executive Directors are anticipated.
of a new long term incentive plan the However, as usual there will be individual Severn Trent Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 reviews of base salary, annual bonus and LTIP 2005.
Further details are contained LTIP award levels.
The performance targets in the Notice of the AGM and the full for incentive arrangements will continue to Remuneration Report.
be reviewed to ensure alignment with the group strategy and will for the next year, Post-retirement benefits as indicated in the Directors Report, place All current executive Directors participate an increased emphasis on the achievement in the Senior Staff Pension Scheme the of health and safety performance targets.
Scheme with the exception of Mrs R S Brydon Jannetta, who continues to be a member of the Severn Trent Pension Scheme.
2 Included within fees for the non-executive Directors, are amounts received by way of shares rather than as emoluments, to encourage participation in line with corporate governance best practice.
The gross value of shares is included in the table above.
Non-executive Directors who were either appointed or resigned during the year received a time apportioned award.
The number of shares received by each non-executive Director during the year was: Mr T D G Arculus 527: Sir John Egan 735: Ms M L Cassoni 246: Mr M C Flower 488: Mr M J Houston 180: Mr C S Matthews 34: Dr J D G McAdam 215: Mr F A Osborn 377.
3 Benefits in kind for executive Directors comprise the use of a company car, fuel, retirement gifts, attendance at retirement functions, private medical insurance, life assurance and an incapacity benefits scheme.
Benefits in kind for non-executive Directors, other than Mr T D G Arculus, comprise attendance at retirement functions.
Mr T D G Arculus benefits in kind comprise the use of a company car, fuel, private medical insurance, retirement gifts and attendance at retirement functions.
4 Sir John Egan was appointed Chairman from 1 January 2005 and received fees as a non-executive Director prior to that date.
5 Mr A S Perelman was employed by the company until 30 September 2004.
In this month, his total emoluments were 31,870 and his bonus relating to this period was 12,000.
6 Mr B Duckworth remained employed in a consultancy capacity until 31 March 2005.
His total emoluments from the date of his resignation from the Board to 31 March 2005 were 189,092 and his bonus relating to this period was 77,583.
7 Mr J B Smiths fees represent fees due, but not yet paid.
8 Mr C S Matthews fees and share entitlements were paid as cash directly to his employer up to 30 June 2004.
9 The bonus percentages paid to executive Directors were in the range of 14.5% to 61% of base salary.
10 In addition the company contributed 26,775 to Mr Arculuss personal pension arrangements.
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the Remuneration Report on 6 June 2005 M C Flower Chairman of the Remuneration Committee SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS 33 Shareholder enquiries Financial calendar and results announcements If you have a question about your THIS IS SEVERN TRENT shareholding in the company you should Annual General Meeting contact our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the International Convention Centre, 26 July 2005, who are responsible for making dividend Broad Street, Birmingham, B1 2EA.
responsibility ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 For more information about Severn Trent Plc and its businesses see our website www.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Severn Trent Plc, Registered office: 2297 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3PU Telephone: 44 0 121 722 4000 Registered number: 2366619
