annual report 2005 notice of annual general meeting.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Shanks Group plc will be held at the Glasgow Hilton, 1 William Street, Glasgow on Thursday 28 July 2005, at 11.00 a. m. for the purpose of transacting the following business: Routine ordinary business 1 To receive the reports of the Directors and auditors, the balance sheets of the Company and of the Group as at 31 March 2005 and the profit and loss account of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2005.
2 To approve the Remuneration Committees report for the year ended 31 March 2005.
3 To declare a final dividend of 3.8 pence per ordinary share.
4 To re-elect Mr Clubb as a Director.
5 To re-elect Mr Downes as a Director.
6 To re-elect Mr Pointon as a Director.
7 To elect Mr Auer as a Director.
8 To elect Mr Johnson as a Director.
9 To elect Mr Welham as a Director.
10 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special business 11 To consider and, if thought fit, to adopt by ordinary resolution The Shanks Group plc Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2005, details of which are given below.
Introduction The Company is proposing to adopt The Shanks Group plc Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2005 the Scheme.
The date on which the Scheme is adopted will be the Adoption Date.
The purpose of the Scheme is to enable selected employees and full-time directors of the Company and designated subsidiaries to save for and acquire the Companys ordinary shares Scheme Shares.
Eligibility The following individuals are eligible to be granted options under the Scheme: a all employees of the Company or those of its subsidiaries which have been designated by the directors as participating companies for the purposes of the Scheme each a Participating Company and any directors of the Company or a Participating Company other than non-executive directors who work at least 25 hours per week, who are resident and ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and who on the relevant date of grant of the options have had a period of continuous employment with a Participating Company of 1 year in total: and b any other person who is an employee or full time director of the Company or a Participating Company who is designated as being eligible by the directors and who fulfils the 1 year continuous employment test at the date of grant, each an Eligible Employee.
annual report 2005 Scheme Limit No option to subscribe for shares may be granted under the Scheme if, as a result, the aggregate nominal value of all shares issued, pursuant to options granted under the Scheme or any other employee share scheme of the Company, or remaining issuable, pursuant to options granted under any share option scheme of the Company, during the previous 10 years would exceed 10 per cent.
of the nominal amount of ordinary share capital of the Company in issue on the day preceding the proposed date of grant the Scheme Limit.
Individual Limits On the issue of an invitation to apply for the grant of an option, each Eligible Employee will be given the opportunity to apply for an option over a number of Scheme Shares, the total aggregate option price of which does not exceed the total of the monthly contributions and terminal bonus the Bonus payable under a certified contractual savings scheme a CCS Scheme which must be entered into as a condition of the grant of the option.
An Eligible Employee may save every month a maximum amount of 250 under both this and any other CCS Scheme and a minimum amount to be specified in the directors invitation to apply for an option not being more than 10 or less than 5 or in each case such other sum as may be permitted by Schedule 3 of the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 the Act.
Grant of Options Invitations to apply for the grant of options may be made within the period of 42 days commencing on a the day on which the HM Revenue & Customs the Revenue approves the Scheme: b any date on which the Company announces its interim or final results: or c any day on which the directors resolve that exceptional circumstances exist which justify an invitation.
No option may be granted after the tenth anniversary of the Adoption Date or at any time when the Scheme has not been approved by the Revenue.
Each eligible employee may, before the closing date stated in the invitation, make an application for an option in the form prescribed by the directors which must state, inter alia, a the monthly amount which the Eligible Employee wishes to save under the CCS Scheme: b the date on which the Bonus should be payable, if a choice of dates is available: and c whether the Bonus should be included in computing the number of Scheme Shares under option.
On receipt of a valid application from an Eligible Employee, the directors shall, within 30 days or 42 days if there is a scaling down after the first of three consecutive dealing days immediately preceding the date of the invitation, grant to the Eligible Employee an option over such number of Scheme Shares the aggregate exercise cost of which as nearly as may be equals the amount of the repayment including, where applicable, the Bonus under the CCS Scheme.
Option Price The option price payable the Option Price for each Scheme Share on exercise of an option shall not be less than the greater of a the nominal value of the Scheme Share: and b 80% of the market value of a Scheme Share or such other amount as may be provided by paragraph 28 of Schedule 3 of the Act from time to time.
Scaling Down If the total number of Scheme Shares in respect of which valid applications for options are received exceeds the maximum number of Scheme Shares determined by the directors or the Scheme Limit, the directors may a increase the maximum number subject to the Scheme Limit : b proportionately reduce the number of shares in respect of which each application was made: or c select applications by lot.
Exercise of Options Except on death, and in certain other circumstances, an option shall only be capable of being exercised during the period of six months commencing on the date on which the bonus is payable under the relevant CCS Scheme the Bonus Date and at a time when the option holder is an Eligible Employee, failing which it will lapse.
In the event of death, the option holders legal personal representative may exercise the option within 12 months following the death if the death occurs before the Bonus Date and within 12 months of the Bonus Date if the death occurs within 6 months following the Bonus Date.
continued Where an option holder ceases to be an officer or employee due to injury, disability, redundancy or retirement, or if the Company for which the employee or office holder works ceases to be controlled by the Company, or if the employee or office holders work relates to a business which is transferred to a person which is neither associated with, nor under the control of, the Company, the option holder may exercise his options within 6 months of ceasing to hold the relevant office or employment by virtue of which he is eligible to participate in the Scheme or, if earlier, within 6 months after the Bonus Date.
If an option holders office or employment ceases for any other reason not listed above, all his options shall immediately lapse.
If an option becomes exercisable before the Bonus Date for any reason listed above it shall only be exercisable over the number of Scheme Shares the total option price of which equals or is less than the repayment received under the CCS Scheme.
Change of Control In the event of a change of control of the Company in the circumstances prescribed in the Scheme rules or the court sanctioning a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985 or a voluntary winding-up, an option may be exercised within six months of the event by which such change of control is effected or the date of the court sanction or resolution for winding up, as appropriate.
Where a person is bound or entitled to acquire shares under the compulsory acquisition provisions of Part XIIIA of the Companies Act 1985, the option may be exercised during the period ending three business days prior to the expiry of the compulsory acquisition period.
In the event that the person obtaining control or becoming bound or entitled to acquire shares in the Company itself is a company, then with the agreement of that company any option holder may roll-over his options into new options in the acquiring company or other company permitted under the Scheme rules with rights which are equivalent to his previous rights with regard to exercise and cost of options.
Lapse of Options Options also lapse in the following circumstances: if a resolution is passed or order made for the winding up of the Company: on the tenth anniversary of the date of grant: if the whole or any part of the contributions under the relevant CCS Scheme are repaid to the option holder before the Bonus Date: if the option holder who has not made all contributions due under the CCS Scheme before the Bonus Date gives notice that he intends to stop paying contributions: where a person is bound or entitled to acquire Scheme Shares in the Company under Part XIIIA of the Act and the time limit for doing so has expired: on transfer, assignment or charge of an option, except on death: and following the first exercise of an option in respect of all or some of the Scheme Shares over which it was granted, the balance if any remaining shall lapse.
annual report 2005 Alteration to the Scheme Rules The directors may make such alterations to the Scheme rules as are necessary.
However, the Scheme rules cannot be amended to the material advantage of the option holders or so as to make the terms of grant of the options materially more advantageous or amend the limits except for minor amendments and amendments to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction for participants in the Scheme or any of the Company and each of its subsidiaries, without the prior approval of the shareholders in general meeting.
Nor can the rules be amended where the amendment would affect in any material respect the rights of the subsisting option holders.
Nor shall any amendment to the rules have effect unless and until the Revenue have approved the amendment.
Variation of Capital and Adjustment of Options If the issued share capital of the Company is varied due to capitalisation or rights issue, sub-division, consolidation, purchase of own shares or a reduction, the directors may, subject to obtaining prior approval from the Revenue, adjust the option price and or the number of Scheme Shares subject to an option in such a manner and with effect from such date as they determine to be appropriate not excluding retrospective adjustments, after obtaining confirmation from the auditors that such adjustments are fair and reasonable.
Non-transferability of Options Except on death, options may not be transferred, assigned or charged.
12 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution of the Company.
THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and from time to time in force of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company Ordinary Shares provided that: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 23,400,000: b the maximum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased, and the minimum price which may be paid for any such share is 10 pence in each case exclusive of associated expenses : and c the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 18 months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
13 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution of the Company.
THAT in substitution for any existing power under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and from time to time in force the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the Directors be and are hereby empowered until 27 October 2006, pursuant to section 95 of the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority available to the Directors under section 80 of the Act as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with any rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register on a date fixed by the Directors in proportion as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers 67 shanks.
continued of such ordinary shares held by them on that date provided that the Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal requirements under the laws of, or the regulations of, any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange, in any territory: or b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a of this resolution of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,170,000, but so that this authority shall allow the Company, before the expiry of this authority, to make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
14 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution of the Company.
That the figure of 250,000 contained in line two of article 96 of the Companys Articles of Association be replaced by the figure of 400,000.
By Order of the Board Registered office: Shanks House P Kaye 211 Blochairn Road Secretary Blochairn Glasgow 2 June 2005 G21 2RL The notes below form part of this notice.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the foregoing Notice is entitled to appoint one or more proxies who need not be a member or members to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him her.
A prepaid form of proxy accompanies this Notice.
The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, should be delivered to the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 3FA not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
The return of a completed form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person at the meeting should he she so wish.
The proposed rules of the Shanks Group plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2005, the register of interests of the Directors and of their families in the shares of the Company and copies of all service contracts under which Directors are employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company at Shanks House, 211 Blochairn Road, Blochairn, Glasgow G21 2RL during normal business hours, on any weekday Saturday and public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice up to the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the Glasgow Hilton on 28 July 2005, at least 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting.
The proposed rules of the SAYE Scheme 2005 will also be available for inspection at the offices of Dickson Minto W. S. 22 25 Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1DX during normal business hours from the date of this Notice up to the date of the Annual General Meeting.
