6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 45 Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial statements.
The Directors have chosen to prepare accounts financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Standards IFRS and for the Company in accordance with United and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from the Directors are required to: legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Annual report and accounts for the 45 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc
