6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 106 Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc Formerly Trushire plc, formerly Trushelfco No.
3167 Limited We have audited the individual company financial statements of Shire Basis of audit opinion plc for the period from September 6, 2005 to December 31, 2005 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards which comprise the balance sheet and the related notes A to I.
These on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
individual company financial statements have been prepared under An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the accounting policies set out therein.
to the amounts and disclosures in the individual company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates The corporate governance statement and the Directors Remuneration and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Report are included in the Group annual report of Shire plc for the year individual company financial statements, and of whether the accounting ended December 31, 2005.
We have reported separately on the Group policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently financial statements of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2005 applied and adequately disclosed.
and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the individual accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit company financial statements are free from material misstatement, work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, information in the individual company financial statements.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, Opinion for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the individual company financial statements give a true and fair view, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting individual company financial statements in accordance with applicable Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at December 31, law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom 2005: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
the individual company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Our responsibility is to audit the individual company financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and Deloitte & Touche LLP regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors UK and Ireland.
Reading, UK March 22, 2006 We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual company financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the individual company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the individual company financial statements.
We also report to you if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual company financial statements.
106 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc
