6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 50 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information Shire plc Shire or the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group develop and market products for specialty physicians.
The Group focuses on four therapeutic areas: central nervous system, gastro-intestinal, human genetic therapies and general products.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
On November 25, 2005 a Scheme of Arrangement, approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales, became effective.
Under the terms of the Scheme, Shire replaced Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc SPG as the holding company of the Shire Group.
SPGs ordinary shareholders received one Shire ordinary share for each SPG ordinary share held at 5.30pm on November 24, 2005.
The Shire ordinary shares were admitted to the official list and to trading on the LSE at 8.00am GMT on November 25, 2005.
The listing of SPGs ordinary shares was cancelled at the same time.
The Company also has American Depositary Shares ADSs trading on the NASDAQ National Market.
Each ADS represents three ordinary shares of Shire.
An ADS is evidenced by an American Depositary Receipt ADR issued by Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York as depositary.
As at February 21, 2006, the proportion of ordinary shares represented by ADRs was 30% of the outstanding ordinary shares.
In consequence of the implementation of the Scheme of Arrangement, ADSs representing ordinary shares of SPG were replaced by ADSs representing ordinary shares of Shire on a one-for-one basis.
Dealings in ADSs representing ordinary shares of Shire on NASDAQ commenced at 9.30am EST on November 25, 2005.
ADSs representing ordinary shares of SPG were cancelled at the same time.
Exchangeable shares are included as part of share capital in the consolidated balance sheet to present a true and fair view of the consolidated Groups capital structure.
Further details are shown in Note 30.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1985 and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, United Kingdom.
These accounts are presented in US Dollars as this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
2 Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in Note 40.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial assets, borrowings and derivatives.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
b Consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity concerned, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets exchanged, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired together with liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between companies in the Group are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealized losses on transactions between companies in the Group are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but not the control or joint control over those policies.
In general this would be a shareholding in an entity entitling the Group to between 20% and 50% of the voting rights of that entity.
50 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 51 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any unsecured receivables due from that associate, the Group does not recognise such excess losses, unless, and to the extent it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associate.
Unrealized losses between the Group and its associates are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by the equity method.
c Foreign currency translation Functional and presentational currency Items included in the individual financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the Groups presentational currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions in question.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Group companies The results and balance sheets of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date: income and expense are translated at average exchange rates for the periods of the income statement unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in entities in the Group are taken to shareholders equity.
When an entity of the Group is sold, any such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of an operation are treated as assets and liabilities of a company in the Group and translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
d Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components operating in other economic environments.
e Revenue recognition Revenues are stated net of VAT and similar taxes, trade discounts and intra-Group transactions.
The principal components of the Groups turnover and their respective accounting treatments are set out below: Product sales revenue from the sales of products is recognised upon shipment to customers or at the time of delivery depending on the terms of sale.
Provisions for certain rebates, product returns and discounts to customers are provided for as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded: Annual report and accounts for the 51 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Licensing and development fees licensing and development fees represent revenues derived from license agreements and from collaborative research and development arrangements: initial license fees are not considered to be separable from the associated research and development activities, even where such fees are nonrefundable and not creditable against research and development services to be rendered.
Initial license fees are deferred and recognised over the period of the license term or the period of the associated research and development agreement.
In circumstances where initial license fees are not for a defined period, revenues are deferred and recognised over the period to the expiration of the relevant patent to which the license relates: Milestones during the term of certain research and development agreements, the Group receives non-refundable milestones as certain technical targets are achieved.
Revenue is recognised on achievement of milestones: and the Group also receives non-refundable clinical milestones when certain targets are achieved during the clinical phases of development, such as the submission of clinical data to a regulatory authority.
These clinical milestones are recognised when receivable.
If milestone payments are creditable against future royalty payments, the milestones are deferred and released over the period in which the royalties are anticipated to be paid.
No revenue is recognised for consideration, the value or receipt of which is dependent on future events, future performance, or refund obligations.
Royalty income royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
Interest income interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Dividend income dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less subsequent depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Where the expenditure constitutes repairs and maintenance, it is charged to the income statement during the financial period in which it is incurred.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the difference between the cost of each asset and its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Land Buildings 20 to 50 years Furniture and fittings 3 to10 years Equipment and other 3 to10 years Motor vehicles 4 to 5 years Residual values and the useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the income statement.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Properties in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs capitalized in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
52 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 53 Notes to the consolidated financial statements g Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalization.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
h Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each of those cash generating units represents the Groups investment in operations by each primary reporting segment.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill had been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss disposal.
Research and development Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Internal development costs are recognised as intangible assets when an asset is created that can be identified, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group and costs can be measured reliably.
The Group considers that regulatory and other uncertainties inherent in the development of new products mean that such criteria are not met until the commercial launch of the product and therefore, pre-launch internal development costs are expensed as incurred.
No significant direct development costs are incurred post commercial launch.
Where the recognition criteria are met, internal development costs are capitalized and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives from product launch.
Payments to in-license products and compounds from third parties, generally taking the form of up-front payments and milestones, are capitalized.
Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in subsequent periods.
Intellectual property Intellectual property, including trademarks, is recognised at purchase cost and amortised in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful life of the product post its launch generally not exceeding 20 years.
Intellectual property related to a marketed product can have a useful life exceeding 20 years when the Group believes that the product is well established in its market.
Computer software The costs of acquiring computer software licenses and implementing the specific software are capitalized.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to five years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
i Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that a revaluation surplus exists.
Annual report and accounts for the 53 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 54 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
j Financial assets From January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004: Financial assets include investments in companies other than subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, financial receivables held for investment purposes, treasury stock and other securities.
Financial assets are recorded at cost, including additional direct charges, less provision for any impairment.
From January 1,2005: From January 1, 2005 the Group applied IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The Group has chosen to apply these standards prospectively, which has resulted in the accounting policy described below: The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-tomaturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this latter category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realized within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Group allocates derivatives to this category.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets.
Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
There are no investments allocated to this category.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Group allocates all its equity investments which are not investments in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures to this category.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Realised and unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques unless fair value cannot be reliably measured.
In this case such unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
54 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements k Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities From January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004: The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge, the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised in the income statement, or as adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the Groups accounts.
For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a probable commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate by converting a fixed rate to a variable rate or vice versa.
Interest differentials under these swaps are recognised by adjusting net interest payable over the periods of the contracts.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
From January 1, 2005 onwards From January 1, 2005 the Group applied IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The Group has chosen to apply these standards prospectively, which has resulted in the accounting policy described below: Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognizing the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Currently, the Group does not designate any of its derivatives as a hedging instrument and therefore none qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
l Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalized at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the future minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability to the lessor and the associated finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in Borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
m Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value except where arising on business combination.
Cost is determined using the firstin-first-out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
n Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
o Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Restricted cash is carried in the balance sheet at cost.
Restricted cash comprises reserve funds required for financial guarantee contracts and collateral against certain leased assets.
Annual report and accounts for the 55 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements p Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds other than where the issue of new shares or options relates to the acquisition of a business, in which case such incremental costs are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Where any company in the Group purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
q Borrowings From January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004: Borrowings are stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made in the period.
From January 1, 2005: From January 1, 2005 the Group applied IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The Group has chosen to apply these standards prospectively, which has resulted in the accounting policy described below: Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Convertible loan notes are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability component and an equity component.
The fair value of the liability portion of a convertible bond is determined using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option.
This is recognised and included in shareholders equity, net of income tax effects.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
r Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current and deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit not the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realized.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
56 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements s Employee benefits Retirement obligations defined contribution plans The Group operates personal defined contribution plans for employees.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed percentage contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
Retirement obligations defined benefit plans The Group operates defined benefit plans SERPs for certain senior employees.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of these plans shown in Note 27 is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date.
Assets relating to a closed defined benefit plan are held in a Rabbi Trust, the legal form of which is such that the assets held to cover the pension liabilities are available to the general creditors of the company on winding up and are therefore shown on the balance sheet Note 24.
Changes in the present value of the benefit obligation are recognised in the income statement.
Further information on the Groups defined benefit plans can be found in Note 29 Retirement obligations.
Share-based compensation The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2, Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after November 7, 2002 that were unvested at December 31, 2004.
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is calculated using the Black-Scholes model.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, the resulting cost is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the options.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
The Group also provides employees with the option to purchase ordinary shares of Shire: under the Sharesave Scheme at an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees: and under the Employee Share Purchase Plan at an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: i terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or ii providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
t Provisions Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: the amount can be reliably estimated and when a detailed formal plan for the restructuring has been communicated to affected parties.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
u Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
This occurs in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders, or in the case of an interim dividend, when the dividend is paid.
Annual report and accounts for the 57 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 58 Notes to the consolidated financial statements v Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is considered met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
w Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to profit and loss over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
3 Change in reporting entity On November 25, 2005, Shire plc, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales Shire, became the holding company of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc SPG pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under Section 425 of the UK Companies Act 1985 that was approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales and the shareholders of SPG the Scheme of Arrangement.
Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of 3.50, of Shire Shire Ordinary Shares were exchanged for ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of 0.05 of SPG SPG Ordinary Shares, on a one-for-one basis.
As a result of the Scheme of Arrangement, SPG is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire and has been re-registered as a private company under the name Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited.
The Shire Ordinary Shares carry substantially the same rights as did the SPG Ordinary Shares.
The Scheme of Arrangement did not involve any payment for the new Shire Ordinary Shares.
Shires Board of Directors, management and corporate governance arrangements immediately following the Scheme of Arrangement were the same as SPG immediately before the effectiveness of the Scheme of Arrangement.
The consolidated assets and liabilities of Shire immediately after the Scheme of Arrangement were the same as the consolidated assets and liabilities of SPG immediately prior thereto.
In consequence of the implementation of the Scheme of Arrangement, American Depositary Shares ADSs representing ordinary shares of SPG were replaced by ADSs representing ordinary shares of Shire on a one-for-one basis.
Shire was incorporated on June 27, 2005.
Prior to November 25, 2005 Shire had not commenced trading or made any profits or trading losses.
On November 28, 2005 the High Court of Justice in England and Wales approved a reduction of Shires share capital to take effect on November 29, 2005, when the nominal value of each Shire ordinary share was reduced from 3.50 to 0.05.
This reduction increased the distributable reserves potentially available to Shire to approximately $2.95 billion, which the Directors of Shire can utilise for future dividend payments at their discretion.
The corporate restructuring has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
Accordingly, the historical financial statements prior to the reorganization are labelled as those of Shire, but represent the operations of SPG.
For periods prior to the corporate restructuring, the equity of Shire represents the historical equity of SPG.
After the Scheme of Arrangement, shareholders equity represents the equity of Shire.
The effect on share capital, the share premium account, the capital reserve and other reserve is shown in the Shareholders funds and statement of shareholders equity table in Note 33.
The capital reduction has resulted in a new distributable reserve the Capital Reduction Reserve.
The increase in the value of common stock at January 1, 2005 from $36.1 million to $41.8 million on restatement is due to differences between the historic exchange rates used to convert SPGs Sterling denominated nominal share capital into US Dollars, and the exchange rate at the time of the corporate restructuring.
Earnings per share are unaffected by the reorganization.
All SPG stock options granted to Directors and employees under stock option plans that were in existence immediately prior to the Scheme of Arrangement were exchangeable for stock options in Shire on a one-for-one basis with no change in any of the terms or conditions.
The number of stock options for which this exchange did not take place was not material.
58 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 59 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4 Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk and price risk : cash flow and fair value interest rate risk: credit risk: and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Financial Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
All Group Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and procedures reviewed and approved by the Board.
As a matter of policy, the Group does not undertake speculative transactions that would increase currency or interest rate exposure.
a Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Groups net income and financial position, as expressed in US Dollars, are exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates against the US Dollar.
The main trading currencies of the Group are the US Dollar, Pounds Sterling, the Euro and the Canadian Dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions, recognised assets, liabilities and net investments in subsidiaries are denominated in a currency that is not the subsidiarys functional currency.
The exposure to foreign exchange is managed and monitored by Group Treasury.
Exposures are generally managed through natural hedging via the currency denomination of cash balances.
As at December 31, 2005 the Group had five outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with a total principal amount of $206 million to manage the risk associated with inter-company loans.
As at December 31, 2005 there were no material unrealized gains or losses on these contracts.
Price risk As of December 31, 2005 the Group has $34.1 million 2004: $401.4 million of financial assets comprizing private companies, publicly quoted equities, institutional and managed cash funds and commercial paper.
The publicly quoted assets are exposed to market risk.
No financial instruments or derivatives have been employed to hedge this risk.
b Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The majority of the Groups debt was repaid during the year to December 31, 2004 and therefore the Groups interest charge is low.
Consequently the Group has limited exposure to interest rate movements.
In 2005 the average interest rate received on cash and liquid investments was approximately 2.9% per annum 2004: 1.44%.
The largest proportion of investments was in US Dollar liquidity funds.
No financial instruments or derivatives have been employed to hedge this exposure.
c Credit risk The Groups revenues are mainly derived from agreements with major pharmaceutical companies and relationships with pharmaceutical wholesale distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
Such clients typically have significant cash resources and as such the risk is considered minimal.
The Group has taken positive steps to manage any credit risk associated with these transactions.
The Group operates clearly defined credit evaluation procedures.
For the year to December 31, 2005, there were three customers in the US who accounted for 69% of the Groups total revenues.
Financial instruments that potentially expose the Group to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of short-term cash investments and trade accounts receivable.
Excess cash is invested in short-term money market instruments, including bank and building society term deposits, commercial paper and other debt securities from a variety of companies with strong credit ratings.
These investments typically bear minimal risk.
d Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities, and the ability to close out market positions.
The Group ordinarily finances its activities through cash generated from operating activities, private and public offerings of equity and debt securities and the proceeds of asset or investment disposals.
The Group anticipates that its operating cash flow together with available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet its anticipated future operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service and lease obligations as they become due over the next 12 months.
Annual report and accounts for the 59 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 60 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 Critical accounting estimates and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity with IFRS accounting principles, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in Note 2 h. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
The Group uses discounted cash flow models to value the recoverable amounts of cash-generating units, which require assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash inflows and outflows, risk, the cost of capital and terminal values.
Each of these assumptions is significant to the value of the intangible asset.
A prolonged general economic downturn, new products, loss of IP protection, sustained government pressure on prices and, specifically, competitive pricing, could create an imbalance of industry supply and demand, or otherwise diminish volumes or profits.
Such events, combined with changes in interest rates, could adversely affect the Groups valuation of the estimated future net cash flows generated by its cash-generating units.
As a result, future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by additional impairment charges related to the recoverability of goodwill.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was $2,209 million, after an impairment loss of $527 million was recognised during 2005.
Details of the impairment loss calculation are provided in Note 17. b Valuation of intangible assets general The Group has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets, recorded at acquisition cost or fair value and amortised over the assets useful economic lives.
Managements estimate of the useful life considers, inter alia, the following factors: the expected use of the asset by the Group: any legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit the useful life and the effects of demand: competition: levels of maintenance expenditure required: and other economic factors such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels.
There is a high occurrence of transactions involving the transfer of intangible assets between companies in the health care field, and valuations are usually based on discounted cash flow analysis.
The Group uses a discounted cash flow model to value intangible assets acquired, which requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash inflows and outflows, risk, the cost of capital, and terminal values.
The Group engages independent valuation experts who review critical assumptions for significant acquisitions of intangibles.
The Group reviews intangible assets for impairment periodically in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Such events, combined with changes in interest rates, could adversely affect the Groups valuation of the estimated future net cash flows generated by its intangible assets.
As a result, future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by additional impairment charges related to the recoverability of intangible assets.
c Valuation of intangible assets TKT acquisition The fair value of all of the identifiable intangible assets acquired through the acquisition of TKT has been determined using an income approach on a project-by-project basis, by independent valuation specialists.
This method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows either generated or saved as a result of ownership of the intellectual property, the customer relationships and the other intangible assets.
These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams.
The forecast of future cash flows requires various assumptions to be made, including: revenue that is reasonably likely to result from the sale of products including the estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration and estimated market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product life cycles: royalty or license fees saved by owning the intellectual property associated with the products: cost of sales for the products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: general and administrative expenses: research and development expenses: and the estimated life of the products.
60 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 61 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 Critical accounting estimates and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued The valuations are based on information at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by the Groups management.
No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecasts of future cash flows.
d Valuation of financial assets and equity accounted investments The Group has investments in certain public and private pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and partnerships.
These investments are designated as either available-for-sale, joint venture investments or associate companies.
Those investments designated as available-for-sale are held at fair value, in accordance with IAS 39, with any unrealized movements in fair value being recognised directly within equity.
Associates and joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method, with the companys share or profit or loss after tax presented as a separate item on the face of the income statement.
e Sales deductions Sales deductions primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid and other government agencies, contractual rebates with healthmaintenance organizations HMOs, product returns, trade discounts, wholesaler chargebacks and allowances for the coupon sampling program.
Statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates with HMOs are based on price differentials between a base price and the selling price.
Rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product as prices increase.
Provisions for rebates are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales with estimates of future utilization derived from historical trends.
Revisions or clarification from Centres for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMS related to state Medicaid and other government program reimbursement practices with retroactive application can result in changes to managements estimates of the rebates reported in prior periods.
However, at the time of sale, the prices of the Groups products are fixed and consequently the rebates can be reasonably determined at the outset of each transaction it undertakes with its customers and, therefore, these factors would not impact the recording of revenues in accordance with IFRS.
Provisions for product returns and trade discounts to customers are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales with estimates based upon past activity levels: the duration of time in the processing of deductions: and other factors such as the launch of a new drug, the loss of patent protection or new competition.
Where such factors are relevant, the Group develops provisions for returns based on wholesaler customer channel checks for slow-moving product and a separate management review of estimated customer inventory levels, by product.
To the extent that the Group is unable to estimate returns, recognition of revenue is deferred until either the product is sold to the pharmacy or until the Group receives payment from the wholesaler.
The Groups policy is to accept customer returns in the following circumstances: a expiration of product, b product damaged while in the possession of the Group, or c specific sales terms, at product launch, that allow for unconditional return of product guaranteed sales.
Customer return periods range from one to twenty-four months with an average return period of six months.
In addition, the Group monitors customer inventory levels, based on estimated prescription demand, and limits the amount of product shipped to a customer when there appears to be a protracted pattern of customer ordering that exceeds the Groups estimate of underlying demand.
The practice of monitoring inventory levels allows the Group to more accurately predict customer returns.
The actual experience and the level of these deductions to revenue may deviate from the estimate.
The Group revises its estimates every period and may be required to adjust the estimate in a subsequent period.
There have been no material adjustments to the estimates recognised related to the Groups provisions for sales rebates or returns, in the period presented.
f Income taxes The Group operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audits and adjustments.
Because the Group operates globally, the nature of the audit items are often very complex.
The Group employs internal and external tax professionals to minimise audit adjustment amounts where possible.
The Group also has significant deferred assets due to net operating losses NOLs in the United States, Canada and other countries.
The realization of these assets is not assured and is dependent on the generation of sufficient taxable income in the future.
Management has exercised judgement in determining the extent of the realization of these losses based upon estimates of future taxable income in the various jurisdictions in which these NOLs exist.
Where there is an expectation that on the balance of probabilities there will not be sufficient taxable profits to utilise these NOLs a provision is made against these deferred tax assets.
If actual events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, any changes to the valuation allowance could materially impact the Groups financial position and results.
Annual report and accounts for the 61 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 62 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 Critical accounting estimates and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued g Litigation The Group accounts for litigation losses in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Under IAS 37, provisions are recorded for probable litigation losses when management is able to reliably estimate the loss.
The amount recognised as a provision is managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date: in other words the amount that an entity would rationally pay to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date or transfer it to a third party at that time.
These estimates are developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information becomes known.
In instances where there is a continuous range of possible outcomes, and each point in that range is as likely as any other, the mid-point of the range is recorded as a loss.
The best estimates are reviewed quarterly and the estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from the Groups best estimate may result in an additional expense in a future accounting period.
h TKT acquisition The acquisition of TKT has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the Group has measured the cost of the business combination as the aggregate of the assets acquired, the liabilities assumed from TKT at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values, and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The valuation of in-process R&D, the inventory acquired with TKT and the amount payable to those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights in relation to the Groups acquisition of TKT on July 27, 2005 are based on managements best estimates.
Finished goods were fair valued at estimated selling price less the sum of costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort of the company.
Work in-process was fair valued on the same basis less costs to complete.
All cost of product sales of REPLAGAL, since the acquisition, are at the fair value of the inventory acquired.
The fair value of certain pre-acquisition contingencies, in particular those relating to the Purported Class Action Shareholder Suit see Note 35 are yet to be determined.
The Group currently does not have sufficient information to measure the contingencies reliably.
6 Segment information Primary reporting format business segments For management purposes, the Group is organised into two main reporting segments pharmaceutical products and royalties.
Certain revenues and profits from product licensing, development and other items are not included within these two segments and are therefore presented as unallocated.
The Group was also previously involved in a vaccines business Biologics, that operation was disposed of during 2004.
Pharmaceutical products Royalties Unallocated Group 2005 $000 $000 $000 $000 Continuing operations Revenue external customers 1,327,660 242,910 28,746 1,599,316 Segment result: Operating loss profit 42,072 140,179 23,378 158,873 Finance costs 17,420 Investment revenues 35,300 Share of post tax profit from: associates 6,325 joint ventures 5,325 Loss before tax 141,993 Taxation 38,510 Loss for the year from continuing operations 180,503 Discontinued operations Profit on disposal of operations 3,125 Profit before income tax 3,125 Taxation Profit for the year from discontinued operations 3,125 62 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6 Segment information continued Pharmaceutical products Royalties Unallocated Group 2005 $000 $000 $000 $000 Balance Sheet Segment assets 4,211,231 926,368 5,137,599 Investment in equity accounted: joint ventures 5,954 associates 17,069 Group assets deferred tax 67,283 Total assets 4,211,231 926,368 5,227,905 Segment liabilities 1,017,081 1,017,081 Group liabilities deferred tax 127,691 Total liabilities 1,017,081 1,144,772 Other segment items Capital expenditure 638,538 638,538 Depreciation 23,003 23,003 Amortization 49,516 49,516 Impairment charges 154,735 383,089 537,824 Share-based payments 27,383 27,383 Provisions 20,420 20,420 Reorganization costs 2,301 2,301 Primary reporting format business segments Pharmaceutical products Royalties Biologics Unallocated Group 2004 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Continuing operations Revenue external customers 1,112,457 230,364 20,386 1,363,207 Segment result: Operating profit 43,344 230,364 17,078 290,786 Interest expense and similar charges 14,771 Interest income 21,901 Share of post tax profit from: associates 75 joint ventures 4,433 Profit before income tax 302,424 Taxation 141,623 Profit for the year from continuing operations 160,801 Discontinued operations Revenue external customers 3,626 3,626 Segment result Loss from discontinued operations 20,135 20,135 Loss on disposal of operations 44,157 44,157 Loss before income tax 64,292 64,292 Taxation Loss for the year from discontinued operations 64,292 64,292 Annual report and accounts for the 63 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6 Segment information continued Pharmaceutical products Royalties Biologics Unallocated Group 2004 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Balance Sheet Segment assets 3,299,958 1,311,163 4,611,121 Investment in equity accounted: joint ventures 6,179 associates 24,669 Group assets deferred tax 85,041 Total assets 3,299,958 1,311,163 4,727,010 Segment liabilities 482,078 482,078 Total liabilities 482,078 482,078 Other segment items Capital expenditure 101,997 12,715 114,712 Depreciation 22,668 2,033 24,701 Amortization 42,138 42,138 Impairment charges 153,789 153,789 Share-based payments 15,815 15,815 Provisions 23,125 43,161 66,286 Reorganization costs 55,505 55,505 On September 9, 2004 the Group completed its disposal of the vaccines Biologics business, which was a separate business segment and was part of the North America geographic segment Note 14.
Secondary reporting format geographical segments The Groups operations are located in the US and Canada North America and throughout the rest of the world primarily the UK and other European Union countries.
The revenue analysis in the following table is based on the location of the customer, which is not materially different from the location where the assets are located.
Capital expenditure is allocated based on where the assets are located.
Capital expenditures on plant, Segment property and equipment Revenue assets and intangible assets 2005 $000 $000 $000 Continuing operations North America 1,233,511 3,357,313 616,647 Rest of the world 365,805 1,847,569 21,891 1,599,316 5,204,882 638,538 Investment in equity accounted: joint ventures 5,954 associates 17,069 Total 1,599,316 5,227,905 638,538 Secondary reporting format geographical segments Capital expenditures on plant, Segment property and equipment Revenue assets and intangible assets 2004 $000 $000 $000 Continuing operations North America 1,086,087 3,006,662 33,962 Rest of the world 277,120 1,689,500 68,035 1,363,207 4,696,162 101,997 Discontinued operations North America 3,626 12,715 Investment in equity accounted: joint ventures 6,179 associates 24,669 Total 1,366,833 4,727,010 114,712 64 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 65 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6 Segment information continued Analysis of revenue by category continuing operations 2005 2004 $000 $000 Continuing operations Product sales 1,327,660 1,112,457 Royalties 242,910 230,364 Licensing and development 15,002 13,479 Other revenues 13,744 6,907 1,599,316 1,363,207 Investment revenues 35,300 21,901 1,634,616 1,385,108 Discontinued operations 3,626 Total revenue including investment revenues 1,634,616 1,388,734 For discontinued operations see Note 14.
7 Loss profit for the year 2005 2004 $000 $000 The following items have been included in arriving at the loss profit from continuing operations: Staff costs: wages and salaries 234,425 179,174 social security costs 20,674 15,333 pensions costs defined contribution plans 13,461 8,722 pensions costs defined benefit plans 607 284 share-based payments to Directors and employees 27,383 15,815 296,550 219,328 Inventories: cost of inventories recognised as expense included in cost of sales 184,353 119,943 inventory write down included in cost of sales 9,432 3,788 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned assets 20,099 20,140 under finance leases 2,904 2,528 Impairment of goodwill 526,956 132,576 Impairment of intangible assets 4,410 19,626 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 6,458 1,587 Amortization of intangible assets included in selling, general and administrative expenses all acquired 49,516 42,138 Operating lease rentals: property, plant and machinery 14,445 6,563 other 2,673 3,495 Profit on disposal of financial assets 4,100 14,805 Impairment of financial assets 1,974 17,455 Net foreign exchange losses 10,212 2,466 Reorganization costs 2,301 55,505 Integration costs 11,727 Government grants towards research 26 Auditors remuneration for audit services 5,121 5,401 Annual report and accounts for the 65 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 66 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 7 Loss profit for the year continued Accounts payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and their associates by the Group in respect of non-audit services were $2.8 million 2004: $4.9 million.
A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below.
2005 2004 Year to December 31, $000 $000 i Audit fees 2,731 3,253 ii Audit-related fees 2,390 2,148 iii Tax fees 2,066 4,734 iv All other fees 708 183 Total fees 7,895 10,318 Notes i Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits, and included the audit of managements assessment that the Group maintained effective internal control over 10-K financial reporting and the audit of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over 10-K financial reporting.
ii Audit-related fees consist of work generally only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory filings.
iii Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance, planning and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
iv All other fees relate to assisting the remuneration committee and corporate responsibility.
A description of the work of the audit committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 31 to 32.
The loss for the financial year under UK GAAP dealt with in the accounts of the Company was $363,000 2004: Not Applicable.
The loss for the financial year ended December 31, 2004 under UK GAAP dealt with in the accounts of the previous holding company, Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc, was $32,061,087.
As provided by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no profit and loss account is presented in respect of the Company accounts shown on pages 106 to 112.
8 Investment revenue 2005 2004 $000 $000 Interest on bank deposits and managed cash funds 35,300 21,901 9 Finance costs 2005 2004 $000 $000 Interest expense and similar charges: convertible loan notes 12,197 obligations under finance leases 360 329 interest provision for dissenting shareholders 7,690 other interest payable 4,334 97 12,384 12,623 Net foreign exchange transaction losses 5,036 2,148 17,420 14,771 All items relate materially to continuing operations.
In August 2004, $370.1 million of the 2% guaranteed convertible loan notes due 2011 were redeemed at cost by the note holders and as a result debt issuance costs of $7.4 million were expensed in the year.
These costs were being amortised through the income statement over the life of the loan notes.
These costs were partly offset by a reduction in interest payable for the period from redemption of the loan notes up to December 31, 2004.
66 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 67 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 10 Taxation 2005 2004 Notes $000 $000 Analysis of charge in the year Current tax charge continuing operations 70,097 146,782 discontinued operations Deferred tax income expense 20 continuing operations 31,587 18,590 discontinued operations recognition of a deferred tax asset within goodwill 23,749 Taxation 38,510 141,623 Corporation tax is calculated at 30% 2004: 30% of the estimated assessable profit in the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The effective tax rate for the year is -27%.
The difference between this and the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% is explained below: 2005 2004 Loss profit on ordinary activities before tax $000 141,993 302,424 % % Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2004: 30% 30.0 30.0 Effects of: adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods 0.4 5.9 permanent differences 29.8 6.1 non deductible goodwill 111.4 13.4 stock option benefit 1.2 change in opening tax rates 1.6 movement on deferred tax 22.2 6.4 capital taxes and withholding taxes 0.1 different tax rates on overseas earnings 1.6 3.0 other 1.5 0.3 Effective tax rate for the year 27.1 46.8 The Group earns profits in various territories, which have different tax rates compared to the UK.
The tax credit expense for the year to December 31, 2005 consists of a UK taxation credit of $50.1 million 2004: $0.3 million expense and overseas tax expenses of $88.6 million 2004: $141.3 million expense.
No tax deduction is available on the impairment of goodwill that was created on the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. Of the charge to current tax, $nil 2004: $nil related to profits arising in the vaccines business Biologics which was disposed of during 2004.
No tax charge or credit arose on the disposal.
Annual report and accounts for the 67 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11 Business acquisitions TKT acquisition On July 27, 2005 the Group completed its acquisition of TKT in an all-cash transaction.
The acquisition was effected by merging a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire with and into TKT, with TKT continuing as the surviving corporation.
As consideration, the Group paid to TKTs stockholders $37 in cash for each share of TKT common stock outstanding at the time of the acquisition, less any applicable withholding taxes.
The total cash consideration for the acquisition of TKT is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, subject to change as may be required by the appraisal rights process see below.
As at December 31, 2005 shareholders owning approximately 24.8 million TKT shares being 69% of the 36.2 million TKT shares outstanding at the acquisition date had accepted the offer and $917.9 million has been paid to them: $83.9 million was paid in connection with TKT stock options: and $170.1 million in connection with convertible notes outstanding at the date of acquisition.
In connection with the Groups merger with TKT, former holders of approximately 11.7 million shares of TKT common stock submitted written demands to the Delaware Court of Chancery for appraisal of these shares and, as a result, elected not to accept the $37 per share merger consideration.
On October 10, 2005, at the request of one of the holders to tender 365,000 shares at the merger price of $37 per share, TKT filed a motion to dismiss the holders demand.
On October 12, 2005, the Delaware Court of Chancery granted this motion, and the holder tendered the shares at the merger consideration of $37 per share.
Therefore, as at December 31, 2005, former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock maintained written demands for appraisal of these shares and have elected not to accept the $37 merger consideration.
In November 2005, the Delaware Court of Chancery approved a consolidation order filed by TKT whereby actions brought by all petitioners have been consolidated as one case.
To the extent that the remaining demands were validly asserted in accordance with the applicable requirements of Delaware law and the former holders perfect their rights thereunder, such former holders will be entitled to receive the fair value of the shares as determined by the Delaware Court of Chancery.
The determination of fair value will be made excluding any element of value arising from the transaction, such as cost savings or business synergies.
The Delaware Court of Chancery may ascribe a valuation to the shares that is greater than, less than or equal to $37 per share and may award interest on the amount determined in the appraisal process.
The total consideration for the acquisition of TKT, including amounts payable in respect of stock options and convertible securities, is approximately $1.6 billion at the merger price of $37 per share.
This could change if Shire is required to pay a different amount of consideration in respect of the approximately 11.3 million shares for which holders have asserted appraisal rights.
Until such time as the appraisal process is complete, the Group is unable to determine the extent of its liability.
The liability to dissenting shareholders shown in the Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2005 consists of $419.9 million based on the merger consideration of $37 per share for the 11.3 million shares outstanding plus a provision for interest of $7.7 million that may be awarded by the Court.
For accounting purposes, the acquisition of TKT has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Financial statements and reported results of operations of the Group issued after completion of the acquisition will reflect these values, with the results of TKT included from July 27, 2005 in the income statement.
The cost of the acquisition was made up as follows: $000 Common stock Number of shares of TKT common stock non-dissenting 24,809,126 Price per TKT share $ 37.00 917,937 Number of shares of TKT common stock dissenting 11,349,150 Price per TKT share $ 37.00 419,919 Total number of shares of TKT common stock outstanding as at July 27, 2005 36,158,276 Amount payable to TKTs shareholders at $37 per share 1,337,856 Stock options Cash cost of settling TKT stock options 83,877 Convertible notes Nominal value of convertible loan notes as at July 27, 2005 in $000s 85,000 Conversion ratio into TKT common stock 18.49 Total shares payable upon conversion 4,597,080 Price per TKT share $ 37.00 Cost of settling convertible notes 170,092 Direct costs of acquisition 37,491 Total cost of the acquisition 1,629,316 68 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11 Business acquisitions continued The total cost of the acquisition stated above has been allocated on a provisional basis according to the Groups estimate of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The fair values of certain pre-acquisition contingencies, in particular those relating to the Purported Class Action Shareholder Suit see Note 35 for further details are yet to be determined.
The Group currently does not have sufficient information to measure the fair value of these contingencies reliably.
The fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be determined as soon as possible and, in any event, no later than one year from the acquisition date if such fair values can be measured reliably in this time frame.
To the extent that estimates need to be adjusted, the Group will do so in future periods in accordance with IFRS 3.
The cost of the acquisition has been allocated as follows: Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value $000 $000 $000 Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 56,814 56,814 Restricted cash 8,173 8,173 Short-term investments 46,896 46,896 Accounts receivable 28,361 28,361 Inventories 12,890 88,879 101,769 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 7,997 7,997 Total current assets 161,131 88,879 250,010 Property, plant and equipment 57,297 57,297 Goodwill 39,038 39,038 Other intangible assets 20,210 1,043,790 1,064,000 Other non-current assets 3,281 3,281 Total assets 280,957 1,093,631 1,374,588 Liabilities Current liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued expenses 35,365 1,574 33,791 Deferred tax liability 178,637 178,637 Other current liabilities 24,471 24,471 Total current liabilities 59,836 177,063 236,899 Other long-term liabilities 1,806 1,806 Total liabilities 61,642 177,063 238,705 Contingent liabilities Net assets 219,315 916,568 1,135,883 Goodwill 493,433 Total consideration 1,629,316 Book values are stated in US GAAP and have not been re-stated to IFRS on the grounds of materiality.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of TKT is attributed to the anticipated profitability of TKTs products and the anticipated future operating synergies from the combination.
TKT contributed $42.0 million of revenue and $ 39.5 million to the Groups loss before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisition of TKT had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for the period would have been $1,652.9 million, and the Group loss before tax from continuing operations would have been $ 257.7 million.
Annual report and accounts for the 69 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12 Business integration In connection with the acquisition of TKT, the Groups management approved and initiated plans to restructure the operations of the enlarged Group to eliminate duplicate costs.
Integration costs represent incremental costs incurred by the Group directly related to the absorption of the TKT business into the Group, including expenditures for consulting and systems integration.
The charges have been presented as selling, general and administrative costs in the consolidated income statement and are accounted for solely within the Pharmaceutical products reporting segment.
Integration costs recorded and paid in the year to December 31, 2005 were: Costs recorded in year to Paid in year to December 31, December 31, Closing 2005 2005 liability $000 $000 $000 Employee severance 2,011 2,011 Retention payments for key TKT employees 7,031 1,097 5,934 IT costs 1,049 1,049 Other 1,636 1,436 200 Total 11,727 5,593 6,134 13 Reorganizations Sale of the drug formulation business On December 22, 2005 the Group sold its drug formulation business to Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Supernus, a newly-formed specialty pharmaceutical company funded by two venture capital companies.
The disposal resulted in: a profit on disposal of $3.6 million.
Proceeds from the sale included an equity interest of less than 10% in Supernus, which has been included in investments in private companies see Note 22 at its fair value of $3.9 million.
The fair value was determined by reference to the cash invested in Supernus by the venture capital companies: the transfer of the lease on the East Gude Drive, Rockville premises to Supernus, with the Group being released from all obligations under the lease by the landlord: an ongoing projects agreement relating to work Supernus will continue to provide to the Group for a transitional period ending on or about March 31, 2006 on certain Shire projects until the projects are moved to third-party suppliers: and the severance of 28 employees.
As at December 31, 2005, 16 had left the Group, and the remaining employees are expected to leave by March 31, 2006.
Severance payments are being made to the former employees over a 42 week period, as required by local regulations.
The disposal has been reflected in the consolidated income statement as follows: SG&A expense R&D expense $000 $000 Employee severance 1,216 Gain on disposal 3,561 Other costs 192 3,561 1,408 All items are recorded in the Pharmaceutical products segment.
North American site consolidation The Group began a consolidation of its North American sites in 2004, with the aim of decreasing the number of sites from 16 to four, including the opening of a new US headquarters office in Wayne, Pennsylvania.
The Group recorded reorganization costs of $55.5 million in 2004, and $2.3 million in the year to December 31, 2005.
Following the closure of the Newport site in July 2005, the site consolidation is now complete and no further reorganization costs are expected.
The primary costs associated with the site consolidation include: severance costs relating to 137 employees: retention payments to key employees: 70 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13 Reorganizations continued relocation costs relating to 85 employees who were moved to Wayne, Pennsylvania: costs of duplicate facilities including lease exit costs : and other incremental costs associated with the site closures, such as legal, consultancy, the write down of property, plant and equipment and information technology costs.
As at December 31, 2005, 137 employees had left the Group.
In addition, all 85 of those employees who had agreed to relocate had relocated.
The following table presents the cost of the reorganization recorded to date and the total costs of the reorganization.
Total costs Total costs incurred to incurred to Total estimated December 31, December 31, costs of 2004 2005 reorganization $m $m $m Employee severance and relocation costs 33.8 1.6 35.4 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.2 Consultancy costs 2.9 0.5 3.4 Duplicate facilities 12.1 0.2 12.3 Information technology costs 2.1 2.1 Other costs 3.4 3.4 55.5 2.3 57.8 These charges are included in selling, general and administrative costs in the consolidated income statement and are accounted for solely within the Pharmaceutical products reporting segment.
As noted above, certain of the costs associated with the reorganization will be paid in subsequent periods.
The following provides a reconciliation of the liability as at December 31, 2005.
Costs recorded Utilization in year to in year to Opening December 31, December 31, Closing liability 2005 2005 liability $m $m $m $m Employee severance and relocation costs 1.9 1.6 2.9 0.6 Consultancy costs 0.5 0.5 Duplicate facilities 11.0 0.2 4.0 7.2 12.9 2.3 7.4 7.8 Current liabilities 1.9 2.1 0.6 3.4 Other long-term liabilities 11.0 0.2 6.8 4.4 12.9 2.3 7.4 7.8 The remaining relocation costs are expected to be paid in 2006.
The liability for the duplicate facilities will be paid over the remaining life of the relevant leases, which all expire before October 31, 2012.
The following provides a reconciliation of the liability as at December 31, 2004: Costs recorded Utilization in year to in year to Opening December 31, December 31, Closing liability 2004 2004 liability $m $m $m $m Employee severance and relocation costs 33.8 31.9 1.9 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.2 Consultancy costs 2.9 2.9 Duplicate facilities 12.1 1.1 11.0 Information technology costs 2.1 2.1 Other costs 3.4 3.4 55.5 42.6 12.9 Annual report and accounts for the 71 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 Discontinued operations Disposal of the vaccines business Biologics On September 9, 2004 the Group completed the disposition of its vaccines business to ID Biomedical Corporation IDB.
The total consideration for the sale was $120 million comprizing $30 million of cash received at completion, $30 million of cash held in escrow and due on the first anniversary of completion and $60 million received at completion in the form of 4,931,864 subscription receipts of IDB.
If, prior to January 10, 2005, IDB were to raise up to $60 million from equity related issuances, then it was required under the terms of the sale agreement to redeem the subscription receipts from the Group for $60 million.
Accordingly, following the completion of such a fund raising on January 7, 2005, IDB redeemed the subscription receipts from the Group for $60 million in cash.
On the first anniversary of completion, the Group received the $30 million of cash held in escrow.
As part of the transaction, the Group entered into an agreement to provide IDB with a loan facility of up to $100 million, which could be drawn down over the four years following completion.
As at December 31, 2005 IDB had drawn down the entire $100 million loan.
It was required that this facility be used by IDB to fund the development of injectable flu and pipeline products within the vaccines business acquired from the Group.
Drawings under the loan facility are segregated into two components: i Drawings for injectable flu development of $70.6 million which are repayable out of income generated by IDB on future non-Canadian injectable flu products, subject to minimum annual repayments in respect of the first $30 million of the drawing, to be made between 2007 and 2017: and ii Drawings for pipeline development of $29.4 million which are repayable out of income generated by IDB on future pipeline products and have no fixed repayment schedule.
The transaction gave rise to an overall loss on disposition of the vaccines business of $41.1 million, recorded as a loss on disposition at completion in 2004 of $44.2 million and a subsequent provision release of $3.1 million being recognised during the year to December 31, 2005.
This net loss on disposition of $41.1 million comprises a gain on disposition of net assets of $28.9 million together with a provision for a loss of $70 million out of the $100 million loan facility available to IDB.
This provision was made on the basis that those loan repayments based solely on future sales of flu and pipeline products in development provided no certainty of recovery.
The historical consolidated financial statements have been restated to reflect the vaccines business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.
The results of the discontinued operation have been removed from all periods on a line-by-line basis from product sales revenue to income from continuing operations.
The net loss from the discontinued operation together with the loss on disposal, are shown as separate line items below.
Operating results of the discontinued operations are summarized below.
2004 $000 Product sales 3,626 Total revenues 3,626 Costs and expenses: Cost of sales 8,304 Research and development 9,222 Selling, general and administrative 5,614 Total operating expenses 23,140 Operating loss 19,514 Other expense, net 621 Loss from discontinued operations before tax 20,135 Taxation Loss from discontinued operations after tax 20,135 Loss on disposal before tax 44,157 Taxation Loss on disposal after tax 44,157 Loss for the year from discontinued operations 64,292 72 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 Discontinued operations continued The following table summarizes the assets and liabilities attributed to the discontinued operations at the disposal date.
2004 $000 Goodwill 4,476 Property, plant and equipment 74,799 Inventories 6,481 Trade and other receivables 11,036 Cash and cash equivalents 2,069 Borrowings 1,476 Trade and other payables 13,514 Loan provision 70,000 Other provisions 8,492 Acquisition costs 6,706 Loss on sale 44,157 124,912 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 34,912 Deferred consideration 30,000 Subscription receipts 60,000 124,912 At December 31, 2004 the assets and liabilities of the discontinued vaccines operation were $nil.
Cash flows from discontinued operations: 2004 $000 Operating cash flows 30,525 Investing cash flows 12,715 Financing cash flows Foreign currency translation 10 Total cash flows 43,250 15 Dividends 2005 2004 $000 $000 Equity shares: first interim dividend of 1.0475 pence 1.8246 equivalent per share paid on October 13, 2005 2004: 1.00 pence 1.82 equivalent paid on October 14, 2004 9,403 8,905 2004 second interim dividend of 2.00 pence 3.85 equivalent per share paid on April 14, 2005 2004: nil 19,057 28,460 8,905 Proposed second interim dividend 2.5356 pence 4.419 equivalent per share 22,020 19,057 In accordance with IAS10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the proposed second interim dividend has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Annual report and accounts for the 73 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16 Loss earnings per ordinary share EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the loss earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust Note 32, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
For the year to December 31, 2005 share options to purchase approximately 20.7 million ordinary shares and warrants to purchase 1.3 million ordinary shares were not dilutive and were therefore excluded from the computation of diluted EPS.
The $370 million loan note convertible debt was excluded from the calculation of weighted average number of shares for diluted EPS in 2004 as it was not dilutive.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
Weighted average Loss number of Per share 2005 $000 shares amount Basic and diluted EPS Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 177,378 500,243,137 35.5 Weighted average Earnings number of Per share 2004 $000 shares amount Basic EPS Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 96,509 496,306,604 19.4 Effect of dilutive securities Share options 3,035,620 0.1 Warrants 66,792 Diluted EPS 96,509 499,409,016 19.3 Loss earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations: Weighted average Loss number of Per share 2005 $000 shares amount Basic and Diluted EPS Loss from continuing operations 180,503 500,243,137 36.1 Gain from discontinued operations 3,125 500,243,137 0.6 Weighted average Earnings number of Per share 2004 $000 shares amount Basic EPS Profit from continuing operations 160,801 496,306,604 32.4 Loss from discontinued operations 64,292 496,306,604 13.0 Diluted EPS Profit from continuing operations 160,801 499,409,016 32.1 Loss from discontinued operations 64,292 499,409,016 12.9 74 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 17 Goodwill 2005 2004 $000 $000 Net book value At January 1, 2,246,220 2,381,287 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary 493,433 Impairment 526,956 132,576 Disposals 4,476 Exchange differences 3,237 1,985 At December 31, 2,209,460 2,246,220 Goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: Pharmaceutical products Royalties Total 2005 $000 $000 $000 North America 1,320,888 440,346 1,761,234 Rest of the world 21,393 426,833 448,226 Total 1,342,281 867,179 2,209,460 Pharmaceutical products Royalties Total 2004 $000 $000 $000 North America 971,301 636,026 1,607,327 Rest of the world 24,651 614,242 638,893 Total 995,952 1,250,268 2,246,220 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering up to five years.
For certain CGUs, projections of up to fifteen years are used to fully model relevant product lifecycles.
Cash flows beyond the projected period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates stated below.
The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the business in which the CGU operates.
These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each CGU within the business segment.
Key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations: Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical products products Royalties Royalties 2005 2004 2005 2004 i Gross margin 86% 87% ii Growth rate 2% 2% 25 % 9 % iii Discount rate 19% 19% 10% 10% Notes i Budgeted gross margin.
ii Weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the projection period of ten years as appropriate.
iii Pre-tax discount rate applied to the pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management determined budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development.
The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports.
The discount rates used are pre-tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant segments.
The Group recognised $493 million as goodwill on acquisition of TKT see Note 11, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
This goodwill is recorded in the Pharmaceutical products operating segment.
At December 31, 2005 an impairment charge of $527 million was made in relation to goodwill that was created on the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. A discounted cash flow model was used to estimate the recoverable value of the business and the impairment is included within net operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
A range of pre-tax discount rates between 10%19% was applied to probabilityadjusted forecasts.
The impairment reflected lower projected sales in the BioChem subsidiary, and lower estimates of cashflows from 3TC royalties as increased competition in the anti-viral market is anticipated.
Annual report and accounts for the 75 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 17 Goodwill continued At December 31, 2004 an impairment charge was made in relation to goodwill that was created on the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. A discounted cash flow model was used to estimate the recoverable value of the business and the impairment is included within net operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
A range of pre-tax discount rates between 10%19% was applied to probability-adjusted forecasts.
The impairment reflected lower sales in the BioChem subsidiary following the suspension of ADDERALL XR in Canada in February 2005: lower estimates of cashflows from 3TC royalties: and lower estimates of cashflows from TROXATYL and SPD 754 following their out-licensing.
Disposals of goodwill in 2004 related to the vaccines business see Note 14.
18 Other intangible assets Intellectual Software and property other Total $000 $000 $000 Net book value At January 1, 2005 312,563 9,695 322,258 Additions all acquired 54,261 18,898 73,159 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary 1,064,000 1,064,000 Amortization 43,420 6,096 49,516 Impairments 4,410 4,410 Exchange differences 11,373 559 10,814 At December 31, 2005 1,371,621 23,056 1,394,677 Patents and trademarks are amortised over their useful lives, which is on average 16 years.
Intellectual Software and property other Total $000 $000 $000 Net book value At January 1, 2004 318,552 318,552 Additions all acquired 49,183 12,084 61,267 Amortization 39,749 2,389 42,138 Impairments 19,626 19,626 Disposals 4,936 4,936 Exchange differences 9,139 9,139 At December 31, 2004 312,563 9,695 322,258 During 2005, the Group acquired $1,064 million of other identifiable intangible assets, at fair value, as part of the acquisition of TKT see Note 11.
The weighted average amortization period of these assets is 18 years.
These assets relate to in-process R&D $673 million intellectual property $272 million, customer relationships $97 million and other finite-lived assets $22 million.
During 2005 the Group disposed of no intangible assets 2004: $4.9 million.
All motor vehicles, amounting to $7.3 million 2004: $6.5 million are held under finance leases.
Depreciation expense of $3.5 million 2004: $2.7 million has been charged in cost of sales, and $19.5 million 2004: $20 million in net operating expenses.
20 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 30%.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are as follows: 2005 2004 $000 $000 Deferred tax assets: deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months 85,730 49,942 deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months 323,294 75,887 409,024 125,829 Deferred tax liabilities: deferred tax liability to be incurred after more than 12 months 18,447 39,698 deferred tax liability to be incurred within 12 months 450,985 1,090 469,432 40,788 Net deferred tax liability asset 60,408 85,041 These amounts are disclosed in the balance sheet as follows: Deferred tax asset 67,283 85,041 Deferred tax liability 127,691 60,408 85,041 The gross movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: At January 1, 85,041 76,341 Acquisition of subsidiary 178,637 Income statement credit 31,587 5,159 Movement booked to equity 1,721 Foreign exchange 120 3,541 At December 31, 60,408 85,041 As of December 31, 2005 the Group has not made a UK tax provision on approximately $1.7 billion 2004: $1.4 billion of unremitted earnings of its international subsidiaries.
The Group does not provide for income taxes on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries located outside the UK, where such earnings have been retained indefinitely for reinvestment, or where it is managements intention that the earnings will be remitted in a tax free liquidation, or as dividends with taxes substantially offset by foreign tax credits.
It is not practical to determine the amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to these investments.
Annual report and accounts for the 77 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 Deferred tax continued The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Deferred tax assets: Share-based Tax losses ACA STTD payments Total 2005 $000 $000 $000 $000 At January 1, 2005 69,810 53,718 2,301 125,829 Acquisition of subsidiary 151,314 134,786 286,100 Charged to the income statement 85,428 75,039 6,720 3,669 Charge to equity 1,721 1,721 Exchange differences 378 153 426 957 At December 31, 2005 135,318 263,390 10,316 409,024 Share-based Tax losses ACA STTD payments Total 2004 $000 $000 $000 $000 At January 1, 2004 80,476 32,505 2,301 115,282 Charged to the income statement 14,003 20,477 6,474 Exchange differences 3,337 736 4,073 At December 31, 2004 69,810 53,718 2,301 125,829 Accelerated capital allowances short-term timing differences.
Deferred tax liabilities: Total 2005 $000 At January 1, 2005 40,788 Acquisition of subsidiary 464,737 Credited to the income statement 35,256 Exchange differences 837 At December 31, 2005 469,432 At December 31, 2005 the deferred tax liabilities materially related to accelerated capital allowances.
Total 2004 $000 At January 1, 2004 38,941 Credited to the income statement 1,315 Exchange differences 532 At December 31, 2004 40,788 At December 31, 2004 the deferred tax liabilities materially related to accelerated capital allowances.
78 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 Deferred tax continued As at December 31, 2005, based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income, management believes it is more likely than not that the Group will realize the benefits of the recognised deferred tax assets.
However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if estimates of taxable income are revised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets: 2005 2004 $000 $000 Tax losses 148,642 181,335 Other timing differences 86,535 24,500 235,177 205,835 21 Investments accounted for using equity method Joint Associates ventures Total 2005 2005 2005 2005 $000 $000 $000 At January 1, 2005 24,669 6,179 30,848 Additions 2,093 2,093 Share post tax loss profit 6,325 5,325 1,000 Dividends received 3,774 4,710 8,484 Impairments Exchange differences 406 840 434 At December 31, 2005 17,069 5,954 23,023 Joint Associates ventures Total 2005 2005 2005 2004 $000 $000 $000 At January 1, 2004 25,656 5,028 30,684 Additions 2,436 2,436 Share post tax profit 75 4,433 4,508 Dividends received 1,450 4,043 5,493 Impairments 3,971 3,971 Exchange differences 1,923 761 2,684 At December 31, 2004 24,669 6,179 30,848 Investments in joint ventures consist of a 50% share of the commercialization partnership with GlaxoSmithKline GSK, through which the products 3TC and ZEFFIX are marketed in Canada.
Investments in associates consist primarily of investments in the GeneChem Technologies Venture Fund and the GeneChem Therapeutics Venture Fund together The Funds.
The Funds are limited partnerships with a December 31, year-end formed under the laws of the Province of Quebec, Canada, investing in healthcare research and development companies, in which the Group owns 30% and 11% of the issued shares respectively.
At December 31, 2005 the Funds net assets totalled approximately $71 million 2004: $107 million.
The Group is involved as a limited partner and the general partner of the Funds: the Groups involvement in the Funds dates from between 1997 and 2000.
The Groups exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with the Funds is limited to the carrying value of the investment, $12.7 million at December 31, 2005 2004: $18.3 million and its commitment to further investment of $1.7 million 2004: $2.9 million.
During the year to December 31, 2004, the Group recorded an impairment of $4.0 million against the investment in the Funds following reviews of the Funds investment portfolios that identified other-than-temporary declines in the value of certain private and publicly quoted securities held by the Funds.
Annual report and accounts for the 79 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 21 Investments accounted for using equity method continued Aggregated amounts relating to associates, all of which are unlisted, are shown below: 2005 2004 $000 $000 Assets 112,910 157,727 Liabilities 256 174 112,654 157,553 Revenue 1,259 1,227 Post tax loss 42,387 12,163 Aggregated amounts relating to the joint venture are shown below: 2005 2004 $000 $000 Non-current assets Current assets 12,848 13,448 Non-current liabilities Current liabilities 940 1,090 11,908 12,358 Revenue 32,544 36,060 Operating expenses 21,894 27,194 10,650 8,866 Taxation Post tax profit 10,650 8,866 22 Investments 2005 2004 $000 $000 Available-for-sale investments Investments in private companies 9,008 2,451 Available-for-sale securities 18,131 74,099 27,139 76,550 Trading investments Institutional and managed cash funds 6,947 175,186 Commercial paper 149,659 6,947 324,845 The fair value of available-for-sale investments as at December 31, 2005 was $27.1 million 2004: $92.4 million.
There were no material differences between fair value and book value of the trading investments as at December 31, 2005.
2004: none Available-for-sale investments Investments in private companies During the year to December 31, 2005 additions to investments in private companies included a $3.9 million investment in Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. less than 10% of total equity, as part consideration for the sale of the drug formulation business.
The fair value of the investment was determined by reference to cash invested in Supernus by the other investors.
During the year to December 31, 2005 the Group recorded impairments of $1.6 million against its investments in private companies based on a decline in the estimates of their fair value that the Group believes are other-than-temporary.
During the year to December 31, 2004 the Group recorded impairments of $15.9 million against these investments based on changes in the estimates of their fair value.
The changes in fair values which resulted in the write-downs referred to above were based on the Groups estimates, derived from financial and other publicly available information such as press releases and recent capital raising activities.
80 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 22 Investments continued Available-for-sale securities During the year to December 31, 2005 the Group sold an investment in an available-for-sale security, valued at $6.0 million, realizing a gain on the sale of $3.9 million.
Also during the year the Group received $60 million on the redemption by IDB of its subscription receipts, for no gain or loss on sale.
During the year to December 31, 2004 the Group sold an investment in an available-for-sale security, valued at $11.9 million, realizing a gain on the sale of $14.8 million.
Other-than-temporary impairment The Group recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $0.4 million against its available-for-sale securities in the year to December 31, 2005.
At December 31, 2005, the Group had no available for sale investments in a significant unrealized loss position for which other-than-temporary impairments have not been recognised.
24 Trade and other receivables 2005 2004 Notes $000 $000 Trade receivables 339,671 226,812 Less: provision for impairment 9,747 4,266 Trade receivables net 329,924 222,546 Loans granted 14 30,000 30,000 Interest receivable 1,491 394 Prepayments and accrued income 30,245 32,794 Other debtors 29,601 13,496 Cash held in escrow 14 30,000 SERP 29 8,852 9,482 Total 430,113 338,712 Less: non-current portion 42,907 38,895 Current portion 387,206 299,817 Further details of the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SERP asset are provided in Note 29.
The amount shown above is the cash at bank and non-current marketable securities held in a Rabbi Trust.
The legal form of the trust is such that the assets held to cover the pension liabilities are available to the general creditors of the Group on winding up.
Accordingly, the assets held by the trust are not plan assets and are recorded on the balance sheet.
A related liability is shown in Note 27.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 37 days.
An allowance has been made for doubtful accounts and sales discounts of $9.7 Million 2004: $4.3 million.
This allowance has been determined by specific review of outstanding receivables at the balance sheet date.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Annual report and accounts for the 81 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25 Borrowings 2005 2004 $000 $000 Non-current 2% guaranteed convertible loan notes 2011 116 116 Finance lease liabilities 4,588 4,126 4,704 4,242 Current Finance lease liabilities 2,667 2,420 Total borrowings 7,371 6,662 All borrowings in both the current and previous years are denominated in US Dollars.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of borrowing approximates their fair value.
Subject to the conditions below, non-current borrowings are repayable as follows: 2005 2004 Notes $000 $000 Convertible loan notes: i After five years 116 116 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts: ii Between one and two years 2,667 2,420 Between two and three years 1,921 1,706 4,588 4,126 4,704 4,242 i 2% guaranteed convertible loan notes 2011 The guaranteed convertible notes due 2011, were issued in August 2001 by Shire Finance Limited the Issuer, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
The convertible notes were guaranteed by Shire and were convertible into redeemable preference shares of the Issuer which upon issuance will be immediately exchanged for: i Shire ordinary shares, ii Shire ADSs or iii at the Issuers option, a cash amount based upon the London Stock Exchange volume-weighted average prices of Shires ordinary shares on the fourth through eighth business days following conversion.
At the choice of investors, each $1,000 of nominal value notes was convertible into 49.62 Shire ordinary shares subject to adjustment or 16.54 Shire ADSs subject to adjustment at any time up to August 21, 2011.
Alternatively, investors had the right to receive repayment of the nominal principal in cash either at the maturity date of August 21, 2011 or by exercising a put option on any of the three put dates being August 21, 2004, August 21, 2006 and August 21, 2008.
On August 21, 2004, upon exercise of the put option by substantially all of the convertible note holders, the Group redeemed $370.1 million at par, from available funds.
The obligation to pay the remaining $116,000 of the convertible loan notes outstanding as of December 31, 2005 is due in 2011, subject to the exercise of the put option referred to above.
ii Finance leases 2005 2004 $000 $000 Finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: Not later than 1 year 2,933 2,588 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 5,046 4,806 Later than 5 years 7,979 7,394 Future finance charges on finance leases 724 848 Present value of finance lease liabilities 7,255 6,546 The Groups finance leases are in respect of motor vehicles, and do not impose any significant restrictions on the Group.
82 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 Derivatives and other financial instruments IAS 32 39 disclosure for the year ended December 31, 2005 The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates against the US Dollar for trading transactions and the translation of net assets, liabilities and earnings of non-US subsidiaries.
The main trading currencies of the Group are the US Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, Pounds Sterling, the Euro and Swedish Krona.
The exposure to foreign exchange risk is managed and monitored by the treasury function.
At December 31, 2005 the Group had five outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with a total principal amount of $206 million equivalent to manage the currency risk associated with inter-company loans.
As at December 31, 2005 the fair value of these currency derivatives showed an unrealized gain of $2.6 million.
The change in fair value has been taken to the income statement in the year.
FRS 13 disclosures for the year ended December 31, 2004 The Financial risk management review in Note 4 provides an explanation of the role that financial instruments have had during the prior year.
The explanation summarizes the objectives and policies for holding or issuing financial instruments and similar contracts, and the strategies for achieving those objectives that have been followed during the year.
Interest rate profile The currency and interest rate profile of the Groups cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and current financial assets excluding short-term debtors as at December 31, 2004 are shown below: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average interest interest interest Financial Financial period rate rate instruments instruments Fixed rate Floating rate Fixed rate Floating rate Fixed rate Total Days % % $000 $000 $000 US Dollars 678 2.01 2.05 1,263,166 42,712 1,305,878 Pounds Sterling 4.11 37,789 37,789 Euro 0.30 16,803 16,803 Canadian Dollars 2.52 97,461 97,461 Other 0.25 18 18 1,415,237 42,712 1,457,949 The benchmark rates for floating rate assets are primarily: US Dollar seven-day, one-month and three-month London Interbank Bid Rate LIBID, and Pounds Sterling seven-day LIBID.
The interest rate profile of the Groups financial liabilities at December 31, 2004 was as follows: Floating Fixed Interest free Total Currency $000 $000 $000 $000 US Dollars convertible debt 116 116 finance leases 6,546 6,546 6,662 6,662 Annual report and accounts for the 83 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Currency exposures The Group aims to minimise currency related exposures arising from its net investments overseas in other words, its structural currency exposures.
Gains and losses arising from structural currency exposures are recognised in the consolidated statement of total recognised income.
The table below shows the Groups transactional or non-structural currency exposures that give rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating unit involved, other than certain non-US Dollar borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in overseas operations.
As at December 31, 2004 these exposures were as follows: Net foreign currency monetary assets liabilities US Pounds Canadian Dollars Sterling Euro Dollars Other Total Functional currency of Group operation $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 US Dollars 341,790 38,156 67 4 303,563 Pounds Sterling 907,197 21,801 2 286 885,112 Euro 516 1,004 1,520 Canadian Dollars 298,264 182,924 38 481,226 609,449 523,710 16,317 69 282 101,843 Borrowing facilities The Group had no undrawn committed borrowing facilities at December 31, 2004.
Fair values The quoted market price of the convertible loan stock 2011 as at December 31, 2004 was $100.53 compared with an issue price of $100.
If the remaining loan is not converted into equity, it would be repayable at $100 per note.
The total fair value of the debt as at December 31, 2004, based on the above quoted market price, was $116,000 compared to a carrying value of $115,000.
In addition at December 31, 2004 the fair value of listed financial assets, based on their quoted market price, was $16 million above carrying value.
There were no other material differences between the carrying values and fair values of all other Group financial assets and liabilities at December 31, 2004.
Gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts As at December 31, 2004 the Group had two outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with a total principal amount of $39 million used to manage the risk associated with holding Canadian Dollar financial assets.
There were no material gains or losses on these contracts.
27 Trade and other payables 2005 2004 Notes $000 $000 Trade payables 70,958 35,009 Other creditors 14,817 27,383 Accruals and deferred income 363,395 289,443 SERP 29 4,591 5,495 Total 453,761 357,330 Less: non-current portion 18,036 12,963 Current portion 435,725 344,367 Trade payables comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade payables is 30 days 2004:18 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Accruals and deferred income includes accrued rebates and sales return reserves, accrued bonuses and other accrued expenses.
84 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 28 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Reorganization IDB Loan Other Total $000 $000 $000 $000 January 1, 2005 12,960 43,161 15,208 71,329 Charge for the year 2,299 18,121 20,420 Acquired 3,310 3,310 Reversed unutilised 5,846 5,846 Utilised 7,460 43,161 4,668 55,289 December 31, 2005 7,799 26,125 33,924 Less: Non-current portion 25,401 Current portion 8,523 Reorganization IDB Loan Other Total $000 $000 $000 $000 January 1, 2004 8,887 8,887 Charge for the year 12,960 43,161 10,165 66,286 Reversed unutilised 727 727 Utilised 3,117 3,117 December 31, 2004 12,960 43,161 15,208 71,329 Less: Non-current portion 26,232 Current portion 45,097 Reorganization The Group began a consolidation of its North American sites in 2004 see Note 13.
The costs recognised as a provision as at December 31, 2005 consist of employee severance and relocation costs of $0.6 million that are expected to be paid in 2006 and costs of duplicate facilities $7.2 million that are expected to be paid over the remaining life of the relevant leases, which all expire before October 31, 2012.
Other Other provisions relate to long-term bonuses, provisions for guarantees and insurance, and onerous lease provisions in relation to vacated properties.
Provisions recognised in relation to long-term bonuses total $9.9 million, of which $5.1 million is expected to be paid in 2006 and the remainder on the maturity of the underlying schemes over the next three years.
Provisions for insurance and guarantees totalling $12.9 million are expected to be settled between one and three years.
Onerous lease provisions of $3.3 million will be paid over the next three years, the remaining life of the relevant leases.
29 Retirement obligations The Group has a number of defined contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
The Groups contribution is fixed as a set percentage of employees base salary.
The pension cost charge for the defined contribution schemes for the year was $14.1 million 2004: $9 million.
The closing creditor in respect of pension premiums at December 31, 2005 is $1.76 million 2004: $0.23 million.
The Group has two Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans SERPs, which are defined benefit plans.
The Roberts SERP is for US employees of Roberts Pharmaceutical Corporation Roberts who met certain age and service requirements.
The Group acquired Roberts in 1999, and the plan was discontinued in 2000: there were no contributions payable in respect of 2005.
The Group paid a lump sum of $18 million into the Roberts SERP, which was accounted for as a fair value adjustment on the acquisition of Roberts Pharmaceutical Corporation to make good the deficit on this scheme at the time of acquisition.
This lump sum payment has led to the Group having no future liability under the SERP, which has been closed to new members with contributions no longer payable by existing members.
Assets are set aside to fund these benefits in a Rabbi Trust.
Accordingly, the assets held by the trust are not plan assets as defined by IAS 19, Employee Benefits, and are recorded on the balance sheet see Note 24.
The Shire SERP defined benefit scheme is an unfunded arrangement: the benefits are payable to certain senior US employees as lump sums on leaving the Groups employment or earlier due to death, disability or termination.
The amount of benefit is based on the value of notional contributions increased with earned investment returns as if they were invested in investments of the employees choice.
The entire benefit liability has been recognised on the balance sheet.
The liabilities of the two SERPs totalling $4.6 million at December 31, 2005 2004: $5.5 million are shown in Note 27.
Annual report and accounts for the 85 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30 Share capital 2005 2005 2004 2004 Number Number Ordinary shares 000 $000 000 $000 Authorised At January 1, ordinary shares of 5p each 800,000 76,796 800,000 76,796 At December 31, ordinary shares of 5p each 18,333,006 1,573,705 800,000 76,796 Allotted, issued and fully paid At January 1, ordinary shares of 5p each 484,916 36,083 477,895 35,540 Effect of scheme of arrangement and capital reduction 5,713 Restated position at January 1 484,916 41,796 477,895 35,540 Issued on exercise of options for cash consideration 4,702 405 2,098 191 Issued on exchange of exchangeable shares 6,116 527 4,839 344 Issue of ordinary share capital 84 8 At December 31, ordinary shares of 5p each 495,734 42,728 484,916 36,083 2005 2005 2004 2004 Number Number Special ordinary voting shares 000 $000 000 $000 Authorised At January 1 special ordinary voting shares of 0.00001p 17,500 17,500 At December 31 special ordinary voting shares of 0.00001p 10,000 17,500 Allotted, issued and fully paid At January 1 4,226 195,830 5,840 270,667 Cancelled following an exchange of exchangeable shares for ordinary shares 2,038 94,582 1,614 74,837 At December 31, 2,188 101,248 4,226 195,830 Authorised share capital The authorised stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2005 was 18,333,006,420 ordinary shares, 10,000,000 special voting shares, 50,000 nonvoting preference shares and two deferred ordinary shares.
The special voting shares are held by a Voting Trustee, providing the holders of exchangeable shares in Shire Acquisition, Inc. with as nearly as practicable voting rights equivalent to those attached to Shires ordinary shares.
The non-voting preference shares and deferred ordinary shares were authorised and issued for the purpose of the Scheme of Arrangement only and will be redeemed in 2006.
As at December 31, 2004 the authorised common stock of the Company was 40 million $76.8 million divided into 799,999,965 ordinary shares of 5p each and 17,500,000 Special Ordinary Voting Shares of 0.00001p each.
Issue of ordinary shares During the year ended December 31, 2005 the Company allotted 6,116,049 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 305,802 $527,000 on the exchange of exchangeable shares, which were issued following the acquisition of BioChem in 2001.
These shares were issued at a premium of 66.2 million $94.1 million.
Exchange of exchangeable shares and cancellation of special ordinary voting shares The Company exchanged 2,038,683 exchangeable shares and cancelled the equivalent number of special ordinary voting shares during the year ended December 31, 2005.
Each exchangeable share is capable of being exchanged for ordinary shares or ADSs, at a rate of one exchangeable share for three ordinary shares or one exchangeable share for one ADS, at any time at the request of the holder.
Only BioChem shareholders with Canadian residency had the option to receive exchangeable shares for their shares of BioChem at the time of acquisition.
The exchangeable shares were issued by Shire Acquisition Inc. a company incorporated under the Canada Business Corporations Act, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Holders of exchangeable shares are entitled to vote at shareholder meetings of the Company and are entitled to a dividend and other rights that are economically equivalent to those of ordinary shares, through a voting trust and by means of the special ordinary voting shares in Shire.
As at December 31, 2005 2,187,793 exchangeable shares remained unconverted.
The Company can redeem all outstanding exchangeable shares for ordinary shares after May 11, 2011 or earlier if the total number of exchangeable shares falls below one million.
The exchangeable shares are included as part of share capital in the consolidated balance sheet to present a true and fair view of the consolidated Groups capital structure, which differs from the Companies Act 1985 requirements to reflect these amounts as minority interests, as they will become, and are equivalent, to ordinary shares.
86 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30 Share capital continued Share warrants On April 24, 2002 the Company issued 741,812 share warrants, at 4.88 per warrant, and on November 21, 2002 the Company issued a further 604,595 share warrants, at 4.895 per warrant, both issues being made to Technology Partnership Canada TPC, pursuant to an agreement between BioChem and the Government of Canada GOC.
Each warrant grants a right to subscribe for a corresponding number of ordinary shares of the Company within five years from the date of issue of the warrant.
31 Share based payments Historically the Group has granted options to directors and employees over ordinary shares under six stock option plans.
On November 28, 2005 the ordinary shareholders of Shire approved the adoption of the Shire plc Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B, a new share-based compensation plan, which provides for stock-settled share appreciation rights and performance share awards to be made to directors and employees over ordinary shares and American depositary shares ADS.
No further awards will be made under the previous stock option plans.
The highest and lowest market prices during the year ended December 31, 2005 were 7.53 and 5.39 respectively.
The average share price during the year was 6.37.
Annual report and accounts for the 87 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 Share based payments continued The Group has granted options to Directors and employees over ordinary shares under the following six share option schemes: a Stock option plans i Shire Pharmaceuticals Executive Share Option Scheme Parts A and B Executive Scheme Options granted under the Executive Scheme are subject to performance criteria and cannot be exercised in full, unless Shires ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period.
If Shires ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of 14.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, 60% of the options may be exercised.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three years, they are thereafter tested quarterly by reference to share price growth over the extended period.
If the share price does not meet these conditions at any time, none of the options will become exercisable.
On February 28, 2000, the Remuneration Committee of the Board exercised its powers to amend the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme so as to include a cliff vesting provision.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the Executive Scheme.
ii Shire plc 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 Executive Scheme Options granted under this scheme are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any option granted prior to August 2002, if Shires ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, the option becomes exercisable in full.
If it increases by at least 14.5% per annum over the same three-year period, 60% of the options granted become exercisable.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three-year measurement period, they will thereafter be tested quarterly by reference to compound annual share price growth over an extended period.
The performance criteria were reviewed in 2002 to ensure the criteria reflected the market in which the Group operates.
Given the Groups development, it was considered appropriate that an earnings per share-based measure should be adopted in place of share price growth targets.
The performance criteria are based on real growth in the diluted earnings per share reported in the Companys Form 10-K under US GAAP, adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back of significant one time items option EPS.
Therefore, the performance criteria were amended so that an option would become exercisable in full if Shires option EPS growth over a three-year period from the date of award exceeds the UK Retail Prices Index RPI for the following tranches of grants: Options with a grant value of up to 100% of salary RPI plus 9% Directors, RPI plus 15% Between 101% and 200% of salary RPI plus 15% Between 201% and 300% of salary RPI plus 21% Over 301% of salary RPI plus 27% The new earnings per share performance criteria apply to options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme from August 2002.
After consultation with certain of its institutional shareholders, the Group has decided that for options granted under the scheme from 2004 onwards, the re-test of the performance condition if Shires option EPS growth has fallen short of the minimum annual average percentage increase over the three-year period from grant, has been changed.
The performance condition will be re-tested once only, at five years after the grant.
Hence the level of option EPS growth in the next two years needs to be consequentially higher to meet the test.
Six weeks prior to the expiration date, any options that have not become exercisable at an earlier date, automatically vest without reference to the performance criteria.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme.
iii Shire Pharmaceuticals Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees.
Employees may enter into three or five-year savings contracts.
iv Shire plc Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
The offering period is for 27 months.
v Pharmavene 1991 Stock Option Plan SLI Plan Options issued under the SLI Plan were originally granted over shares in SLI, formerly Pharmavene Inc. a company acquired by the Group on March 23, 1997.
Exercise of these options results in the option holder receiving ordinary shares in Shire.
As a result of the acquisition of SLI, and in accordance with the terms of the original share option plan, all options granted under that plan became immediately capable of exercise.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the SLI Plan.
vi BioChem Stock Option Plan BioChem Plan Following the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. on May 11, 2001, the BioChem Stock Option Plan was amended such that options over BioChem Pharma Inc. s common stock became options over ordinary shares of Shire.
All BioChem Pharma Inc. options, which were not already exercisable, vested and became exercisable as a result of the acquisition.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the BioChem Stock Option Plan.
88 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 Share based payments continued b Stock-settled share appreciation rights vii Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part A are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors performance conditions will be based on relative total shareholder return.
Vesting will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one-third of the award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 1 33 3% of stock-settled share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level will not be subject to performance conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
c Performance share plan viii Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance share awards granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part B are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
For one-third of an award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee must be satisfied 1 that the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 33 3% of stock-settled share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
At December 31, 2005 no awards had been made.
In a period of ten years, not more than 10% of the issued share capital of Shire may be placed under option under any share scheme.
In addition, the following terms apply to options that may be granted under the various plans: 2000 Executive Scheme: the maximum number of Shire ordinary shares over which incentive options may be granted under Part 3 of the scheme is 25,000,000: and Share Purchase Plan: up to 2,000,000 Shire ordinary shares.
The maximum term and vesting period of awards granted and outstanding as at December 31, 2005 is summarized below: Expiration Compensation Number of period from type awards date of issue Vesting period Executive Scheme Stock options 1,176,784 10 years 3 years, subject to performance criteria 2000 Executive Scheme Stock options 22,787,658 10 years 3 years, subject to performance criteria Sharesave Scheme Stock options 337,371 6 months after vesting 3 or 5 years Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 640,777 On vesting date 27 months SLI Plan Stock options 2,567 10 years Immediate on acquisition by the Group BioChem Plan Stock options 3,525,582 10 years Immediate on acquisition by the Group Total share option schemes 28,470,739 Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share 449,490 5 years 3 years, subject to performance appreciation rights criteria for Executive Directors only ordinary shares Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share 2,812,176 5 years 3 years, subject to performance appreciation rights criteria for Executive Directors only i ADSs Total Portfolio Share Plan Part A 3,261,666 Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance shares 3 years, subject to performance criteria for Executive Directors only i For the purposes of this table the 937,392 ADSs outstanding at December 31, 2005 have been converted into 2,812,176 ordinary shares.
One ADS is equivalent to three ordinary shares.
Annual report and accounts for the 89 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 Share based payments continued Options outstanding as of December 31, 2005 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted average Weighted average exercise price average of options Number of options Number of Exercise prices remaining outstanding of options outstanding options outstanding life exercisable 5,651,719 0.014.00 6.8 3.46 26,547 3.19 14,772,839 4.016.00 8.1 5.36 2,070,405 5.19 5,739,709 6.0110.00 4.3 7.05 3,669,918 7.20 2,306,472 10.0113.00 4.0 11.84 2,220,499 11.89 28,470,739 7,987,369 Stock-settled share appreciation rights over ordinary shares outstanding as at December 31, 2005 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted average Weighted average exercise price average of options Number of options Number of Exercise prices remaining outstanding of options outstanding options outstanding life exercisable 449,490 6.0110.00 4.9 7.17 Stock-settled share appreciation rights over American depositary shares outstanding as at December 31, 2005 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted average Weighted average exercise price average of options Number of options Number of Exercise prices remaining outstanding of options outstanding options outstanding life exercisable 937,392 35.0140.00 4.9 37.80 Options and stock-settled share appreciation rights granted in the period were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations as there were no market based conditions.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 2005 2004 Weighted-average share price at grant dates 6.29 5.18 Weighted-average share exercise price 6.23 5.15 Shares under option 12,004,477 7,148,616 Vesting period years 2.255 2.255 Expected volatility 32-50% 32-50% Option life years 2.2510 2.2510 Expected life years 2.257 2.257 Risk free interest rate 3.934.59% 2.464.19% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 0.6% 0%0.6% Estimated annual forfeiture rate 5% 5% Average fair value per option 2.98 2.74 The weighted average expected volatility is based on historical volatility of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon US government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
In addition to equity-settled share-based schemes discussed above, the Group operates a cash-settled share-based scheme for senior executives, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The Long Term Incentive Plan the Plan was adopted at the Companys 1998 Annual General Meeting and amended in 2000.
Under the Plan, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to make awards of shares subject to a maximum of 100% of salary a year.
The performance condition attached to the vesting of the share awards made under the Plan is Shires Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index over a three-year period.
The Committee considers that this measure is a reliable and appropriate measure of the Groups performance and that the FTSE 100 is an appropriate benchmark given that the Company is a member of the Index.
90 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 Share based payments continued Under this Plan: all shares vest if Shires TSR is in the top 10% of the FTSE 100: 20% of the shares vest if Shires TSR is at the median of the FTSE 100, with vesting between these points on a linear basis: and no shares vest if Shires TSR is below the median of the FTSE 100.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether and to what extent the performance condition has been met on the basis of data provided by an independent third-party.
To date, all awards made under the Plan have been made as a conditional allocation, thereby allowing, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, for a cash equivalent to be paid on maturity of the award.
Whilst the performance period is measured over three years, an award is normally transferred after the fourth anniversary of grant, to the extent the performance condition has been met.
For awards made under the LTIP prior to June 2001, performance is measured over a three-year period but the performance conditions are based on criteria of i 50% TSR benchmarked against FTSE mid-250 index and ii 50% subject to an EPS condition measured against the diluted EPS of the Group for the financial year ended before the commencement of the performance period and the diluted EPS of the Group for the financial year ended on or before the end of the performance period.
For awards made on March 1, 2000 the Committee determined that 44.84% of the part of the award subject to TSR performance measures and 100% of the part of the award subject to EPS performance measures could be transferred, resulting in 72.42% of the total award being transferred to participants.
These calculations were verified by external advisers.
The total liability under LTIP scheme is $2.5 million 2004: $2.7 million and is included in other provisions as disclosed in Note 28.
There were no liabilities outstanding for which the right to cash had vested at the year-end.
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was $27.4 million 2004:$15.8 million, of which $27.4 million 2004: $15.5 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
32 Treasury shares The Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP reserve arises in connection with the ESOP trust, a discretionary trust established to facilitate the operation of the Groups long-term incentive scheme for senior management.
The amount of the reserve represents the deduction in arriving at shareholders funds for the consideration paid for the Companys shares purchased by the trust which had not vested unconditionally to employees at the balance sheet date.
The Deferred Bonus Plan the Plan provides for participants to use up to 50% of their annual bonus to buy shares in the Company.
The Group will match any shares bought, but the matched shares will vest, for Executive Directors, only if the Groups EPS grows by more than 15% in excess of RPI over a three-year period 9% in excess of RPI for other eligible employees.
Recent fiscal changes in the US have made the Plan less attractive to participants and the Remuneration Committee discontinued the Plan after bonus awards for the 2004 financial year.
The number and market value of the ordinary shares held by the ESOP trust at December 31, was 2005 2005 2004 2004 Number Market value Number Market value 000 $000 000 $000 Shares allocated but not vested 51 651 50 246 Unallocated shares 198 2,532 218 249 3,183 52 264 Annual report and accounts for the 91 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 Shareholders funds and statement of changes in shareholders equity Capital Share Share Treasury Exchangeable reduction Capital Other Retained capital premium shares shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Balance at January 1, 2005 36,083 4,883,219 264 195,830 4,729 36,121 910,786 4,244,932 Effect of Scheme of Arrangement 2,889,562 4,883,219 4,729 1,998,386 Effect of capital reduction 2,883,849 2,883,849 Balance at January 1, 2005 restated 41,796 264 195,830 2,883,849 2,034,507 910,786 4,244,932 Foreign currency translation differences 28,855 28,855 Net income recognised directly in equity 28,855 28,855 Employee share option scheme: value of employee services 27,383 27,383 proceeds from shares issued 405 2,977 26,268 7,463 37,113 Issue of share capital Exchange of exchangeable shares 527 94,582 36,373 57,682 Purchase of treasury shares 2,549 2,549 Dividends 28,460 28,460 Tax benefit associated with exercise of stock options 1,721 1,721 Unrealized holding gain on available-for-sale securities 9,226 9,226 Loss for the year 177,378 177,378 Balance at December 31, 2005 42,728 2,977 2,813 101,248 2,946,490 2,099,652 1,107,149 4,083,133 The cumulative foreign exchange differences on translation amount to a $5.2 million gain as at December 31, 2005.
Capital Share Share Treasury Exchangeable reduction Capital Other Retained capital premium shares shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Balance at January 1, 2004 before effect of Scheme of Arrangement 35,540 4,794,738 270,667 4,729 36,121 1,047,920 4,093,875 Foreign currency translation differences 34,066 34,066 Net income recognised directly in equity 34,066 34,066 Employee share option scheme: value of employee services 15,464 15,464 proceeds from shares issued 191 13,225 13,416 Issue of share capital 8 763 771 Exchange of exchangeable shares 344 74,493 74,837 Purchase of treasury shares 264 264 Dividends 8,905 8,905 Profit for the year 96,509 96,509 Balance at December 31, 2004 36,083 4,883,219 264 195,830 4,729 36,121 910,786 4,244,932 The capital and other reserves arose in relation to various Group reconstructions and certain financing transactions.
92 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 34 Cash generated from operations For the For the year ended year ended December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 Operating loss profit 158,873 290,786 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23,003 22,668 Amortization of intangible assets 49,516 42,138 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 6,458 1,587 Impairment of intangible assets 4,410 19,626 Impairment of goodwill 526,956 132,576 Movements in financial assets 1,974 16,253 Increase in provision for sale deductions 18,616 50,746 Loss profit on disposal of non-financial assets 185 325 Profit on disposal of financial assets 4,100 14,805 Gain on sale of drug formulation business 3,561 Stock option compensation 27,383 15,464 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 491,967 576,714 Decrease in inventories 8,582 2,185 Increase in trade and other receivables 146,741 28,066 Increase decrease in other assets 731 16,136 Increase in trade and other payables 120,422 61,448 Deferred income 13,520 6,151 Cash flow from discontinued operations 362 30,525 Cash generated from operations 459,617 604,043 Interest paid 4,334 14,771 Income tax paid 54,096 123,510 Net cash flows from operating activities 401,187 465,762 Additions to fixtures and equipment during the year amounting to $71.9 million included acquisitions of $4.6 million financed by new finance leases.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single category of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Annual report and accounts for the 93 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies a Leases The Group leases property, computer and office equipment and motor vehicles on short-term operating leases.
The rents payable under property leases are subject to renegotiation at various intervals specified in the leases.
The Group pays for substantially all of the insurance, maintenance and repair of these assets.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Land and Motor buildings Equipment vehicles Total 2005 $000 $000 $000 $000 Not later than 1 year 18,847 1,502 2,828 23,177 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 75,002 1,808 7,618 84,428 Later than 5 years 50,013 3 50,016 143,862 3,313 10,446 157,621 Land and Motor buildings Equipment vehicles Total 2004 $000 $000 $000 $000 Not later than 1 year 6,579 4,561 2,246 13,386 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 27,486 4,996 3,090 35,572 Later than 5 years 37,707 37,707 71,772 9,557 5,336 86,665 The future aggregate payments for land and buildings include $57.6 million in respect of operating leases expiring in 2016 on the Groups new headquarters in Wayne, Pennsylvania.
b Guarantees and collateral At December 31, 2005 the Group had $5.5 million 2004: $5.3 million of restricted cash held as collateral for certain equipment leases.
c Letters of credit As at December 31, 2005, the Group had the following letters of credit: i An irrevocable standby letter of credit with Barclays Bank plc in the amount of $15 million 2004: $15 million providing security on the recoverability of insurance claims.
The Group had restricted cash of $15 million 2004: $16 million as required by this letter of credit.
ii An irrevocable standby letter of credit with Bank of America in the amount of $7.9 million, providing security on the payment of lease obligations.
The Group has restricted cash of $7.9 million, as required by this letter of credit.
d Capital commitments i DAYTRANA In connection with the Groups acquisition in 2003 from Noven Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Noven of the worldwide sales and marketing rights to DAYTRANA, the Group has an obligation to make certain payments on the achievement of the following milestones: $50 million upon FDA approval of the product, which will be capitalized and amortised over its useful economic life: and up to $75 million, linked to future sales performance.
An approvable letter was received from the FDA on December 23, 2005.
Final regulatory approval is currently expected to be in 2006. ii NRP104 In connection with the Groups collaboration with New River to commercialise NRP104, the Group has an obligation to make certain payments on the achievement of the following milestones: $50 million upon the FDAs acceptance of filing of the NDA: up to $300 million following the first commercial sale of the product, depending on the characteristics of the approved product labelling: $100 million on achieving a significant sales target: and $5 million following the first commercial sale in certain specified EU markets.
An upfront payment of $50 million was capitalized during the first quarter of 2005.
The NDA for NRP104 was filed on December 6, 2005 and accepted for review by the FDA on January 26, 2006, triggering the $50 million milestone payment, which has now been paid.
iii FOSRENOL patent rights In connection with the Groups purchase of the global patents for FOSRENOL from AnorMED Inc. in 2004, the Group has outstanding commitments to pay AnorMED Inc. $6 million when FOSRENOL is approved in certain European countries and $6 million upon receipt of regulatory approval in Japan.
iv Other research and development commitments As at December 31, 2005, the Group had commitments of $18 million payable on achievement of specified milestones for products under development in-licensed from third parties, of which $6.6 million is committed to be paid in 2006.
94 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued v TKT shareholders seeking appraisal rights As at December 31, 2005, appraisal rights had been asserted in respect of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock.
For further information see section g below.
As at December 31, 2005 the Group recorded a liability of $419.9 million based on the merger consideration of $37 per share for the 11.3 million shares subject to appraisal rights at that time plus a provision for interest of $7.7 million that may be awarded by the Court see Note 11.
Until such time as the appraisal process is complete the Group is unable to determine the extent of its liability.
For every $1 increase decrease in the merger consideration applicable to those former TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights, the total estimated purchase price would increase decrease by approximately $11.3 million.
vi Clinical testing As at December 31, 2005, the Group had committed to pay approximately $16.3 million to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
The timing of payments is not reasonably certain as payments are dependent upon actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrolment levels and related activities.
However, the Group expects to pay $13.2 million for these commitments throughout 2006 as ongoing trials are completed and the remainder in 2007. vii Contract manufacturing As at December 31, 2005 the Group had committed to pay approximately $23.1 million in respect of contract manufacturing over the next 12 months.
viii Investment commitments As at December 31, 2005 the Group had outstanding commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts totalling $25.2 million 2004: $22 million of which $9.9 million is committed in 2006 and a further $2.9 million could be payable in 2006, depending on the timing of capital calls.
ix Manufacturing facilities At December 31, 2005 the Group had committed a total of $6.1 million to the expansion and modification of its manufacturing facilities at Owings Mills, Maryland and Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Of this total, $3.2 million is to facilitate the production and packaging of additional strategic products and $2.9 million is for the design and construction of a technology centre at Owings Mills.
All costs are expected to be incurred in 2006. x Basingstoke, UK expansion The Group is in the process of expanding its UK headquarters at Basingstoke, UK.
As at December 31, 2005 the Group had an outstanding commitment of $4.5 million, which is expected to be incurred in 2006. e Contingent liabilities The Group is involved in various legal proceedings, including those set out below.
Although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any of the legal proceedings referred to below, Shire believes that they will not have a materially adverse effect on the Groups reported financial position.
PHENTERMINE Shire US Inc. SUS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire, is a defendant in ten lawsuits still pending in both US federal and state courts which seek damages for, among other things, personal injury arising from phentermine products supplied for the treatment of obesity by SUS and several other pharmaceutical companies.
SUS, formerly known as Shire Richwood Inc. has been sued as a manufacturer and distributor of phentermine, an anorectic used in the short-term treatment of obesity and one of the products addressed by the lawsuits.
The suits relate to phentermine either alone or together with fenfluramine or dexenfluramine.
The lawsuits generally allege the following claims: the defendants marketed phentermine and other products for the treatment of obesity and misled users about the products and dangers associated with them: the defendants failed adequately to test phentermine individually and when taken in combination with the other drugs: and the defendants knew or should have known about the negative effects of the drugs and should have informed the public about such risks and or failed to provide appropriate warning labels.
SUS has been named as a defendant in a total of 4,199 such phentermine lawsuits, in respect of which SUS has been dismissed as a defendant in 4,189 cases.
Five of the ten remaining cases name SUS as a defendant, but have not been served as required by state and federal rules of civil procedure.
It is expected that SUS will be dismissed from the remaining cases based upon lack of product identification or agreement of the parties.
SUS became involved with phentermine through its acquisition of certain assets of Rexar Pharmacal Corporation Rexar in January 1994.
In addition to SUS potentially incurring liability as a result of its own production of Oby-Cap, a phentermine product, the plaintiffs may additionally seek to impose liability on SUS as successor to Rexar.
SUS intends to defend vigorously all the lawsuits.
SUS denies liability on a number of grounds including lack of scientific evidence that phentermine, properly prescribed, causes the alleged side effects and that SUS did not promote phentermine for long-term combined use as part of the fen phen diet.
Accordingly, SUS intends to defend vigorously any and all claims made against the Group in respect of phentermine.
Legal expenses to date have been paid by Eon Labs, Inc. Eon, the supplier to SUS, or Eons insurance carriers but such insurance is now exhausted.
Eon has agreed to defend and indemnify SUS in this litigation pursuant to an agreement dated November 30, 2000 between Eon and SUS.
Annual report and accounts for the 95 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued ADDERALL XR i Barr Laboratories, Inc.
The Groups extended release once daily version of ADDERALL, ADDERALL XR is covered by US patent No.
6,322,819 the 819 Patent and US patent No.
In January 2003 Shire was notified that Barr had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR Barrs ANDA products prior to the expiration date of Shires 819 Patent, and alleging that the 819 Patent is not infringed by Barrs ANDA products.
In August 2003 Shire was notified that Barr also was seeking permission to market its ANDA products prior to the expiration date of the 300 Patent and alleging that the 300 Patent is invalid.
Shire Laboratories, Inc, Shire Laboratories filed suit against Barr for infringement of the 819 Patent in February 2003 and for infringement of the 300 Patent in September 2003.
The schedules for the lawsuits against Barr with respect to the 819 and 300 Patents were consolidated in December 2003.
Shire Laboratories is seeking a ruling that Barrs ANDA and ANDA products infringe the 819 and 300 Patents and that its ANDA should not be approved before the expiration date of the patents.
Shire Laboratories is also seeking injunctions to prevent Barr from commercializing its ANDA products before the expiration of the 819 and 300 Patents, damages in the event that Barr should engage in such commercialization and its attorneys fees and costs.
On September 27, 2004 Barr filed an amended Answer, Affirmative Defence and Counterclaim in which Barr added the following counterclaims: invalidity of the 819 patent, non-infringement of the 300 Patent and unenforceability of the 819 and 300 Patents due to inequitable conduct.
Shire Laboratories has asserted affirmative defences, alleging, among other things, that Barr has waived its right to assert the counterclaims set forth in its September 27, 2004 amended Answer.
Under the Courts schedule summary judgement motions were to be filed and fully briefed by October 14, 2005.
Neither Shire Laboratories nor Barr filed summary judgement motions.
At a March 10, 2006 pre-trial conference the Court set a bench trial date of October 30, 2006.
Shires lawsuits triggered stays of final FDA approval of Barrs ANDA of up to 30 months from the date of the Companys receipt of Barrs notice letters.
The 30 month stay related to the lawsuit regarding the 300 Patent expired on February 18, 2006.
As the stay has expired, the FDA may approve Barrs ANDA, subject to satisfaction by Barr of the FDAs requirements.
Barr could be in a position to market its ANDA products upon receipt of final FDA approval.
On October 19, 2005 the Company brought another lawsuit against Barr in the Southern District of New York alleging infringement of US Patent No.
The Company is seeking an injunction to prevent Barr from infringing the 768 Patent, damages in the event that Barr should commercialise its ANDA Products, attorneys fees and costs.
Barr has moved to dismiss this action asserting that there is no subject matter jurisdiction.
A hearing on this motion was held on February 17, 2006.
No decision on this motion has yet been made.
In November 2003, Shire was notified that Impax Laboratories, Inc. Impax had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of the 30mg strength of ADDERALL XR Impaxs ANDA product prior to the expiration date of the 819 and 300 Patents.
In December 2003, Shire Laboratories filed suit against Impax for infringement of the 819 and 300 Patents.
In December 2004, Shire received an additional notification from Impax advising of the filing of an amendment to its ANDA for a generic version of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg and 25mg strengths of ADDERALL XR in addition to the 30mg strength, the subject of Impaxs initial ANDA submission.
In January 2005, Shire Laboratories filed suit against Impax for infringement of the 819 and 300 Patents.
As part of the October 19, 2005 lawsuit against Barr, Shire also brought suit in the Southern District of New York against Impax for infringing the 768 Patent.
Impax filed a declaratory judgement action in Delaware alleging that the 768 Patent was invalid and that its ANDA did not infringe the 768 Patent.
On January 19, 2006, Shire and Impax announced that all pending litigation in connection with Impaxs ANDA had been settled.
As part of the settlement, Impax confirmed that its proposed generic products infringe Shires 819, 300 and 768 Patents and that the three patents are valid and enforceable.
Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Impax will be permitted to market generic versions of ADDERALL XR in the United States no later than January 1, 2010 and will pay Shire a royalty from those sales.
In certain situations, such as the launch of another generic version of ADDERALL XR, Impax may be permitted to enter the market as Shires authorised generic.
No payments to Impax are involved in the settlement agreement.
The settlement agreement, which was effective immediately, has been submitted to the United States Federal Trade Commission FTC for its review, as required by law.
In December 2004, Shire was notified that Colony Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Colony had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration date of the Companys 819 and 300 Patents.
Shire has chosen not to sue Colony.
96 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued iv Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.
In February 2005, Shire was notified that Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Teva had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 10mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration date of the Companys 819 and 300 Patents.
In June 2005, Shire was notified that Teva had amended its ANDA to seek permission to market additional strengths of 5mg, 15mg and 20mg of its generic ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of the 819 and 300 Patents.
In January 2006, Shire received a third notice letter that Teva had further amended its ANDA to seek permission to market the 25mg strength generic version of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of the 819 and 300 Patents.
On March 2, 2006, Shire filed a lawsuit in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging that Tevas ANDA products infringe both the 819 and 300 Patents.
The lawsuit will trigger a stay of FDA approval of Tevas 25mg strength product for up to 30 months from the date of the Companys receipt of Tevas notice.
There is no such stay with respect to Tevas 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg and 30mg strength versions of ADDERALL XR.
None of Barr, Colony or Teva may launch their generic versions of ADDERALL XR before they receive final FDA approval of their respective ANDAs.
The FDA may grant 180 days of generic market exclusivity to Barr as the first to file an ANDA for a generic version of ADDERALL XR.
Neither Colony nor Teva may market their ANDA products until the FDA grants a final approval of their ANDAs and upon the expiration of the first to files exclusivity rights.
CARBATROL In August 2003, the Company was notified that Nostrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Nostrum had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of the 300mg strength of CARBATROL Nostrums ANDA product prior to the expiration date of the Companys US patents for CARBATROL, US patent No.
5,912,013 the 013 Patent and US patent No.
The notification alleges that the 013 and 570 Patents are not infringed by Nostrums ANDA product.
On September 18, 2003, Shire Laboratories filed suit against Nostrum in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Nostrums ANDA and ANDA product.
Shire Laboratories was seeking a ruling that Nostrums ANDA infringes the 013 and 570 Patents and should not be approved before the expiration date of the 013 and 570 Patents.
Shire Laboratories was also seeking an injunction to prevent Nostrum from commercializing its ANDA product before the expiration of the 013 and 570 Patents, damages in the event that Nostrum should engage in such commercialization, as well as its attorneys fees and costs.
On January 23, 2004, Shire Laboratories amended the complaint to drop the allegations with respect to the 013 Patent while maintaining the suit with respect to the 570 Patent.
By way of counterclaims Nostrum is seeking a declaration that the 570 and 013 Patents are not infringed by Nostrums ANDA product.
Nostrum also was seeking actual and punitive damages for alleged abuse of process by Shire Laboratories.
On July 12, 2004, the Court dismissed Nostrums abuse of process counterclaim for failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted.
On December 10, 2004, Nostrum filed a summary judgement motion seeking a declaration of non-infringement of the 570 Patent.
Shire Laboratories opposition to this motion was filed on January 14, 2005.
The Court heard arguments with respect to Nostrums motion on July 15, 2005.
At the conclusion of the hearing the Court denied Nostrums motion for summary judgement of noninfringement.
During the March 10, 2006 status conference call with the Court, previously scheduled expert dispositions and Markman briefing were adjourned.
No trial date has been set.
Nostrum may not launch a generic version of CARBATROL before it receives final approval of its ANDA from the FDA.
The lawsuit triggered a stay of FDA approval of up to 30 months from the Companys receipt of Nostrums notice letter.
The 30 month stay expired on February 6, 2006.
Following expiry of the stay, Nostrum could be in a position to market its 300mg extended-release carbamazepine product upon FDA final approval of its ANDA.
GA-GCB In January 2005, Genzyme Corporation Genzyme filed suit against TKT in the District Court of Tel Aviv-Jaffa, Israel, claiming that TKTs Phase 1 2 clinical trial in Israel evaluating GA-GCB for the treatment of Gaucher disease infringes one or more claims of Genzymes Israeli Patent No.
In addition, Genzyme filed a motion for preliminary injunction, including a request for an ex parte hearing and relief on the merits, to immediately seize and destroy all GA-GCB being used to treat patients and to prevent TKT from submitting data generated from the clinical trial to regulatory agencies.
In March 2005 the District Court refused to grant Genzymes motion for a preliminary injunction.
The lawsuit was dismissed in January 2006.
DYNEPO In April 1997, Amgen Inc. Amgen commenced a patent infringement action against TKT and Sanofi-Aventis in the United States District Court of Massachusetts.
In January 2001, the United States District Court of Massachusetts concluded that DYNEPO infringed eight of the 18 claims of five patents that Amgen had asserted.
Amgen did not seek and was not awarded monetary damages.
This decision was subsequently appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In January 2003, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision affirming in part and reversing in part the decision of the United States District Court of Massachusetts, remanded the action to the United States District Court of Massachusetts for further proceedings and instructed the United States District Court of Massachusetts to reconsider the validity of Amgens patents in the light of potentially invalidating prior art.
Annual report and accounts for the 97 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued In October 2004, the United States District Court of Massachusetts issued a decision on the remanded issues, finding that certain claims related to four patents held by Amgen are infringed by TKT and Sanofi-Aventis.
In December 2004, TKT and Sanofi-Aventis filed a notice of appeal of the decision of the United States District Court of Massachusetts to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
An oral hearing was held at the Federal Circuit in December 2005.
No decision has been rendered at this time.
If TKT and Sanofi-Aventis are not successful in the DYNEPO litigation at the appellate level, TKT and Sanofi-Aventis would be precluded from making, using and selling DYNEPO in the United States until the expiration of the relevant patents.
TKT is required to reimburse Sanofi-Aventis, which controls the litigation and is paying the litigation expenses, for 50% of the expenses incurred in connection with the litigation from and after March 26, 2004.
In the event that Sanofi-Aventis launches DYNEPO in the US, Sanofi-Aventis is entitled to deduct up to 50% of any royalties that Sanofi-Aventis may otherwise owe to TKT with respect to the sale of DYNEPO until Sanofi-Aventis has recouped the full amount of TKTs share of the litigation expenses.
TKT has the right to control any other litigation that might arise outside of the United States and is responsible for all litigation expenses incurred in connection with such litigation from and after March 26, 2004.
Gene activation In 1996, Applied Research Systems Holding N. V. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Serono S. A. Serono and Cell Genesys, became involved in a patent interference involving Seronos US Patent No.
5,272,071 the 071 Patent, which purportedly covers certain methods of gene activation.
In June 2004, the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences of the US Patent and Trademark Office PTO held that both Serono and Cell Genesys were entitled to certain claims in their respective patent and patent application, and Serono and Cell Genesys each appealed the decision of the interference to the US District Court of Massachusetts and the US District Court of the District of Columbia, respectively.
TKT was not a party to this interference.
In August 2004, Serono served TKT with an amended complaint in the appeal of the PTO decision that was filed in the US District Court of Massachusetts.
The amended complaint alleges that TKT infringes Seronos 071 Patent.
In August 2005, the US District Court of Massachusetts severed and stayed the infringement action pending resolution of the interference claim at the District Court level.
Appraisal rights In connection with the Groups merger with TKT, former holders of approximately 11.7 million shares of TKT common stock submitted written demands to the Delaware Court of Chancery for appraisal of these shares and, as a result, elected not to accept the $37 per share merger consideration.
To the extent that the remaining demands were validly asserted in accordance with the applicable requirements of Delaware law and the former holders perfect their rights thereunder, such former holders will be entitled to receive the fair value of these shares as determined by the Delaware Court of Chancery.
This could change if the Group is required to pay a different amount of consideration in respect of the approximately 11.3 million shares for which holders have asserted appraisal rights.
Until such time as the appraisal process is complete, the Group is unable to determine the final extent of its liability.
Class action shareholder suit In January and February 2003, various parties filed purported class action lawsuits against TKT and Richard Selden, TKTs former Chief Executive Officer, in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
The complaints generally allege securities fraud during the period from January 2001 through January 2003.
Each of the complaints asserts claims under Section 10 b of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and Section 20 a of the Exchange Act, and alleges that TKT and its officers made false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material information concerning the status and progress for obtaining United States marketing approval of TKTs REPLAGAL product to treat Fabry Disease during that period.
In March 2003, various plaintiffs filed motions to consolidate, to appoint lead plaintiff, and to approve plaintiffs selections of lead plaintiffs counsel.
In April 2003, various plaintiffs filed a Joint Stipulation and Proposed Order of Lead Plaintiff Applicants to Consolidate Actions, to Appoint Lead Plaintiffs and to Approve Lead Plaintiffs Selection of Lead Counsel, Executive Committee and Liaison Counsel.
In April 2003, the Court endorsed the Proposed Order, thereby consolidating the various matters under one matter: In re Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. Securities Litigation, C. A.
In July 2003, the plaintiffs filed a Consolidated and Amended Class Action Complaint the Amended Complaint against TKT: Dr Selden: Daniel Geffken, TKTs former Chief Financial Officer: Walter Gilbert, Jonathan S. Leff, Rodman W. Moorhead, III, and Wayne P. Yetter, then members of TKTs Board of Directors: William R. Miller and James E. Thomas, former members of TKTs Board of Directors: and SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacific Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company, underwriters of TKTs common stock in prior public offerings.
98 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35 Guarantees, commitments and contingencies continued The Amended Complaint alleges securities fraud during the period from January 4, 2001, through January 10, 2003.
The Amended Complaint alleges that the defendants made false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material information concerning the status and progress for obtaining United States marketing approval of REPLAGAL during that period.
The Amended Complaint asserts claims against Dr Selden and TKT under Section 10 b of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder: and against Dr Selden under Section 20 a of the Exchange Act.
The Amended Complaint also asserts claims based on TKTs public offerings of June 29, 2001, December 18, 2001 and December 26, 2001, against each of the defendants under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 and against Dr Selden under Section 15 of the Securities Act: and against SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacific Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company under Section 12 a 2 of the Securities Act.
The plaintiffs seek equitable and monetary relief, an unspecified amount of damages, with interest, and attorneys fees and costs.
In September 2003, TKT filed a motion to dismiss the Amended Complaint.
A hearing of the motion occurred in December 2003.
In May 2004, the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts issued a Memorandum of Decision and Order denying in part and granting in part TKTs motion to dismiss the purported class action lawsuit.
In the Memorandum, the Court found several allegations against TKT arose out of forward-looking statements protected by the safe harbour provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 PSLRA.
The Court dismissed those statements as falling within the PSLRAs safe harbour provisions.
The Court also dismissed claims based on the public offerings of June 29, 2001, and December 18, 2001, because no plaintiff had standing to bring such claims.
The Court allowed all other allegations to remain.
In June 2004, TKT submitted an unopposed motion seeking clarification from the Court that the Memorandum dismissed claims based on the first two offerings as to all defendants.
The Court granted the motion.
In July 2004, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed all claims based on the third offering because no plaintiff had standing to bring such claims.
The plaintiffs subsequently filed a motion seeking permission to notify certain TKT investors of the dismissal of the claims based on the offerings, and to inform those investors of their opportunity to intervene in the lawsuit.
TKT filed an opposition to this motion in July 2004.
A hearing on this motion was held in September 2004.
The Court denied this motion.
TKT filed an answer to the Amended Complaint in July 2004.
The plaintiffs then filed a motion for class certification in July 2004.
TKT filed an opposition to this motion in March 2005, and the plaintiffs filed a reply in April 2005.
A hearing on class certification was held in April 2005.
Following that hearing, TKT filed a supplemental brief in opposition to the motion for class certification and the plaintiffs filed a supplemental brief in support of the motion.
In November 2005, the Court granted the plaintiffs motion for class certification.
On September 14, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a Notice of Related Case Pursuant to Local Rule 40.1 G, in which they appeared to seek reassignment of a matter filed on September 1, 2005, entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Richard B. Selden, Civil Action No.
the SEC Action, to the Court considering this matter.
On September 15, 2005, the defendants filed a response to the notice, opposing reassignment of the SEC Action.
On October 7, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a memorandum in response to the defendants response.
On October 21, 2005, the Court entered an Order, which stated that it did not deem the cases related under Local Rule 40.1.
The Group is obligated to indemnify Dr Selden for his costs incurred in connection with the SEC Action.
Annual report and accounts for the 99 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 36 Principal subsidiaries The Company and the Group have investments in the following subsidiary undertakings which principally affected the results or net assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
Country Principal activity Holding % Shire LLC US Licensing, development, production and distribution of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire US, Inc.
US Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited UK Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited UK Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire France SA France Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG Germany Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Italia SpA Italy Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberia SL Spain Marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Limited UK Holding Company 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
US Management services company 100% Shire Development, Inc.
US Development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% Shire Regulatory, Inc.
US Development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire BioChem, Inc. Canada Marketing, research and development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% Shire International Licensing BV Netherlands Licensing and development of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited UK Development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals US Development, Inc.
US Development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands Issuer of convertible notes 100% Shire US Manufacturing, Inc.
US Manufacturer of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc. formerly known as Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc.
US Marketing, research and development of pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies 100% TKT Europe AB Sweden Marketing and distribution of pharmaceuticals 100% Held directly by Shire plc.
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidated financial statements.
Country of incorporation or principal business address.
37 Employees, directors and key management Staff The average monthly number of people employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2005 2004 Number Number Manufacturing and distribution 384 358 Sales and marketing 994 837 General and administrative 300 265 Research and development 412 432 2,090 1,892 Aggregate remuneration of Directors The total amounts for remuneration and other benefits were as follows: 2005 2004 $000 $000 Emoluments 4,289 4,751 Post-employment benefits 488 450 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 159 Termination benefits 1,172 Gains on exercise of share options 194 216 4,971 6,748 No fees were payable to third parties in respect of Directors services for either year.
100 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37 Employees, directors and key management continued The numbers of Directors who were members of Group retirement schemes were as follows: 2005 2004 Number Number Defined contribution schemes 2 3 Defined benefit scheme SERP 1 1 The above amounts for remuneration include the following in respect of the highest paid Director: 2005 2004 $000 $000 Aggregate emoluments 2,286 2,601 Pension contributions 323 227 2,609 2,828 Aggregate remuneration of key management The total amounts for remuneration and other benefits were as follows: 2005 2004 $000 $000 Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 12,133 13,242 Post-employment benefits 1,189 1,147 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 538 Termination benefits 5,225 Share-based payments 5,159 3,027 18,481 23,179 The key management figures given above include Directors.
38 Related-party transactions Professional fees The Group incurred professional fees with Stikeman Elliott, a law firm in which the Hon James Grant, a Non-Executive Director of Shire, is a partner, totalling $0.5 million for the year to December 31, 2005 2004: $2.1 million: 2003: $0.8 million.
In April 2004, the Group contributed cash of $3.7 million CAN$5.0 million and equipment and intellectual property to the start-up of a new Canadian-based pharmaceutical research and development organization, ViroChem Pharma Inc. ViroChem, in return for an equity interest and royalties on the sale of certain products subsequently launched by ViroChem.
In April 2005, the Group contributed cash of $4.1 million CAN$5.0 million to ViroChem in return for an additional equity interest.
Dr Bellini, a Non-Executive Director of BioChem and, until May 10, 2003, a Non-Executive Director of Shire, had, at the time of the transaction, an indirect substantial interest in a company, which is a co-investor of ViroChem.
The Group has undertaken to invest an additional $4.3 million CAN$5.0 million in ViroChem.
In October 2005, the Group sub-leased its office premises in Newport to Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. Dr James Cavanaugh, the Non-Executive Chairman of Shire, is the Chairman of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. As a result of the transaction the Group will receive $7.8 million net of inducements in lease income over the sub-lease period from Xanodyne.
In April 2004 Shire BioChem Inc. BioChem, a subsidiary of Shire, sold a Canadian property to NeuroChem Inc. for $7.8 million CAN$10.5 million.
Dr Bellini, a Non-Executive Director of Biochem and, until May 10, 2003, a Non-Executive Director of Shire and Mr Nordmann, a Non-Executive Director of Shire are both directors of NeuroChem Inc. Dr Bellini had an indirect substantial interest in the issued share capital of Neurochem Inc. at the time of the transaction.
Annual report and accounts for the 101 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 39 Post balance sheet events ADDERALL XR patent litigation Third notice letter from Teva On January 18, 2006, the Group received a third notice letter from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. advising it of an amendment to Tevas existing ANDA for generic versions of ADDERALL XR.
The amendment is directed to an additional strength of 25mg.
As previously announced, Tevas February 2005 notice letter was directed only to 10mg and 30mg dosages and Tevas June 2005 notice letter was directed only to 5mg, 15mg and 20mg dosages.
The Group is currently reviewing the details of Tevas latest notice letter.
Settlement of Impax litigations On January 19, 2006, the Group settled its ADDERALL XR patent infringement lawsuits with Impax.
The litigations involved Shire US patents, Nos.
As part of the settlement, Impax has confirmed that its proposed generic ADDERALL XR product infringes the Groups 819, 300 and 768 Patents and that the three patents are valid and enforceable.
Under the terms of the settlement, Impax will be permitted to market generic versions of ADDERALL XR in the US no later than January 1, 2010 and will pay the Group a royalty from those sales.
In certain situations, such as the launch of another generic version of ADDERALL XR, Impax may be permitted to enter the market as the Groups authorised generic.
NRP104 On January 26, 2006, the FDA accepted New Rivers NDA for NRP104 for review.
This has triggered a $50 million milestone payment by the Group to New River.
MESAVANCE SPD476 The Group has submitted applications for marketing approval to a number of European regulatory agencies and also filed a New Drug Submission for SPD476 with Health Canada.
IDB loan repayment On February 10, 2006, the Group received notice from IDB that it intended to repay in full all of its loan drawings for injectable flu development of $70.6 million, together with accrued and capitalized interest of $8.1 million.
The Group received the $78.7 million outstanding on February 14, 2006.
The amounts outstanding in respect of IDB drawings for pipeline development principal drawings $29.4 million, are unaffected by this repayment.
40 Explanation of transition to IFRS This is the first year that the Company has presented its financial statement under IFRS.
The following disclosures are required in the year of transition.
The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the date of transition to IFRS was therefore January 1, 2004.
Exemptions from full retrospective application elected by the Group The Group has elected to apply the following optional exemptions from full retrospective application.
Business combinations exemption The Group has applied the business combination exemption in IFRS 1.
It has not restated business combinations that took place prior to the January 1, 2004 transition date in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Cumulative translation differences exemption The Group has elected to set the previously accumulated cumulative translation differences arising on the translation and consolidation of results of foreign operations and balance sheets denominated in foreign currencies to zero at January 1, 2004.
This exemption has been applied to all subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 1.
Exemption from restatement of comparatives for IAS 32 and IAS 39 The Group has elected to apply this exemption.
It applies UK GAAP rules to derivatives, financial assets and financial liabilities and to hedging relationships for the 2004 comparative information.
The adjustments required for differences between UK GAAP and IAS 32 and IAS 39 are determined and recognised at January 1, 2005.
Designation of financial assets and financial liabilities exemption The Group reclassified various equity investments as available-for-sale investments.
The adjustments relating to IAS 32 and IAS 39 are required and determined at the opening balance sheet date of January 1, 2005 the IAS 32 and IAS 39 transition date.
Share-based payment transaction exemption The Group has elected to apply the share-based payment exemption.
It applied IFRS 2 from January 1, 2004 to those options that were issued after November 7, 2002 but that have not vested by January 1, 2005.
Fair value measurement of financial assets or liabilities at initial recognition The Group has applied the exemption offered by the revision of IAS 39 on the initial recognition of the financial instruments measured at fair value through the income statement where there is no active market.
102 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 40 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued Exceptions from full retrospective application followed by the Group The Group has applied the following mandatory exceptions from retrospective application: fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities exception Financial assets and liabilities fide-recognised before January 1, 2004 are not re-recognised under IFRS.
The application of the exemption from restating comparatives for IAS 32 and IAS 39 means that the Group should recognise from January 1, 2005 any financial assets and financial liabilities derecognised since January 1, 2004 that do not meet the IAS 39 fide-recognition criteria.
Management chose not to apply the IAS 39 fide-recognition criteria to an earlier date.
Hedge accounting exception The Group is able to claim hedge accounting from January 1, 2005, only if the hedge relationship meets all the hedge accounting criteria under IAS 39.
Estimates exception Estimates under IFRS at January 1, 2004 should be consistent with estimates made for the same date under previous GAAP, unless there is evidence that those estimates were in error.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations exception The Group elected to apply IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations retrospectively as all required information was available at the time of disposal of the vaccines business.
Only a reclassification adjustment was required as at January 1, 2004.
Reconciliations between IFRS and UK GAAP Reconciliation of equity at December 31, 2004 and January 1, 2004 At December 31 At January 1, Notes 2004 2004 Equity under UK GAAP in 000 2,232,211 2,308,500 $000 $000 Equity under UK GAAP restated in US $000 4,285,625 4,132,445 Goodwill restated to acquirees functional currency a 231,308 63,244 Reverse goodwill amortization and impairment in 2004 b 298,058 Goodwill impairment charge on restated basis c 132,198 Dividends not recognised as a liability d 19,107 Intangible assets recognised under IAS 38 e 11,465 11,465 Impairment of intangibles above in the year f 6,149 Adjustment to deferred tax g 332 13,209 Equity restated under IFRS 4,244,932 4,093,875 Reconciliation of net income for the year 12 months to December 31, Notes 2004 Loss for the period under UK GAAP 000 13,431 $000 Loss for the period under UK GAAP restated in US $000 34,861 Reverse goodwill amortization and impairment in 2004 b 298,058 Goodwill impairment charge on restated basis c 132,198 Impairment of intangibles recognised under IFRS f 6,149 Fair value of share-based payments h 15,464 Adjustment to deferred tax g 12,877 Profit for the period restated under IFRS 96,509 Annual report and accounts for the 103 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 40 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued Explanation of material adjustments to equity at December 31, 2004 and January 1, 2004 and to profit for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Note a : IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates Under UK GAAP the Group capitalized and amortised goodwill and certain intangible assets over the period of their expected useful lives.
Goodwill and intangible assets purchased prior to January 1,1998, were written-off in the year of acquisition as a movement in profits recognised directly in equity.
As permitted under IFRS 1, the Group has elected to apply IAS 21 retrospectively to goodwill arising in all business combinations that occurred before the date of transition to IFRS.
Under UK GAAP, goodwill was held in the functional currency of the acquirer.
Applying IAS 21 retrospectively expresses that goodwill in the acquirees functional currency.
The adjustment reflects the translation of goodwill from the acquirers functional currency into the acquirees functional currency.
Note b : IFRS 3, Business Combinations Under IFRS 3, from January 1, 2004 the Group has no longer systematically amortised goodwill, but has instead tested these assets for impairment on at least an annual basis.
The amortization charge under UK GAAP for goodwill in 2004 was $298.1 million and consequently this amount has been reversed for IFRS.
On disposal, goodwill acquired and written off on acquisition prior to January 1, 1998 will no longer be reinstated as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Note c : IAS 36, Impairment of Assets Following the reversal of goodwill amortization as described in note b above, an adjustment was required to reduce the value of goodwill created on the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. which was impaired, to its recoverable amount.
Note d : IAS 10, Events After the Balance Sheet Date Under IFRS interim dividends declared but unpaid do not meet the definition of a liability at the balance sheet date.
Under UK GAAP, the Group accounted for such dividends as a transaction in the accounting period in which the dividend was declared, and a liability at the balance sheet date.
The declared but unpaid interim dividends for 2004 amounted to 3.85c per 5p ordinary share, totalling $19.1 million.
At January 1, 2004 there were no declared but unpaid dividends.
The amount at December 31, 2004 has been reclassified from current liabilities to retained profit.
Note e : IAS 38, Intangible Assets Under IAS 38, when the recognition criteria are met intangible assets are capitalized and amortised over their useful economic life from product launch.
Payments to in-license products and compounds from external third parties, generally taking the form of up-front payments and milestones, are capitalized.
Under UK GAAP, Group policy was to capitalise only those intangible assets with an immediate defined revenue stream acquired for valuable consideration.
Following a review of the Groups intangible purchases from external third parties, $11.5 million of payments to in-license products and compounds previously expensed under UK GAAP, have been added to the balance sheet under IFRS.
Note f : IAS 36, Impairment of Assets Following the addition to the balance sheet of the intangibles described in note e above, a review identified that following management decisions to terminate certain research and development projects in 2004, some of these assets were being carried above their recoverable amount, requiring an impairment charge of $6.1 million.
Note g : IAS 12, Income Taxes Under UK GAAP the Group recognised deferred tax only on timing differences that arose from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they were recognised in the financial statements.
Under IFRS deferred tax is recognised in respect of all taxable temporary differences arising between the tax base and the accounting base of balance sheet items.
This means that deferred tax is recognised on certain temporary differences that would not have given rise to deferred tax under UK GAAP.
The additional deferred tax included in the balance sheet under IFRS amounted to a net movement of $13.2 million as at January 1, 2004 and $0.3 million as at December 31, 2004.
Included in these amounts is $13.2 million at January 1, 2004 in respect of internal transfer of assets and purchases to in-license products and compounds previously expensed under UK GAAP, but added to the balance sheet under IFRS, creating differences between the tax and accounting base under IFRS.
Note h : IFRS 2, Share Based Payments In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a charge to income representing the fair value of outstanding employee share options granted to employees.
The fair value has been calculated using the Black-Scholes options valuation model and is charged to income over the relevant option vesting periods, adjusted to reflect actual and expected levels of vesting.
The Group has adopted the IFRS 1 optional transitional arrangements, which allow companies that have previously disclosed the fair value charge, to apply IFRS 2 fully retrospectively to all options granted after November 7, 2002 but not fully vested at the relevant reporting date.
As a result, the share-based payment charge for 2004 includes all options granted after November 7, 2002 and not fully vested at December 31, 2003.
The operating profit and profit for the year impact in 2004 is a charge of $15.5 million.
The basis of calculation for deferred taxation is the difference between the market price at the date of the financial statements and the option exercise price: as a result the tax effect will not correlate to the charge.
The deferred tax impact of share-based payment has been included in the amounts described in Note g above.
104 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 40 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued Other material adjustments affecting the balance sheet and income statement Software Under UK GAAP the Group classified capitalized costs incurred in purchasing and developing software as tangible fixed assets.
Under IFRS the Group has reclassified these costs as intangible assets, in line with IAS 38.
The net book value of purchased and internally developed software as at January 1, 2004 and at December 31, 2004 amounted to $nil and $9.7 million respectively.
Joint ventures and associates Under UK GAAP associates were accounted for using the equity method, but with the Groups share of associate operating profit presented separately in the income statement.
Interest and tax of associates were included within the headings of interest and tax in the income statement.
Under IFRS the Group has continued to account for associates under the equity method.
The presentation of the results of associates has changed however as IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements requires that the share of profit or loss after tax from associates is presented as a separate item on the face of the income statement as part of profit before tax but below operating profit.
There is no impact on net profit as a result of this change.
Under UK GAAP the Group accounted for its own share of the assets, liabilities and cash flows of the Canadian commercialization partnership with GSK.
Under IFRS Shire has accounted for this partnership as allowed by IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures using the equity method.
IAS 17, Leases Shire is party to certain motor vehicle leases in the US that are classified as finance leases under IFRS, as the leases contain clauses that effectively pass risks and rewards of ownership as defined by IAS 17 to the lessee the Group.
At December 31, 2004 the net book value of these vehicles now recorded on the balance sheet was $6.5 million, and a corresponding finance lease creditor of $6.5 million was also recorded.
IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates Under IFRS cumulative foreign currency translation differences arising on the translation and consolidation of foreign operations income statements and balance sheets denominated in foreign currencies must be recorded as a separate component of equity.
Applying the exemption under IFRS 1, the Group has measured and recorded all cumulative foreign currency translation differences arising after the transition date of January 1, 2004.
On disposal of a foreign operation the cumulative translation differences will be transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
All of the above changes have been implemented from January 1, 2004.
From January 1, 2005 the Group has implemented the following additional changes in accounting policies.
These changes will be applied prospectively from January 1, 2005 and will therefore not affect the 2004 comparative information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2005.
IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement From January 1, 2005 the Group has applied IAS 32 and IAS 39.
These standards are applied prospectively, and therefore no restatements are made to the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the balance sheets as at January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2004.
These standards have many detailed consequences: however the key areas of impact for the Group are described below: Non-derivative financial assets and liabilities Under UK GAAP the Group held most non-derivative financial assets on the balance sheet at fair value, with movements recognised in the income statement.
Most non-derivative financial liabilities were held at cost.
IAS 39 requires certain non-derivative financial assets those classified as available-for-sale to be held at fair value with unrealized movements in fair value recognised directly within equity.
Non-derivative financial liabilities will continue to be measured at amortised cost, unless they form part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship when they are measured at amortised cost plus the fair value of the hedged risk.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses certain derivative financial instruments for the purposes of hedging foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Under UK GAAP a form of hedge accounting was applied to these derivative financial instruments meaning that some derivatives were held off balance sheet for at least part of their lives.
IAS 39 requires recognition of all derivative financial instruments on the balance sheet and that they are measured at fair value.
The standard also places significant restrictions on the use of hedge accounting and changes the hedge accounting methodology.
As a result, from January 1, 2005, the Group has recognised all derivative financial instruments on balance sheet at fair value and has applied the new hedge accounting methodology to all qualifying hedging relationships.
Cash flow The transition from UK GAAP to IFRS has no effect upon the cash flows generated by the Group.
The IFRS cash flow statement is presented in a different format from that required by UK GAAP with cash flows split into three categories of activities operating activities, investing activities and financing activities.
The reconciling items between the UK GAAP presentation and the IFRS presentation have no net impact on the cash flows generated.
In preparing the cash flow statement under IFRS, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and highly liquid interest bearing securities with original maturities of three months or less, but excludes restricted cash.
Under UK GAAP, the cash flow also recognised restricted cash within cash and cash equivalents.
Annual report and accounts for the 105 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc
