6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 114 Shareholder information Registered office address Hampshire International Business Park Basingstoke, Hampshire RG24 8EP United Kingdom Registered in England No.
05492592 Investor relations Europe and Rest of the World: Cla Rosenfeld Tel 44 0 1256 894160 Fax 44 0 1256 894708 Email investorrelations@uk.
com North America: Brian Piper Tel 1 484 595 8800 Fax 1 484 595 8151 Email bpiper@us.
com Registrars and transfer office All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed to Lloyds TSB Registrars, clearly stating the registered shareholders name and address.
Lloyds TSB Registrars Customer Services, The Causeway Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom Tel 44 870 600 3970 114 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 115 This page has been intentionally left blank 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 116 Designed and produced by Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London The paper used in this publication is made from 100% recycled fibres sourced entirely from post consumer waste, is Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and is accredited to ISO 14001.
Shire plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 6420 Cover 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:21 Page fc1 Shire plc Annual report and accounts for the y Hampshire International Business Park Shire plc Basingstoke, Hampshire RG24 8EP United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1256 894000 Fax 44 0 1256 894708 www.
com tog Shire plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 6361 Cover 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:56 Page fc1 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc together 6361 Cover 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:56 Page fc2 Contents 01 Introduction 06 Financial highlights 07 Chairmans statement 08 Chief Executives review 12 Product portfolio 14 Product pipeline 16 Operating review 36 Corporate Responsibility 40 Board of Directors 42 Executive Committee 44 Financial review 56 Nomination Committee report 56 Directors remuneration report 68 Audit Committee report 70 Corporate governance statements 77 Report of independent registered public accounting firm 78 Consolidated balance sheets 79 Consolidated statements of operations 80 Consolidated statements of changes in shareholders equity 81 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income 82 Consolidated statements of cash flows 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 128 Five-year review 129 Statement of Directors responsibilities 130 Summary financial statement 140 Shire head office and main operating locations 141 Shareholder information 142 Shire Trade Marks 142 Cautionary statements 143 Glossary of terms Cover: Barbara Deptula Executive Vice President Business Development Page 2: Jeff Poulton Vice President Therapeutic Area Finance Page 5: Stephanie Read Global Medical Affairs Senior Manager 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 01 Its all coming together for Shire.
Weve reorganized the business to create a leaner, more resilient Company, and what we have now is the right structure and the right team.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 01 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 02 plus 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 03 Were seeing the benets from clever acquisitions and shrewd partnerships, and were developing whats acknowledged to be one of the richest pipelines in the specialty pharmaceutical sector.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 03 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 04 Add to that the professionalism of our people, a high-performing portfolio of profitable drugs, and an unrivaled understanding of the needs of specialist physicians and their patients, and it all adds up to a business thats a lot more than the sum of its parts.
04 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 05 add 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 06 Financial highlights Revenue growth up Revenue $ million Revenue growth over the last five years $ million 2005 1,599.3 2005 1,599.3 2004 1,363.2 2004 1,363.2 2003 1,211.6 17% 2002 1,023.3 2001 845.1 Sources of revenue $ million Sources of revenue % Revenue by location $ million 1 ADDERALL XR 730.8 1 ADDERALL XR 46 2 CARBATROL 72.1 2 CARBATROL 4 1 North America 1,233.5 9 9 8 3 PENTASA 136.1 8 3 PENTASA 8 2 Rest of the world 365.8 2 4 AGRYLIN XAGRID 92.8 4 AGRYLIN XAGRID 6 Total 1,599.3 5 FOSRENOL 53.5 5 FOSRENOL 3 6 REPLAGAL 41.3 6 REPLAGAL 3 7 7 1 1 7 Other 201.1 7 Other 13 8 Royalty income 242.9 8 Royalty income 15 6 6 9 Licensing and 9 Licensing and 5 5 1 Development Development 4 4 and other 28.7 and other 2 3 2 3 2 Total 1,599.3 Total 100 This represents REPLAGAL sales for the five-month period since the acquisition of TKT.
06 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 07 Chairmans statement Its all adding up for Shire.
Increasing competition from generic drugs 2004: $1,363.2 million.
Although there were and patent expirations present another major diluted losses per ordinary share for the year challenge to the pharmaceutical industry.
of 82.1 2004: diluted earnings per share We are responding by focusing R&D in the of 53.3, these included the write-off specialty area with products for smaller of $673 million of in-process R&D following populations and biologics as well as inthe acquisition of TKT.
Excluding this write-off, licensing or developing drugs with strong earnings per ordinary share would have been intellectual property.
Our success has been 51.8 in 2005. built on innovative products that focus on areas of unmet medical need and we will On November 25, 2005, Shire plc, a Company continue to pursue this proven formula.
incorporated in England and Wales Shire, became the holding Company of Shire Dr James Cavanaugh In todays market, pharmaceutical companies Pharmaceuticals Group plc SPG pursuant to Chairman need to look to additional partnering, licensing, a scheme of arrangement under Section 425 mergers and acquisitions as ways to fill their of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 product pipelines as well as to minimize the Scheme.
As a result of the Scheme, SPG Shire made considerable progress in challenges created by the industrys recent is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire.
2005 in positioning itself for success in a low productivity.
Almost 75% of New Chemical global pharmaceutical industry that faces Entities NCEs entering the market are New Board member unprecedented challenges and opportunities specialty products and or biologics, showing We are continuing to strengthen our Board in the coming years.
The challenges are multithat the smaller, more nimble biotech model of Directors with the appointment during faceted, and therefore require a disciplined has proved particularly effective to date in 2005 of Patrick Langlois as a Non-executive and co-ordinated response on several fronts.
Director and member of our Audit Committee.
Mr Langlois, who held senior positions at One challenge faced by Shire during 2005 Our acquisition in 2005 of Transkaryotic Aventis S. A. and the Rhone-Poulenc Group, was the Canadian government decision to Therapies Inc. TKT, a US-based brings additional expertise to our Board, withdraw ADDERALL XR, our medicine for biopharmaceutical company specializing including a wealth of experience in financial treating Attention Deficit and Hyperactivity in therapies for the treatment of rare genetic and operational management within the global Disorder ADHD, from the Canadian market.
diseases caused by protein deficiencies, pharmaceutical industry.
Shires team demonstrated incredible fits this profile.
The acquisition significantly success by reinstating ADDERALL XR in builds our pipeline while bringing us a new, Positioned for growth Canada during 2005, following a review by sustainable area of specialty pharmaceutical Our industry offers significant growth independent experts.
expertise in a market where there are only opportunities for medium-sized specialty a small number of players.
We continue to pharmaceutical companies like Shire.
The The traditional investment and actively look at other acquisition opportunities global pharmaceuticals market is forecast commercialization model of the pharmaceutical involving companies with good products to fill to reach an annual growth rate of 8.2% from industry that hinges on blockbuster brands our pipeline and pursue our growth strategy.
2004 2011 and achieve $967 billion in sales could face considerable challenges in the in 2011.
Such expansion is expected, however, coming years.
This reaffirms the value of We have strengthened our European focus to be based on the ability of pharmaceutical Shires strategy of diversifying our product and we also have established a presence in companies to adapt to changes in patient portfolio with a focus on the development emerging markets through relationships with population, and target diseases of unmet and marketing of smaller, specialty products.
We are well positioned to serve medical need to maximize revenue potential.
With our operating model of cross-functional, the growing needs of these markets.
I am confident that we have the right strategy global teams responsible for each of our and the right people to be able to benefit from main therapeutic areas, nimble sales forces We are adapting our development and sales this future growth.
dedicated to building relationships with processes to support a diverse product portfolio specialist physicians and their patients, and global markets, to realize financial gains and a deep pipeline of innovative products and continued growth.
with strong patent protection, we are best positioned to respond to changing 2005 results under USGAAP marketplace dynamics.
Shires highly-focused growth strategy continued to produce superior results in 2005.
Dr James Cavanaugh Revenues were up 17% to $1,599.3 million Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 07 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 08 prep arati on 08 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 09 Chief Executives review Today Shire has one of the richest product pipelines Matthew Emmens Chief Executive Officer in the specialty pharmaceutical industry.
The year 2005 was pivotal for Shire.
With a breakthrough acquisition, a key collaboration agreement, several product launches and continuing advancement of our pipeline, we have made excellent progress in setting the stage for continued growth.
We are seeing the results of our focused business strategy through a significant increase in the number of late-stage product candidates.
Today Shire has one of the richest product pipelines in the specialty pharmaceutical industry.
Simultaneously, we have put in place a strengthened organization to deliver on the opportunities in key markets.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 09 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 10 Chief Executives review Our strong competitive position is the result Pipeline successes as Shires authorized generic.
Shire will of the hard work of all 2,400 Shire employees.
The year saw a number of other exciting receive royalties from Impax on these sales.
We have made good on our strategic advances in our pipeline: This latest development is excellent news for commitment to grow our underlying business Shire as it removes some of the uncertainty while expanding our portfolio of new submission of a NDA with the FDA that surrounded ADDERALL XR.
We have continued to evolve our for MESAVANCE, the first once-daily continues to vigorously defend its intellectual manufacturing capabilities both in small mesalamine treatment for mild to moderate property rights relating to ADDERALL XR molecules and proteins to mitigate supply ulcerative colitis UC.
In addition, we filed in the ongoing patent litigations with Barr chain risk.
this product with Health Canada and Laboratories Inc. and Teva Pharmaceuticals the European authorities during the first USA Inc.
The acquisition of TKT in July is an excellent quarter of 2006: strategic fit and will bring significant value Product launches in 2005 to the Company over time.
It broadens our submission of an amended NDA FOSRENOL, for the treatment of revenue base while building our pipeline with the FDA for DAYTRANA, the first hyperphosphatemia in end-stage renal in the relatively low-risk area of Enzyme transdermal patch for the treatment disease, and Shires first global product, Replacement Therapy ERT.
Historically, of ADHD an approval letter was received was successfully launched in the US in enzyme replacement drugs have had a high in April 2006: 2005 and performed in line with its major success rate in reaching the market.
Now competitor when launch periods are called Shire Human Genetic Therapies submission of a NDA with the FDA compared.
We also launched FOSRENOL Shire HGT, this dedicated team is working for ELAPRASE, as well as submission into the first four countries in Europe and it on disease areas where there is high unmet of a MAA in Europe: and will be rolled out to more European countries medical need.
In addition to near-term in 2006.
In addition, we launched higher products, it provides Shire with important obtained the reinstatement of dose formulations in the US.
XAGRID, our intellectual property and discovery ADDERALL XR in Canada.
treatment for a rare platelet disorder known capabilities that will provide value over the as Essential Thrombocythemia ET, was very long term.
Shire HGT already has one ADDERALL XR successfully launched in Europe, achieving approved product in Europe REPLAGAL for ADDERALL XR, our once-daily treatment sales of $46.8 million in 2005.
EQUETRO, the treatment of Fabry Disease, a lipid storage for ADHD, continued to perform extremely the first ever carbamazepine treatment disorder.
At the end of 2005, we submitted well during the year, reaching an all-time approved for manic phase of Bipolar Disorder, a New Drug Application NDA to the Food high market share of 26% in the US.
In the was launched in the US.
and Drug Administration FDA for idursulfase, interest of patient safety, during 2005 we filed the first human ERT treatment for Hunter a Citizen Petition with the FDA requesting Five launches in 2006 and the first half Syndrome, under the trade name ELAPRASE, that they ask companies seeking approval of 2007 as well as submitting Marketing Authorization for generic ADDERALL XR or any follow-on In 2006 and during the first half of 2007, Application MAA in Europe for this product.
of ADDERALL XR to undertake more rigorous we are planning no fewer than five new Our GA-GCB compound for Gaucher Disease bioequivalence testing or additional clinical product launches, this is a record breaking will enter Phase 3 trials this year and there trials.
This petition is currently under review achievement in this industry.
These will are several other very promising compounds and to date, no approvals for follow-on require additional spending on advertising in the pipeline.
generic versions of ADDERALL XR have been and promotion, and in some cases additional granted.
On January 19, 2006 we announced sales representatives.
As a result, our Selling, Another major milestone in 2005 was our that we settled all pending litigations relating General and Administration SG&A costs collaboration with New River Pharmaceuticals to ADDERALL XR with Impax Laboratories are expected to rise in order to support the New River to develop and commercialize Inc. Impax.
Impax confirmed that all Shire success of these launches.
NRP104 is a very promising patents covering ADDERALL XR are valid and investigational compound for the treatment enforceable and that their proposed version of of ADHD, an area of leadership for us.
ADDERALL XR did infringe those patents.
The New River made excellent progress during agreement states that Impax will be permitted the year, filing a NDA for NRP104 with the FDA to market their generic version of ADDERALL in early December and we are looking forward XR no later than January 1, 2010.
In certain to launching this product in early 2007. situations, such as the entry of another generic before 2010, Impax may be permitted to market Shires ADDERALL XR in the US 10 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 11 We made good on our strategic commitment to grow our underlying business while expanding our portfolio of new products.
What the analysts say In February 2006, we submitted a MAA welcome to them, as well as to thank all for MESAVANCE to both European and members of our team around the world for We believe the Company has Canadian Regulatory Agencies.
During 2006 their exceptional efforts and dedication one of the best, if not the best and the first half of 2007 we also expect to: in helping us achieve our business goals.
pipelines, in the entire sector as we project it will launch at launch MESAVANCE in the US: Shires transformation least seven new products over A few years ago, we imagined a new the next three years.
launch DYNEPO for anemia in Europe: Shire.
Since then weve transformed Shire Deutsche Bank to deepen our product pipeline, enhance November 3, 2005 launch DAYTRANA in the US: our responsiveness, and capitalize on opportunities in the global specialty The closure of the acquisition launch NRP104 in the US: pharmaceutical market.
We are driven of TKT on July 27, marks the by a common objective: to make the most completion of the major strategic launch ELAPRASE in the US and Europe: out of science and technology to increase changes undertaken by Shire since the number of projects we are undertaking the appointment of Matt Emmens file a NDA with the FDA for SPD465, a so that we can help many more people as CEO in 2003. longer-acting formulation of ADDERALL XR lead healthier, less impaired lives.
We are HSBC for ADHD: delivering on that goal, and can all be proud September 21, 2005 of our achievements.
file a NDA with the FDA for SPD503, We believe that the operational a non-stimulant treatment for ADHD: Just imagine what we can achieve in performance of the Company over the future.
the next 12 months will be critical continue the rollout of FOSRENOL for the long-term potential of Shire.
in Europe: and Morgan Stanley March 29, 2006 continue the launch of FOSRENOL higher strengths in the US.
Strengthened management team Matthew Emmens Shire continued to build its senior management team in 2005 and we added proven talent across all areas of the organization and to our leadership team.
I am particularly pleased to welcome David Pendergast, former CEO of TKT, as Executive Vice President Shire HGT, and Michael Cola, formerly President of the Life Sciences division of Safeguard Scientifics Inc. as Executive Vice President for Global Therapeutic Areas.
Both bring a wealth of experience in the pharmaceutical industry and are welcome additions to our Executive Committee.
With the acquisition of TKT and the strengthening of our organization on both sides of the Atlantic, we increased our staff numbers by 570, bringing our total All products in development and registration are staff numbers to over 2,400 highly-skilled subject to regulatory approvals.
I would like to take this opportunity to extend a warm Source: IMS Data 2005.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 11 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 12 prod ucts 12 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 13 Product portfolio Proven drugs, profitable position.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 13 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 14 Product pipeline Rich, deep and coming on stream.
Pipeline On the market Central Nervous System CNS ADDERALL XR US CALCICHEW UK Ireland DAYTRANA approved by FDA Mixed salts of a single-entity amphetamine Calcium carbonate adjunct in Osteoporosis Methylphenidate transdermal system ADHD ADHD PROAMATINE AMATINE US ADDERALL US Midodrine hydrochloride NRP104 in Registration US Mixed salts of a single-entity amphetamine Postural Hypotension Amphetamine ADHD ADHD Royalties SPD503 Phase 3 US CARBATROL US 3TC EPIVIR Worldwide Guanfacine ADHD Carbamazepine extended release trademark of GlaxoSmithKline GSK capsules Epilepsy lamivudine HIV SPD465 Phase 3 US Mixed salts of a single-entity amphetamine EQUETRO US COMBIVIR Worldwide ADHD Carbamazepine extended release trademark of GSK capsules Bipolar 1 Disorder lamivudine HIV Gastro-Intestinal GI MESAVANCE in Registration EU US REMINYL REMINYL XL UK Ireland TRIZIVIR Worldwide 5-ASA mesalamine UC Galantamine hydrobromide trademark of GSK Alzheimers Disease lamivudine HIV Shire HGT 1 I2S ELAPRASE in Registration EU US PENTASA US ZEFFIX EPIVIR HBV HEPTOVIR Worldwide Idursulfase Hunter Syndrome 5-ASA mesalamine UC trademark of GSK lamivudine Hepatitis B infection GA-GCB Phase 3 COLAZIDE UK EU US Gene-activated Gaucher Disease Balsalazide UC REMINYL REMINYL XL RAZADYNE RAZADYNE ER Worldwide General Products REPLAGAL EU trademark of Johnson & Johnson DYNEPO Manufacturing Registration Agalsidase alfa Fabry Disease excluding UK and Republic of Ireland Erythropoietin EPO Anemia in chronic Galantamine hydrobromide renal failure FOSRENOL EU US Alzheimers Disease Lanthanum carbonate Hyperphosphatemia All products in development and registration are subject to regulatory approvals.
XAGRID AGRYLIN EU US 1 Anagrelide hydrochloride This is not a comprehensive list of Thrombocythemia trademarks for this product as various others are used in smaller markets.
14 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 15 pipe line Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 15 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 16 Operating review peo ple 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 17 Shire has a can do culture based on an exceptional level of competence, experience, creativity and above all, energy.
This is what makes us unique and destined for success.
Dr Eliseo Salinas Chief Scientific Officer and Executive Vice President, Global R&D 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 18 Operating review 01 02 03 Shires winning formula Ms Deptula heads a team which is based both Over the past 24 months, Dr Salinas says, Highly-skilled and dedicated people, working in the UK and US and is composed of highly Shire has delivered on its promises while together across functions and on a global experienced and dedicated professionals with drastically transforming the way it operates basis, to develop and market specialty both scientific and business backgrounds.
Management has done exactly pharmaceuticals that fill unmet medical needs.
Business development efforts are coordinated what it said it would do: divest non-core throughout the Company, with ideas and businesses to reinvest freed-up resources in These, in a nutshell, are the qualities that make contacts gained from individuals across the the core ones.
In R&D, this has translated into Shire one of the fastest growing specialty organization.
Shires interdisciplinary structure applying additional resources, defining new companies in todays pharmaceutical industry.
allows integrating the specific technical and processes to increase efficiency and reliability, scientific input brought by each function into and increasing the ownership and control of Shire is a very dynamic organization, says a coherent plan that helps meet long-term our data while still relying on outside vendors.
Barbara Deptula, Shires Executive Vice corporate objectives, she notes.
Its like Dr Salinas notes that Shire has decided to a small start-up entrepreneurial company Replenishing Shires pipeline concentrate on the core areas of CNS, GI and but has all the infrastructure, support and Shires Business Development team is firmly General Products GP such as renal therapies, people of a large company.
In this kind committed to expanding and constantly each led by dedicated Strategic Therapeutic of environment, everyone can contribute replenishing Shires product pipeline.
In addition, with the to the success of the organization, which Accordingly, it is on the lookout for in-licensing acquisition of TKT, Shire has a new biologics is very appealing to me.
opportunities for new products essentially in business bringing exciting new products to its Phase 2 or 3 with robust intellectual property portfolio.
The Shire HGT business is managed Shires adoption of a global operating structure, that offer a strategic fit with Shires current by Dr David Pendergast.
Shire has very with cross-functional teams dedicated to business and allow for use of the Companys interesting compounds under development developing and marketing products in core expanding specialty sales force.
We seek in these areas and managing the lifecycle therapeutic areas, gives it a competitive edge product-oriented deals that would add value of its current portfolio will be important.
in todays complex pharmaceutical market, to a targeted audience of specialist physicians At the same time, we are actively supporting adds Dr Eliseo Salinas, Chief Scientific Officer and their patients.
There are literally thousands the search for new molecules, including and Executive Vice President, Global R&D.
of opportunities in the market and its some outside these areas on an opportunistic While drug development is a global task, important that we maintain a focus and basis as long as they meet our risk criteria.
customers in regional markets can be very prioritize them, says Ms Deptula.
Her teams different, he notes.
Our structure ensures we biggest transaction to date is the acquisition Both Ms Deptula and Dr Salinas say Shires stay close to our customers and understand of US biopharmaceutical company TKT.
biggest trump card is the quality and talent of regional specificities, with their commercial It was a very exciting process and a great its people, who share a strong entrepreneurial and economic realities, allowing for a good opportunity for Shire.
It allows us to move spirit and are highly motivated.
Shire has integration of basic science and medical needs.
into a new direction while still ticking all our a can do culture based on an exceptional strategic boxes.
level of competence, experience, creativity Ms Deptula, a pharmacist and MBA in finance, and above all, energy.
This is what makes has 20 years of pharmaceutical experience in Dr Salinas, a Psychiatrist with a Masters us unique and destined for success.
Since Degree in Pharmacology and 15 years joining Shire in September 2004, she has been of industry experience, says Shires model of developing a Company-wide, streamlined searching and developing lower-risk products business development process.
We are now is what attracted him to join the Company able more effectively to identify, evaluate in 2004.
We are focusing on searching and act on product ideas and opportunities, and developing molecules intended for the including partnerships, which will contribute specialist, where the added medical value to our growth.
We can react expeditiously of the compound is more important than and with an entrepreneurial spirit.
This approach is good for our business and for society as a whole.
18 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 19 04 05 01 Supporting a global vision FOSRENOL, ELAPRASE and MESAVANCE, Shire is increasingly attractive to In todays pharmaceutical industry, bringing and becoming the best specialty prospective partners small enough the right products to market in a timely pharmaceutical Company in the world with to care, large enough to deliver.
manner is a critical challenge, requiring expert the most dedicated employees to achieve David Colpman knowledge of complex regulatory requirements this goal.
Companies always like to talk Vice President, Business and a highly focused commercialization about the future being bright.
Here, we can Development strategy.
For a global Company such as Shire, use that phrase with absolute conviction.
this challenge is heightened by the need 02 to gain new product approvals from dozens Our regulatory experts on both sides of The TKT acquisition was a perfect of regulatory bodies worldwide while managing the Atlantic work closely with all the STATs, fit with Shires strategy.
Looking hundreds of existing product licences and our R&D and manufacturing colleagues forward, we will continue to expand ensuring all products efficiently reach their and worldwide regulatory agencies within the specialty arena.
to ensure the successful registration and Suzanne Hare commercialization of Shires new and existing Senior Corporate Evaluations At Shire, these vital tasks are overseen by products, explains Doug Hay, Shires Senior Director STATs responsible for the Companys core Vice President, Global Regulatory Affairs.
businesses: CNS, GI and GP and a Global Their role is proactively to identify and address 03 Regulatory Affairs Group.
regulatory challenges to minimize potential This is a time where the delays in product approvals and optimize Company is set-up for future Mike Cola, Executive Vice President, Global approved labelling.
Therapeutic Area, says his job is to build on Arnaud Partiot this work by leveraging the Companys global Building relationships and trust Senior Vice President, Global resources and developing strategies to ensure Regulatory approvals have been complicated Clinical Research and Development approved products get to the patients who in recent years by increasing agency scrutiny need them.
The essence of a great company on drug safety and effectiveness relative 04 is a culture of commitment, excellence to standards of care.
With regard to safety, Our regulatory experts on both and discipline.
The aim is to focus on your regulatory agencies worldwide are seeking sides of the Atlantic work closely customers and provide them with the greater assurance that a drug is not associated with all the STATs, our R&D and best products and services in the industry.
with adverse events that may not be detected manufacturing colleagues and Physicians tell us what they need and our in clinical trials.
In addition, many agencies worldwide regulatory agencies to role is to come up with the answers, he says.
are requiring more definitive data concerning ensure the successful registration To provide this level of service the key a drugs effectiveness in comparison and commercialization of Shires is to build an effective link between product to approved therapies.
We work closely new and existing products.
development and marketing to ensure with our R&D colleagues, strategic and Doug Hay successful delivery.
In order to do that you commercial teams, as well as manufacturing, Senior Vice President, Global need to further strengthen the connection to optimize development programs and their Regulatory Affairs between the Companys STATs and functional documentation for each registration dossier, units, building a matrix that enables Shire says Dr Hay.
Externally, this requires more 05 people to work together toward well-defined frequent communication and meetings We are building a truly multiand measurable goals.
with regulatory agencies and the building product, multi-therapeutic and of stronger professional relationships, global organization, to become Aligning the global effort broader respect and trust.
the best specialty pharmaceutical Mr Cola who joined Shire in mid-2005 with company, in the world.
a wealth of pharmaceutical industry and Shire boasts a dedicated, experienced and Mike Cola business experience gained at companies talented team of regulatory professionals Executive Vice President, Global such as AstraMerck, AstraZeneca and who are highly knowledgeable about regional Therapeutic Area Safeguard Scientifics, says hes also very regulatory requirements and accountable excited about the caliber of Shires people.
We have a regulatory group with the competence, expertise and Shire has already taken many of the capabilities that are far beyond those normally steps necessary to establish itself as a truly expected of a company our size, says Dr Hay.
multi-product, multi-therapeutic, global organization, he notes.
It now is moving to the next tier, perfecting its business model, introducing truly global products such as Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 19 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 20 Operating review General Products Our exible organizational structure and ability to focus around key business goals allows us to seize new opportunities faster than anyone else.
David Milton Senior Vice President and head of Shires GP STAT 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 21 01 02 03 01 General Products GP Working closely with Shires Business Launching XAGRID in Europe has While most of the pharmaceutical industry Development team, members of the GP STAT been great and the future for the is struggling to find and develop new help to review thousands of disease states and renal portfolio is really exciting.
products to launch, Shire is preparing to assess their suitability to Shire and importance Sally Gosden introduce a large number of new and exciting to specialist physicians.
For example, it played Hospital Business new medicines over a relatively short period a key role in identifying TKT, a US-based of time.
According to David Milton, Senior biopharmaceutical company specializing in 02 Vice President and head of Shires GP STAT, therapeutics for the treatment of rare genetic At Shire we can make a difference.
this is the direct result of the Companys diseases caused by protein deficiencies, as a A difference to patients, to doctors successful strategy of identifying and strategic acquisition in 2005.
This was our first with medicines that are needed, focusing on a number of new, late stage major acquisition since the introduction of the I really have the scope to make pipeline products.
STAT operating model and represents a perfect things happen.
strategic fit for Shire, says Mr Milton.
TKTs Sheila Stranks Shires strategy of focusing on the key differentiated products with long product life General Manager, GP STAT pharmaceutical markets of North America cycles, specialist prescribers and clear unmet and top five European countries, on diseases medical needs are highly complementary to 03 treated by specialist physicians, and on a Shires business and commercial capabilities.
Our team is incredibly motivated pipeline of late stage products, has enabled by the future of our UK business.
us to build a rapidly growing business with Two global product launches We are now looking forward an impressive portfolio of innovative products, 2005 also saw the launch of Shires first two to the successful launches he says.
truly global products: FOSRENOL Shires new of FOSRENOL, MESAVANCE phosphate binder that reduces elevated blood and DYNEPO.
One of the important roles of the GP STAT levels of phosphate in patients with End-Stage John Freeman is to help identify, search and support the Renal Disease ESRD, in the US, and XAGRID Managing Director, Commercial acquisition of new products through ina treatment for chronic disorder of bone licensing or merger & acquisition in new marrow associated with the increased therapy areas that meet Shires strategy of production of blood platelets, in Europe.
targeting specialist diseases with significant unmet medical needs and growth potential.
Both these launches have been successful, It also works closely with the Companys says Mr Milton.
XAGRID is enjoying good Regulatory Affairs team to obtain global market acceptance across Europe, it has registration for new products, manages some been designated an orphan medicinal 80 products in the GP portfolio and oversees product, providing it with up to ten years relationships with partner organizations such market exclusivity in Europe.
GSK markets Shires patented 3TC that over 40,000 patients suffer from Essential lamivudine, which is a key component in Thrombocythemia across the EU, where it is FOSRENOL demonstrates reliable most HIV combination treatment regimes and currently the only approved platelet-reducing efficacy and safety in many wellis also used to treat Chronic Hepatitis B. treatment across Europe.
By the end of 2005, designed clinical trials, with the GSK pays a royalty on sales of 3TC to Shire.
FOSRENOL had captured over 8% of new added benefit of a lower pill burden.
US phosphate binder scrips and had been I believe that FOSRENOL leads us The work of the GP STAT is a major approved in Europe, where it will be rolled closer to the ideal phosphate binder.
contributor to Shires future, says Mr Milton, out in 2006.
Dr Alastair Hutchison a biochemist and MBA with almost 25 years Manchester Institute of Nephrology of pharmaceutical industry experience FOSRENOL, the subject of nine years & Transplantation, UK in strategic commercial planning, portfolio of research and development, clinical studies prioritization, resource allocation, and business and regulatory reviews, received FDA development.
Our portfolio of marketed approval in October 2004, six months after products around the world makes a critical it received its first European regulatory contribution to the bottom line and enables approval from Sweden.
FOSRENOL is the us to fund our ongoing R&D, infrastructure first Shire compound taken from the test tube and business development activities.
to approval and is strategically very important for us, says Mr Milton, noting that the drug has been studied more extensively than any other phosphate binder prior to launch.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 21 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 22 Operating review General Products 04 05 06 04 In March 2005, regulatory authorities in the He notes that in order for Shire therapeutic Interactions with enthusiastic and EU granted marketing authorization for teams to work together, it is important that experienced people at Shire make FOSRENOL in 16 member states, completing they share a clear and common vision.
From it a stimulating place to work.
the first step in securing marketing approval this foundation a comprehensive plan of action Prerak Mehta throughout the remainder of the EU.
can be developed, with individuals and teams Medical Information Associate assigned to critical activities, pulling together Two additional studies released in 2005 further the best talent within the organization.
05 confirmed the safety and efficacy profile of In this way, it is possible to maximize fully These are very exciting times for FOSRENOL.
Data presented at the National the talent within our organization, irrespective Shire as we expand the portfolio Kidney Foundation 2005 clinical meeting in of function, department or location.
Once with true global brands.
Washington, DC in May showed that in vitro their goals have been accomplished, these Shirley Wakelin FOSRENOL binds phosphate across a broad teams can be disbanded and new teams Director, Renal Products, GP STAT pH range with higher affinity than a competitor, formed as necessary.
Additional clinical 06 data presented at the American Society Shires decision to consolidate its business Teamwork and effective regulatory of Nephrology in November showed that to fewer sites, divest non-core businesses, dialogue allows us to reach our non-calcium FOSRENOL effectively maintains such as vaccines, and focus its resources goals and achieve our ambitions.
reductions in mean serum phosphorus levels on the most important products in Venetta Lunn while demonstrating safety and tolerability development also gives it a competitive Senior Director, Regulatory Affairs in ESRD patients for up to six years.
advantage in todays market, Mr Milton notes.
Most pharmaceutical companies The GP STAT has also contributed in recent have traditionally attempted to do everything years to the launch of several other new in-house, from basic research through products, including SOLARAZE, a leading development, manufacturing, sales and topical treatment for actinic keratosis, and marketing, Shires strategy is to focus VANIQA, a new product designed to slow only on those areas of critical importance.
unwanted facial hair growth in women.
In late By out-sourcing less critical items, it can 2006 and in the first half of 2007, it also intends concentrate on critical business issues to support the European launch of DYNEPO, without distraction and have the ability used for the treatment of kidney diseaseto change direction very rapidly.
related anemia, a product acquired from Well for me, I take fewer tablets TKTs portfolio.
This strategy has clearly delivered results over the past couple of years.
We have developed and the slightly sweet taste and less chalky texture makes it a lot Remarkable track record and launched several new products and Mr Milton says Shires remarkable track record achieved impressive sales growth while less troublesome to chew and swallow.
Three months later, in bringing new products to market has been also building a development pipeline that enabled by its nimble organization structure, will continue to fuel Shires growth in the my phosphorus levels are three points lower.
based around the principle of forming flexible, next decade.
multi-functional teams to achieve clear Wayne Jones FOSRENOL patient business goals, and by a corporate culture Playing an important role in the search and that champions creativity and innovation.
evaluation of new business opportunities that could contribute to Shires future portfolio Our flexible organizational structure and ability of products gives Mr Milton the greatest to focus around key business goals allows job satisfaction.
As a manager of a rapidly us to seize new opportunities faster than growing business, my biggest challenge anyone else, he says.
We are also blessed on a daily basis is balancing the demands with talented, experienced and hardworking for investment in the future with the need employees who have a drive and passion for to maintain a healthy P&L this however business success.
is a problem many other industry executives would like to have.
Data presented May 5, 2005 at the National Study published October 24, 2005 in Nephron Kidney Foundation NKF 2005 clinical meeting Clinical Practice.
Data presented November 12, 2005 at the annual meeting of the American Society of Nephrology.
22 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 23 Working with the FOSRENOL matrix teams delivering Shires first global launch is an exciting challenge.
Diana Stokes General Manager, Renal Products 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 24 Operating review Gastro-Intestinal MESAVANCE could be the most important product for mild to moderately active ulcerative colitis launched in more than five years.
Mike Yasick Senior Vice President, GI Therapy Area Team Leader 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:53 Page 25 01 02 01 Gastro-Intestinal GI accountability for performance is shared In the history of Shire, excellence Mike Yasick is unequivocal about his role by the markets, functions and the business.
I lead a diverse This creates an environment where ideas and Excellence is what we are all about.
group of Shire team members whose objective initiatives can be challenged and tested by Jeff Kirby is to build our GI portfolio and successfully many experts.
The result is a development National Sales Director, Specialty commercialize the GI products we have and and commercialization process that optimizes Products optimize our marketed products.
We are the value of our brands for the Company helping to develop not only global products and the help that we provide to patients.
02 and strategy in this promising therapeutic area, The GI STAT has great opportunities but also ensuring that we have the optimal The power of teamwork ahead we are all part of growing financial and human resources available In Mr Yasicks opinion, strong teamwork global organization and I look to implement our strategy.
will be a key success driver for Shire moving forward to the successful European forward.
You get the most robust analysis launch of what will be an important Mr Yasick is particularly well qualified for and solutions when people with different global brand.
the challenge, with 20 years of experience perspectives work together.
The role of STAT Richard Jones in the pharmaceuticals industry in sales, is to define the objectives, set metrics to track International Marketing Manager marketing, new product development and and evaluate performance and to allow our commercialization.
He says he was attracted talented teams to produce the outcomes 03 to Shire because it offered the perfect mix we need to achieve our goals.
People want Its exciting to be a part of Shires between a solid, well-resourced business to work together when they can see the high-performing regulatory team.
typical of a big pharmaceutical company and benefit of their collaboration and when they Tracy Rockney the entrepreneurial environment of a start-up, feel their efforts are valued by the teams, Senior Director, Regulatory Affairs with a clear mission to be a leading specialist he adds.
The real motivation for teamwork 04 pharma company.
The Companys employees comes from a shared vision of the future Shire has one of the richest portfolio are accomplished, energetic and enthusiastic.
and from creating an environment of of products in the specialty arena It is led by a new management team empowerment.
We have to both trust and I am looking forward to being composed both of people who have built Shire each other and be willing to challenge part of making it a success.
into a billion dollar Company as well as people each other to achieve the best results.
Ronald Diebold with fresh ideas and best practices from every North America, Commercial model of the pharmaceutical industry.
The GI STAT is composed of a small, Development Manager dedicated group of employees with an Since taking on his new position in 2004, average of more than 20 years of experience Mr Yasick has been focusing on implementing in the pharmaceutical industry.
For example, Shires new global operating model in the GI the general manager of MESAVANCE, Roger therapy area.
The biggest challenge has been Adsett, was the US commercial lead for to put together complete commercialization the launch of one of the largest GI brands in plans that ensure we have all the bases the world: and the GI STATs Scientific Lead, covered.
When you consider the sweeping Robyn Karlstadt, is a certified GI physician changes in roles and structure we have seen who has authored dozens of papers and was at Shire in the past year, combined with the a writer and editor of a GI section in a text challenges of meeting launch objectives and book.
Dr Karlstadt was also a key member submitting a NDA for our newest product, of the launch team for a multi-billion dollar Shires commitment to treating IBD MESAVANCE, you feel truly rewarded with GI brand.
Our team knows what makes has already improved many patients these achievements!
successful brands and has hands-on lives.
I have prescribed PENTASA for experience in executing those plans, says many years and look forward to the Mr Yasick says Shires GI team has a wellMr Yasick.
Our collective past success approval of MESAVANCE, a product deserved reputation within the Company is the best reason to be confident in our that will in my mind, set the standard as being highly collaborative and effective.
ability to deliver in the future.
for current and future approved The business model relies on people in the medications for the treatment functions and markets working together in of patients with IBD.
product strategy teams led by product general Dr Gary Lichtenstein, MD managers and our team has embraced this Director IBD Program Division style of work.
Shire is unique in that of Gastroenterology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 25 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 26 Operating review Gastro-Intestinal 03 04 Strong track record We are very excited about the market mesalamine products, only MESAVANCE The GI STAT will be building on Shires already potential of this new product and by delivering has been clinically proven to do that.
strong track record in the GI therapeutic area, on our promise to achieve these submissions, With PENTASA and MESAVANCE, Shire leveraging its extensive capabilities, resources says Mr Yasick.
There are approximately a will have the only two products in their class and expertise to bring specialist projects million patients worldwide with UC and more to demonstrate in clinical studies the ability through the development and registration than 70% of them are being treated with to control symptoms and induce remission phases in the most effective manner.
MESAVANCE will be further our sales and marketing network targeting has a chance to be one of the most important differentiated from other products in the class GI physicians, we have had considerable product launches in mild to moderately because Shire decided to use the innovative success in the commercialization phase, severe UC in more than five years.
The entire Phase 3 study design.
Global experts were notes Mr Yasick.
Company is behind MESAVANCE and we surprised that we would be willing to include will launch it with passion and enthusiasm.
the market leader as a reference arm, and they Shire has established itself among the market were impressed with the results of the studies.
leaders in drug therapies for UC.
UC is a MESAVANCE utilizes a novel multimatrix chronic, relapsing type of Inflammatory Bowel delivery system to provide the highest strength Seizing opportunities Disease IBD in which part, or all, of the large of 5-ASA per tablet of any product available.
Shires GI STAT is actively evaluating a variety intestine becomes inflamed and often With this technology, UC patients are able to of GI licensing and acquisition opportunities ulcerated.
Patients experience intermittent treat their disease for the first time with a once to expand its GI portfolio for the treatment attacks separated by periods of remission, and daily dose of medicine.
The unique technology of IBD and other conditions and contribute can suffer diarrhoea, bleeding and abdominal ensures continued and prolonged exposure to future growth.
IBD is treated with several pain.
The most frequently used treatments of the colonic mucosa to the active ingredient, classes of drugs, explains Mr Yasick.
The MMX MultiThese include anti-TNF and other agents Matrix System which enables this was that target pro-inflammatory cytokines, Shire has two marketed products containing developed by Cosmo S. p. A and is a patented immunosuppressives and glucoticosteroids the mainstay treatment for IBD, mesalamine technology licensed from Giuliani S. p. A. that are used stepwise and in combination 5-ASA : PENTASA and COLAZIDE.
Shire has commercial and to treat IBD.
Given our position with PENTASA, delivers mesalamine throughout the small development rights to this technology in the COLAZIDE and MESAVANCE, these would and large bowel and is marketed in the US US, Canada, the Pacific Rim and Europe be great additions to the Shire portfolio.
in 250mg and 500mg capsules and with the exception of Italy where Giuliani In addition, we are looking at other products COLAZIDE is an oral mesalamine formulation retains all rights.
Our Phase 3 program was which GI physicians could use to treat hepatic for the treatment of UC in the UK.
We worked with the FDA, and disorders, non-acid esophageal disorders, and COLAZIDE offer us a powerful jumpstart a panel of global GI experts to create very strict pancreatic insufficiency and the like.
for our efforts to expand our relationship endpoints.
Also, in one of our Phase 3 studies, with GI specialists and serve the growing we utilized a reference arm containing By extending and optimizing new uses for needs of their patients, affirms Mr Yasick.
Asacol, the market leader, at its indicated Shires products through the GI STAT, both in dose, notes Mr Yasick.
Both products existing and in new territories, Shire intends to MESAVANCE milestone showed improvement in symptoms compared build a truly global franchise in this promising The GI STAT achieved a major milestone to a placebo.
However, MESAVANCE showed market segment.
We have a team of talented in 2005 with the filing of a NDA to the FDA significantly higher rates of disease remission people with a track record of success in GI and for MESAVANCE, which would be the first versus a placebo while Asacol did not.
in launching products to GI specialists, says available once-daily mesalamine treatment Mr Yasick.
We intend to make the most of this for active, mild-to-moderate UC.
MAAs IBD is a life-long disease that requires opportunity we have to create a new standard for MESAVANCE were submitted during the constant treatment.
Failing to adequately treat for the pharmaceuticals industry.
Through first quarter of 2006 to the EMEA and the IBD can lead to greater numbers of flare-ups, excellent execution, we intend to prove the Canadian Regulatory Authorities.
This is the more resource utilization greater cost, poor value of the specialist pharmaceuticals model.
first simultaneous global regulatory filing for quality of life, and greater risk of colorectal Shire and it represents a terrific effort by the cancer.
MESAVANCE meets a need in the R&D team and the Product Strategy Team market to improve compliance and reduce pill 5-aminosalicylic acid or known as mesalamine or mesalazine.
It also raises the level of performance of this class of drugs.
Going Asacol is a trade mark of Proctor & Gamble.
beyond simple symptom relief to inducing disease remission is a significant advance Study presented November 1, 2005 at the 70th Annual in treating UC.
Among the pH dependent American College of Gastroenterology in Honolulu, Hawaii.
26 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 27 I help underserved patients in markets that represent new areas of growth for Shire.
Lynda Berne Executive Director, Gastroenterology Nephrology, US Marketing 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 28 Operating review We have congured Central Nervous System ourselves along product lines with the some of the best people in the industry working together to drive our growth strategy.
Tom Anderson Vice President and Commercial Leader, CNS STAT 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 29 01 02 03 01 Central Nervous System CNS Shires CNS STAT has a solid record of I enjoy working for a Company Ask Tom Anderson and Gerardo Torres why achievement to build on, including several that consistently puts its faith they believe Shire has one of the strongest milestones in 2005: and trust in its people.
franchises in the high potential CNS segment David Chapman of the global pharmaceutical market and ADDERALL XR, Shires patented novel General Manager, Transdermal, theyll give three simple reasons: the right formulation of ADDERALL that provides CNS STAT people, a great portfolio of products, and all-day treatment for ADHD with one daily a clear strategy for future growth.
dose, continued to be the most prescribed 02 ADHD treatment in the US, with over 26% Shire has a wealth of opportunities.
We have configured ourselves along product share of the prescription ADHD market: My teams information helps lines with the some of the best people in the us choose the best ones.
industry working together to drive our growth the FDA approved ADDERALL XR Matt Handel strategy, says Mr Anderson, Vice President as a treatment for adolescents aged Senior Director of Business and Commercial leader of Shires CNS STAT.
1317 with ADHD, offering continuity Analysis And we have a proven strategy for acquiring in the management of ADHD symptoms and developing unique products that will as children become older: 03 serve unmet needs going forward.
Shires can do attitude is a study presented at the US Psychiatric invigorating and sets us up Shires CNS STAT is responsible for driving and Mental Health Congress in Las Vegas for long-term success.
CNS-related product and project strategies.
demonstrated that adults with ADHD David Baker Its priorities include continuing to build and experienced significant long-term ADHD Vice President, ADHD Marketing strengthen Shires position as the leading symptom control when treated with onceADHD pharmaceutical Company in the US, daily ADDERALL XR: while building a value-added pipeline in CNS therapeutic areas that are traditionally poorly Health Canada reinstated marketing served, through in-licensing and other means.
authorization of ADDERALL XR following a six-month suspension after accepting Today, Shire has one of the best portfolio recommendations made by a New of marketed and development drugs in the Drug Committee: ADHD business, notes Mr Anderson, who has 20 years of industry experience and the FDA issued an approvable letter for a strong commercial background.
We intend DAYTRANA, the first non-oral medication to continue to be the No.
1 ADHD Company, for ADHD designed for once-daily use to building on the success of ADDERALL XR treat ADHD in children aged 612.
Shire while introducing multiple new products with since received FDA approval in April 2006 unique benefits to patients.
At the same time, for this product and is targeting a launch we will make sure our other CNS products in the US by mid-2006: are successful and look at adding drugs for other diseases in CNS where we a NDA was filed with the FDA for the can succeed with the specialist model.
investigational compound NRP104 for the treatment of ADHD in children aged 612.
Wealth of experience This cleared the way for Shire and partner These efforts are being supported by what New River to work toward an approval and Dr Torres describes as a unique team with subsequent launch in late 2006 early 2007: a wealth of industry experience covering all and domains.
Dr Torres is the Vice President and Scientific Leader for the CNS STAT.
He says Shire progressed with plans to file NDAs the degree of energy at Shire is incredible.
with the FDA for SPD465, a longer-acting One of my favourite aspects of this job formulation of ADDERALL XR, and SPD503, is brainstorming with groups of such bright a non-stimulant treatment for ADHD.
people, with their wide-ranging expertise and innovative ideas.
Study presented November 8, 2005 at the US Psychiatric and Mental Health Congress in Las Vegas, NV.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 29 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 30 Operating review Central Nervous System 04 05 06 04 The ADHD market has become increasingly Cilag under the trade name REMINYL XR, Shire has a tremendous team competitive, notes Mr Anderson.
Strong with the exception of the US where in place and we can now see that market growth over the last few years has it is marketed under the trade name the results of years of hard work made this a very attractive area for drug RAZADYNE: and are paying off.
companies, and we now have multiple Simon Tulloch companies competing with their products EQUETRO for the treatment of Bipolar 1 Senior Vice President, CNS STAT for the same patients.
In this environment, Disorder, was launched in the US in April.
new products have to be clearly different An efficacy study presented by University of 05 from what is out there, and this means they North Carolina researchers presented at the The General Manager position at must have important efficacy and safety US Psychiatric and Mental Health Congress Shire is a great opportunity to lead benefits that other products do not.
in Las Vegas in November demonstrated the functional teams to drive better that EQUETRO significantly reduced manic decision-making and results.
Future growth and mixed symptoms for patients and Mark Charles Shires portfolio of marketed and development was generally well tolerated.
We believe CNS STAT, General Manager drugs make it very well positioned in ADHD EQUETRO brings unique benefits to SPD503 Dr Torres adds.
Our vision is to have several patients and their families while offering unique products serving most if not all types physicians a useful option in the treatment 06 of ADHD patient.
Our development products of manic and mixed episodes in bipolar Focused, cross-functional product are all different and serve different patient disorders says Dr Torres.
teams with visionary leadership needs on a more individual basis.
DAYTRANA, will drive Shires future success.
for example, will offer patients an alternative Mr Anderson says the CNS STAT is refining Michael Skoien route of delivery for methylphenidate no plans to make sure Shire has the right Vice President and General pill swallowing but a transdermal patch.
marketing support, geographic spread and Manager, ADDERALL CNS STAT NRP104 could be better than current product life cycle management.
It is striving amphetamine and other products in that it to build a value-added pipeline for the CNS may offer lower diversion and abuse potential.
area by looking for opportunities to in-license Moreover, we are always on the lookout for drugs already under development.
With new opportunities and are clearly interested our new product focus and cross-functional in new ADHD treatments.
organization, it will now be easier to set parameters for the types of products we Shires other drugs in its CNS portfolio also want to develop.
We will also be taking performed well in 2005. a fresh look at other disease states within CNS where a specialist company such as CARBATROL, Shires extended-release ours can succeed with a limited sales force.
formulation of carbamazepine for the Shire has a longstanding treatment of epilepsy, continued to hold Dr Torres adds that Shires new business commitment to understanding and a significant share of the US prescription model is ensuring that it operates more addressing the treatment needs market in its category.
CARBATROL consistently and makes the best use of its of children, adolescents, and continues to be an important product resources.
It is allowing for better alignment adults with ADHD.
Their portfolio of for us notes Dr Torres: between our commercial and R&D functions.
currently available and medicationsIt is critically important that our marketing in-development clearly signal their REMINYL XR, a once-daily treatment plans are congruent with our plans for intention to continue being a leader designed to slow the progression of the developing new products and this approach in this field.
symptoms of Alzheimers Disease, was will help us get the right products to market Dr Timothy E. Wilens launched by Shire in the United Kingdom in a reasonable time frame.
Our ultimate goal Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Ireland in June.
REMINYL is one of the is to have a strong portfolio of global products at Harvard Medical School, Boston, main products for treating mild-to-moderate and we are well on our way.
Massachusetts dementia of the Alzheimer type, and is Data presented May 24, 2005 at the American licensed for use in more than 70 countries.
Psychiatric Association in Atlanta, GA and study Outside the UK and Ireland, this product is presented November 8, 2005 at the US Psychiatric marketed by Johnson & Johnson Janssen and Mental Health Congress in Las Vegas, NV.
30 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 31 Shire has one of the best portfolios of marketed and development drugs in the ADHD business.
Gerardo Torres Vice President and Scientific Leader, CNS STAT 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 32 Operating review We have advanced Human Genetic Therapies technologies and a clear mission.
David Pendergast Executive Vice President and General Manager, Shire HGT 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 33 01 02 01 Human Genetics Therapies Shire HGT High-potential market We have unparalleled technology Shires new HGT team, the former TKT, Dr Pendergast notes that the evolution of the to develop treatment for genetic specializes in discovering, developing biotechnology sciences has allowed for the diseases and I am very proud to and commercializing protein therapeutics engineering of proteins and producing them be part of the team that is making primarily for the treatment of genetic diseases.
Combined with the these therapies possible!
This business extends Shires reach by discovery of inherent and engineered means David Whiteman strengthening its portfolio and pipeline with of delivering proteins to cells throughout the Principal Medical Director, a range of new therapeutic possibilities body, this provides great potential to address Shire HGT for patients suffering with genetic diseases.
a number of serious diseases previously not approachable with drug therapies.
The number 02 By adding the proprietary protein technologies of these diseases is large since there is the Im very excited about our of TKT to the proven commercialization knowpotential for a single gene mutation to occur ability to truly make a difference how of Shire, weve generated an entity worth with any birth and we have had centuries in patients lives.
far more than the sum of its parts, says David of evolution for these problems to develop.
Andrew Komjathy Pendergast, Shire HGTs Executive Vice At this time protein replacement therapy Vice President, Commercial President and General Manager.
Together, is often the only treatment for these patients.
Operations weve signalled our intention to continue growing as market leaders in serving specialist Shire HGT employs slightly more than 500 03 physicians and their patients.
individuals worldwide and has a presence Breakthrough products and in those countries which reimburse protein exceptional staff make Shire TKT, acquired in 2005, is an excellent therapies for genetic diseases and where a great place to work!
strategic fit for Shire, adds Dr Pendergast, patient populations warrant a presence.
Jerry Justin former executive vice president and chief Based in Cambridge, Massachusetts the team Senior Director Manufacturing operating officer of TKT who has 33 years is at work on a number of exciting scientific Operations, Shire HGT of pharmaceutical industry experience.
Both Shire and TKT leverage relationships 04 with highly specialized physicians and focus We use several technologies including gene We are committed to accelerating on the development of products that offer activation, fusion proteins, and standard the development of protein a strong benefit-to-risk ratio.
Both also care transfections, explains Dr Pendergast.
enormously for the patients and families that Our approach for glycoproteins is to use Yas Saotome are ultimately served by our product lines.
human cells either employing gene activation Senior Director, Cell culture or standard methods.
This approach yields Process Development Shire HGT provides specific disease area a truly human molecule in both the amino acid expertise, a high-quality product portfolio sequence and the carbohydrate structure and a low-risk, well-balanced development thereby making the therapy highly active and pipeline with one marketed product and less immunogenic.
two attractive late-stage products directed at genetic diseases.
In addition, protein Dr Pendergast notes that genetic disease replacement therapy provides a good platform research is less risky than traditional for further expansion through research and pharmaceutical research.
The diseases and product in-licensing.
Shire HGTs approach their causes are well known, the treatment to product development is to use protein path clear, and if we get good animal model therapies to replace lost biological function data, the likelihood of a late stage project resulting from a malfunctioning or missing failure is low.
Hunter patients who will receive gene in affected patients.
It does not conduct ELAPRASE are set to have high-risk discovery research and protein a brighter future and I am glad replacement therapies generally benefit from that I took part in the development fast development timelines.
These drugs have of this new treatment.
a high success rate in reaching the market Adam Cohen and normally benefit from long lifecycles Hunter Syndrome patient and once marketed due to orphan drug status Elaprase clinical trial participant.
exclusivity seven years in the US and ten years in the EU and robust patent protection.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 33 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 34 Operating review Human Genetic Therapies 03 04 Shire HGT works on genetic diseases ELAPRASE: An enzyme replacement A focused team with serious mortality and morbidity effects therapy in registration since December Since the acquisition of TKT by Shire on patients that are amenable to protein 2005 for the treatment of Hunter Syndrome.
Dr Pendergast has overseen a complex replacement therapy.
One large category is The product has gained fast track status transition and built a business and Lysosomal Storage Diseases LSDs resulting in the US and Shire hopes it will be management team that is focused on from the bodys inability to produce a specific launched in mid-2006.
Shire also submitted protein therapies for genetic diseases and enzyme designed to metabolize different a MAA to the EMEA for idursulfase and the is organized around four critical business waste products.
These products build up subsequent review is expected to take processes: discovery, development, in the lysosomes of cells over time resulting in 12 months.
Hunter Syndrome, also known supply and sales.
We are well positioned the engorgement of cell lysosomes, cell stress as  II MPS II for success because we have a culture that and death followed by tissue distress and is a rare, life threatening genetic disorder is very committed, focused, team oriented, organ failure.
LSDs can interfere with the caused by a lack of the enzyme iduronateopen, science based and data driven.
central nervous system in ways that can often 2-sulfatase.
Symptoms include hernias, His favorite parts of the job are developing have a distressing physical effect.
Often named frequent ear infections, enlarged livers and therapies that help patients and working with for the physician that first described them spleens, reduced respiratory capability, joint bright people to solve problems.
Our team clinically, these conditions are today known malformations, short stature and cardiac has a broad range of experiences and as Fabry Disease, Hunter Syndrome, problems.
A number of patients will also expertise from very large pharma to folks and Gaucher Disease, among others.
Shire suffer significant CNS damage.
The market that started with TKT over 15 years ago.
HGT also has early research programs is estimated at $300 million worldwide: and They all have proven track records and the in a number of non-LSD genetic diseases.
We have good GA-GCB: A gene activated technologies and a clear mission.
A strong pipeline glucocerebrosidase which recently Shire HGT has one approved product and two completed Phase 2 studies for the Dr Pendergast says that Shire will help Shire late-stage clinical development candidates treatment of Gaucher Disease, a genetic HGT make the most out of its science and with rapid development time lines: disorder caused by deficiency of the technology allowing an increase in the number enzyme, This deficiency causes a fatty of projects it can now undertake and allowing REPLAGAL: an enzyme replacement substance to accumulate in certain body all of the fruits of that research to be marketed therapy currently approved and marketed tissues such as the spleen, liver, and bone internally.
Shires corporate infrastructure, to treat patients with Fabry Disease LSD marrow.
An individual affected by Gaucher financial support, business development that affects 810,000 patients in countries Disease might exhibit one or several of expertise and ability to market products likely to reimburse for the treatment.
these symptoms: enlarged liver and or targeted at larger patient populations will Symptoms usually begin during childhood spleen, anemia, fatigue, easy bruising, ensure that Shire HGTs innovative protein or adolescence and include burning impaired blood clotting, bone pain, and platform reaches the greatest number sensations in the hands that get worse fractures.
The total worldwide estimated of patients in the least amount of time and with exercise and hot weather and small, market is more than $840 million.
make a real difference in peoples lives.
raised reddish-purple blemishes on the skin.
Lipid storage may lead to impaired Shire HGTs key products REPLAGAL, arterial circulation and increased risk ELAPRASE and GA-GCB are manufactured of heart attack or stroke.
The heart may through a proprietary process derived from also become enlarged and the kidneys human cell lines, an advanced technology often become progressively involved compared to conventional method of using resulting in ESRD.
REPLAGAL is approved Chinese hamster ovary lines.
Currently relying in 34 countries outside of the US where on a combination of internal manufacturing ease of administration one fifth the and external manufacturing filling partners volume infusion of the competing to produce its products, the unit is in the product and a broader label have helped early stages of planning for expanded to establish REPLAGALs competitive manufacturing capability.
It is estimated the current market is $190 million in Western Europe: 34 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 35 We nd that nature is always surprising us and these surprises are the essence of discovery.
Michael W. Heartlein Vice President, Research, Shire HGT 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 36 resp onsi ble 36 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 37 Corporate Responsibility Our business touches many peoples lives.
Responsibility in pharmaceuticals Managing our products The supply chain There are few sectors that can have so positive This section will explore how we address We made particular progress in this area an impact on society as pharmaceuticals.
Our any specific issues that occur in relation in 2005.
Our new global procurement ability to treat, prevent and cure disease gives to our drugs.
Two examples from 2005 are services group is now implementing us enormous power for good, but this brings the withdrawal of ADDERALL XR in Canada, a Company-wide procurement process with it an enormous responsibility.
So much so, where we successfully addressed questions across all suppliers.
This will allow us to in fact, that the whole concept of responsibility raised by Health Canada, and REMINYL manage our relationships more effectively is inextricable linked to the day-to-day running in the UK, where a multi-faceted campaign as well as to introduce social and of a pharmaceuticals business like Shire.
from the medical community, patients, environmental criteria for suppliers, politicians and members of the public may and conduct compliance audits.
This is one of the reasons why we have now help to retain National Health Service NHS decided to move away from using the phrase funding for treatment for Alzheimers Disease.
Engaging with our people corporate social responsibility, in favor of the Our business relies on the enthusiasm, much broader term corporate responsibility Running Shire in a responsible way commitment and motivation of its people CR.
Talking only about corporate social CR also extends to the way Shire operates and the feedback we received from responsibility can suggest that the external as an organization.
Our CR Report will review: employees during 2005 was particularly impact of the business is limited to social encouraging.
Acquiring TKT was a major issues, to the exclusion of wider environmental our environmental performance: event for Shire in 2005 and like any acquisition and ethical concerns: and it can also imply it had to be managed in human as well that this area is the preserve of specialists, health and safety: as commercial terms.
We quickly renamed rather than being the responsibility of everyone the business Shire HGT but made few other who works for Shire.
We wanted our new colleagues to feel part of Shire as quickly as possible, This will be reflected in Shires dedicated the way we engage with our people: and and this involved an intensive program 2005 CR report, which will concentrate of communication and integration, including on the key issues that we face as a specialist our role in the community.
a number of high-profile activities in the area pharmaceuticals business.
of Cambridge, Massachusetts where the Environmental performance main office and manufacturing site is located.
The areas of focus in the 2005 CR report are: We established a new environmental As a result, retention of these employees management system in 2005, which was has been very high over 90%.
Drug safety developed with input from both Deloitte and This will cover our policies and practices the International Safety Council.
We have new Our role in the community in relation to clinical trials, drug testing and environmental performance targets for 2006, We have an extensive community program, quality procedures, and our commitment covering matters such as management of ranging from our support of employee to publish research data.
It also includes waste, reduction of CO emissions, disposal volunteers to making corporate donations 2 the ongoing monitoring of our products.
of hazardous materials, water and energy to organizations working in our own conservation and reduction of use of volatile therapeutic areas.
We were particularly proud Responsible marketing organic chemicals or VOCs.
of the efforts our people made to support This will address our approach to marketing the victims of the tsunami in South-East Asia pharmaceutical products, how we train and Health and safety and Hurricane Katrina in 2005 $166,103 manage our sales-force to ensure that we We carried out a global Environment, Health was raised around the world, which was comply with local regulations, the highest and Safety assessment in 2004, and will matched by the Company.
ethical standards and codes of practice.
be repeating this exercise in 2006.
We have It also explains our Medical Legal Review a comprehensive system for identifying and process, which strives to ensure effective addressing possible workplace risks, with the and accurate communication as part aim of reducing reportable incidents by 50%.
of the production of our educational and promotional materials.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 37 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 38 Corporate Responsibility Principles, policies and practices enterprise-wide risk assessment process of which this CR assessment is a part.
Identified Accountability risks are reviewed twice-yearly by the The Company attaches great importance to Executive Committee, the Audit Committee social and environmental issues and to ethical and the Board.
Accordingly, ultimate responsibility for them is taken at the highest Training and assessment levels.
The Board reviews the Companys In keeping with our belief that CR is an general approach to CR.
Shires CR strategy integral part of our business, we seek to New targets in 2006 for water and is implemented by our CR Committee.
raise awareness of CR-related issues in our energy conservation.
This Committee is chaired by our Chief business-related training.
Specific training Financial Officer, who also takes responsibility is given on Shires code of conduct and at Board level for CR.
We made a number for those working in areas such as sales of changes to enchance the composition and marketing, environmental legislation, of the Committee this year, and now have a and corporate governance.
good balance of senior managers and function heads whose roles have particular relevance CR issues are included in performance to CR.
Members of the CR Committee include appraisals for all senior managers, as well as Caroline West, our new Chief Compliance line managers with functional responsibilities, Officer, Eliseo Salinas, Chief Scientific Officer, and those where CR issues have a direct and David Pendergast, who is the General impact on their role.
Manager of our new Shire HGT business.
Feedback from employees in 2005 Stakeholder engagement was particularly encouraging.
Objectives We put considerable emphasis on Shire sets corporate objectives annually.
maintaining productive relationships with Achieving our CR objectives is key to our all our key stakeholders, and the feedback overall performance targets.
Functional we receive from them is taken into account and individual objectives are aligned with in developing our CR policy, CR strategy, overall corporate objectives.
In this way our and CR performance targets.
Stakeholder CR objectives permeate right through the dialogue ranges from meetings with business, from the Board to every member institutional shareholders conducted by our of staff.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to regular interaction with regulators Our CR objectives are formulated and agreed and health providers such as the FDA, by the CR Committee, and monitored at Board the Medicines and Healthcare Products level.
They cover all the commercial aspects Regulatory Agency and National Institute for of our business, as well as the way in which Clinical Excellence NICE, to the relationships we operate as an organization, and include, we have with specialist physicians and for example, objectives relating to clinical patient groups, such as Children and Adults trials, product safety, patient education, with Attention Deficit Disorder CHADD, ethical selling, procurement, and environmental the Mucopolysaccharide MPS Society, performance, as well as people-related issues the Alzheimers Society and the National such as diversity and work-life balance.
These objectives can be viewed in our CR report or on our website.
We also welcome feedback from anyone else with an interest in our business, and if you Risk management have views or comments you can send them We undertook a full CR risk assessment to cr@shire.
com Main picture right : in 2004, and this was reviewed in depth and We were joint sponsors of the re-affirmed during 2005.
Our CR Committee MPS Awareness Day and took members are responsible for ensuring the CR part in a ceremony to ring the bell risks are assessed and revised as necessary at NASDAQ.
Shire engages in an 38 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 39 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 40 Board of Directors 01 01 Dr James Cavanaugh Dr James Cavanaugh 68 Chairman Dr James Cavanaugh has been a member of Shires Board since March 24, 1997 and 02 Chairman since May 11, 1999.
He is a General Matthew Emmens Partner of HealthCare Partners, the General 01 02 Chief Executive Officer Partner of Healthcare Ventures, a venture capital fund devoted to healthcare, Non- 03 executive Chairman of Diversa Corporation Angus Russell and a Non-executive Director of MedImmune Chief Financial Officer Inc. and Advancis Pharmaceutical Corporation.
He is a former President of SmithKline & 04 French Laboratories, SmithKline Beecham Robin Buchanan Corporations clinical laboratory business, and Non-executive Director Allergan International, and served as Deputy 03 04 Assistant to the US President on the White 05 House Staff.
Dr Cavanaugh is also Chairman The Hon James Grant of Shires Nomination Committee.
Non-executive Director 02 06 Matthew Emmens 54 David Kappler Matthew Emmens has been Shires Chief Non-executive Director Executive Officer and a member of the Board since March 12, 2003.
He began his career 05 06 07 in international pharmaceuticals with Merck Patrick Langlois & Co, Inc. in 1974, where he held a wide Non-executive Director range of sales, marketing and administrative positions.
In 1992, he helped to establish 08 Astra Merck, a joint venture between Merck Ronald Nordmann and Astra AB of Sweden, becoming President Non-executive Director and Chief Executive Officer.
In 1999, he joined Merck KGaA and established EMD 09 Pharmaceuticals, the Companys US 07 08 Barry Price prescription pharmaceutical business.
Non-executive Director He was later promoted to President of Merck KGaAs global prescription business, based in Germany.
Mr Emmens holds a degree in Business Management from Fairleigh Dickinson University.
He is also Chairman of Shires Executive and Portfolio Review Committees.
09 40 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 41 03 06 08 Angus Russell 50 David Kappler 58 Ronald Nordmann 64 Angus Russell has been Shires Chief David Kappler has been a member of Shires Ronald Nordmann has been a member Financial Officer and a member of the Board Board since April 5, 2004.
He is currently of Shires Board since December 23, since December 13, 1999.
He also serves as also serving as Non-executive Chairman 1999 and previously served as a Nona non-executive Director of the City of London of Premier Foods plc and as a Non-executive executive Director of Roberts Pharmaceutical Investment Trust plc.
Between 1980 and Director of Intercontinental Hotels Group plc Corporation.
He is also a Director of 1999, Mr Russell held a number of positions and HMV Group plc.
In addition, he was Neurochem Inc. and Par Pharmaceutical of increasing responsibility at ICI, Zeneca and a director of Camelot Group plc from 1996- Companies, Inc. Mr Nordmann is CoAstraZeneca plc, including Vice President- 2002.
Mr Kappler retired from Cadbury President of Global Health Associates.
Corporate Finance at AstraZeneca and Group Schweppes plc in April 2004 after serving He has been a financial analyst in healthcare Treasurer at Zeneca.
Mr Russell is a chartered as Chief Financial Officer since 1995. equities since 1971, holding senior positions accountant, having qualified with Coopers & He worked for the Cadbury Schweppes group with Deerfield Management, PaineWebber, Lybrand, and a fellow of the Association of between 1965 and 1984 and rejoined the Oppenheimer & Co. F Eberstadt & Co. Corporate Treasurers.
He is also a member of Company in 1989 following its acquisition and Warner-Chilcott Laboratories.
He holds Shires Executive Committee and is Chairman of Trebor Group, where he was Financial a bachelors degree from Johns Hopkins of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Mr Kappler is a fellow of the University and an MBA from Fairleigh Chartered Institute of Management Dickinson University.
Mr Nordmann is also 04 Accountants.
He is also Chairman a member of Shires Audit, Nomination Robin Buchanan 53 of Shires Audit Committee.
Robin Buchanan has been a member of Shires Board since July 30, 2003.
He also 07 09 serves as a non-executive director of Liberty Patrick Langlois 60 Dr Barry Price 62 International plc.
Mr Buchanan is Senior Patrick Langlois has been a member of Dr Barry Price has been a member Partner of the UK operations and director Shires Board since November 14, 2005. of Shires Board since January 16, 1996 of the global business consultants Bain & He is also a Non-executive Director of Coley and is the Companys senior Non-executive Company Inc. and is a member of that firms Pharmaceuticals Group, Inc. and was a NonDirector.
He also serves as Chairman of worldwide management committee.
He executive Director of Rhodia SA between Antisoma plc and Biowisdom Ltd. Dr Price previously worked for American Express December 2002 and April 2005.
Mr Langlois worked for Glaxo for 28 years, where he International Banking Corporation in New previously served as Vice Chairman of the held positions of increasing responsibility York, McKinsey & Company, and Deloitte Management Board of Aventis S. A. Strasbourg, with the Companys research group.
Dr Price & Touche, where he qualified as a chartered having been Group Executive Vice President is also Chairman of Shires Remuneration accountant FCA.
Mr Buchanan holds an and Chief Financial Officer for several years.
Committee and a member of the Audit and MBA with Distinction Baker Scholar from He also spent many years in senior financial Nomination Committees.
He is also a roles with the Rhone-Poulenc Group, including member of Shires Remuneration Committee.
three years as a member of the Executive Committee and Chief Financial Officer.
D. in Economics The Hon James Grant P. C, C. M, Q.
C 68 and a diploma in banking studies.
He is The Hon James Grant has been a member also a member of Shires Audit Committee.
of Shires Board since May 11, 2001 and previously served as a Director of BioChem Pharma Inc. since 1986.
He also sits on the boards of two Canadian public corporations and the boards of a number of other private corporations and not-for-profit foundations and councils.
He is a partner and Chair Emeritus with the law firm Stikeman Elliott in Montreal.
Mr Grant holds degrees in Arts and Law from McGill University.
He is also a member of Shires Nomination Committee.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 41 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 42 Executive Committee 01 08 Matthew Emmens Tatjana May Chief Executive Officer General Counsel, Company and Chairman of the Secretary and Executive Executive Committee Vice President Global Legal Affairs 01 02 03 02 Angus Russell 09 Chief Financial Officer David Pendergast and Executive Vice Executive Vice President President Global Finance and General Manager, Shire HGT 03 Mike Cola 10 Executive Vice President, Dr Eliseo Salinas 04 05 06 Global Therapeutic Areas Chief Scientific Officer and Executive Vice President, 04 Global R&D Barbara Deptula Executive Vice President, 11 Business Development Joseph Rus Executive Vice President 05 and General Manager, Greg Flexter International 07 08 09 Executive Vice President and General Manager, North America 06 Anita Graham Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources 10 11 07 John Lee Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain & Quality 42 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 43 01 06 10 Matthew Emmens Anita Graham Dr Eliseo Salinas See page 40.
Anita Graham has been with Shire since Dr Eliseo Salinas has been with Shire since January 2004.
She was previously Vice June 2004.
He was previously Head of Global 02 President of Human Resources at Cytyc Central Nervous Systems and Vice President Angus Russell Corporation.
She also held senior HR for Regional Clinical Research & Development See page 41. positions at Serono, Inc. and Scudder at Wyeth Research, one of the worlds leading Kemper Investments, Inc. now part pharmaceutical companies.
03 of Deutsche Bank and has extensive Mike Cola experience in all aspects of HR, both 11 Mike Cola has been with Shire since July in Europe and the US.
He was previously President of the Joseph Rus has been with Shire since 1999. life sciences division of Safeguard Scientifics 07 Following the merger of Shire Pharmaceuticals Inc. Mr Cola also worked for AstraMerck John Lee and BioChem Pharma in May 2001, he was AstraZeneca and was responsible for John Lee has been with Shire since April appointed President and Chief Executive developing AstraMercks product 2000.
He was previously Vice President, Officer of Shire BioChem Inc.
He has more development, medical affairs, business Operations at Schwarz Pharma, and also than 25 years of experience in the international research, licensing and pharmaceutical worked at Central Pharmaceuticals, The pharmaceutical industry including European business.
Vitarine Company now Eon, and Glenwood country management.
He has over 31 years of 04 experience in the pharmaceutical industry.
Barbara Deptula Barbara Deptula has been with Shire 08 since September 2004.
She was previously Tatjana May President of the biotechnology division Tatjana May has been with Shire since May of Sicor Inc. and Senior Vice President for 2001.
She was previously Assistant General commercial and product development at Counsel at the corporate headquarters Coley Pharmaceutical Group.
She also held of AstraZeneca plc and prior to that she senior management positions focused worked at the law firm Slaughter and May.
on licensing and business development at US Bioscience, Schering-Plough, 09 American Cyanamid, and Genetics Institute.
Dr David Pendergast Dr David Pendergast has been with Shire since 05 July 2005 and was previously Chief Executive Greg Flexter Officer of Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. until Greg Flexter has been with Shire since its acquisition by Shire.
He was previously Vice President as Vice President of Product Development and head of the neuroscience business and Quality at Biogen, Inc, and held senior of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, responsible for positions at Fisons Ltd. s Pharmaceutical US Marketing, Sales and Medical Research.
Division and The Upjohn Company.
He has Mr Flexter has more than 22 years of over 30 years of pharmaceutical and experience in global and domestic marketing, biotechnology experience.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 43 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 44 perf orm ance 44 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 45 Financial review For the year to December 31, 2005, total revenues increased by 17% to $1,599.3 million compared to $1,363.2 million in 2004.
Angus Russell Chief Financial Officer The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys US GAAP consolidated financial statements contained on pages 78127 of this annual review.
Results of operations For the year to December 31, 2005, the Companys total revenues increased by 17% to $1,599.3 million, compared to $1,363.2 million in 2004.
Net loss for the year to December 31, 2005 was $410.8 million compared to net income of $269 million in 2004.
The Companys net loss for 2005 was primarily attributable to the in-process R&D write-off of $673 million following the acquisition of TKT.
Total revenues The following table provides an analysis of the Companys total revenues by source: 2005 2004 Change Year to December 31, $ million $ million % Product sales 1,327.7 1,112.5 19 Royalties 242.9 230.4 5 Licensing and development 15.0 13.4 11 Other revenues 13.7 6.9 Total 1,599.3 1,363.2 17 All product sales are reported in the Pharmaceutical Products segment, all royalties are reported in the Royalty segment.
Product sales Product sales US prescription 2005 2004 growth growth Year to December 31, $ million $ million % % CNS ADDERALL XR 730.8 606.7 20 12 ADDERALL 43.1 34.5 25 CARBATROL 72.1 54.3 33 8 GI PENTASA 136.1 115.0 18 6 COLAZIDE 8.6 8.2 5 GP AGRYLIN and XAGRID North America US and Canada 46.0 119.1 61 48 Rest of the world 46.8 33.4 40 FOSRENOL 53.5 CALCICHEW 38.7 38.3 1 SOLARAZE 12.5 9.5 32 REMINYL REMINYL XL 13.5 10.8 25 LODINE 12.6 7.6 66 Shire HGT i REPLAGAL 41.3 Other 72.1 75.1 4 Total 1,327.7 1,112.5 19 i This represents REPLAGAL sales for the five-month period since the acquisition of TKT.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 45 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 46 Financial review The following discussion includes references to prescription and market On February 9, 2006, a FDA Advisory Committee recommended to the share data for key products.
The source of this data is IMS Health, FDA that risk information about cardiovascular events be included December 2005. in a black box warning for all stimulant medicines used to treat ADHD.
In making its recommendation, the Advisory Committee recognized During 2005, the Company concluded new fee for service agreements that the reported incidence rates of the rare serious cardiovascular with two of its three significant wholesale customers.
These adverse events that were discussed by the Committee are generally agreements, which are commonplace in the pharmaceutical industry, within the rates that would be expected from the untreated general change the way wholesalers are compensated.
ADDERALL XR and ADDERALL already include a black the wholesalers receive a distribution fee from pharmaceutical box warning in their labels for safety concerns related to amphetamine suppliers.
These fee for service agreements eliminate wholesalers abuse or misuse and also warn of the risk of sudden death in patients incentives to acquire and hold excess inventories.
The Company with structural cardiac abnormalities.
Shire stands behind the current believes this will reduce the significant impact of wholesaler stocking labeling and believes that further action is unwarranted.
and fide-stocking on its product sales.
Further, the wholesalers will provide data regarding their inventories of the Companys products it In January 2006, Shire settled its ADDERALL XR patent infringement has on hand.
The Company is negotiating a fees for service agreement lawsuits with Impax.
The litigations involved Shire US patents, Nos.
with its remaining significant wholesale customer.
Fees for service 6,322,819 the 819 Patent, 6,605,300 the 300 Patent and 6,913,768 are treated as a sales deduction, thus affecting revenues rather than the 768 Patent.
As part of the settlement, Impax has confirmed that its cost of sales.
proposed generic ADDERALL XR product infringes Shires 819, 300 and 768 Patents and that the three patents are valid and enforceable.
ADDERALL XR Under the terms of the settlement, Impax will be permitted to market US prescriptions for ADDERALL XR for the year to December 31, 2005, generic versions of ADDERALL XR in the US no later than January 1, were up 12%.
ADDERALL XR further strengthened its position as the 2010, and will pay Shire a royalty from those sales.
In certain situations, leading brand in the US ADHD market with a 1% increase in market such as the launch of another generic version of ADDERALL XR, Impax share to an all time high of 26% in December 2005 December 2004: may be permitted to enter the market as Shires authorized generic.
In addition, the US ADHD market grew 5% overall compared to the same period in 2004.
Shires ADDERALL XR patent infringement lawsuits with Barr continue.
Shire is seeking a ruling that Barrs Abbreviated New Drug Application Product sales growth was higher than prescription growth for the ANDA seeking permission to market its generic versions of year due mainly to the impact of price increases in December 2004 ADDERALL XR infringes the 819, 300 and 768 Patents.
Barrs and August 2005, partially offset by a decrease in pipeline inventory 30-month stay under the Hatch-Waxman Act expired on February 18, and higher sales deductions.
Following the expiry of the 30-month stay, the FDA may approve Barrs ANDA.
A final pre-trial conference in the 819 and 300 Patent FDA approval of the adolescent indication for ADDERALL XR was cases took place on March 10, 2006 where the trial date was set received on July 22, 2005. for October 30, 2006.
Shire is continuing its discussions with Barr in connection with these lawsuits and the discussions are progressing.
On February 12, 2005, Shire announced that it had suspended For further information see Note 21 d to the Companys consolidated sales of ADDERALL XR in Canada at the request of Health Canada.
If the Company does not prevail On August 24, 2005, Shire announced that Health Canada would in the lawsuits, the Companys sales of ADDERALL XR will decrease.
reinstate the marketing authorization of ADDERALL XR in Canada Any decrease in the sales of ADDERALL XR would significantly effective August 26, 2005.
This reinstatement follows the acceptance reduce revenues and earnings.
by Health Canada of the recommendations from the New Drug Committee, which was appointed by Health Canada at Shires request CARBATROL to review the suspension of ADDERALL XR in Canada.
US prescriptions for the year to December 31, 2005, were down 8% compared to the previous year.
This was due primarily to supply During October 2005, Shire filed a Citizen Petition with the FDA requesting constraints, a 4% decrease in Shires market share of the total that the FDA require more rigorous bioequivalence testing or additional US extended release carbamazepine prescription market to 42% clinical testing for generic or follow-on drug products that reference in December 2005 December 2004: 46% and a 5% decrease in that ADDERALL XR before they can be approved.
Shire believes that these market as a whole.
The supply constraints have now been resolved.
requested criteria will ensure that generic formulations of ADDERALL XR or follow-on drug products will be clinically effective and safe.
In January Product sales for the year to December 31, 2005 were up 33% 2006, Shire chose to file a supplemental amendment to its original Citizen compared to the previous year.
The difference between sales growth Petition, which included additional clinical data in support of the original and the lower level of prescriptions is due to price increases in August filing.
The FDA has six months to respond to Shires petition and while this 2004 and October 2005 and to lower sales deductions than in 2004. petition is under review it will not grant final approval of generic or follow-on drug products referencing ADDERALL XR.
Patent litigation proceedings with Nostrum and Corepharma relating to CARBATROL are in progress.
For details, please see the litigation update on page 111.
46 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 47 PENTASA US prescriptions for the year to December 31, 2005 were up 6% compared to the previous year.
The increase was due to the success of the co-promotional agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals Inc. the impact of the 500mg dosage form launched in the third quarter of 2004 and a 2% increase in the total US oral mesalamine prescription market.
Product sales for the year to December 31, 2005 were up 18%, compared to the previous year.
The difference between sales growth and prescription growth is due to the impact of the September 2004 price increase and a normalization of pipeline inventories compared to lower levels in 2004.
PENTASA had an 18% share of the total US oral mesalamine prescription market in December 2005 December 2004: 18%.
AGRYLIN XAGRID AGRYLIN XAGRID sales worldwide for the year to December 31, 2005 were $92.8 million, down 39% compared to the previous year 2004: $152.5 million.
North American sales were $46 million, down 61% compared to the previous year 2004: $119.1 million.
This reduction was expected following the approval of generic versions of AGRYLIN in the US market in April 2005.
Rest of the World sales all sales outside North America were $46.8 million, up 40%, compared to the previous year 2004: $33.4 million.
This was primarily due to the successful launch of XAGRID in the UK, Germany and France in the first quarter of 2005 and Spain in the third quarter of 2005.
In accordance with current orphan drug legislation in the EU, XAGRID will have up to ten years of marketing exclusivity in the EU.
FOSRENOL FOSRENOL was launched in the US in January 2005.
Product sales for the year to December 31, 2005 were $53.5 million, with US prescriptions for the year totalling 137,000.
FOSRENOL had an 8% share of the total US phosphate binding market in December 2005.
On November 28, 2005 the FDA approved new, higher-dose formulations of FOSRENOL.
New, higher-dose strengths of 750mg and 1,000mg were shipped to wholesalers in the US in December 2005.
Higher-dose strengths should help to reduce the number of pills that end-stage renal disease patients need to take to achieve target phosphorus levels.
Product sales in Q4 2005 were $29 million compared with $9.7 million in Q3 2005.
The variance relates primarily to increased pipeline inventory sales to wholesalers of the new higher-dose formulation during December.
FOSRENOL was launched in Austria in December 2005.
Shire continues its discussions relating to FOSRENOL with regulatory authorities and reimbursement agencies across Europe and other regions and further launches are expected in European markets over the next few months, subject to obtaining national approvals and concluding pricing and reimbursement negotiations.
REPLAGAL REPLAGAL was acquired by Shire as part of the TKT acquisition, which completed on July 27, 2005.
Product sales for the period since acquisition were $41.3 million.
The majority of REPLAGAL sales are in Europe.
Total sales for the full year, including pre-acquisition sales, were $94.6 million 2004: $77.4 million.
The increase in sales including pre-acquisition sales is primarily due to greater European coverage by an increased number of sales representatives.
Foreign exchange effect As many of the Companys sales revenues are earned in currencies other than US Dollars primarily Canadian Dollars, Pounds Sterling, Swedish Krona and Euros, revenue growth reported in US Dollars includes the impact of translating the sales made in a local currency into US Dollars.
With the US Dollar strengthening against these currencies over the last 12 months, the translation of sales made in these currencies into US Dollars has impacted on the reported growth rates.
The table below shows the effect of foreign exchange translations on the revenue growth of the key affected products as well as the underlying performance of key products in their local currency: 2005 sales Impact of 2005 sales in growth in translation 2005 sales US Dollars local to US growth in Year to December 31, $ million currency Dollars US Dollars AGRYLIN sales in Canadian Dollars 5.3 49% 4% 45% AGRYLIN XAGRID sales in Euros 28.3 41% 41% AGRYLIN XAGRID sales in Pounds Sterling 18.9 11% 1% 10% CALCICHEW sales in Pounds Sterling 35.0 1% 1% REMINYL and REMINYL XL sales in Pounds Sterling 11.8 27% 1% 26% Revenue growth analysis does not include sales of: ADDERALL XR in Canadian Dollars due to the fact that sales of ADDERALL XR in Canada were suspended for most of 2005: and REPLAGAL sales of $41.3 million in Euros and Swedish Krona.
There is no comparative data for REPLAGAL as it was acquired with TKT in July 2005.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 47 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 48 Financial review Royalties Royalty revenue increased 5% to $242.9 million for the year to December 31, 2005, 2004: $230.4 million primarily as a result of strong sales growth.
This was due to the continued growth in the nucleoside analogue market for HIV and a small positive impact of foreign exchange movements.
Shire receives royalties from GSK on worldwide 3TC sales.
GSKs worldwide sales of 3TC for the year to December 31, 2005, were $1,211 million, an increase of 2% compared to prior year 2004: $1,184 million.
ZEFFIX Royalties from sales of ZEFFIX for the year to December 31, 2005, were $30.5 million, an increase of 11% compared to 2004 $27.4 million, due to strong growth in the Japanese market and a small positive impact of foreign exchange movements.
Shire receives royalties from GSK on worldwide ZEFFIX sales.
GSKs worldwide sales of ZEFFIX for the year to December 31, 2005, were $266 million, an increase of 11% compared to prior year 2004: $240 million.
Other Other royalties are primarily in respect of REMINYL and REMINYL XL now marketed as RAZADYNE and RAZADYNE ER in the US, a product marketed worldwide by Janssen Pharmaceutical N. V. Janssen, an affiliate of Johnson & Johnson, with the exception of the UK and the Republic of Ireland where Shire acquired the exclusive marketing rights from May 2004.
Sales of the REMINYL RAZADYNE range, for the symptomatic treatment of mild to moderately severe dementia of the Alzheimers type, are growing well in the Alzheimers market.
On April 11, 2005, Ortho-McNeil Neurologics Inc. Janssens US affiliate company announced that REMINYL would be marketed in the US under the new product name of RAZADYNE.
Subsequently, in the US, REMINYL XL was launched as RAZADYNE ER.
Ortho-McNeil Neurologics Inc. worked closely with the FDA on a name change following dispensing errors in the US between REMINYL and the Type 2 diabetes mellitus drug known as AMARYL.
Shire is only aware of one similar dispensing error outside the US.
On March 1, 2005, NICE in England and Wales issued an Appraisal Consultation Document ACD.
This document included a recommendation that all existing approved products for the symptomatic treatment of mild-to-moderate Alzheimers Disease in England and Wales should no longer be reimbursed by the National Health Service NHS when used in the treatment of new patients.
The recommendation potentially affected sales of REMINYL and of REMINYL XL in England and Wales.
An amended ACD was issued by NICE on January 23, 2006.
The new ACD recommends that REMINYL and REMINYL XL, together with other drugs in the same class, be reimbursed by the NHS when used for the treatment of either i patients with existing Alzheimers Disease already being treated with one of these drugs: or ii newly diagnosed patients once their disease has progressed to a moderate stage.
Therefore the current recommendation excludes the reimbursement of treatment for patients presenting with mild symptoms of Alzheimers Disease for which REMINYL and REMINYL XL are approved.
A final appraisal document is expected from NICE in July 2006.
Cost of product sales For the year to December 31, 2005, the cost of product sales amounted to 16% of product sales 2004: 13%.
The decrease in gross margin is primarily due to the addition of REPLAGAL to Shires product portfolio following the acquisition of TKT.
REPLAGALs cost of product sales relates entirely to the acquired inventories, which in accordance with US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP, have been accounted for at fair value, estimated to be 97% of the expected sales price of REPLAGAL.
Accordingly, little or no margin will be reflected for REPLAGAL sales until all acquired finished goods have been sold anticipated Q3 2006.
For the year to December 31, 2005 the cost of product sales for REPLAGAL includes a $41.9 million adjustment in respect of the acquired inventory of which $39.8 million related to sales of acquired finished goods and $2.1 million was a write-off of damaged work-in-process.
In 2005, this fair value adjustment increased Shires cost of product sales by 3%.
48 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 49 R&D R&D expenditure increased from $196.3 million in the year to December 31, 2004 to $336.2 million in 2005.
Expressed as a percentage of total revenues, R&D expenditure was 21% for the year to December 31, 2005 2004: 14%.
The increase was primarily due to: the initial payment to New River of $50 million for in-licensing NRP104, which has been expensed in accordance with the Companys accounting policy: and the addition of two significant R&D projects following the acquisition of TKT ELAPRASE and GA-GCB.
The New River payment and the R&D expenditure on ELAPRASE and GA-GCB represented 5% of R&D expenditure as a percentage of revenues.
Shires pipeline is now well advanced with seven projects in late-stage development or registration.
Selling, general and administrative SG&A expenses Total SG&A costs increased from $516.6 million in the year to December 31, 2004, to $705.6 million in the year to December 31, 2005, an increase of 37%.
As a percentage of product sales, SG&A expenses were 53% 2004: 46%.
2005 2004 Change Year to December 31, $ million $ million % Sales costs 181.8 141.5 28 Marketing costs 252.2 175.9 43 Other SG&A costs 197.2 140.7 40 631.2 458.1 38 i Depreciation and amortization 74.4 58.5 27 Total SG&A costs 705.6 516.6 37 i Excludes depreciation from manufacturing plants of $3.5 million 2004: $2.7 million which is included in cost of product sales.
SG&A expenses increased from $458.1 million in the year to December 31, 2004, to $631.2 million in 2005, an increase of 38%.
As a percentage of product sales, these expenses were 48% 2004: 41%.
This increase was expected, with additional costs attributable to four product launches during 2005, together with incremental costs in 2005 associated with the new FOSRENOL and EQUETRO sales forces, patent litigation and infrastructure, $24.5 million of SG&A costs related to the acquired TKT business and $4.5 million related to the set up of the new listed holding company for the Shire Group.
The depreciation charge for the year to December 31, 2005, was $29.2 million 2004: $19.8 million, which in 2005 included property, plant and equipment write-downs of $6.5 million 2004: $1.6 million.
Amortization charges, including the amortization on acquired products, were $45.2 million for the year to December 31, 2005 2004: $38.7 million.
Intangible asset impairments The charge for intangible asset impairments for the year to December 31, 2005 was $5.6 million 2004: $13.5 million.
The approval of generic versions of AGRYLIN in April 2005 and the decision not to support and promote certain non-core products going forward resulted in changes to the estimate of the Companys future cash flows and, as a result, impairments were required in both 2005 and 2004.
Reorganization costs 2005 2004 Year to December 31, $ million $ million Employee severance 1.6 20.0 Relocation costs 13.8 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 1.2 Consultancy costs 0.5 2.9 Duplicate facilities 7.2 5.1 Information technology costs 2.1 Other costs 3.4 9.3 48.5 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 49 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 50 Financial review As previously disclosed, the Company began a consolidation of its North American sites in 2004, with the aim of decreasing the number of sites from 16 to four, including the opening of a new US headquarters office in Wayne, Pennsylvania.
The Company recorded costs of $9.3 million in 2005 and $48.5 million in 2004 primarily associated with: severance costs relating to 137 employees: retention payments to key employees: relocation costs relating to 85 employees who relocated to Wayne, Pennsylvania: costs of duplicate facilities including lease exit costs : and other incremental costs associated with the site closures, such as legal, consultancy, the write-down of property, plant and equipment and information technology costs.
Following the closure of the Newport site in July 2005, the site consolidation is now complete and no further reorganization costs are expected.
Integration costs For the year to December 31, 2005, the Company incurred $9.7 million of costs associated with the integration of the TKT business into the Shire Group 2004: $nil.
This included retention payments for key staff of $7 million, information technology costs of $1 million and other costs of $1.7 million.
In-process R&D write-off During the year to December 31, 2005, as required by Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No.
4, Applicability of FASB Statement No.
2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method FIN 4, the Company wrote-off the portion of the TKT purchase price allocated to in-process research and development of $673 million.
This amount represents the value of those intangible assets acquired as part of the TKT acquisition, which at the time of acquisition had not been approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, including ELAPRASE and GA-GCB.
For the determination of the fair value of in-process research and development see Note 4 to the Companys consolidated financial statements on page 95.
Interest income For the year to December 31, 2005 the Company received interest income of $35.3 million 2004: $21.9 million.
The increase compared to 2004 is due to higher interest rates on the Companys US cash deposits which were partially offset by the interest foregone by the Company on the net payments of $1.1 billion made to date in respect of the acquisition of TKT.
Interest expense For the year to December 31, 2005 the Company incurred interest expense of $12 million 2004: $12.3 million.
In 2005, this expense included a $7.7 million provision for interest, which may be awarded by the court in respect of amounts due to former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock who have submitted written demands for appraisal of these shares see Note 27 to the Companys consolidated financial statements on page 120.
In addition, interest expense includes $1.2 million, relating to the costs of a bridging loan to finance the TKT acquisition and other interest related expenses of $3.1 million.
In 2004, interest expense included the write-off of $7.4 million of deferred debt acquisition costs arising on the issue of convertible loan notes in August 2001.
The write-off was required as a significant portion of the convertible loan notes were redeemed.
The $7.4 million represented the balance of these fees at the date of redemption in August 2004.
In addition, interest expense included a $4.2 million interest charge incurred prior to the redemption and $0.1 million of other interest-related expenses.
Other income expense, net 2005 2004 Year to December 31, $ million $ million Investment income 8.3 18.9 Write-down of non-current asset investments 2.0 15.4 Gain on sale of drug formulation business 3.6 Foreign exchange and other 0.3 Total 9.9 3.8 50 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 51 An important part of Shires business strategy is to protect its products For further details see Note 26 and Note 6 to the Companys consolidated financial statements on pages 120 and 97. and technologies through the use of patents, proprietary technologies and trademarks, to the extent available.
The Company intends The write-down in investments in 2005 and 2004 resulted from events to defend its intellectual property and as a result may need cash for funding litigation expenses incurred.
and circumstances that indicated there was an other-than-temporary impairment of investments and, accordingly, management recorded The Company ordinarily finances its activities through cash generated an impairment based on its assessment of fair value.
Further details are disclosed in Note 11 to the Companys consolidated financial from operating activities, private and public offerings of equity and debt securities and the proceeds of asset or investment disposals.
Multicurrency Revolving Facilities Agreement Investment income for 2005 included a $3.9 million realized gain on the sale of a portfolio investment 2004: $14.8 million.
In connection with the acquisition of TKT, Shire and certain members of the Shire Group entered into a Multicurrency Revolving Facilities Income taxes Agreement the Facilities Agreement with ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank plc The Companys effective tax rate for 2005 was negative 29% a tax charge of $92.1 million on losses from continuing operations and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc the Lenders on June 15, 2005.
The Facilities Agreement comprises two credit facilities: i a committed before income taxes and equity method investees of $320.9 million.
The significant difference from the prior-year effective tax rate multicurrency three-year revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount of $500 million Facility A and ii a committed 364 day revolving loan of 28% is due to the in-process research and development write-off of $673 million, which is not tax deductible.
facility in an aggregate amount of $300 million Facility B and together with Facility A, the Facilities.
Shire has agreed to act as guarantor As at December 31, 2005, the Company had deferred tax assets for any of its subsidiaries that borrow under the Facilities Agreement.
net of valuation allowances of $116.2 million 2004: $78.1 million.
The increase in deferred tax is primarily attributable to the acquisition Facility A may be used for general corporate purposes, including financing the purchase price and other costs with respect to the of TKT that resulted in a net deferred tax asset of $60.4 million being recorded in the opening day balance sheet, although part of the asset acquisition of TKT including refinancing TKTs existing indebtedness.
Facility B may be used only for financing certain milestone payments was subsequently realized in the post acquisition period.
Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable due under the agreement between Shire, and inter alia, New River Pharmaceuticals Inc. New River, dated January 31, 2005. income to utilize such assets.
Although realization of these assets is not assured, it is more likely than not that the amount recognized Facility A terminates on June 15, 2008, and Facility B terminates on will be realized.
See Note 29 to the Companys consolidated financial statements on page 121 for expiry dates of these tax losses.
At Shires request, the Lenders may agree to successive annual extensions of Facility B, but not beyond the maturity date of Equity in earnings losses of equity method investees Facility A. Alternatively, Shire has the right to draw Facility B or convert existing loans under Facility B into a term loan with the same maturity Net losses of $1 million were recorded for the year to December 31, 2005 2004: net earnings of $2.5 million.
This comprised earnings date as Facility A.
The availability of loans under each of the Facilities is subject to customary conditions, including the absence of of $5.3 million from the 50% share of the antiviral commercialization partnership with GSK in Canada 2004: $4.4 million, offset by the any defaults thereunder and the accuracy in all material respects of Shires representations and warranties contained therein.
Companys share of losses in the GeneChem and EGS Healthcare Funds of $6.3 million 2004: $1.9 million.
The Facilities include representations and warranties, covenants and Discontinued operations events of default, including requirements that Shires ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the Facilities Agreement not exceed 3.0 to 1 During the year to December 31, 2005 gains on disposition of the discontinued operations totaled $3.1 million.
This resulted from the and that the ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest be not less than 4.0 to 1, both in respect of the most recently ended fiscal year, and limitations finalization of the working capital agreement with ID Biomedical Inc. IDB, which was part of the sale of Shires vaccines business to on the creation of liens, disposal of assets, incurrence of indebtedness, making of loans and giving of guarantees.
As a result, a disputed amount, which had previously been provided for, was received and the corresponding provision Interest on loans under the Facilities will be payable on the last day was released.
of each interest period, which period may be one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire or as otherwise agreed with the Liquidity and capital resources General Lenders.
The interest rate on each loan for each interest period is the percentage rate per annum, which is the aggregate of the applicable The Companys funding requirements depend on a number of factors, including its development programs: corporate, business and product margin ranging from 0.35 to 0.65% per annum, depending on the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA, LIBOR, and mandatory cost, if any acquisitions: the level of resources required for the expansion of manufacturing and marketing capabilities as the product base expands: as calculated in accordance with Schedule 5 of the Facilities Agreement.
Shire shall also pay fees equal to 35% per annum of the increases in accounts receivable and inventory which may arise as sales levels increase: competitive and technological developments: applicable margin on available commitments under Facility A for the availability period applicable to Facility A and 20 per cent per annum the timing and cost of obtaining required regulatory approvals for new products: the timing and quantum of milestone payments of the applicable margin on available commitments under Facility B for the availability period applicable to Facility B in respect of the on collaborative projects: the timing of and quantum of tax and dividend payments: the timing and quantum of purchases of Shire period prior to January 1, 2007, and 30% per annum of the applicable margin thereafter.
Interest on overdue amounts under the Facilities shares in the market to satisfy option exercises and the continuing cash generated from sales of Shires key products.
will accrue at a rate, which is one percent higher than the rates otherwise applicable to the loans under the Facilities.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 51 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 52 Financial review Upon a change of control of Shire or upon the occurrence of an event of default and the expiration of any applicable cure period, the total commitments under the Facilities may be cancelled, all or part of the loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued or outstanding may be immediately due and payable and all or part of the loans may become payable on demand.
Events of default under the Facilities include: i non-payment of any amounts due under the Facilities, ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any of the finance documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults under other financial indebtedness, v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition of the Group, vii certain ERISA breaches which would have a material adverse effect, viii change of control of a subsidiary of Shire that is a party to the Facilities Agreement, or ix if it becomes illegal for Shire or any of its subsidiaries that are parties to the Facility Agreement to perform their obligations or they repudiate the Facilities Agreement or any Finance Document as defined in the Facilities Agreement.
The Facilities Agreement is governed by English law.
As at December 31, 2005, the Company had not drawn-down on these facilities.
Shire anticipates that its operating cash flow together with available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and the above mentioned debt facility will be sufficient to meet its anticipated future operating expenses, outstanding costs related to the acquisition of TKT, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases and debt service and lease obligations as they become due over the next 12 months.
If the Company decides to acquire other businesses, it expects to fund these acquisitions from existing cash resources, the debt facility discussed above and possibly through new borrowings and or the issue of new equity if necessary.
Sources and uses of cash The following table provides an analysis of the Companys gross and net cash funds as at December 31, 2005 and 2004: 2005 2004 Change December 31, $000 $000 % Cash and cash equivalents 656,456 1,111,477 41% Short-term investments 6,947 324,411 98% Gross cash funds 663,403 1,435,888 54% Total debt 116 116 Net cash funds 663,287 1,435,772 54% Cash flow activity Net cash provided by operating activities for the year to December 31, 2005 was $381.1 million, a decrease of $107.6 million compared to the previous year.
The reduction in cash generation is primarily due to the operating losses of the acquired TKT business, the $50 million payment to New River and the timing of working capital payments.
Net cash used in investing activities was $836.4 million in the year to December 31, 2005.
Decreases in short-term investments of $366.7 million along with proceeds of $60 million from the redemption by IDB of its subscription receipts and the receipt from IDB of additional proceeds from the sale of the vaccines business of $32.2 million, offset cash paid on the purchase of TKT net of cash and cash equivalents acquired of $1,151.5 million, loans made to IDB of $43.2 million see Note 6 to the Companys consolidated financial statements on page 97, capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment of $86.2 million and intangible assets of $20.5 million.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment included $23.3 million leasehold building improvements, $16.3 million on computer equipment and $3.1 million on furniture and fittings for the new Shire US headquarters at Wayne, Pennsylvania, $10.6 million on IT projects, $5.4 million on the expansion and refurbishment at the Basingstoke Head Office, $3.2 million of plant equipment and $15.9 million on the expansion and modification at Shire US Manufacturing Inc. in the US.
Capital expenditure on intangible assets included the final payment for the acquisition of the exclusive commercialization rights to REMINYL in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Net cash provided by financing activities was $9.6 million for the year to December 31, 2005.
This was primarily due to inflows of $37.1 million from the exercise of employee stock options being offset by the dividend payments of $28.5 million in respect of the six months to December 31, 2004 and the six months to June 30, 2005.
The total cash consideration for the acquisition of TKT is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, subject to change as may be required by the appraisal rights process.
As at December 31, 2005, shareholders owning approximately 24.8 million TKT shares had accepted the offer and $916.9 million had been paid to them, $83.9 million was paid in connection with TKT stock options and $170.1 million in connection with convertible notes, outstanding at the date of acquisition.
Following the exercise of appraisal rights by former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock, the remaining $419.9 million, together with any interest that the Court may award, will be paid to them subject to the appraisal process outlined in Note 27 to the Companys consolidated financial statements on page 120.
For every $1 increase decrease in the merger consideration applicable to those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights, the total estimated purchase price would increase decrease by approximately $11.3 million.
52 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 53 As a result of the acquisition of TKT, cash balances have been significantly reduced.
Interest receivable has increased as increases in US interest rates have more than offset the impact of the reduced cash balances.
The average cash balances pre-acquisition and post-acquisition of TKT for 2005 were $1.5 billion and $0.6 billion respectively.
Outstanding letters of credit As at December 31, 2005, the Company had irrevocable standby letters of credit with Barclays Bank plc in the amount of $15 million providing security on the recoverability of insurance claims and Bank of America in the amount of $7.9 million, providing security on the payment of lease obligations.
Cash requirements Aggregate contractual obligations As at December 31, 2005 the Companys contractual obligations were as follows: Payments due by period Less than More than Total 1 year 13 years 35 years 5 years Contractual obligations $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Long-term debt 116 116 i Operating leases 165,599 26,110 51,457 38,016 50,016 ii Purchase obligations 81,401 69,733 11,668 Other long-term liabilities iii reflected on the balance sheet 491,244 461,029 30,187 28 Total  Notes i The Company leases certain properties, motor vehicles and equipment under operating leases expiring through 2025.
During the year to December 31, 2005 the Company signed a 20-year operating lease on a property in the Republic of Ireland and acquired certain operating leases with its acquisition of TKT.
ii Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders.
Shire expects to fund the following commitments with cash flows from operations: Clinical testing As at December 31, 2005, the Company had committed to pay approximately $16.3 million to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
The timing of payments is not reasonably certain as payments are dependent upon actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrolment levels and related activities.
However, the Company currently expects to pay $13.2 million for these commitments throughout 2006 as ongoing trials are completed and the remainder in 2007.
Contract manufacturing As at December 31, 2005 the Company had committed to pay approximately $23.1 million in respect of contract manufacturing over the next 12 months.
Interests in companies and partnerships As at December 31, 2005, the Company had outstanding commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts totalling $25.2 million 2004: $22 million of which $9.9 million is committed in 2006 and a further $2.9 million could be payable in 2006, depending on the timing of capital calls.
Manufacturing facilities At December 31, 2005 the Company had committed a total of $6.1 million to the expansion and modification of its manufacturing facilities at Owings Mills, Maryland and Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Of this total, $3.2 million is to facilitate the production and packaging of additional strategic products and $2.9 million is for the design and construction of a technology centre at Owings Mills.
All costs are expected to be incurred in 2006.
Basingstoke, UK expansion The Company is in the process of expanding its UK headquarters at Basingstoke, UK.
As at December 31, 2005, the Company had an outstanding commitment of $4.5 million, which is expected to be incurred in 2006.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 53 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 54 Financial review iii Other liabilities reflected on the balance sheet include: Off-balance sheet arrangements There are no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are TKT shareholders asserting appraisal rights reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on the Companys As at December 31, 2005, appraisal rights had been asserted in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, respect of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock.
liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material As at December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a liability of to investors.
$419.9 million based on the merger consideration of $37 per share for the 11.3 million shares outstanding at that time plus a provision Foreign currency fluctuations for interest of $7.7 million that may be awarded by the court see Note A number of operating units in the Group have functional currencies 26 to the consolidated financial statements on page 120.
Until such other than the US Dollar.
As such, the consolidated financial results time as the appraisal process is complete the Company is unable are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly those between to determine the extent of its liability.
For every $1 increase decrease the US Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Pound Sterling, Euro and Swedish in the merger consideration applicable to those TKT shareholders Krona.
The accumulated foreign currency translation differences who have asserted appraisal rights, the total estimated purchase of $62.2 million are reported within accumulated other comprehensive price would increase decrease by approximately $11.3 million.
income in the consolidated balance sheet and $1.4 million expense is reported in other income on the consolidated income statement.
The contractual obligations table above does not include payments yet to fall due upon the occurrence of certain milestones and other As at December 31, 2005, the Company had five outstanding forward contractual commitments.
The most significant payments are foreign exchange contracts with a total principal amount equivalent as follows: to $206 million to manage the currency risk associated with certain inter-company loans.
DAYTRANA In connection with the Companys acquisition in 2003 from Noven Concentration of credit risk of the worldwide sales and marketing rights to DAYTRANA, Shire The Companys revenues from product sales are mainly derived from has an obligation to make certain payments on the achievement of the agreements with major pharmaceutical companies and relationships following milestones: $50 million upon FDA approval of the product, with pharmaceutical wholesale distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
which will be capitalized and amortized over its useful economic life: Such clients typically have significant cash resources and as such and up to $75 million, linked to future sales performance.
An approvable the risk is considered minimal.
The Company has taken positive steps letter was received from the FDA on December 23, 2005.
Final to manage any credit risk associated with these transactions.
Shire regulatory approval was received from the FDA on April 6, 2006. operates clearly defined credit evaluation procedures.
For the year to December 31, 2005, there were three customers in the US who NRP104 accounted for 69% of the Companys total revenues.
In connection with the Companys collaboration with New River to commercialize NRP104, the Company has an obligation to make certain Financial instruments that potentially expose Shire to concentrations payments on the achievement of the following milestones: $50 million of credit risk consist primarily of short-term cash investments and upon the FDAs acceptance of filing of the NDA: up to $300 million trade accounts receivable.
Excess cash is invested in short-term following the first commercial sale of the product, depending on the money market instruments, including bank and building society term characteristics of the approved product labeling: $100 million on deposits, commercial paper and other debt securities from a variety achieving a significant sales target: and $5 million following the first of companies with strong credit ratings.
These investments typically commercial sale in certain specified EU markets.
An upfront payment bear minimal risk.
of $50 million was expensed as an R&D cost during the first quarter of 2005.
The NDA for NRP104 was filed on December 6, 2005 and Inflation accepted for review by the FDA on January 26, 2006, triggering the Although at reduced levels in recent years, inflation continues to apply $50 million milestone payment, which has now been paid.
upward pressure on the cost of goods and services which are used in the business.
However, the Company believes that the net effect of FOSRENOL patent rights inflation on its operations has been minimal during the past three years.
In connection with the Companys purchase of the global patents for FOSRENOL from AnorMED Inc. in 2004, the Company has outstanding Treasury policies and organization commitments to pay AnorMED Inc. $6 million when FOSRENOL The Companys principal treasury operations are co-ordinated by is approved in certain European countries and $6 million upon receipt its corporate treasury function, which is based in the UK.
All treasury of regulatory approval in Japan.
operations are conducted within a framework of policies and procedures approved by the Board.
As a matter of policy, the Other R&D commitments Company does not undertake speculative transactions that would As at December 31, 2005, the Company had commitments of increase its currency or interest rate exposure.
$18 million on achievement of specified milestones from products under development in licensed from third parties of which $6.6 million is committed to be paid in 2006.
54 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Review 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:54 Page 55 As a matter of English law, Shire may pay dividends only out of its The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing the risks and they are summarized below: distributable profits, which are the accumulated realized profits under generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom Interest rate risk including reserves arising from a reduction of share capital, of Shire plc and not the consolidated Group, so far as not previously As at December 31, 2005, the Company has no material debt outstanding.
Therefore the Companys interest charge on its debt utilized by distribution or capitalization, less accumulated realized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or obligations is low and consequently the Companys interest expense charge has limited exposure to interest rate movements.
The Company reorganization of capital duly made.
is exposed to movements in interest rates affecting interest income.
This exposure is primarily to US Dollar interest rates.
As the Company On November 28, 2005, the High Court of Justice in England and Wales approved a reduction of Shires share capital to take effect on maintains all of its investments on a short-term basis for liquidity purposes this risk is not actively managed.
November 29, 2005, when the nominal value of each Shire ordinary share was reduced from 3.50 to 0.05.
This reduction increased the In the year to December 31, 2005, the average interest rate received distributable reserves available to Shire to approximately $2.95 billion, which the Directors of Shire can utilize for future dividend payments on cash and liquid investments was approximately 2.90% per annum.
The largest proportion of investments was in US Dollar money market at their discretion.
As a result of this capital reduction, as at December 31, 2005, Shire had distributable profits of $2,946 million.
Future dividend policy will Foreign exchange risk The Company is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates be dependent upon distributable profits, financial condition, the terms of any then existing debt facilities and other relevant factors existing against the US Dollar for trading transactions and the translation of net assets, liabilities and earnings of non-US subsidiaries.
trading currencies of the Company are the US Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, Pounds Sterling, the Euro and Swedish Krona.
The consolidated financial statements of foreign entities are translated using the accounting policies described in Note 3 to the Companys consolidated financial statements on page 86.
Angus Russell The exposure to foreign exchange risk is managed and monitored by the treasury function.
Exposures are generally managed through natural hedging via the currency denomination of cash balances.
As at December 31, 2005 the Company had five outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with a total principal amount of $206 million equivalent to manage the currency risk associated with certain inter-company loans.
As at December 31, 2005 there were net unrealized gains of $2.6 million on these contracts.
Market risk of investments As at December 31, 2005, the Company has $50.2 million of investments comprising equity investment funds, private companies and publicly-quoted equities.
The public-quoted companies are exposed to market risk.
No financial instruments or derivatives have been employed to hedge this risk.
Dividend policy An interim dividend for the first half of 2005 of 1.8246 1.0475p per ordinary share equivalent to 5.4738 per ADS and 6.7629 Canadian per exchangeable share was paid in October 2005.
The Board has resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 4.419 2.5356p per ordinary share equivalent to 13.257 per ADS and 15.2217 Canadian per exchangeable share for the six months to December 31, 2005.
This is consistent with Shires stated policy of paying a dividend semi-annually, set in US cents per share ADS, with the first interim payment in each year being maintained at a consistent level.
Any growth will come through increasing the second interim dividend in a financial year.
Shire intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 55 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:56 Page 56 Nomination Committee report Directors remuneration report The members of the Nomination Committee as at December 31, 2005 Introduction were Dr James Cavanaugh Chairman, Mr Ronald Nordmann, The This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A Hon James Grant and Dr Barry Price.
A majority of the Committee has to the Companies Act 1985 and complies with the Combined Code been determined by Shires Board to be Independent Non-executive on Corporate Governance.
The report also meets the relevant Directors for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Dr James requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority Cavanaugh is the Chairman of the Company and in this capacity and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to is not considered to be independent under the Combined Code.
Directors remuneration under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
at which the financial statements will be approved.
The Act requires The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee require it, before the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of any appointment is made, to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge the Directors remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion and experience on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, to identify these parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance the capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee with the Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore been divided utilizes the services of professional search agencies specializing in the into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
recruitment of high calibre candidates.
The Committee is required to consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, on merit and Unaudited information against objective criteria.
It is also required to ensure that candidates Dear Shareholder, have sufficient time to devote to the position.
The Committee also Directors remuneration monitors succession planning to the Board and oversees succession During the year ended December 31, 2005 the Remuneration Committee planning for senior management.
continued its work, on behalf of the Board, on Directors remuneration.
During 2005, the Committee made recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Mr Patrick Langlois and the reappointment During the past two years, the Company has implemented a business of Mr Nordmann.
strategy and model focused on identifying, developing and marketing pharmaceuticals in targeted therapeutic areas for diseases treated New Non-executive Directors receive a customized induction process by specialist physicians.
Moving to this model has required the sale taking account of their particular experience and backgrounds.
of non-core businesses and site consolidation, as well as a major internal This process includes meetings with senior management.
reorganization to fully integrate and align key functions and staff on a global, therapy area and market basis.
As part of the reorganization, The Committee met three times during 2005.
All members were present the Company has established a new US headquarters office in Wayne, at the meetings.
Pennsylvania where the majority of our senior executives are based.
In addition, the Company has recently completed the acquisition of TKT, which is based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
The Company operates in a competitive multinational environment.
In 2005, approximately 90% of the Companys revenues were generated and 80% of its employees were based outside the UK.
Indeed most Dr James Cavanaugh of the Companys revenues are generated in the US and the majority Chairman of the Nomination Committee of its employees and most of its senior executives are based in the US.
The importance of our US business to the continuing growth of your Company, coupled with the fact that most of our senior executives are based in the US, presents the Committee with particular challenges.
Key elements of our remuneration package, including long-term incentive arrangements, have been in place for five years or more and, over this time, the Company has grown and changed significantly.
As a result of both the growth and development of the Company and the competitive operating environment, the Committee reviewed senior executive remuneration during 2005 and conducted a competitive benchmarking study.
On the basis of, and consistent with, data from the study, the Committee modified the remuneration policy and proposed a number of changes to remuneration including the introduction of a new share plan to replace Shires existing plans and amendments to the annual incentive plan.
The Committee conducted a consultation process with major shareholders regarding the proposed programs and made changes to its proposals consistent with shareholder feedback.
These are described within this report.
The Remuneration Committee is committed to a continuing dialogue with shareholders and we take account of your views.
We hope that this report provides helpful context and explanation about the policies and practical considerations that influence our decisions.
Dr Barry Price Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 56 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:56 Page 57 Directors remuneration report The Remuneration Committee share-based compensation is a key element of the Companys The Remuneration Committee is responsible for all elements of the remuneration policy as it aligns the interests of the Companys executive Directors remuneration, as well as their performance executives with the interests of its shareholders.
of compensation also utilizes a blended US UK market comparison to determine face value of awards to executive Directors: The constitution of the Committee was reviewed in 2004 and changes were made to ensure compliance with the Combined Code.
The benefits programs are locally competitive and provide for the Company considers all members of the Committee to be independent.
welfare and well-being of our employees and their families: The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer attend the Committee currently aims for variable compensation meetings of the Committee at its invitation, but neither is involved to represent over two-thirds of total remuneration: and in any decisions relating to their own remuneration.
the Committee believes that executive Directors should be The members of the Remuneration Committee during 2005 were: encouraged to own shares in the Company in order to ensure the alignment of their interests with those of the Companys Dr Barry Price, the Senior Independent Director of the Company shareholders.
Share ownership guidelines became effective and Chairman of the Committee: in 2006.
Mr Robin Buchanan, an Independent Non-executive Director: and The remuneration package The main elements of the remuneration package for executive Mr Ronald Nordmann, an Independent Non-executive Director.
Directors and senior management are: Details of the number of Committee meetings in 2005 and the 1 Base salary attendance at those meetings is set out in the section headed Corporate Governance Statements.
2 Annual Incentive Plan a Cash component The Remuneration Committee was materially assisted in 2005 by Mrs b Share component Anita Graham, EVP Global Human Resources.
The following external advisers were appointed by and materially assisted the Committee: 3 Long-term Incentives c Share options Towers Perrin who provided advice in relation to executive Directors d Long-term Incentive Plan remuneration and the design and operation of the Companys share e Portfolio Share Plan incentive schemes: 4 Pension and other benefits Deloitte & Touche LLP who also provided audit and tax services to the Company who provided data and advice on the design and The share component under the Annual Incentive Plan, and the operation of the Companys incentive schemes: and Portfolio Share Plan, were introduced as a result of the remuneration review in 2005.
The 2005 annual incentive therefore did not contain a Slaughter and May, who provided general legal advice to the share component.
Going forward, the Portfolio Share Plan will replace Company.
the previous Share Option and Long-term Incentive Plans, and no further awards will be made under these plans.
Executive remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee considers that an effective remuneration 1 Salary policy, aligned to the Companys business needs, is important to the The Remuneration Committee reviews salaries annually.
It directly impacts the Companys ability to recruit, and early 2005 the Committee undertook a competitive review of the retain and motivate high caliber executives who deliver sustained Companys executive remuneration programs and practices, including value to shareholders and build the Company for long-term success.
base salary benchmarks and levels.
Based on the competitive analysis the Committee determined that the correct comparator group is a blend The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing, reviewing of US and UK companies with sector, size, complexity and international and overseeing the implementation of the Companys compensation characteristics similar to those of the Company.
Where appropriate, and benefits policy.
The Remuneration Committee regularly monitors the competitive review included a detailed analysis to align these the effectiveness of the policy and reviews this policy based on characteristics to best represent the Companys operating position.
independent analysis and advice, an understanding of the business drivers and competitive environment in which the Company operates As part of its normal annual salary review process, the Committee and ongoing dialogue with shareholders.
conducts a review of a range of factors such as competitive market data provided by independent external consultants, US and UK The Companys executive compensation and benefits policy market conditions, performance-related pay increases across the is based on the following principles: Company and individual skills, performance and results achieved.
The Remuneration Committees policy is for salary to be targeted base pay is market driven utilizing a blended US UK market at or around the median of the blend of US UK comparators, with comparison, and is targeted at or around the median relative appropriate differentiation based upon skills and experience as well to the comparison: as individual performance.
Based on this review, salaries for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer were increased the Annual Incentive Plan is performance-based and is linked to 5% and 4% effective January 1, 2006, respectively, to $1,103,017 the achievement of an appropriate mix of corporate and individual denominated in $ and 372,120 $677,630 equivalent based performance targets.
The Annual Incentive Plan allows the Company on the average exchange rates prevailing in 2005.
These increases to measure and reward progress against its strategic goals and are in line with increases provided to the Companys employees.
is closely tied to delivery of sustained shareholder value: Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 57 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:56 Page 58 Directors remuneration report 2 Annual Incentive Plan Target Maximum Weighting of target incentive incentive incentive objectives Shire operates an Annual Incentive Plan which rewards executive as a % as a % Director performance dependent on achievement of pre-defined Board of salary of salary Corporate Individual approved corporate objectives and Committee approved individual Mr Matthew Emmens objectives.
The Company implemented the Balanced Scorecard to set Chief Executive Officer 65% 115% 80% 20% corporate objectives in 2005.
The Scorecard organizes corporate objectives into all areas that drive the success of the business: financial, Mr Angus Russell products and markets, people and capabilities, and operational Chief Financial Officer 55% 100% 70% 30% effectiveness.
The incentive payments awarded to each executive Director for 2005 At the start of the year corporate objectives are set by the Board for reflect the corporate and individual achievements and amounted to each area of the Scorecard.
These objectives apply to all employees 115% of salary for Mr Emmens and 70% of salary for Mr Russell.
participating in the Companys Annual Incentive Plan and include a description of the objective and key performance indicators KPI, These incentive awards are consistent with the overall performance including targets and deadlines.
Awards under the Plan are made only of the Company in 2005, which included: when exacting levels of performance specified by the KPI have been achieved.
Objectives measured by the Companys financial revenue growth of 17%: performance are assessed on the Companys results, as reported in the Companys Form 10-K under US GAAP.
the acquisition of TKT: The detailed objectives and performance standards contain the in-licensing acquisition co-promotion of four new products commercially sensitive information and therefore are not detailed here.
NRP104, ELAPRASE, DYNEPO, GA-GCB : However, some of the objectives are summarized below according to the four Scorecard areas for 2005: the launch of four new products FOSRENOL, EQUETRO, XAGRID, PENTASA 500mg : 1 Financial a Growth in revenue and net income: highly successful achievement of R&D milestones including the filing b Revenue growth tied to the acquisition of new products: of MESAVANCE and ELAPRASE in the US and the reinstatement b M&A and divestiture targets.
of ADDERALL XR in Canada: and 2 Products markets the highly successful implementation of other Scorecard objectives a Product launches: focused on the continuing growth of the Company.
b Key R&D milestones such as submissions and approvals: b Product pipeline growth progression and in-licensing acquisition.
Changes to the Annual Incentive Plan for 2006 following the remuneration review and subsequent consultation with shareholders 3 People and capabilities As part of the remuneration review and following consultation with a Development of capabilities in areas of core competence: the Companys major shareholders and investor bodies including b The staffing and development of our people: operationalizing the ABI and RREV, the Committee proposed some changes to the new US headquarters.
4 Operational effectiveness As described in last years remuneration report, in 2005, the Company a Global product development targets: ceased the matching share portion of the Plan by discontinuing the b Risk management, compliance initiatives and operational Deferred Bonus Plan.
For the financial year 2006, a restricted share excellence targets.
element has been added to the Plan, so the Plan effectively has two components: a cash component and a share component.
Personal objectives are also set at the beginning of the year and are aligned with individual accountabilities for the development and The target cash incentive for the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief execution of plans to achieve corporate objectives in the current year Financial Officer remain respectively at the 2005 levels of 65% and 55% and build for the future success of the Company.
of salary and the maximum cash incentive amounts remain respectively 115% and 100% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee assesses performance against objectives in the first quarter of the following year.
Through 2005, the annual incentive is payable in cash and is not pensionable.
The target incentive is paid where executive Directors have fully achieved their individual objectives and the corporate objectives have been met in full.
The maximum incentive is paid when the Remuneration Committee determines that individual and or corporate performance has been exceptional.
Maximum incentive payments for 2005 were capped at 115% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
58 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:56 Page 59 Directors remuneration report The new restricted share element will be set as follows: for the Chief The 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme, which was approved by Executive Officer, the target restricted share element is 20% and the shareholders in 2000, contained an unlimited retesting feature from the maximum restricted share element is 65%.
For the Chief Financial date of grant.
The Remuneration Committee decided, after consultation Officer, the target restricted share element is 15% and the maximum with some of the Companys major institutional shareholders in 2003, restricted share element is 55%.
Awards of restricted shares will be that for options granted under the scheme from 2004 onwards, the made in the same manner as awards of cash under the Plan, utilizing performance condition should be retested once only, five years after the the same operational objectives and measures per Companys grant and then only where Shires EPS growth has not met the minimum Balanced Scorecard and individual objectives.
The levels of target and level of performance over the first three years.
The level of EPS growth maximum restricted shares have been set to be competitive in both over the five-year period needs to be commensurately higher to meet the UK and US and to enable Shire to operate a common framework for the retest.
the senior executive team irrespective of location.
The restricted share element is earned at the same time as the cash portion of the incentive, The new Portfolio Share Plan does not allow re-testing.
but is deferred for three years.
As discussed with the Companys major shareholders and investor bodies, this restricted share element is taken The table below sets out the share options that were granted to into account for the purposes of determining competitive levels of executive Directors during 2005. share-based and total compensation.
The table below compares the Number of previous and the new Annual Incentive Plan structure.
Executive Director and ordinary Exercise share option scheme Date of grant Shares Price New Annual Incentive Plan Mr Matthew Emmens Previous Annual Incentive Plan cash plus 2000 Executive Scheme May 2005 295,000 5.585 cash only restricted shares Mr Angus Russell Target Maximum Target Maximum 2000 Executive Scheme May 2005 195,000 5.585 incentive incentive incentive incentive as a % as a % as a % as a % of salary of salary of salary of salary Details of the Companys share option schemes are set out in Note 31 Mr Matthew Emmens 65% cash 115% cash to the consolidated financial statements.
Performance conditions Chief Executive Officer 65% 115% 20% shares 65% shares attaching to previous executive option grants are detailed in the audited section of this Report.
Mr Angus Russell 55% cash 100% cash Chief Financial Officer 55% 100% 15% shares 55% shares b Long-term Incentive Plan The Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP was adopted at the Companys 3 Long-term Incentives 1998 Annual General Meeting and amended in 2000.
Under the LTIP, a Share options the Remuneration Committee has discretion to make awards of shares During 2005, discretionary grants of share options under the subject to a maximum of 100% of salary a year.
Companys 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme were made to executive Directors to align their interests with those of shareholders The performance condition attached to the vesting of awards under and to promote sustained long-term Company performance.
The face the LTIP is Shires Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the value of annual option grants under the Scheme was capped at three FTSE 100 Index over a three-year period.
The Committee considers times salary.
In order for options to vest, stretching performance targets that this measure is a reliable and appropriate measure of the must be met.
For 2005 grants, the performance target is based on real Companys performance and that the FTSE 100 is an appropriate growth in diluted Earnings Per Share EPS as reported under US GAAP benchmark given that the Company is a member of the Index.
adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back of significant Under the LTIP: one time items.
all shares vest if Shires TSR is in the top 10% of the FTSE 100: The earnings per share based measure was introduced in 2002 following consultation with major institutional shareholders and, during the course 20% of the shares vest if Shires TSR is at the median of the FTSE of the consultation process, the performance test for executive Directors 100, with vesting between these points on a linear basis: and options was toughened compared to that for other employees.
no shares vest if Shires TSR is below the median of the FTSE 100.
The minimum performance required in order for executive Directors options to vest is that Shires EPS grows by 15% in excess of the Retail The Remuneration Committee determines whether and to what extent Price Index RPI or 5% on average a year in the three years following the performance condition has been met on the basis of data provided the date of grant.
In the case of an annual grant of options worth three by an independent third party.
To date, all awards made under the times salary, Shires EPS must grow by 21% in excess of RPI or on LTIP have been made as a conditional allocation, thereby allowing, average 7% a year in the three years following the date of grant for all at the Remuneration Committees discretion, for a cash equivalent the options to vest.
to be paid on maturity of the award.
Whilst the performance period is measured over three years, an award is normally transferred after Options with a value the fourth anniversary of grant, to the extent the performance condition on grant as a % of salary Three-year EPS growth has been met.
Up to 100% RPI plus 15% for executive Directors RPI plus 9% for all other employees 101% to 200% RPI plus 15% 201% to 300% RPI plus 21% The Portfolio Share Plan has replaced both the 2000 Executive Over 301% of salary RPI plus 27% Share Option Scheme and the Long-term Incentive Plan Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 59 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:56 Page 60 Directors remuneration report Directors were granted awards under the LTIP in 2005 as a conditional for the Chief Executive Officer, equivalent to approximately four allocation as defined in the LTIP, as follows: times base salary in SARs and three times base salary in PSPs: and Earliest date for the Chief Financial Officer, equivalent to approximately on which 2.2 times base salary in SARs and 1.6 times base salary in PSPs.
Value of an award conditional Total can be award at number of transferred Performance criteria Date of grant date ordinary to a Awards under the Plan will normally vest on the third anniversary i award $ shares Director of the date of grant.
In the case of executive Directors, awards will only vest if the Committee determines that the performance Mr Matthew Emmens May 2005 1,024,504 97,468 May 2009 conditions have been satisfied and that, in the opinion of the Mr Angus Russell May 2005 664,486 63,217 May 2009 Committee, the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award.
i Translated from into $ at the average exchange rate during May 2005.
Performance criteria will be based on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR measured against two comparator groups.
Vesting of one-third c The New Portfolio Share Plan of an Award will depend upon the Companys performance relative to the TSR performance of FTSE 100 constituents, excluding financial As part of the remuneration review, the Committee proposed a number of changes to existing equity plans.
Following consultation with the institutions.
The vesting of the remaining two-thirds of an Award will depend upon the Companys performance relative to the Companys major shareholders and investor bodies including the ABI and RREV the Committee made changes to its initial proposals TSR performance of a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector see below.
Vesting will be as follows: consistent with shareholder feedback and submitted the new Plan for shareholder vote in October 2005.
The Plan was approved by performance below the median versus the comparator companies an overwhelming majority of shareholders.
This new Plan, The Portfolio Share Plan the Plan, was adopted by the Companys shareholders and the FTSE 1000% vesting: on October 28, 2005.
This Plan replaces the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme and the Long-term Incentive Plan.
The Company will performance at median versus the comparator companies and the 1 FTSE 10033 3% vesting: and make no further awards to executive Directors or any other employee under the previous plans.
performance between median and upper quartile versus the The purpose of the Plan is to enable the Company to motivate comparator companies and the FTSE 100 straight-line vesting 1 from 33 3% to 100% for at or above upper quartile performance.
and reward its workforce by reference to share price performance, and to link the interests of participants with those of our shareholders.
The comparator group of international companies from the The Plan is designed to align the interests of selected employees of the Company with long-term value creation for shareholders.
Participation pharmaceutical sector will initially include the following companies: in the Plan is discretionary.
Under the Plan, awards granted to executive Directors will be subject to a performance target, which must, in normal Allergan, Altana, Biovail, Cephalon, Forest Labs, King, Kos, Lundbeck, Medicis, Novo Nordisk, Schering AG, Sepracor, Serono, UCB, circumstances, be met before the award vests.
Performance targets will normally be measured over a period of not less than three years.
Special rules apply in the event of the participants employment terminating early or on a change of control of the Company.
The Committee has the discretion to amend this group of companies to ensure that the group stays both relevant and representative: The Plan is split into two parts, which can be operated separately.
however, the change must not have the effect of making the performance criteria either materially easier or materially more difficult Under Part A of the Plan, Stock Appreciation Right SAR Awards to achieve, in the opinion of the Committee, than it was or they were immediately before the circumstance in question.
A SAR Award is the right to receive shares or ADSs in the Company linked to the increase in value of a specified number TSR performance will be measured using an averaging period of of shares over a period between three and five years from the date of grant and, in the case of executive Directors, subject to the three months.
In addition, the Committee will have regard to the same calculation using an averaging period of six months as part of a fairness satisfaction of performance targets.
SAR Awards will normally vest three years after the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction of review to ensure that vesting properly reflects underlying performance.
performance targets in the case of executive Directors, and can be exercised up until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
If the performance conditions are not met, awards will lapse.
Under Part B of the Plan, Performance Share PSP Awards can d The implementation of share ownership guidelines The Remuneration Committee believes that executive Directors and be granted.
A PSP Award is the right to receive a specified number of shares or ADSs three years from the date of grant.
In the case certain other members of senior management should be encouraged to own shares in the Company in order to ensure the alignment of their of executive Directors, performance targets must be satisfied before a PSP Award vests.
Upon vesting of the PSP Award, shares interests with those of the Companys shareholders.
The Committee discussed this matter with shareholders during its consultation process will be released to the participant automatically without any action on the part of the participant.
in 2005, and has developed share ownership guidelines which came into effect in 2006.
The Plan contains individual grant limits set at six times base salary for SAR awards in any one year and four times base salary for PSP awards in any one year.
It is the Companys intention for awards granted under the Plan to executive Directors to be comprised of either or both a SAR Award and a PSP Award.
For 2006, it is the Companys intention to provide grants to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer with face values calculated by reference to the average share price over the prior 12-month calendar period as follows: 60 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:56 Page 61 Directors remuneration report The Executive Share Ownership Guidelines are administered by the Service contracts Remuneration Committee and are based on the following principles: The Remuneration Committee continues to believe that executive Directors service contracts should be for a rolling term and, for UK the Committee believes that share ownership is an important contracts, incorporate notice periods of 12 months.
The Committee element of an executives role in running the Company and also believes that the Company should retain the right to make a represents both a commitment by the executive as well as an payment in lieu of notice to a Director.
The contracts contain obligations alignment of the executives interests with those of shareholders: on the executive Directors in respect of intellectual property, together with post-termination restrictions.
The Committees view is that, the Committee believes that share ownership by executives should in the event of early termination, executive Directors should be treated be strongly encouraged, but not mandated: fairly but paid no more than is necessary.
Moreover, there should be no element of reward for failure.
the Committee understands that, depending on personal and other circumstances, an executive may not be able to achieve the desired The executive Directors contracts of employment, which were revised level of share ownership: following consultation with some of the Companys major shareholders in 2003, are dated March 10, 2004 in the case of Mr Russell and the Committee believes that executives should understand the March 12, 2004 in the case of Mr Emmens.
Both agreements were importance of share ownership in the stewardship of the Company, revised on November 21, 2005 to provide for Shire plc being and both appropriate time and latitude will be provided to executives established as the new holding company for the Shire Group.
to achieve desired share ownership levels, where possible: and Mr Russells contract requires him to give the Company 12 months notice and expires on him reaching 65.
Mr Emmens contract requires share ownership levels will be reviewed annually for each executive.
him to give the Company six months notice and no age is specified for retirement.
The Company is required to give Mr Russell 12 months Executives are encouraged, within a five-year period following the notice of termination, other than if termination is for cause, whereas later of either the initiation of these guidelines, or their appointment it is not obliged to give Mr Emmens any notice.
If Mr Emmens contract or election, to attain and hold an investment position no less than the is terminated without cause the Company is required to pay him one multiples of base salary set forth below.
years salary and the cash equivalent of one years pension, car and other contractual benefits.
The following are the guideline share ownership levels for the executive Directors: In the event of termination of employment within twelve months of a change of control, the amount payable in respect of each Chief Executive: 2 x Base Salary of Mr Emmens and Mr Russell is one years salary and the cash equivalent of one years pension, car and other contractual benefits.
Chief Financial Officer: 1.5 x Base Salary Any incentive payable is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and is capped at the contractual maximum incentive.
All shares beneficially owned by an executive excluding unexercised vested Stock Options or SARs count towards achieving these guidelines.
The amount of incentive payable upon termination of employment in any other circumstances, other than for cause, is at the discretion The Remuneration Committee will review share ownership levels for of the Remuneration Committee and is capped at the contractual each executive on an annual basis.
The Committee will discuss with each target incentive.
executive Director their plans for share ownership on a regular basis: the Chief Executive Officer will discuss with each of the remaining executives Non-executive Directors and the Chairman their plans for share ownership on a regular basis.
Each Non-executive Director is paid a fee for serving as a Director and additional fees are paid for membership or chairmanship of the 4 Pension and other benefits Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Chairman The Companys policy is to ensure that pension benefits are competitive of the Company receives an inclusive fee.
Fees are determined by the in the markets in which Shire operates.
Shire contributes 30% of the Chief Board, with the exception of the Chairmans fee which is determined Executive Officers annual salary to a Supplemental Employee Retirement by the Remuneration Committee and confirmed by the Board.
Plan SERP and 401 k Plan in the US.
The SERP is an unfunded defined Fees are benchmarked against Non-executive Director fees of benefit scheme: the benefits are payable to certain senior US employees comparable companies.
The fees paid to Non-executive Directors as lump sums on leaving the Groups employment or earlier due to death, are not performance-related.
Details of fees paid to the Chairman and disability or termination.
The amount of benefit is based on the value of Non-executive Directors in 2005 are set out in the table on page 62. notional contributions adjusted for earned investment returns as if they were invested in investments of the employees choice.
The Non-executive Directors are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
In the UK, Shire operates a defined contribution scheme.
The Company contributes 25% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer to pension Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Company benefits.
The implications of the forthcoming UK pension tax reforms, share schemes or other employee benefit schemes and no options which become effective in 2006, will be considered during the course have been granted to Non-executive Directors in their capacity as of the year and the Committee will agree any policy changes necessary Non-executive Directors of Shire.
On the merger of Shire with BioChem in respect of the pension arrangements of the Chief Financial Officer Pharma Inc. in 2001, options were granted to The Hon James Grant and other UK executives.
in replacement for Mr Grants BioChem Pharma options.
The grant of these replacement options and the original BioChem Pharma option In addition to salary, the executive Directors receive certain benefits grant were made on the same terms as applied to other employees in kind, principally a car or car allowance, life insurance, private medical at the time, including that these options are not subject to any insurance and dental cover.
These benefits are not pensionable.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 61 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 62 Directors remuneration report Non-executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two The three-year graph tracks the TSR performance since the Company years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-executive Directors who started to implement its new strategic plan under new management.
have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed for one year terms and, in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Three-year historical TSR performance.
Change in Governance, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
value of a hypothetical 100 holding over three years.
Re-appointment of Non-executive Directors following the expiry 200 of their term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
180 Details of the unexpired terms of the letters of appointment and notice 160 periods are as follows: 140 Date of Date of Notice 120 Director appointment term expiry period 100 Dr James Cavanaugh 24.03.05 23.03.07 3 months 80 Dr Barry Price 25.01.06 24.01.07 3 months 60 The Hon James Grant 11.05.05 10.05.07 3 months 40 Mr Ronald Nordmann 23.12.05 22.12.06 3 months 20 Mr Robin Buchanan 30.07.05 29.07.07 3 months 0 Mr David Kappler 06.04.04 05.04.06 3 months 31.12.02 31.12.03 31.12.04 31.12.05 Mr Patrick Langlois 11.11.05 10.11.07 3 months Shire TSR Ex-financials FTSE 100 TSR The fee policy structure for Non-executive Directors, effective January 1, Comparator group TSR 2006, is presented in the table below.
Change in i 2006 Board membership annual basic fees value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years.
Chairman of the Board inclusive of all Committees 409,725 160 Senior Non-executive Director inclusive of NED fee 81,945 Non-executive Director 72,840 140 Committee membership fees 120 Audit Committee chair 36,420 Remuneration Committee chair 22,763 100 Nomination Committee chair 22,763 Audit Committee member 18,210 80 Remuneration Committee member 13,658 Nomination Committee member 9,105 60 40 i Denominated in sterling and translated into $ at the average exchange rate prevailing in 2005.
20 Related party transactions 0 Details of transactions relating to Dr James Cavanaugh, The Hon 31.12.00 31.12.01 31.12.02 31.12.03 31.12.04 31.12.05 James Grant, who is a partner of a Canadian law firm with which the Company incurred professional fees during the year and with Shire TSR Ex-financials FTSE 100 TSR Dr Francesco Bellini, a former Non-executive Director, are given Comparator group TSR in the Directors report on page 114.
Performance graph Other remuneration The graphs below set out the Total Shareholder Return TSR for the The Company believes there are benefits to executive Directors three and five years ending December 31, 2005.
The graphs compare participation at the Board level at other companies, including crossthe performance of a hypothetical 100 holding of the Companys industry and cross-company exposure and the added perspective shares with that of a holding of shares in the FTSE 100 index excluding of outside views.
It is therefore the Companys policy to allow executive financial institutions and with a holding in a group comprised of the Directors to take up Non-executive positions at other companies and following pharma companies: Novo Nordisk, Schering AG, Serono, retain associated earnings as long as such appointments are expressly Altana, UCB, Lundbeck, Forest Labs, Allergan, Sepracor, Cephalon, permitted by the Board of Directors.
Mr Emmens was appointed Watson, Biovail, King, Valeant, Medicis and Kos.
This comparator as a Non-executive Director of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc during 2004. group is a blend of US and UK companies with sector, size, complexity In this capacity he was paid $37,917 in 2005, which he will retain.
and international characteristics similar to those of the Company.
These comparisons will also be used to determine achievement Mr Russell is a Non-executive Director of The City of London of performance conditions relating to the Annual Incentive Plan and Investment Trust plc and its associated companies, The City of London Portfolio Share Plan.
European Trust Limited, The City of London Investments Limited and The City of London Finance Company Limited.
In this capacity, he was paid 17,500 $31,868 equivalent in 2005, which he will retain.
62 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc Value of hypothetical 100 holding Value of hypothetical 100 holding 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 63 Directors remuneration report Audited information Aggregate Directors remuneration The total amounts for Directors remuneration were as follows: 2005 2004 $000 $000 Emoluments 4,289 4,751 Money purchase pension contributions 488 450 Gains on exercise of share options 194 216 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 159 Compensation for loss of office 4,971 5,576 Directors emoluments Cash Non-cash benefits benefits Total Total Salary Incentive Fees in kind in kind 2005 2004 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Executive i v Mr Matthew Emmens 1,049 1,208 29 2,286 2,601 ii Mr Angus Russell 652 415 26 10 1,103 1,126 ii vi Dr Wilson Totten 469 Total executive 1,701 1,623 55 10 3,389 4,196 Non-executive i Dr James Cavanaugh 364 364 137 iii Dr Barry Price 132 132 110 i The Hon James Grant 82 82 73 i Mr Ronald Nordmann 114 114 99 iii Mr Robin Buchanan 87 87 73 iii Mr David Kappler 109 109 63 iv vii Mr Patrick Langlois 12 12 Total Non-executive 900 900 555 Total 1,701 1,623 900 55 10 4,289 4,751 Notes i Paid in $.
ii Salary and benefits in kind paid in Sterling and translated into $ at the average exchange rates for the year.
Incentive payable in Sterling and translated at the exchange rate at end February 2006. iii Fees paid in Sterling and translated into $ at the average exchange rates for the year.
iv Paid in Euros and translated into $ at the average exchange rate for the service period.
v The Company underwent a major internal reorganization in 2004, which resulted in the Company selecting Philadelphia as its US corporate headquarters.
Mr Emmens was paid $770,000 in connection with costs associated with his relocation to the Philadelphia area.
vi Dr Totten stepped down as a Director of the Company on May 25, 2004. vii Mr Langlois was appointed a Non-executive Director on November 11, 2005.
Cash benefits in kind represent expense allowances including dental costs.
Non-cash benefits in kind consist of private medical insurance.
Details of the exercise of share options are disclosed on page 64.
Non-executive Director remuneration is to from the date of resignation appointment.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 63 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 64 Directors remuneration report Directors pension entitlements The following Directors are members of money purchase schemes.
Contributions made by the Company not included in emoluments above in respect of 2005 were as follows: 2005 2004 Name of Director $000 $000 Mr Matthew Emmens 323 227 i Mr Angus Russell 165 157 Dr Wilson Totten stepped down as a Director on May 25, 2004 66 488 450 i At Mr Russells request the Company deferred $59,000 of pension contributions earned in 2005, to be paid in 2006.
Directors shareholdings Directors who held office at the end of the year had interests in the share capital of the Company as follows all interests are beneficial : 2005 2004 Number of Number of Name of Director ordinary shares ordinary shares Dr James Cavanaugh 412,849 412,849 Mr Matthew Emmens 18,938 Mr Angus Russell 1,882 Dr Barry Price 31,350 31,350 The Hon James Grant 68,269 36,410 Mr Ronald Nordmann 46,966 46,966 Mr Robin Buchanan 7,500 Mr David Kappler 5,000 5,000 Mr Patrick Langlois Directors share options Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Directors.
Directors and employees have been granted options over ordinary shares under the Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Parts A and B 2000 Executive Scheme, the Shire Holdings Limited Share Option Scheme SHL Scheme, the Pharmavene 1991 Stock Option Plan SLI Plan, the Shire Pharmaceuticals Executive Share Option Scheme Parts A and B Executive Scheme, the Shire Pharmaceuticals Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme, the Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan, the Roberts Stock Option Plan Roberts Plan and the BioChem Stock Option Plan BioChem Plan.
Details of options exercised during the year with prior-year comparatives are as follows: Gains on Gains on Exercise Market price at exercise exercise Number of price exercise date 2005 2004 Director Scheme options $000 $000 The Hon James Grant BioChem Plan 31,859 1.2400 4.9950 216 31,859 2.5000 5.5850 176 176 216 Mr Matthew Emmens Stock Purchase Plan 1,928 4.0900 7.2000 11 Mr Angus Russell Sharesave Plan 1,882 5.020 7.0400 7 64 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 65 Directors remuneration report Details of options exercised after ceasing to be a Director are as follows: Gains on Gains on Exercise Market price at exercise exercise Number of price exercise date 2005 2004 Director Scheme options $000 $000 Dr Wilson Totten Executive Scheme B 141,138 3.3850 5.2000 469 301,775 3.3800 5.1592 984 8,862 3.3850 6.3500 47 25,000 4.7050 6.3500 75 2000 Executive Scheme B 122,368 5.0650 6.3500 286 203,612 5.2600 6.3500 404 812 1,453 i Mr Rolf Stahel Executive Scheme B 81,918 3.3850 6.4200 476 i On November 23, 2005 a gross payment of $482,103 paid in Sterling and translated into $ at the average exchange rate in November 2005 was made to Mr Rolf Stahel in connection with a share option that was inadvertently allowed to lapse.
The option was granted on March 4, 2002 over 209,211 shares with an exercise price of 5.065 per share.
The payment, which was subject to tax and non-pensionable, was intended to put Mr Stahel in the same position as if he had exercised the option and subsequently sold the shares on the day on which he notified the Company of his desire to exercise the option.
Following the implementation of the Scheme of Arrangement, on November 25, 2005, all existing options to acquire ordinary shares in Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Old Options were swapped for new equivalent options to acquire ordinary shares in Shire plc New Options.
Any performance conditions attached to the Old Options continue to apply to the New Options.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 65 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 66 Directors remuneration report Notes i Options granted under this scheme are subject to performance criteria and cannot be exercised in full, unless Shires ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period.
If Shires share price increases at a compound rate of 14.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, 60% of the options may be exercised.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three years, they are thereafter tested quarterly by reference to share price growth over the extended period.
If the share price does not meet these conditions at any time, none of the options granted become exercisable.
On February 28, 2000, the Remuneration Committee of the Board exercised its powers to amend the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme so as to include a cliff vesting provision.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the Executive Scheme.
ii Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees.
Employees may enter into three or five-year savings contracts.
iii Options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any option granted prior to August 2002, if Shires ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, the option becomes exercisable in full.
If it increases by at least 14.5% per annum over the same three-year period, 60% of the options granted become exercisable.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three-year measurement period, they will thereafter be tested quarterly by reference to compound annual share price growth over an extended period.
The performance criteria were reviewed in 2002 to ensure the criteria reflected the market in which Shire operates.
Given Shires development, it was considered appropriate that an EPS-based measure should be adopted in place of share price growth targets.
The performance criteria are based on real growth in the diluted earnings per share reported in the Companys Form 10-K under US GAAP, adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back of significant one-time items option EPS.
Therefore, the performance criteria were amended so that an option would become exercisable in full if Shires option EPS growth over a three-year period from the date of award exceeds the UK Retail Prices Index RPI for the following tranches of grants: Options with a grant value of up to 100% of salary RPI plus 9% Directors, RPI plus 15% Between 101% and 200% of salary RPI plus 15% Between 201% and 300% of salary RPI plus 21% Over 301% of salary RPI plus 27% The new EPS performance criteria apply to options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme from August 2002.
After consultation with certain of its institutional shareholders, the Company has decided that for options granted under the scheme from 2004 onwards, the retest of the performance condition if Shires option EPS growth has fallen short of the minimum annual average percentage increase over the three-year period from grant, has been changed.
The performance condition will be retested once only, at five years after the grant.
Hence the level of option EPS growth in the next two years needs to be consequentially higher to meet the test.
Six weeks prior to the expiration date, any options that have not become exercisable at an earlier date, automatically vest without reference to the performance criteria.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme.
iv Following the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. on May 11, 2001, the BioChem Stock Option Plan was amended such that options over BioChem Pharma Inc. s common stock became options over ordinary shares of Shire.
All BioChem Pharma Inc. options, which were not already exercisable, vested and became exercisable as a result of the acquisition.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the BioChem Stock Option Plan.
v Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
The offering period is for 27 months.
The market price of the ordinary shares at December 31, 2005 was 7.44 and the range during the year was 5.39 to 7.53.
Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP The following award, granted under the Long-term Incentive Plan lapsed during the year 2005 and no payment was made under it as the performance criteria was not met at the maturity date: Actual Initial award performanceDate of Director Date of award made related award maturity i Mr Angus Russell 05.06.01 11,535 06.06.05 i The performance criteria attaching to awards made under the Long-term Incentive Plan are detailed on page 59.
Performance conditions attaching to awards made under the Long-term Incentive Plan are detailed on page 59.
Following the implementation of the Scheme of Arrangement, on November 25, 2005, all awards over ordinary shares in Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Old Awards were swapped for new equivalent awards over ordinary shares in Shire plc New Awards.
Any performance conditions attached to the Old Awards continue to apply to the New Awards.
Portfolio Share Plan PSP The Shire plc PSP was adopted at the Companys Extraordinary General Meeting held on October 28, 2005.
No awards, under the PSP, were made to executive Directors in 2005.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on February 22, 2006 and signed on its behalf by: Dr Barry Price Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 67 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 68 Audit Committee report Membership review at least annually the effectiveness of the Companys internal The members of the Committee as at December 31, 2005 were control system in the overall context of the Companys risk David Kappler Chairman, Barry Price, Ronald Nordmann and Patrick management system: Langlois.
Mr Kappler, Dr Price and Mr Nordmann served as members of the Committee throughout 2005 and Mr Langlois became a member oversee the Companys anti-fraud programmes and controls of the Committee upon his appointment to the Board in November and to oversee the investigation and remediation of any alleged 2005.
Each of the members of the Committee has been determined or suspected fraud: by Shires Board to be an Independent Non-executive Director for the purposes of The UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance monitor and review the internal operational audit programme, the Combined Code.
Each member also satisfies the NASDAQ consider the findings of internal operational audit reviews and rules regarding the independence of members of the Audit Committee.
managements response to them: and Mr David Kappler chairs the Committee.
The Board is satisfied that review compliance with treasury policy.
Mr Kappler, in his capacity as Chairman of the Committee, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has determined that The Committee reports to the Board on any matter on which Mr Kappler is the Committees financial expert for the purposes of the it considers that action is required and makes recommendations Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Mr Kappler was a Director of Camelot for steps to be taken.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee Group plc from 1996 to 2002 and he serves as a Non-executive Director give it authority to investigate any activity within its Terms of Reference at HMV Group plc and Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
Additionally, and to be responsible for the resolution of disagreements between he is Non-executive Chairman at Premier Foods plc.
Mr Kappler management and the auditor regarding the Companys financial is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
The Committee is also authorized to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform The members of the Committee are chosen from amongst the its duties and to call any employee to be questioned at a meeting Non-executive Directors of the Company who are independent for the of the Committee.
purposes of the Combined Code and the NASDAQ rules and are selected on the basis of their knowledge and experience of financial matters and The Committee met on six occasions in 2005.
Each meeting was financial reporting.
Committee members hold office for an initial period attended by all members of the Committee.
At the invitation of the of two years, subject to continuing as a Director of the Company.
Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer Thereafter, they may hold office for such duration as determined by the and the Group Financial Controller attended all of the Committees Board.
Details of the fees paid to members of the Committee are set meetings in 2005.
In addition, at the invitation of the Chairman, the out in the Directors remuneration report on page 62.
Chief Risk Officer and Head of Internal Audit attended each of the four quarterly meetings at which risk management systems and internal Role of Committee audit programs were reviewed.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee have been approved by the Board and are available for review on Shires website.
The key In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee held a functions of the Committee under its Terms of Reference are to: number of private meetings with the lead partner from the Companys external auditors and the Companys Chief Internal Auditor during monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, the course of the year without any Executive member of the Board including its annual and quarterly reports, preliminary results in attendance.
The purpose of these meetings was to facilitate free announcements and any other corporate announcement relating and open discussions between the Audit Committee members and to the Companys financial performance: the Chief Internal Auditor and the external lead audit partner separately from the main sessions of the Audit Committee which were attended ensure clarity of disclosure in financial reporting and the presentation by the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
of a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys financial position: Approval of audit and non-audit services provided by auditor The Committee has adopted formal policies and procedures in relation have the primary responsibility for making a recommendation to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external auditor, to be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General which were most recently revised in February 2006.
The principal Meeting in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, removal purpose of these policies and procedures is to ensure that the and remuneration of the external auditor and to assess, at least independence of the external auditor is not impaired.
annually, the objectivity and independence of the external auditor: The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and accordingly the Committees policy review and discuss issues and recommendations arising from prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services to the Company the external audit, and any matters the external auditor may wish by the external auditor, including: to discuss: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records set and apply a formal policy in relation to the provision of non-audit or financial statements of the Company: services by the external auditor with a view to preserving the external auditors independence and objectivity: design and implementation of financial information systems: establish procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contributionof complaints received by the Company regarding accounting, in-kind reports: and internal accounting controls or auditing matters: actuarial or internal audit outsourcing services.
68 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 69 Audit Committee report Other types of audit and non-audit services may be performed 2 Internal financial control and risk management systems by the external auditor if the work is either specifically pre-approved the Companys risk management strategy, its internal audit strategy, by the Committee or the work falls within the Committees schedule its plan and progress in complying with Section 404 of the of pre-approved services.
The Committees pre-approval policy covers Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and the effectiveness of the Companys three categories of work audit services, audit-related services and tax system of internal control during the year: services.
If the proposed services to be provided by the external auditor fall within a category of pre-approved services, they may be provided revisions to the policy for the management of treasury were by the auditor without being specifically approved by the Committee, reviewed and recommended for approval to the Board: provided that management does not need to exercise any discretion in determining whether a proposed service falls within one of the quarterly reports on treasury investments and compliance pre-approved categories.
In all cases, the Committee is notified with treasury policy were discussed: of any pre-approved service that is provided by the auditor.
approval of the insurance renewal programme for 2005 6: Any service proposed to be provided by the auditor which is not a pre-approved service must be approved in advance by the Committee, monitoring of the Groups whistle-blowing and fraud policies: and which will consider whether the independence, skills and experience of the auditor make it a suitable supplier of the proposed service.
the Companys internal controls over financial reporting.
Committee activities 3 External auditor During 2005, the business discussed by the Committee included The Committee reviewed the performance of the external auditor the following: following the completion of the 2004 audit process, which resulted in the Committee resolving to recommend that the Company submit 1 Financial statements a resolution to the 2005 Annual General Meeting to re-appoint Deloitte the financial disclosures contained in the Companys quarterly & Touche LLP as the Companys external auditor.
At forthcoming results announcements: meetings in 2006, the Committee will conduct a formal review of the performance of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit various accounting matters, including the application of the process in connection with the 2005 financial year audit.
Companys critical accounting policies and new accounting standards in the context of the financial disclosures, including the Throughout the year, the Committee has kept the objectivity and acquisition of TKT, the impact of the Health Canada suspension independence of the external auditor under review and has obtained of ADDERALL XR, the impact of fair value accounting for sharereports from the Companys external auditor describing all relationships based compensation and new Inventory Management Agreements between the auditor and the Company.
The Committee has remained with key US wholesalers: satisfied that neither the level of non-audit services nor the nature of the work performed by the external auditors has in any way impaired their a review of the Companys preparations for the adoption in 2005 objectivity and independence.
Details of the fees paid to the external of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, including the auditors are disclosed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
approval of the Companys accounting policies under IFRS.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Companys publication in September 2005 of its half-yearly financial statements and full-year comparative financial statements for 2004, as prepared in accordance with IFRS: and quarterly reports from the external auditors were received by the David Kappler Committee and discussed.
The reports addressed the following Chairman of the Audit Committee key areas: auditor responsibility and independence: significant accounting estimates and judgements made by management: audit adjustments proposed and whether they were corrected by management: and significant accounting policies and unusual transactions.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 69 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 70 Corporate governance statements The Company is committed to high standards Independence of Directors of corporate governance The Board considers Dr Barry Price, Mr Ronald Nordmann, The Hon The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance James Grant, Mr Robin Buchanan, Mr David Kappler and Mr Patrick and supports the provisions and principles set out in The Combined Langlois to be Independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Financial Reporting views each of these Non-executive Directors to be independent Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
of management, independent in judgement and character and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere Statement of compliance with the Combined Code with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Throughout the year ended December 31, 2005 the Company has, in the Directors opinion, complied with the provisions set out The Board has taken into consideration that The Hon James Grant in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
is a partner of Stikeman Elliot, a Canadian law firm which, from time to time, provides legal advice to the Shire Group.
The Board considers The Board Mr Grant to be independent notwithstanding his position as he is The Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive and six not involved in the provision of legal advice to the Shire Group and Non-executive Directors and meets at least six times a year.
is not engaged in marketing the services of Stikeman Elliott to the The Non-executive Directors bring judgement which is independent Shire Group.
Stikeman Elliott is one of a range of legal and other of management to Board deliberations.
The executive Directors professional advisors engaged by the Shire Group from time to time.
have responsibility for day-to-day business operations.
Accordingly, the Board does not consider the relationship between the Shire Group and Stikeman Elliott to be material and the fact that The Board has overall responsibility for managing the Company and Mr Grant is a partner at that firm does not, in the Boards assessment, its strategic direction and seeks to provide effective leadership and affect his independence.
Mr Grant was a Board member of BioChem the control required for a listed company.
The Board discharges those Pharma Inc. prior to its merger with Shire in 2001.
Mr Grant has responsibilities through regularly scheduled meetings.
The Board an extensive knowledge of Shires business and he brings valued has formally reserved specific matters to itself for determination which expertize to the Board.
include strategic issues, budgeting, changes in share capital, approval of the Companys financial statements and entry into material contracts.
The Board, when making its determination on the independence Matters not formally reserved to the Board are delegated to the of Dr Price, gave particular consideration to the fact that Dr Price has Executive Committee and to various other Board committees whose been a serving member of the Board for ten years, that the Combined functions are described below.
Code suggests that length of service of nine years or more is relevant to a determination of independence and that re-appointment should The Board reviews the Companys internal controls and risk be subject to rigorous review.
The Board was also mindful of the need management policies and approves its Code of Ethics.
The Board to ensure progressive refreshening of the Board.
In this regard the approves major investment and contractual decisions which exceed Board took into account that there have been substantial changes defined thresholds.
It also monitors and evaluates the performance to the Board membership in recent years, including the appointments of the Shire Group as a whole, through engaging with the of Mr Buchanan and Mr Emmens in 2003, Mr Kappler in 2004 and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and members Mr Langlois in 2005.
Having considered the issue, the Board has of the Executive Committee, as appropriate.
no hesitation in asking Dr Price to remain on the Board.
Dr Prices commitment to the Company is undiminished and his performance The Board members receive detailed information from executive continues to be effective.
In accordance with the Combined Code, Directors, the Company Secretary, members of the Executive Dr Prices re-appointment to the Board is for a one-year term.
Committee and other senior managers to enable them to discharge His re-appointment will be subject to shareholder approval at the their responsibilities efficiently and effectively.
All Directors have 2006 Annual General Meeting.
access to the advice and guidance of the Company Secretary and are encouraged to seek independent advice at the Companys Throughout 2005 and up to the date of publication of this report, expense, where they feel it is appropriate.
The Board is of the opinion at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised that each of its members has the knowledge, aptitude and experience Non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
Board and Committee changes Biographical details of the members of the Board are shown on pages Mr Patrick Langlois joined the Board as a Non-executive Director 4041. and a member of the Audit Committee on November 11, 2005.
70 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 71 Corporate governance statements Board meetings Senior Non-executive Director During 2005, there were 13 Board meetings of which seven were faceDr Barry Price is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
to-face meetings and six held by telephone.
Board meetings are well Dr Price is the Companys longest-serving Director and as such he attended.
The record of attendance by Directors at Board meetings has significant knowledge of Shire and its business.
Dr Prices in-depth is set out below: knowledge of Shire and the pharmaceutical industry generally is acknowledged and utilized by the Board.
Dr Price chairs meetings held Number of by the Non-executive Directors during the year in the absence of the meetings Out of Attendance executive Directors and the Chairman.
Dr Price is available, as required, Directors attended possible % for consultation with major shareholders on any matter of concern.
James Cavanaugh Chairman 13 13 100 Supply of information The executive Directors and the Company Secretary are responsible Matthew Emmens for ensuring that detailed information is provided to Board members Chief Executive Officer 13 13 100 in advance of any scheduled Board meeting.
Before decisions are Angus Russell made, consideration is given to the adequacy of information available Chief Financial Officer 13 13 100 to the Board and, if necessary, decisions are deferred if further information is required.
The Company Secretary, Ms Tatjana May, Barry Price is also secretary to all of the Board committees.
Senior Non-executive Director 12 13 92 The Hon James Grant Appointment and re-election of Directors Non-executive Director 12 13 92 The Board has authority to appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director so appointed must retire and submit himself for election Ronald Nordmann at the next Annual General Meeting.
Non-executive Director 13 13 100 Robin Buchanan Non-executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two Non-executive Director 13 13 100 years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed David Kappler for one year terms and, in accordance with the Combined Code Non-executive Director 13 13 100 on Corporate Governance, are subject to annual re-election by Patrick Langlois shareholders.
Re-appointment of Non-executive Directors following Non-executive Director the expiry of their term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
appointed November 11, 2005 1 1 100 At every Annual General Meeting a minimum of one-third of the Directors must retire from office and may offer themselves for reThe Chairman and the Non-executive Directors met during the year election by shareholders.
Accordingly, no Director should serve without the executive Directors being present.
for more than three years without being subject to re-election.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer All of the current Directors of Shire plc were appointed by the Board as The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held separately.
a result of the scheme of arrangement implemented on November 25, The Chairman, Dr James Cavanaugh, is responsible for the conduct 2005, whereby Shire plc was established as the new UK listed holding of the Board and ensures that Board discussions are conducted in Company for the Shire Group in place of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group such a way that all views are taken into account, so that no individual plc Scheme.
As a result of the implementation of the Scheme, all Director or small group of Directors dominates proceedings.
The Chief of the Directors of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc became Directors Executive Officer has the overall responsibility for running the business of Shire plc but were appointed by the Board rather than shareholders.
on a day-to-day basis and chairs the Executive Committee.
Accordingly, at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2006, all of the Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined, separate and have been approved by Further information concerning all the Directors standing for re-election the Board.
at the Annual General Meeting, including their biographies, will be included in the Notice of Meeting to Shareholders.
The terms of appointment of each of the Non-executive Directors and the service contracts of the executive Directors will be made available for inspection at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2006.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 71 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 72 Corporate governance statements Board performance evaluation 3 Nomination Committee The Company conducted evaluations of the performance of the Board, The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and its committees and its Directors in 2005.
The 2005 evaluations were nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
The undertaken by way of questionnaires prepared by the Chairman and Committee also ensures adequate succession planning for the Board the Company Secretary.
The reviews covered a wide range of matters and senior management.
This Committee meets as required and in 2005 including adequacy of the composition of the Board and its Committees, was chaired by Dr James Cavanaugh.
Mr Ronald Nordmann, The Hon performance of Directors and the adequacy of information provided.
James Grant and Dr Barry Price also served on this Committee in 2005.
Responses were aggregated on a non-attributed basis and circulated All members participated in all discussions of this Committee in 2005. to each Board and Committee member.
The responses then formed the basis of a discussion between the relevant members of the Board The Nomination Committee retains the services of executive search or Committee with, respectively, the Chairman and the Committee consultants to assist it in the identification and nomination of new Chairman.
A number of minor improvements to operating procedures Board candidates.
For further information about the Nomination Committee, its Committees of the Board membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 The Board has established the Audit Committee, the Remuneration please refer to the Nomination Committee report on page 56.
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Executive Committee.
Each committee has its own written terms of reference which have 4 Executive Committee been approved by the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit, The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Company Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available on the to the Executive Committee, which operates within clear and formal Companys website.
Details of each committee are as follows: parameters.
The Executive Committee meets at least 11 times per year.
The Chief Executive is the Chairman 1 Audit Committee of the Executive Committee, which on December 31, 2005 consisted The Audit Committee has been established for the purpose of of 11 Executive Vice Presidents including the two executive Directors.
overseeing the accounting and financial reporting processes of the The Executive Committee reports to and seeks guidance from the Company, the audit of its financial statements and the Companys Board on a regular basis.
It meets at least four times a year.
The members of the Audit Committee are all Independent Non-executive The Members of the Executive Committee as at December 31, 2005 Directors.
For further information about the Audit Committee, its were Matthew Emmens Chief Executive Officer, Angus Russell membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2005, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Global Finance, please refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 6869.
Tatjana May General Counsel, Executive Vice President of Global Legal Affairs and Company Secretary, Anita Graham Executive Vice 2 Remuneration Committee President Global Human Resources, Eliseo Salinas Executive Vice The Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of the Board President of Global R&D, Greg Flexter Executive Vice President the remuneration policy for the executive Directors and other senior and General Manager, North America, Joseph Rus Executive Vice executives and the fixing of the terms of employment of the executive President and General Manager, International, Barbara Deptula Directors.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is Executive Vice President of Business Development, John Lee determined by the Board.
The remuneration of the executive Directors Executive Vice President of Supply Chain and Quality, Mike Cola and the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Executive Vice President of Global Business Units and David The remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee, other Pendergast Executive Vice President of Human Genetic Therapies.
than the executive Directors, is determined by the Chief Executive Officer following discussion with the Remuneration Committee.
The Executive Committee normally meets once a month to deliberate The members of the Remuneration Committee are all Independent on major business issues.
It also considers those matters that are of Non-executive Directors.
a size and significance as to require referral to the Board before such matters are referred to the Board for final consideration and decision.
The Remuneration Committee engages external consultants to advise on aspects of remuneration, as it considers necessary.
Directors remuneration The Companys remuneration policy is described in the Directors The Remuneration Committee met on seven occasions in 2005. remuneration report on pages 5667.
The report details the level Dr Barry Price chaired the Remuneration Committee throughout the of remuneration for Directors and the basis upon which executive year and Mr Robin Buchanan and Mr Ronald Nordmann were members remuneration is determined.
All members attended all meetings.
For further information about the Remuneration Committee, its membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2005, please refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 5667.
72 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 73 Corporate governance statements Relations with shareholders The Board receives advice and information from the Corporate The Company is committed to maintaining constructive relationships Responsibility Committee CR Committee to make this assessment.
The CR Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets three times a year and is responsible for setting the policies The Company announces its financial results quarterly.
The Chief and procedures that manage SEE issues, risks and opportunities.
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer give presentations SEE risks are managed within the overall framework of risk on the results each quarter by teleconference for institutional investors, management, explained below under the heading internal control.
The full-year results under US GAAP are included in the Companys Annual Review, along with a summary This year the Company has again decided to produce a stand-alone financial statement of the Companys results under International report on Corporate Responsibility.
This is available on request or Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Full IFRS results are included from the Shire website.
in the Companys Annual Report.
As the Company has securities listed on NASDAQ in the US, the Company also files quarterly reports on Code of Ethics Form 10-Q and an annual report on Form 10-K with the US Securities The Company is committed to the maintenance of high ethical and Exchange Commission SEC.
standards in its dealings with all persons with whom it is involved.
The Companys Code of Ethics applies to all Directors and The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, supported employees and is available for review on the Companys website.
by other senior executives, also arrange individual and group meetings with major shareholders throughout the year to discuss the Companys Dividends strategy and performance and to understand the views of major The Company commenced the payment of a semi-annual dividend shareholders, which are then communicated to the Board as a whole.
in 2004 with the aim to grow the total dividend paid for each year The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director progressively.
As a result of the adoption of this dividend policy, are available also to meet with major shareholders.
the Company intends to declare interim dividends twice per year, with the first payment made around September October, following The Companys website at www.
com provides information determination of first-half results, and the second payment around about the Company and its business and is regularly updated.
April May of each year, following finalization of the full-year results.
The Companys Investor Relations department acts as a contact The Company does not intend to put a resolution to shareholders to point for investors throughout the year.
approve a final dividend at the Annual General Meeting which is held in June each year because if the Company was to delay payment The Company holds its Annual General Meeting in London.
At the of the second-half final dividend, by seeking shareholder approval for annual meeting, a business presentation is made to shareholders the payment at the Annual General Meeting, the Company would not and shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the be able to maintain an even payment cycle at approximately six-month Directors.
The Directors also make themselves available informally intervals unless first-half dividend payments were also delayed.
This is after the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
beneficial for the Company, both from a cash flow planning and from an accounting perspective and is beneficial for shareholders as dividends Balanced and timely assessment of positions and prospects are paid promptly and a smooth payment cycle is maintained.
The Company strives to give timely assessments of matters that impact on its business and financial position and to present scientific Donations to Political Organizations and EU Political Expenditure and other information in a balanced way.
At the Annual General Meeting in June 2005, shareholders authorized the Company to make donations to EU Political Organizations and Corporate Responsibility CR to incur EU Political Expenditure, under the provisions of the Political The Company recognizes the impact that its business may have on Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 25,000, people and the environment as well as the wider implications of its equivalent to $45,525 at average 2005 exchange rates respectively, operations on the general community.
The Company therefore attaches each year.
Although the Company does not make and does not intend great importance to social and environmental issues and to ethical to make payments or donations to EU political parties, within the business practices.
Accordingly, ultimate responsibility for them is normal meaning of that expression, the definition in the legislation taken at the highest levels.
The Board reviews the Companys general of EU Political Organization is wide.
It can extend to bodies which approach to corporate responsibility.
The Board also reviews the the Company might wish to support including those concerned specific business risks related to Social, Environmental and Ethical with policy review and law reform.
The Company made no donations SEE matters annually.
to either EU or non-EU Political Organizations during 2005.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 73 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 74 Corporate governance statements Annual General Meeting 2006 On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has the responsibility for The 2006 Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, June 21, reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal financial controls 2006.
The business to be transacted at the meeting will include: and the audit process.
The Audit Committee has independent access to the auditor throughout the year in addition to presentations from the receiving the Companys accounts for the year ended December 31, auditor on a quarterly basis.
Any significant findings or identified risks 2005, together with the Directors Report, Remuneration Report are closely examined and are reported to the Board with and the Auditors Report on those accounts and the auditable part recommendations for action.
of the Remuneration Report: The Company has established a Disclosure Committee, which approving the 2005 Directors remuneration report: is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Its membership includes senior managers from the legal, finance and risk departments.
electing each of Dr James Cavanaugh, Mr Matthew Emmens, Its responsibilities include ensuring that information disclosed Mr Angus Russell, Mr Robin Buchanan, The Hon James Grant, to investors in the Companys periodic financial reports is recorded, Mr David Kappler, Mr Ronald Nordmann, Dr Barry Price and summarized and reported accurately.
Mr Patrick Langlois to the Board: Following the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the re-appointing Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors and authorizing United States, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial the Audit Committee to approve their remuneration: Officer are required to complete formal certifications, which confirm, inter alia, that: giving the Directors the authority to disapply pre-emption rights when allotting new shares in certain circumstances: the annual report on Form 10-K in the United States does not contain any material misstatements or omissions: giving authority to the Company to make limited donations to EU political organizations and to incur limited EU political financial information reported in Form 10-K fairly presents the financial expenditure: and condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company: authorizing the Company to make market purchases of up the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are to 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
responsible for determining and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures for the purposes of financial reporting in the United States: Financial disclosure, internal control and the role of the auditors The Board has, through the Audit Committee, established formal the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and transparent arrangements for financial reporting, internal control have evaluated the effectiveness of those disclosure controls and external auditing.
The Audit Committees terms of reference extend and procedures: to the Companys risk management activities as a whole and not just the financial aspects of internal control.
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have indicated in Form 10-K whether there were any significant changes All employees can raise any concerns in any of these areas with in the Companys internal control over financial reporting: and the Chairman of the Audit Committee in the strictest confidence.
The Company operates a Global Compliance Helpline, which provides based on the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer and the a confidential means through which all employees are able to report Chief Financial Officer, all significant deficiencies and material concerns relating to financial disclosure, internal control and other weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over compliance issues in good faith without fear of discrimination or reprisal.
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the Companys ability to record, process, summarize and report 1 Financial reporting financial information included in Form 10-K have been disclosed The Board has ultimate responsibility for the preparation of accounts to the Companys auditors.
and for the monitoring of systems of internal financial control.
The Board strives to present a balanced and understandable assessment The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have of the Companys position and its prospects and endeavors to present completed these certifications and they have been filed with the SEC scientific and other information in a balanced way.
The Company in the United States as part of the Companys annual report in the publishes quarterly financial reports so that its shareholders can United States on Form 10-K. monitor the Companys financial position regularly.
74 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 75 Corporate governance statements 2 Risk management, compliance and internal control iv a range of corporate policies and procedures have been The Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal implemented: control, recognizes its overall responsibility to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments and the v the internal audit department, overseen by the Vice President Companys assets and to regularly review its effectiveness.
Whilst the Internal Audit, carries out regular reviews of control activities and Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal control, reports findings to management: and there are limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable and not vi the Audit Committee considers the major findings of any internal absolute assurance.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than investigations and managements response to them.
The Audit eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of the provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Companys control environment.
Effective identification, assessment and management of risks The Board has reviewed both the key risks faced by the Company and The management of business risk is essential for ensuring that the the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems in 2005.
Company creates and preserves shareholder value.
Accordingly, Outside of its review, the Board delegates responsibility to the Audit the Company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Committee for more regular review of both key risks and internal managing the significant risks that it faces.
This process has been controls and for monitoring the activities of the internal audit function.
in operation throughout the period under review and up to the date The Audit Committee has kept these areas under review in 2005. of the signing of the accounts.
All risks are recorded on a corporate risk schedule which allocates specific responsibility to members The Company has risk management, compliance and internal audit of the Executive Committee.
This schedule has been reviewed functions.
A Chief Compliance Officer was appointed in 2005 and the by the Audit Committee during 2005. role of Chief Risk Officer combined with it.
The role of Chief Compliance and Risk Officer and the role of Director of Internal Audit, which Effective internal control procedures are separate, report to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial The Company has a system of control procedures.
Compliance with Officer, respectively, but each have direct access to the Chairman, these procedures is monitored through a system of internal review and the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the other members of the regular reports on financial performance.
Any significant issues arising Audit Committee.
They also both attend and present regularly at Audit are reported to the Audit Committee.
During 2005, the Company has Committee meetings.
made a significant investment in its internal financial control procedures as part of its compliance with s404 Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements.
The Companys risk management, compliance and internal audit This has included the review, documentation and testing of all key strategy is based on a risk and control framework containing the internal financial controls.
The conclusion of this exercise is that following key elements: the Company had an effective system of internal controls over its US GAAP Form 10-K financial reporting at December 31, 2005. an effective control environment: Effective internal audit an effective process to identify, assess and manage risks: The internal review of the Companys control procedures and compliance with them is mostly undertaken through internal audit.
The effective internal control procedures: and Audit Committee monitors and reviews the internal audit programme, considers the findings of internal audit reviews and managements effective internal audit.
response to them, and ensures efficient co-ordination between the Companys internal and external auditors.
The Companys internal audit Effective control environment function, comprizing a mixture of internal and out-sourced resource, The key elements of the Companys control environment are as follows: was operational throughout 2005.
The Audit Committee, which is responsible for monitoring the activity of the internal audit function, i the Board has overall responsibility to maintain the internal control has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit during 2005. system and has delegated certain responsibilities to the Executive Committee and or the Audit Committee: 3 External auditing The Audit Committee has the primary responsibility for determining ii a framework of Corporate Values and a Code of Ethics which sets the remuneration of, and overseeing the work of, any accounting firm appropriate standards of ethical behaviour are operational throughout engaged to conduct the external audit.
The Audit Committee assesses the Group: at least annually the objectivity and independence of the external auditor taking into account relevant regulatory requirements.
iii the internal structure of the organization is well documented with The Audit Committee reviews and approves the annual external audit clear reporting lines and clear limits of authority for different matters: plan each year and ensures it is consistent with the scope of the auditors engagement.
The Audit Committee also considers whether the skills and experience of the external audit firm make it a suitable supplier of non-audit services.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 75 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 76 Corporate governance statements The Audit Committee has set and applies a formal policy in relation The Companys management assessed the effectiveness of the to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor specifying Companys internal control over financial reporting for the purposes of the types of non-audit work: the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K as at December 31, 2005, which was filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission i for which the external auditors are excluded: on March 1, 2006.
In making this assessment, the Companys management used the criteria set forth by the Committee ii for which the external auditors can be engaged without referral of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO to the Committee: and in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
iii for which a case-by-case decision is necessary, with a view Based on its assessment, management believes that, as of to preserving the auditors independence and objectivity.
The Audit December 31, 2005, the Companys internal control over financial Committee also considers the fees paid to the external auditors reporting is effective based on those criteria.
and whether the fee levels for non-audit services, individually and in aggregate, relative to the audit fee are appropriate to enable Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting a proper audit to be conducted.
firm, has issued an audit report on managements assessment of the Companys internal control over its Form 10-K US GAAP financial Going concern basis reporting.
The Auditors Report appears on pages F-2 and F-3 After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the of the Companys Annual Report in the United States on Form 10-K. time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in Changes in internal control over financial reporting operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the In 2004, the Company commenced the implementation of a new Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the integrated information system covering financial processes, production, financial statements.
Further implementations were made in the fourth quarter of 2005 and more are planned for 2006 and 2007.
Disclosure controls and procedures The implementations have involved changes in the Companys The Company, under the supervision and with the participation of the information systems that included aspects of the Companys internal Companys management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the control over financial reporting and therefore changes to the Companys Chief Financial Officer, has performed an evaluation of the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting.
The Company has reviewed of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures, in relation each system as it is being implemented and the controls affected by to its Form 10-K US GAAP reporting, as at December 31, 2005. the implementation of the new systems and made appropriate changes The Companys management necessarily applied its judgement to affected internal controls as it implemented the new systems.
in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, Management believes that the controls as modified are appropriate which by their nature can provide only reasonable assurance regarding and functioning effectively.
Based on this evaluation, the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer During the period covered by this Annual Review, the Company concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures are concluded the acquisition of TKT.
Significant material weaknesses effective at a reasonable level of assurance for gathering, analyzing in TKTs internal control over financial reporting were identified with and disclosing the information that the Company is required to respect to its sales and marketing subsidiary, TKT Europe A.
B. disclose in the reports it files under the US Securities Exchange Act formerly TKT Europe-5S A.
B., or TKT Europe, as at December 31, of 1934, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the 2004, as described in TKTs Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2004.
US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company undertook a review of these material weaknesses following completion of the Companys acquisition of TKT and has Managements report on internal control over financial reporting undertaken appropriate remediation activities.
Management believes The Companys management is responsible for establishing and that the controls as modified are appropriate and functioning effectively.
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13 a to 15 f or 15 d -15 f promulgated under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
76 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 77 Report of independent registered public accounting rm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Shire plc, Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial Basingstoke, England reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may of Shire plc and subsidiaries the Company as at December 31, 2005 not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Also, projections of any and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial stockholders equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the We also have audited managements assessment, included in the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
accompanying Management Report on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, that the Company maintained effective internal control In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Company as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of its Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period The Companys management is responsible for these financial ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles statements and the financial statement schedule, for maintaining generally accepted in the United States of America.
Also, in our opinion, effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
Also, in and the financial statement schedule, an opinion on managements our opinion, managements assessment that the Company maintained assessment, and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.
2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established in Internal Control of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
of financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, Deloitte & Touche LLP assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates Reading, England made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement March 1, 2006 presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the companys board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 77 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 78 Consolidated balance sheets In thousands of US Dollars, except share data December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 Notes $000 $000 Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 656,456 1,111,477 Restricted cash 30,568 21,627 Short-term investments 10 6,947 324,411 Accounts receivable, net 7 329,924 222,546 Inventories 8 136,057 41,230 Deferred tax asset 29 54,186 70,387 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 9 98,084 137,271 Total current assets 1,312,222 1,928,949 Investments 11 50,162 63,267 Property, plant and equipment, net 12 233,999 131,351 Goodwill 13 367,652 235,396 Other intangible assets, net 14 729,304 309,297 Deferred tax asset 29 61,994 7,724 Other non-current assets 15 42,907 38,895 Total assets 2,798,240 2,714,879 Liabilities and shareholders equity Current liabilities: Loan facility to ID Biomedical, Inc. 43,162 Accounts payable and accrued expenses 16 431,819 311,231 Liability to dissenting shareholders 4 427,609 Other current liabilities 17 105,993 77,558 Total current liabilities 965,421 431,951 Long-term debt, excluding current installments 116 116 Other non-current liabilities 19 43,437 32,159 Total liabilities 1,008,974 464,226 Commitments and contingencies 21 Shareholders equity: Common stock of 5p par value: 18,333,006,420 shares authorized: and 495,733,782 shares issued and outstanding 2004: 800,000,000 shares authorized: and 484,916,034 shares issued and outstanding 2 42,728 41,796 Exchangeable shares: 2,187,793 shares issued and outstanding 2004: 4,226,476 101,248 195,830 Treasury stock 22 2,813 264 Additional paid-in capital 1,205,257 1,070,675 Accumulated other comprehensive income 71,472 131,939 Retained earnings 371,374 810,677 Total shareholders equity 1,789,266 2,250,653 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 2,798,240 2,714,879 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
78 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 79 Consolidated statements of operations In thousands of US Dollars, except share data 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, Notes $000 $000 $000 Revenues: Product sales 1,327,660 1,112,457 1,004,307 Royalties 242,910 230,364 203,573 Licensing and development 15,002 13,479 3,677 Other revenues 13,744 6,907 13 Total revenues 1,599,316 1,363,207 1,211,570 Costs and expenses: Cost of product sales 213,964 141,909 143,160 Research and development 336,217 196,265 187,677 Selling, general and administrative 705,559 516,645 409,717 Intangible asset impairment 14 5,632 13,477 27,489 Reorganization costs 6 9,335 48,469 23,940 Integration costs 5 9,716 In-process R&D write-off 4 673,000 Total operating expenses 1,953,423 916,765 791,983 Operating loss income 354,107 446,442 419,587 Interest income 35,300 21,901 16,856 Interest expense 27 12,023 12,294 9,451 Other income expense, net 26 9,945 3,845 20,645 Total other income expense, net 33,222 13,452 13,240 Loss income from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in losses earnings of equity method investees and discontinued operations 320,885 459,894 406,347 Income taxes 29 92,083 129,103 107,353 Equity in losses earnings of equity method investees 30 1,000 2,508 1,057 Loss income from continuing operations 413,968 333,299 297,937 Loss from discontinued operations net of income tax expense of $nil, $nil and $nil respectively 6 20,135 21,886 Gain loss on disposition of discontinued operations net of income tax expense of $nil, $nil and $nil respectively 6 3,125 44,157 Net loss income 410,843 269,007 276,051 Earnings per share basic 24 Loss income from continuing operations 82.7 67.2 59.8 Loss from discontinued operations 4.1 4.4 Gain loss on disposition of discontinued operations 0.6 8.9 82.1 54.2 55.4 Earnings per share diluted 24 Loss income from continuing operations 82.7 65.9 58.4 Loss from discontinued operations 4.0 4.2 Gain loss on disposition of discontinued operations 0.6 8.6 82.1 53.3 54.2 Weighted average number of shares: Basic 500,243,137 496,306,604 498,212,826 Diluted 500,243,137 511,267,432 518,967,395 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 79 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 80 Consolidated statements of changes in shareholders equity In thousands of US Dollars, except share data Accumulated other Common Exchangeable comprestock shares Additionalhensive Total Common number Exchangeable number Treasury paid-in income Retained shareholders stock shares shares shares stock capital losses earnings equity $000 000s $000 000s $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 As at December 31, 2002 40,051 484,344 272,523 5,874 1,027,499 41,431 274,524 1,573,166 Effect of Scheme i of Arrangement 2,882,142 2,882,142 i Effect of capital reduction 2,880,447 2,880,447 Net income 276,051276,051 Foreign currency translation 114,116 114,116 Redemption of common stock 654 7,593 51,738 52,392 Exchange of exchangeable shares 9 104 1,856 34 1,847 Options exercised 90 1,040 5,105 5,195 Stock option compensation and warrants 24 24 Tax benefit associated with exercise of stock options 692 692 Unrealized holding gain on available-for-sale investments 6,322 6,322 As at December 31, 2003 41,191 477,895 270,667 5,840 981,686 79,007 550,575 1,923,126 Net income 269,007269,007 Foreign currency translation 46,801 46,801 Exchange of exchangeable shares 417 4,839 74,837 1,614 74,420 Options exercised 181 2,09813,23513,416 Stock option compensation and warrants 216 216 Tax benefit associated with exercise of stock options 354 354 New shares issued 7 84 764 771 Treasury stock 51,286 shares 264 264 Unrealized holding gain on available-for-sale securities 27,011 27,011 Realized gain on available-for-sale securities 20,880 20,880 Dividends 8,905 8,905 As at December 31, 2004 41,796 484,916 195,830 4,226 264 1,070,675 131,939 810,677 2,250,653 Net loss 410,843 410,843 Foreign currency translation 55,976 55,976 Exchange of exchangeable shares 527 6,116 94,582 2,038 94,055 Options exercised 405 4,70236,70837,113 Stock option compensation and warrants 392 392 Tax benefit associated with exercise of stock options 3,427 3,427 Treasury stock 242,302 shares 2,549 2,549 Unrealized holding loss on available-for-sale securities 1,018 1,018 Realized gain on available-for-sale securities 3,473 3,473 Dividends 28,460 28,460 As at December 31, 2005 42,728 495,734 101,248 2,188 2,813 1,205,257 71,472 371,374 1,789,266 i Net increase to common stock is $1.7 million.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Dividends per share During the year to December 31, 2005 the Company declared dividends totaling 5.6746 per ordinary share, equivalent to 17.02 per American Depositary Share, and 21.09 Canadian per exchangeable share.
Treasury stock 191,016 shares were purchased during 2005 at a cost to the Company of $2.5 million.
80 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 81 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income In thousands of US Dollars 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, $000 $000 $000 Net loss income 410,843 269,007 276,051 Other comprehensive income: Foreign currency translation 55,976 46,801 114,116 Unrealized holding loss gain on available-for-sale securities 1,018 27,011 6,322 Realized gain on available-for-sale securities 3,473 20,880 Comprehensive loss income 471,310 321,939 396,489 The components of accumulated other comprehensive income as at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows: December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 Foreign currency translation 62,246 118,222 Unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities 9,226 13,717 Accumulated other comprehensive income 71,472 131,939 There are no material tax effects related to the items included above.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 81 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 82 Consolidated statements of cash flows In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated Revised Revised 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, Notes $000 $000 $000 Cash flows from activities: Net loss income from continuing operations 413,968 333,299 297,937 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization: Cost of product sales 3,483 2,740 2,550 SG&A 67,977 58,513 35,642 Stock option compensation 392 216 24 In-process R&D write-off 673,000 Write down of long-term assets 14,064 29,317 59,820 Gain on sale of long-term assets 3,854 15,268 169 Gain on sale of drug formulation business 6 3,561 Movement in deferred taxes 22,295 14,979 22,193 Equity in losses earnings of equity method investees 1,000 2,508 1,057 Other 1,468 Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions: Increase in accounts receivable 79,885 28,066 45,408 Increase in sales deduction accrual 18,616 50,746 20,357 Decrease in inventory 8,582 2,185 6,261 Increase decrease in prepayments and other current assets 40,111 2,509 11,765 Increase in property, plant and equipment held for sale 12,470 Increase decrease in other assets 731 13,520 291 Increase decrease in accounts and notes payable and other liabilities 122,949 76,793 890 Decrease increase in deferred revenue 13,520 6,151 19,372 Returns on investments 4,710 4,043 2,289 Cash flows used in discontinued operations 362 30,525 24,131 A Net cash provided by operating activities 381,076 488,686 354,934 Cash flows from investing activities: Movement in short-term investments 366,731 20,282 11,997 Movements in restricted cash 768 24,847 5,531 Purchase of subsidiary undertaking 1,114,048 Expenses of acquisition 37,491 Purchase of long-term investments 7,700 6,124 5,643 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 86,239 57,603 44,681 Purchase of intangible assets 20,491 30,209 47,049 Proceeds from sale of long-term investments 10,135 26,733 1,000 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 116 3,527 1,262 Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 3,701 Proceeds from sale of assets held for sale 11,289 Proceeds from sale of drug formulation business 557 Returns of investments 3,774 1,450 Loans made to ID Biomedical Corporation IDB 43,162 56,838 Deferred proceeds from sale of the vaccines business 92,236 34,912 Cash flows used in discontinued operations 12,715 7,484 B Net cash used in investing activities 836,350 77,312 85,067 82 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 83 Consolidated statements of cash flows continued In thousands of US Dollars Revised Revised 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, $000 $000 $000 Cash flows from financing activities: Redemption of 2% convertible loan notes 370,109 29,775 Repayment of long-term debt, capital leases and notes 6,079 231 Proceeds from exercise of options 37,113 13,416 5,195 Proceeds from issue of common stock, net 771 Tax benefit of stock option compensation, charged directly to reserves 3,427 354 692 Payments for redemption of common stock 52,392 Payments to acquire treasury stock 2,480 264 Payment of dividend 28,460 8,905 Cash flows used in discontinued operations 706 C Net cash provided by used in financing activities 9,600 370,816 77,217 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 9,347 7,567 25,133 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on discontinued operations 10 111 D Net effect of foreign exchange rate changes 9,347 7,557 25,244 A B C D Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 455,021 48,115 217,894 Cash flows used in discontinued operations 327 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 1,111,477 1,063,362 845,141 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 656,456 1,111,477 1,063,362 Supplemental information associated with continuing operations: Revised Revised 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, $000 $000 $000 Interest paid 4,334 4,849 7,716 Income taxes paid 54,096 123,510 118,527 Non cash activities: Proceeds from sale of drug formulation business: Equity in Supernus Pharmaceuticals Inc. 3,900 Proceeds from sale of a business: 4,931,864 shares of IDB 60,000 Escrow funds 30,000 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 83 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 1 Description of operations Shire plcs Shire and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to as the Company or the Group, strategic goal is to become the leading specialty pharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
Shires therapeutic focus is on Central Nervous System CNS, Gastro-Intestinal GI, Human Genetic Therapies Shire HGT and General Products GP.
The structure is sufficiently flexible to allow Shire to target new therapeutic areas to the extent opportunities arise through acquisitions.
Shire believes that a carefully selected portfolio of products with strategically aligned and relatively small-scale sales forces will deliver strong results.
Shires focused strategy is to develop and market products for specialty physicians.
Shires in-licensing, merger and acquisition efforts are focused on products in niche markets with strong intellectual property protection either in the US or Europe.
Consistent with this strategy the Company completed the acquisition of Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. TKT on July 27, 2005.
This acquisition added Shire HGT to the Groups existing business, which is complementary to, and consistent with, the Companys stated strategy of meeting the needs of the specialist physician using small-scale sales forces.
TKT was renamed Shire Human Genetic Therapies with effect from January 17, 2006.
2 Change in reporting entity On November 25, 2005, Shire plc, a public limited Company incorporated in England and Wales, became the holding company of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc SPG pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under Section 425 of the UK Companies Act 1985 that was approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales and the shareholders of SPG the Scheme of Arrangement.
Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of 3.50, of Shire Shire Ordinary Shares were exchanged for ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of 0.05 of SPG SPG Ordinary Shares, on a one-for-one basis.
As a result of the Scheme of Arrangement, SPG is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire and has been re-registered as a private Company under the name Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Limited.
The Shire Ordinary Shares carry substantially the same rights as did the SPG Ordinary Shares.
The Scheme of Arrangement did not involve any payment for the new Shire Ordinary Shares.
Shires Board of Directors, management and corporate governance arrangements immediately following the Scheme of Arrangement were the same as SPG immediately before the Scheme of Arrangement became effective.
The consolidated assets and liabilities of Shire immediately after the Scheme of Arrangement were the same as the consolidated assets and liabilities of SPG immediately prior thereto.
The SPG Ordinary Shares underlying the SPG American Depositary Shares the SPG ADSs, each representing three SPG Ordinary Shares, participated in the Scheme of Arrangement like all other SPG Ordinary Shares.
The Scheme of Arrangement did not involve any payment for the new Shire ADSs, which represent three ordinary shares of Shire.
Shire was incorporated on June 27, 2005.
Prior to November 25, 2005 Shire had not commenced trading or made any profits or trading losses.
On November 28, 2005, the High Court of Justice in England and Wales approved a reduction of Shires share capital to take effect on November 29, 2005, when the nominal value of each Shire ordinary share was reduced from 3.50 to 0.05.
This reduction increased the distributable reserves potentially available to Shire to approximately $2.95 billion, which the Directors of Shire can utilize for future dividend payments at their discretion.
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards SFAS No.
141 Accounting for Business Combinations, the corporate restructuring is accounted for as a reorganization of entities under common control.
Accordingly, the historical financial statements prior to the reorganization are labeled as those of Shire, but continue to represent the operations of SPG.
For periods prior to the corporate restructuring, the equity of Shire represents the historical equity of SPG, restated to reflect the nominal value of shares received in the Scheme of Arrangement as adjusted by the reduction of capital.
The difference in the nominal value of shares before and after the restatement relates to the effect of foreign exchange movements and the offset is recorded in additional paid-in capital.
Earnings per share are unaffected by the reorganization.
All SPG stock options granted to Directors and employees under stock option plans that were in existence immediately prior to the Scheme of Arrangement were exchangeable for stock options in Shire on a one-for-one basis with no change in any of the terms or conditions.
The number of stock options for which this exchange did not take place was not material.
For presented periods prior to the 2005 corporate restructuring, the equity of Shire represents the historical equity of SPG, restated to reflect the change in nominal value of shares resulting from the corporate restructuring.
The increase in the value of common stock at December 31, 2002 of $1.7 million to $41.7 million on restatement is due to differences between the historic exchange rates used to convert SPGs Sterling denominated nominal share capital into US Dollars, and the exchange rate at the time of the corporate restructuring.
The offset is recorded in additional paid-in capital.
84 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 3 Summary of significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Shire and all of its subsidiary undertakings after elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions.
b Use of estimates in consolidated financial statements The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity with US generally accepted accounting principles GAAP and Securities Exchange Commission SEC regulations, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Estimates and assumptions are primarily made in relation to provisions for sales deductions, valuation of intangible assets and fixed asset investments, contingent liabilities, the valuation of tax assets and liabilities, the valuation of in-process research and development and inventory acquired with TKT and the amount payable to former holders of TKT common stock of approximately 11.3 million shares who have submitted written demands for appraisal of these shares in relation to the Companys acquisition of TKT on July 27, 2005. c Revenue recognition The Company recognizes revenue when: there is persuasive evidence of an agreement or arrangement: delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered: the sellers price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: and collectability is reasonably assured.
The Companys principal revenue streams and their respective accounting treatments are discussed below: i Product sales Revenue for the sales of products is recognized upon shipment to customers or at the time of delivery depending on the terms of sale.
Provisions for rebates, product returns and discounts to customers are provided for as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
The Company monitors and tracks the amount of sales deductions based on historical experience to estimate the amount of reduction to revenue.
ii Licensing and development fees Licensing and development fees represent revenues derived from product out-licensing agreements and from contract research and development agreements.
Initial license fees received in connection with product out-licensing agreements, even where such fees are non-refundable and not creditable against future royalty payments, are deferred and recognized over the period of the license term, or the period of the associated collaborative assistance.
In circumstances where initial license fees are not for a defined period, revenues are deferred and recognized over the period to the expiration of the relevant patent to which the license relates.
Revenue from contract research and development agreements is recognized as the services are performed.
iii Royalty income Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when the licensee sells the underlying product.
The Company receives sales information from the licensee on a monthly basis.
For any period that the information is not available, the Company estimates sales amounts based on the historical product information.
Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added tax and similar taxes, and trade discounts.
No revenue is recognized for consideration, the value or receipt of which is dependent on future events, future performance, or refund obligations.
iv Milestones During the term of certain research and development agreements and licensing agreements, the Company receives non-refundable milestones as certain technical targets are achieved.
Revenues are recognized on achievement of such milestones.
The Company also receives non-refundable clinical milestones when certain targets are achieved during the clinical phases of development, such as the submission of clinical data to a regulatory authority.
These clinical milestones are recognized when receivable i. e. on completion of the relevant phase.
If milestone payments are creditable against future royalty payments, the milestones are deferred and released over the period in which the royalties are anticipated to be paid.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 85 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued d Sales deductions i Rebates Rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates with health-maintenance organizations.
These rebates are based on price differentials between a base price and the selling price.
As a result, rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product as prices increase.
Provisions for rebates are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales, with estimates of future utilization derived from historical trends.
ii Returns The Company estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a return, based on historical trends and when applicable, specific factors affecting certain products at the balance sheet date.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
iii Coupons The Company uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
An accrual is established based on the Companys expectation of the level of coupon redemption, using historical trends.
iv Discounts The Company offers cash discounts to customers for the early payment of receivables.
Those discounts are recorded as reductions to revenue and accounts receivable in the same period that the related sale is recorded.
v Wholesaler chargebacks The Company has contractual agreements whereby it supplies certain products to third parties at predetermined prices.
Wholesalers acting as intermediaries in these transactions are reimbursed by the Company if the predetermined prices are less than the prices paid by the wholesaler to the Company.
Accruals for wholesaler chargebacks, which are based on historical trends, are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
e Cost of product sales Cost of sales includes both the cost of purchasing finished product for sale, together with the cost of raw materials and manufacturing for those products that are manufactured by the Company.
Royalties that are payable on those products that the Company does not own the rights to are also included in cost of sales.
f Leased assets The costs of operating leases are charged to operations on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if rental payments are not made on such a basis.
Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the balance sheet as tangible fixed assets and are depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease or their useful lives.
The capital elements of future lease payments are recorded as liabilities, while the interest element is charged to operations over the period of the lease to produce a level yield on the balance of the capital lease obligation.
g Advertising expense The Company expenses the cost of advertising as incurred.
Advertising costs amounted to $62.3 million, $47.6 million, and $40.7 million for the years to December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively.
h Valuation and impairment of long-lived assets other than goodwill and investments The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets other than goodwill and investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the assets may not be recoverable.
When such a determination is made, managements estimate of undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the assets is compared to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether an impairment has occurred.
If an impairment is indicated, the amount of the impairment recognized in the consolidated financial statements is determined by estimating the fair value of the assets and recording a loss for the amount that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.
This fair value is usually determined based on estimated discounted cash flows.
i Finance costs of debt Finance costs of debt are recorded as a deferred asset and amortized to the statement of operations over the term of the debt, using the effective interest rate method.
Deferred financing costs relating to debt extinguishments are written off and reflected in interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations.
j Foreign currency Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Transaction gains and losses are recognized in arriving at operating net loss income.
The results of overseas operations, whose functional currency is not US Dollars, are translated at the average monthly rates of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The cumulative effect of exchange rate movements is included in a separate component of other comprehensive income.
86 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency exchange transaction gains and losses on an after-tax basis included in consolidated net income in the years to December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, amounted to a $1.4 million loss, $2.5 million loss and $6.7 million loss, respectively.
k Income taxes The Company provides for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are provided for differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities that will result in future taxable or deductible amounts.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income.
Income tax expense is computed as the tax payable or refundable for the period, plus or minus the change during the period in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
l Earnings per share Earnings per share is computed in accordance with SFAS No.
Basic earnings per share is based upon net income loss available to ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is based upon net income loss available to ordinary shareholders adjusted for the impact on interest expense of including convertible debt in ordinary share equivalents on an if converted basis divided by the weighted average number of ordinary share equivalents outstanding during the period, adjusted for the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares that were outstanding during the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares are excluded when the effect would be to increase earnings per share or reduce a loss per share.
m Employee stock plans The Company accounts for its stock options using the intrinsic-value method prescribed in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees APB No.
Accordingly, compensation cost of stock options is measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of Shires ordinary shares at the measurement date over the option exercise price and is charged to operations over the vesting period.
For plans where the measurement date occurs after the grant date, referred to as variable plans, compensation cost is re-measured on the basis of the current market value of Shires ordinary shares at the end of each reporting period.
The Company recognizes compensation expense for variable plans with performance conditions if achievement of those conditions becomes probable.
123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation SFAS No.
123, the Company has included in these financial statements the required pro-forma disclosures as if the fair value method of accounting had been applied.
As at December 31, 2005, the Company had seven stock-based employee compensation plans, which are described more fully in Note 31.
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, $000 $000 $000 Net loss income, as reported 410,843 269,007 276,051 Add: Stock-based employee compensation charge credit included in reported net income, net of related tax effects 392 216 24 Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under a fair value based method for all awards, net of related tax effects 25,982 32,966 31,956 Pro forma net loss income 436,433 236,257 244,071 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, Earnings per share As reported basic 82.1 54.2 55.4 As reported diluted 82.1 53.3 54.2 Pro-forma basic 87.2 47.6 49.0 Pro-forma diluted 87.2 46.9 48.0 The fair value of the share-based payment used to compute pro-forma net loss income and per share disclosures represents the estimated present value at grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: Year to December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Risk-free interest rate 3.93 4.59% 2.46 4.19% 1.89 3.40% Expected dividend yield 0.6% 0%: 0.6% 0% Weighted average expected life 6.5 years 6.8 years 4.9 years Weighted average expected volatility 47.7% 48.5% 60.0% From January 1, 2006 the Company will apply SFAS No.
123 revised 2004, Share-Based Payment SFAS No.
123R issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB in December 2004.
See Note 3 x iii for details.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 87 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued n Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.
o Short-term investments Short-term investments consist of commercial paper and institutional and managed cash funds.
In accordance with SFAS No.
115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities SFAS No.
115, and based on the Companys intentions regarding these instruments, the Company has classified all short-term investments held at December 31, 2005 as available-for-sale.
Accordingly, the Company records these investments at their fair values with unrealized gains and losses included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, net of any related tax effect.
Realized gains and losses and declines in value judged to be other-than-temporary on available-for-sale securities are included in other income expense, net see Note 26.
Institutional and managed cash funds are short-term money market instruments, including bank and building society term deposits and other debt securities from a variety of companies with strong credit ratings.
p Financial instruments derivatives The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with intercompany loan arrangements.
These instruments consist of forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps.
The Company does not adopt hedge accounting treatment for these instruments and movements in their fair values are recognized in the statement of operations.
The fair values of these instruments are included on the balance sheet in current assets liabilities.
q Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost including manufacturing overheads, where appropriate or net realizable value.
Cost incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition is based on purchase costs calculated on a first-in, first-out basis, including transport.
Net realizable value is based on estimated normal selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
r Assets held for sale An asset is classified as held for sale when, amongst other things, the Company has committed to a plan of disposition, the asset is available for immediate sale, and the plan is not expected to change significantly.
s Investments The Company has certain investments in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
Investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives the Company the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control over, the investee.
Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on the investees Board of Directors and the impact of commercial arrangements, are considered in determining whether the equity method of accounting is appropriate.
Under the equity method of accounting, the Company records its investments in equity-method investees in the consolidated balance sheet as investments and its share of the investees earnings or losses together with other-than-temporary impairments in value as equity in earnings losses of equity method investees in the consolidated statement of operations.
All other equity investments, which consist of investments for which the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method or at fair value.
Investments in private companies are carried at cost, less provisions for other-than-temporary impairment in value.
For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, the Company classifies its equity investments as availablefor-sale and, accordingly, records these investments at their fair values with unrealized gains and losses included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, net of any related tax effect.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
Interest and dividends on securities classified as available-for-sale are included as interest income.
t Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment.
The cost of significant assets includes capitalized interest incurred during the construction period.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to write-off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings 2050 years Office furniture, fittings and equipment 310 years Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 310 years The cost of land is not depreciated.
Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
The costs of major renewals and improvements are capitalized.
At the time property, plant and equipment is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the asset and accumulated depreciation accounts.
The profit or loss on such disposition is reflected in operating loss income.
88 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued u Goodwill and other intangible assets i Goodwill In a business combination, goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is not amortized to operations, but instead is reviewed for impairment, at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Some factors the Company considers important which could trigger an impairment review include the following: i significant underperformance of a reporting unit relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: ii significant changes in the manner of the Companys use of acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business: and iii significant negative industry or economic trends.
142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill is reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying value of each reporting units net assets including allocated goodwill to the fair value of those net assets.
If the reporting units carrying amount is greater than its fair value, then a second step is performed whereby the portion of the fair value that relates to the reporting units goodwill is compared to the carrying value of that goodwill.
The Company recognizes a goodwill impairment charge for the amount the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the fair value.
The Company has determined that there are no impairment losses for any of the reporting periods covered by these financial statements.
ii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, which comprise intellectual property including trademarks for products with a defined revenue stream namely commercial products or rights to products awaiting final regulatory approval, are recorded at cost and amortized over the estimated useful life of the related product, which ranges from 535 years weighted average 16 years.
Intellectual property with no defined revenue stream, where the related product has not yet completed the necessary approval process, is written off to operations on acquisition.
The following factors are considered in estimating useful lives.
Where an intangible asset is a composite of a number of factors, the period of amortization is determined from considering these factors together: expected use of the asset: regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the regulatory approval and review process, patent issues and actions by government agencies: the effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing products and other economic factors, including the stability of the market, known technological advances, development of competing drugs that are more effective clinically or economically: and actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies or others that may eliminate current competitive advantages.
v Non-monetary transactions The Company enters into certain non-monetary transactions that involve either the granting of a license over the Companys patents or the disposal of an asset or group of assets in exchange for a nonmonetary asset, usually equity.
The Company accounts for these transactions at fair value where the Company is able to determine the fair value within reasonable limits.
To the extent that the Company concludes that it is unable to determine the fair value of a transaction, that transaction is accounted for at the recorded amounts of the assets exchanged.
Management is required to exercise its judgment in determining whether or not the fair value of the asset received or that given up can be determined.
w Reclassifications Certain amounts reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 89 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued x New accounting pronouncements i Adopted in the current year: EITF 03-13 In November 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force EITF reached a consensus on EITF 03-13, Applying the Conditions in Paragraph 42 of SFAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, in Determining Whether to Report Discontinued Operations EITF 03-13.
The purpose of the EITF is to clarify when a disposition should be classified as a discontinued operation caused by the contravening wording of paragraph 42 of SFAS No.
144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets SFAS No.
The EITF reached a consensus that classification of a disposed component as a discontinued operation is appropriate only if the ongoing entity: has no continuing direct cash flows a term EITF 03-13 introduces to interpret paragraph 42 a : and does not retain an interest, contract, or other arrangement sufficient to enable it to exert significant influence over the disposed components operating and financial policies after the disposal transaction an interpretation of paragraph 42 b. EITF 03-13 should be applied to components that are disposed of or classified as held for sale in periods beginning after December 15, 2004.
Previously reported operating results within an enterprises fiscal year that includes the ratification date may be reclassified to reflect the consensus.
The adoption of EITF 03-13 has had no impact on the Companys reporting of discontinued operations as the Company has not disposed of any operations in the period to which this guidance has been relevant.
EITF 05-06 In June 2005 the EITF reached consensus on Issue 05-6, Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold Improvements Purchased after Lease Inception or Acquired in a Business Combination EITF 05-6.
EITF 05-6 requires leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination to be amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the assets or a term that includes required lease periods and renewals deemed to be reasonably assured at the date of acquisition.
Additionally, the Issue requires improvements placed in service significantly after and not contemplated at or near the beginning of the lease term to be amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the assets or a term that includes required lease periods and renewals deemed to be reasonably assured at the date the leasehold improvements are purchased.
The adoption of EITF 05-6 has had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
SFAS 153 In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No.
153, Exchanges of Non-monetary Assets an amendment of APB Opinion No.
153, which amends APB Opinion No.
29, Accounting for Non-monetary Transactions to eliminate the exception for non-monetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for exchanges of non-monetary assets that do not have commercial substance.
153 is effective for non-monetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005.
153 has had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
ii To be adopted in future periods EITF 03-01 In March 2004, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue 03-01, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments EITF 03-01.
EITF 03-01 is applicable to a debt and equity securities within the scope of SFAS No.
115, b debt and equity securities within the scope of SFAS No.
124 and those held by an investor that reports a performance indicator, and c equity securities not within the scope of SFAS No.
115 and not accounted for under the Accounting Principles Board Opinion 18s equity method e. g. cost method investments.
EITF 03-01 provides a step model to determine whether an investment is impaired and if an impairment is other-than-temporary.
In addition, it requires that investors provide certain disclosures for cost method investments and, if applicable, other information related specifically to cost method investments, such as the aggregate carrying amount of cost method investments, the aggregate amount of cost method investments that the investor did not evaluate for impairment because an impairment indicator was not present, and the situations under which the fair value of a cost method investment is not estimated.
The disclosures relating to cost method investments should not be aggregated with other types of investments.
The effective date for the prospective application of the EITF 03-01 impairment model to all current and future investments has been delayed by the FASB Issues FASB Staff Position FSP EITF 03-01-1.
The disclosure requirements are effective for annual periods for fiscal years ending after June 15, 2004.
The Company does not expect the adoption of EITF 03-01 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
90 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued SFAS No.
123R In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No.
123R requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements at fair value and that excess tax benefits be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid.
123R is effective for the Company from January 1, 2006.
123R requires public companies to account for share-based payments using the modified-prospective method and permits public companies also to account for share-based payments using the  method.
Under the modified-prospective method, from the effective date, compensation cost is recognized based on the requirements of SFAS No.
123R for all new share-based awards and based on the requirements of SFAS No.
123 for all awards granted prior to the effective date of SFAS No.
123R that remain unvested on the effective date.
The  method permits companies to restate, based on the amounts previously recognized under SFAS No.
123 for pro-forma disclosure purposes, either all prior periods presented or prior interim periods in the year of adoption.
123 pro-forma disclosures given in Note 3 m above show the impact of the Company adopting the  method in prior periods.
123R, the Company will adopt the  method.
151 In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No.
151, Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No.
151 clarifies that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials spoilage should be recognized as currentperiod charges and requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities.
151 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005.
The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No.
151 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections replacement of APB Opinion No.
154 changes the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle by requiring retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle unless impracticable.
154 is effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.
154 will have no impact on historical results: rather the impact depends upon future changes to accounting principles.
124-1 In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position FSP FAS 115-1 and 124-1, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.
The guidance in this FSP addresses the determination of when an investment is considered impaired, whether that impairment is other than temporary, and the measurement of an impairment loss.
The FSP also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments.
115-1 and SFAS 124-1 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006.
The Company does not expect the adoption of FSP SFAS No.
115-1 and SFAS 124-1 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
EITF 04-5 In June 2005, the EITF reached a consensus regarding the issue, Investors Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership When the Investor Is the Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights Issue, on how to evaluate whether a partnership should be consolidated by one of its partners.
The scope of this Issue is limited to limited partnerships or similar entities such as limited liability companies that have governing provisions that are the functional equivalent of a limited partnership that are not variable interest entities under FASB Interpretation 46 R. The EITF concluded that a general partner or a group of general partners of a limited partnership is presumed to control the limited partnership, unless either the limited partners have the substantive ability to dissolve the limited partnership or otherwise remove the general partner without cause or the limited partners have substantive participating rights.
The guidance in this Issue is effective after June 29, 2005 for general partners of all new limited partnerships formed and for existing limited partnerships for which the partnership agreements are modified.
For general partners in all other pre-existing limited partnerships, the guidance in this Issue is effective no later than the beginning of the first reporting period in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.
The Company will adopt EITF 04-5 at the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 and is currently reviewing the impact this issue will have on its financial statements.
y Statutory accounts The consolidated financial statements as at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and for each of the three years in the period to December 31, 2005, do not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 240 of the UK Companies Act 1985.
Statutory accounts prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the UK for the years to December 31, 2004 and 2003, have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales.
The auditors report on those accounts was unqualified.
z Revisions During 2005, the Company changed the presentation of its Statements of cash flows to separately present the cash flows from discontinued operations within the categories operating, investing and financing activities, which in prior periods were reported on a combined basis as a single amount.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 91 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 4 Business combinations: TKT acquisition On July 27, 2005, Shire completed its acquisition of TKT in an all-cash transaction.
The acquisition was effected by merging a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire with and into TKT, with TKT continuing as the surviving corporation.
As consideration, Shire paid to TKTs stockholders $37 in cash for each share of TKT common stock outstanding at the time of the acquisition, less any applicable withholding taxes.
The total cash consideration for the acquisition of TKT is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, subject to change as may be required by the appraisal rights process see below.
As at December 31, 2005, shareholders owning approximately 24.8 million TKT shares being 69% of the 36.2 million TKT shares outstanding at the acquisition date had accepted the offer and $917.9 million has been paid to them: $83.9 million was paid in connection with TKT stock options: and $170.1 million in connection with convertible notes outstanding at the date of acquisition.
In connection with the acquisition, as at December 31, 2005, the former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock submitted written demands for appraisal of these shares and elected not to accept the $37 per share merger consideration.
To the extent that these demands were validly asserted in accordance with the applicable requirements of Delaware law and these holders perfect their rights thereunder, such holders will be entitled to receive the fair value of their shares as determined by the Delaware Court of Chancery.
The determination of fair value of the TKT shares will be made excluding any element of value arising from the transaction, such as cost savings or business synergies.
The Delaware Court of Chancery may ascribe a valuation to the shares that is greater than, less than or equal to $37 per share and may award interest on the amount determined in the appraisal process.
Shire has recognized a liability in respect of the fair value of those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights based on $37 per share.
If the court ascribes a different valuation to $37 this will result in an adjustment to goodwill.
In addition, the Company has recorded a provision for interest, based on the $37 per share amount, of $7.7 million for the period to December 31, 2005, which has been charged to the statement of operations.
For accounting purposes, the acquisition of TKT has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with SFAS No.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from TKT are recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values.
Financial statements and reported results of operations of Shire will reflect these values, with the results of TKT included from July 27, 2005, in the statement of operations.
The following is an estimate of the purchase price for TKT: $000 Common stock Number of shares of TKT common stock non-dissenting 24,809,126 Price per TKT share $ 37.00 917,937 Number of shares of TKT common stock dissenting 11,349,150 i Price per TKT share $ 37.00 419,919 Total number of shares of TKT common stock outstanding as at July 27, 2005 36,158,276 1,337,856 Stock options Cash cost of settling TKT stock options 83,877 Convertible notes Nominal value of convertible loan notes as at July 27, 2005 in $000s 85,000 Conversion ratio into TKT common stock 18.49 Total shares payable upon conversion 4,597,080 Price per TKT share $ 37.00 Cost of settling convertible notes 170,092 Direct costs of acquisition 37,491 Total estimated purchase price 1,629,316 The estimated purchase price stated above has been allocated on a preliminary basis according to Shires estimate of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The fair values of certain pre-acquisition contingencies, in particular those relating to the Purported Class Action Shareholder Suit see Note 21 d for further details are yet to be determined.
Shire currently does not have sufficient information to reliably measure the contingencies.
i In addition to the $37 per TKT share, interest of $7.7 million has been accrued.
Total liability to dissenting shareholders included in the balance sheet is $427.6 million.
92 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 4 Business combinations: TKT acquisition continued The purchase price was allocated as follows: Book value Adjustments Fair value Notes $000 $000 $000 Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 56,814 56,814 Restricted cash 8,173 8,173 Short-term investments 46,896 46,896 Accounts receivable, net 28,361 28,361 Inventories a 12,890 88,879 101,769 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 7,997 7,997 Total current assets 161,131 88,879 250,010 Property, plant and equipment, net 57,297 57,297 Goodwill 39,038 39,038 on TKT acquisition c 166,414 166,414 Other intangible assets, net d 20,210 460,790 481,000 In-process research and development e 673,000 673,000 Deferred tax asset b 96,833 96,833 Other non-current assets 3,281 3,281 Total assets 280,957 1,446,878 1,727,835 Liabilities Current liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued expenses f 35,365 437 35,802 Deferred tax liability b 36,440 36,440 Other current liabilities 24,471 24,471 Total current liabilities 59,836 36,877 96,713 Other long-term liabilities 1,806 1,806 Total liabilities 61,642 36,877 98,519 Estimated fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 219,315 1, 410,001 1,629,316 The fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be determined as soon as possible and, in any event, no later than one year from the acquisition date if such fair values can be measured in this time frame.
To the extent that estimates need to be adjusted, Shire will do so in future periods in accordance with SFAS No.
In the fourth quarter of 2005, the following estimates were adjusted: Fair value net assets adjustment Nature of adjustment $000 Change in deferred tax rate 21,987 Change in deferred tax asset on TKT losses carried forward net of valuation allowances 40,504 Determination of the fair value of certain contingent liabilities outstanding at the acquisition date 18,020 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 93 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 4 Business combinations: TKT acquisition continued a Inventory Components of the increase in fair value for acquired inventory are as follows: Book Fair value Fair value adjustment value $000 $000 $000 Finished goods 3,377 66,814 70,191 Work-in-process 7,027 22,065 29,092 Raw materials 2,486 2,486 12,890 88,879 101,769 Finished goods were fair valued at estimated selling price less the sum of costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort of the Company.
Work in-process was fair valued on the same basis less costs to complete.
All cost of product sales of REPLAGAL, since the acquisition, are at the fair value of the inventory acquired.
b Deferred taxes The estimated tax effects of the acquisition, including TKT trading losses and the effect of the fair value adjustments for inventory and other intangible assets are as follows: $000 i Deferred tax asset on TKT losses carried forward net of valuation allowance of $60.3 million long term 285,757 Deferred tax liability on other intangible assets long term 188,924 Deferred tax asset, net 96,833 Deferred tax liability on inventory current 36,440 Deferred tax, net 60,393 i Any future changes in the valuation allowance will be reflected in the carrying value of goodwill.
As noted above, in the final quarter of 2005 the following estimates relating to deferred tax were adjusted for: the deferred tax rate has been adjusted to reflect the US federal rate and state tax combined 41% rate that should apply to measure the deferred tax liability: and the deferred tax asset on TKT losses, which increased as a result of the identification of further tax deductible expenses in prior years.
c Goodwill In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No.
142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets SFAS No.
142, the goodwill associated with the TKT acquisition will not be amortized but will be subject to the Companys impairment review.
Goodwill resulting from this acquisition has been allocated to the Pharmaceutical Products segment.
d Other intangible assets The acquired identifiable intangible assets are attributable to the following categories: Book Fair value Fair value adjustment value Asset life $000 $000 $000 years i Intellectual property 335,000 335,000 1420 ii Customer relationships 14,909 104,091 119,000 15 ii Other survey data 5,301 21,699 27,000 7 20,210 460,790 481,000 Notes i Relates to REPLAGAL excluding US and Japan and DYNEPO for the treatment of anemia associated with kidney disease.
ii Relates to REPLAGAL excluding US and Japan.
Acquired identifiable intangible assets have been allocated to the Pharmaceutical Products reporting segment.
Acquired identifiable intangible assets represent the value associated with developed technology to which the Company has all associated rights.
These rights can include the right to develop, use, market, sell and or offer for sale the technical processes, intellectual property and institutional understanding including the way in which compounds react in the body, an understanding of the mechanisms of action which allow the compound to work and the knowledge related to the associated clinical and marketing studies performed for these compounds that were acquired as part of the transaction with respect to products and or processes that have been developed.
94 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 4 Business combinations: TKT acquisition continued The fair value of all of the identifiable intangible assets has been determined using an income approach on a project-by-project basis.
This method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows either generated or saved as a result of ownership of the intellectual property, the customer relationships and the other intangible assets.
These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams.
The forecast of future cash flows requires various assumptions to be made, including: revenue that is reasonably likely to result from the sale of products including the estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration and estimated market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product life cycles: royalty or license fees saved by owning the intellectual property associated with the products: cost of sales for the products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: general and administrative expenses: research and development expenses: and the estimated life of the products.
The valuations are based on information at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by the Companys management.
No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from the forecast future cash flows.
e In-process research and development As required by FASB Interpretation No.
2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method FIN 4, the portion of the purchase price allocated to in-process research and development of $673 million was immediately expensed.
A project-by-project valuation using the guidance in SFAS No.
141 and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants AICPA Practice Aid Assets Acquired in a Business Combination to Be Used In Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical Industries has been performed by independent valuation specialists to determine the fair value of research and development projects of TKT which were in-process, but not yet completed.
The fair value was determined using the income approach on a project-by-project basis.
This method starts with a forecast of the expected future net cash flows.
These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the projects stage of completion and other risk factors.
These other risk factors can include the nature of the product, the scientific data associated with the technology, the current patent situation and market competition.
The forecast of future cash flows required various assumptions to be made including: revenue that is likely to result from specific in-process research and development projects, including estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration and estimated market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product life cycles: cost of sales related to the potential products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data or other market data: general and administrative expenses: and research and development expenses.
In addition the Company considered: the projects stage of completion: the costs incurred to date: the projected costs to complete: the contribution, if any, of the acquired identifiable intangible assets: the projected launch date of the potential product: and the estimated life of the potential product.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 95 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 4 Business combinations: TKT acquisition continued To the extent that the in-process research and development project is expected to utilize the acquired identified intangible assets, the value of the in-process research and development project has been reduced to reflect this utilization.
The acquired identified intangible assets include the technical processes, intellectual property, and institutional understanding with respect to products and processes that have been completed and that may aid in the development of future products or processes.
f Accounts payable and accrued expenses Included in Accounts payable and accrued expenses are the following fair value adjustments: i Restructuring costs An estimate of restructuring costs that impact goodwill, pursuant to EITF Issue No.
95-3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with Purchase Business Combinations EITF 95-3.
Such costs total $2 million and are associated with the involuntary termination of 15 TKT employees all of whom had left the Company by December 31, 2005.
As at December 31, 2005, $1.5 million had been paid and $0.5 million was outstanding: and ii Deferred revenue A fair value adjustment of $1.6 million in respect of a deferred revenue stream relating to pre-acquisition activities of TKT.
Pro-forma financial information The following unaudited pro-forma financial information presents the combined results of the operations of Shire and TKT as if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually would have been had the acquisition been completed at the dates indicated.
In addition, the unaudited pro-forma financial information does not purport to project the future results of operations of the combined Company.
2005 2004 Year to December 31, $000 $000 Revenues 1,652,875 1,441,333 Income before extraordinary items and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles 220,034 187,968 Net income 220,034 187,968 Per share amounts: Net income per common share basic 44.0 37.9 Net income per common share diluted 43.5 37.4 The unaudited pro-forma financial information above reflects the following pro-forma adjustments applied using the principles of Article 11 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: i elimination of historical amortization expense recorded by legacy TKT for definite-lived intangible assets: ii elimination of interest expense recorded by legacy TKT on convertible loan notes: iii an adjustment to increase interest expense by $6 million in the year to December 31, 2005, and $8.1 million in the year to December 31, 2004, to reflect the interest payable to dissenting shareholders: iv an adjustment to decrease interest income by $15 million in the year to December 31, 2005, and $17.4 million in the year to December 31, 2004, to reflect the cash consideration paid to TKT shareholders, option holders and convertible note holders: and v an adjustment to increase amortization expense based on the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets from the purchase price allocation, which are being amortized over their estimated useful lives over a range of 720 years, of approximately $13.7 million in the year to December 31, 2005, and $23.4 million in the year to December 31, 2004.
In addition, the unaudited pro-forma financial information above excludes the following material, non-recurring purchase accounting adjustments in the year to December 31, 2005, as follows: an in-process research and development charge of $673 million: a $41.9 million charge relating to the use or sale of purchased inventory that was written up to fair value reported in cost of product sales: and a $17.2 million credit relating to the current deferred tax liability with regard to the purchased inventory charge in cost of product sales above.
96 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 5 Integration costs In connection with the acquisition of TKT the Companys management approved and initiated plans to restructure the operations of the enlarged Company to eliminate duplicate facilities and reduce costs.
Integration costs represent incremental costs incurred by the Company directly related to the absorption of the TKT business into the Company, including expenditures for consulting and systems integration.
The charges have been presented as integration costs in the statement of operations and are accounted for solely within the Pharmaceutical Products reporting segment.
Integration costs expensed in the year to December 31, 2005: Costs recorded Paid in in year to year to December 31, December 31, Closing 2005 2005 liability Notes $000 $000 $000 Employee severance and retention payments for key TKT employees 7,031 1,097 5,934 Information technology costs 1,049 1,049 Other 1,636 1,436 200 9,716 3,582 6,134 Current liabilities 17 8,916 3,582 5,293 Other long-term liabilities 19 800 841 9,716 3,582 6,134 6 Reorganizations Actions commenced in 2005 Sale of the drug formulation business On December 22, 2005, Shire sold its drug formulation business to Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Supernus, a newly-formed specialty pharmaceutical company funded by two venture capital companies.
The sale resulted in: a profit on sale of $3.6 million.
Proceeds from the sale included an equity interest of less than 10% in Supernus, which has been included in investments in private companies see Note 11 at its fair value of $3.9 million.
The fair value was determined by reference to the cash invested in Supernus by the venture capital companies: the transfer of the lease on the East Gude Drive, Rockville premises to Supernus, with Shire being released from all obligations under the lease by the landlord: an ongoing projects agreement relating to services that Supernus will continue to provide to Shire for a transitional period ending on or about March 31, 2006, on certain Shire projects until the projects are moved to third-party suppliers: and the severance of 28 employees.
As at December 31, 2005, 16 had left the Company, and the remaining employees are expected to leave by March 31, 2006.
Severance payments are being made to the former employees over a 42-week period, as required by local regulations.
The sale has been reflected in the statement of operations as follows: Research and Other income development expense, net expense $000 $000 Gain on disposition 3,561 Employee severance 1,216 Other costs 192 3,561 1,408 All items are recorded in the Pharmaceutical Products segment.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 97 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 6 Reorganizations continued Actions commenced in 2004 North American site consolidation As previously disclosed, the Company began a consolidation of its North American sites in 2004, with the aim of decreasing the number of sites from 16 to four, including the opening of a new US headquarters office in Wayne, Pennsylvania.
The Company recorded reorganization costs of $48.5 million in 2004, and $9.3 million in the year to December 31, 2005.
The primary costs associated with the site consolidation included: severance costs relating to 137 employees: retention payments to key employees: relocation costs relating to 85 employees who were moved to Wayne, Pennsylvania: costs of duplicate facilities including lease exit costs : and other incremental costs associated with the site closures, such as legal, consultancy, the write-down of property, plant and equipment and information technology costs.
As at December 31, 2005, all 137 employees had left the Company.
The cost of the employee severance was ratably recognized over the period from the communication date to the termination date.
In addition, all 85 of those employees who had agreed to relocate have relocated.
The cost of relocation was recorded as it was incurred.
The following table presents the cost of the reorganization recorded to date and the total costs of the reorganization.
Total costs Total costs recorded in recorded in year to year to December 31, December 31, Total costs of 2005 2004 reorganization $m $m $m Employee severance and relocation costs 1.6 33.8 35.4 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.2 Consultancy costs 0.5 2.9 3.4 Duplicate facilities 7.2 5.1 12.3 Information technology costs 2.1 2.1 Other costs 3.4 3.4 9.3 48.5 57.8 These charges have been reflected within reorganization costs in the statement of operations and are accounted for solely within the Pharmaceutical Products reporting segment.
As noted above, certain of the costs associated with the reorganization will be paid in subsequent periods.
The following provides a reconciliation of the liability as at December 31, 2005: Costs recorded Utilization in year to in year to Opening December 31, December 31, Closing liability 2005 2005 liability Notes $m $m $m $m Employee severance and relocation costs 1.7 1.6 2.7 0.6 Consultancy costs 0.5 0.5 Duplicate facilities 2.5 7.2 2.5 7.2 4.2 9.3 5.7 7.8 Current liabilities 17 1.7 7.4 5.7 3.4 Other long-term liabilities 19 2.5 1.9 4.4 4.2 9.3 5.7 7.8 The remaining relocation costs are expected to be paid in 2006.
The duplicate facilities costs will be paid over the remaining life of the relevant leases, which all expire before October 31, 2012.
98 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 6 Reorganizations continued The following provides a reconciliation of the liability as at December 31, 2004: Costs recorded Utilization in year to in year to Opening December 31, December 31, Closing liability 2004 2004 liability $m $m $m $m Employee severance and relocation costs 33.8 32.1 1.7 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.2 Consultancy costs 2.9 2.9 Duplicate facilities 5.1 2.6 2.5 Information technology costs 2.1 2.1 Other costs 3.4 3.4 48.5 44.3 4.2 iii Disposition of the vaccines business On September 9, 2004 the Company completed the disposition of its vaccines business to ID Biomedical Corporation IDB.
The total consideration for the sale was $120 million comprizing $30 million of cash received at completion, $30 million of cash held in escrow and due on the first anniversary of completion and $60 million received at completion in the form of 4,931,864 subscription receipts of IDB.
If, prior to January 10, 2005, IDB were to raise up to $60 million from equity related issuances, then it was required under the terms of the sale agreement to redeem the subscription receipts from Shire for $60 million.
Accordingly, following the completion of such a fund raising on January 7, 2005, IDB redeemed the subscription receipts from Shire for $60 million in cash.
On the first anniversary of completion, Shire received the $30 million of cash held in escrow.
As part of the transaction, Shire entered into an agreement to provide IDB with a loan facility of up to $100 million, which could be drawn down over the four years following completion.
As at December 31, 2005, IDB had drawn down the entire $100 million loan.
It was required that this facility be used by IDB to fund the development of injectable flu and pipeline products within the vaccines business acquired from Shire.
Drawings under the loan facility are segregated into two components: i Drawings for injectable flu development of $70.6 million which are repayable out of income generated by IDB on future non-Canadian injectable flu products, subject to minimum annual repayments in respect of the first $30 million of the drawing, to be made between 2007 and 2017: and ii Drawings for pipeline development of $29.4 million which are repayable out of income generated by IDB on future pipeline products and have no fixed repayment schedule.
The transaction gave rise to an overall loss on disposition of the vaccines business of $41.1 million, recorded as a loss on disposition at completion in 2004 of $44.2 million and a subsequent provision release of $3.1 million being recognized during the year to December 31, 2005.
This net loss on disposition of $41.1 million comprises a gain on disposition of net assets of $28.9 million together with a provision for a loss of $70 million out of the $100 million loan facility available to IDB.
This provision was made on the basis that those loan repayments based solely on future sales of flu and pipeline products in development provided no certainty of recovery.
The historical consolidated financial statements reflect the vaccines business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.
The results of the discontinued operation have been removed from all periods on a line-by-line basis from product sales revenue to income from continuing operations.
The net loss from the discontinued operation, together with the loss on disposition, are shown as separate line items.
Operating results of the discontinued operations are summarized below.
2004 2003 Year to December 31, $000 $000 Revenues: Product sales 3,626 25,531 Total revenues 3,626 25,531 Costs and expenses: Cost of product sales 8,304 19,954 Research and development 9,222 20,879 Selling, general and administrative 5,614 9,671 Total operating expenses 23,140 50,504 Operating loss 19,514 24,973 Other expense income, net 621 3,087 Loss from discontinued operations 20,135 21,886 Loss on disposition 44,157 64,292 21,886 At December 31, 2004, the assets and liabilities of the discontinued vaccines operation were $nil.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 99 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 6 Reorganizations continued Actions commenced in 2003 i Closure of Lead Optimization The closure of Lead Optimization resulted in: the severance of 134 employees.
As at December 2004, all employees had left the Company: a $6 million write-off of tangible fixed assets.
These assets, primarily laboratory equipment, were used by Lead Optimization for research and development and had no alternative use: and the cancellation, to the extent possible, of contracts directly relating to Lead Optimization.
The costs associated with these actions have been reflected in reorganization costs in the statement of operations in the year to December 31, 2003 and 2004.
There are no outstanding liabilities related to the closure of Lead Optimization at December 31, 2005.
The following provides a roll-forward of the liability to December 31, 2004: Costs recorded Utilization in year to in year to Opening December 31, December 31, Closing liability 2004 2004 liability $000 $000 $000 $000 Employee severance 3,452 118 3,570 Other costs 325 9 98 236 3,777 127 3,668 236 The following provides a roll-forward of the liability as at December 31, 2003: Costs recorded Utilization in year to in year to Opening December 31, December 31, Closing liability 2003 2003 liability $000 $000 $000 $000 Employee severance 6,425 2,973 3,452 Write down of tangible fixed assets 6,026 6,026 Other costs 800 475 325 13,251 9,474 3,777 ii Disposition of North American facilities Subsequent to the closure of Lead Optimization and the decision to dispose of the vaccines business, the Company began an assessment of its property needs in Canada and the US.
As a result of this initial process the Company decided to dispose of its building in Laval, Canada and to relocate the employees.
The Company also decided to sell its building in Buffalo Grove, US.
As at December 31, 2003, the Company had obtained valuations of the properties and entered into sale negotiations with third parties on the Laval property and was actively seeking buyers for its Buffalo Grove facility.
Based on these negotiations, the valuations obtained, the limitations on use of the building in its current state and the overall real estate market, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $10.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2003, which is included in reorganization costs in the consolidated statement of operations.
The Company reclassified to prepaid expenses and other current assets the assets held for sale.
The properties were disposed of in 2004.
100 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 7 Accounts receivable, net Trade receivables at December 31, 2005, of $329.9 million December 31, 2004: $222.5 million, are stated net of a provision for doubtful accounts and sales discounts of $9.7 million December 31, 2004: $4.3 million.
The movement in the provision for doubtful accounts and sales discounts is as follows: 2005 2004 2003 $000 $000 $000 As at January 1, 4,264 7,853 4,585 Charged to operations 51,060 38,218 42,841 Released to income 3,395 Utilization 45,577 38,412 39,573 As at December 31, 9,747 4,264 7,853 Revenues are mainly derived in the US 69% of total revenues from agreements with major pharmaceutical companies and relationships with pharmaceutical wholesale distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
Significant customers are disclosed in Note 25.
Such clients have significant cash resources and therefore any credit risk associated with these transactions is considered minimal.
8 Inventories December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 Finished goods 63,315 22,349 Work-in-process 53,963 11,831 Raw materials 18,779 7,050 136,057 41,230 The increase in inventory is due to the acquisition of TKT see Note 4.
9 Prepaid expenses and other current assets December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 Notes $000 $000 Prepaid expenses 30,245 31,401 Income tax receivable 40,802 Value added taxes receivable 10,185 2,124 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SERP investment 28 1,276 1,784 Subscription receipts 6 60,000 Cash held in escrow 6 30,000 Other current assets 15,576 11,962 98,084 137,271 10 Short-term investments December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 Institutional and managed cash funds 6,947 174,752 Commercial paper 149,659 6,947 324,411 In July 2005, the Company liquidated all short-term investments to provide funds for the acquisition of TKT.
The investments balance at December 31, 2005, was inherited through that acquisition.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 101 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 11 Investments December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 Investments in private companies 9,008 2,451 Available-for-sale securities 18,131 29,970 Equity-method investments 23,023 30,846 50,162 63,267 The Company recorded impairments of $2 million on its investments during the year to December 31, 2005 2004: $15.4 million: 2003 $15.5 million.
All impairments in the three years presented were recorded in the Pharmaceutical Products segment.
a Investments in private companies Additions to investments in private companies included a $3.9 million investment in Supernus less than 10% of total equity, as part consideration for the sale of the drug formulation business.
The fair value of the investment was determined by reference to cash invested in Supernus by the other investors.
During the year to December 31, 2005 the Company recorded impairments of $1.6 million against its investments in private companies based on a decline in the estimates of their fair value that the Company believes are other-than-temporary.
During the year to December 31, 2004 the Company recorded impairments of $9.8 million against these investments based on changes in the estimates of their fair value.
This amount includes $4.2 million to reduce the value of an investment in a private company that gained a listing on March 24, 2004: the initial listing price was below the anticipated flotation price used to value the investment at December 31, 2003 and the Company believed the decline in value was other-than-temporary.
After the date of the listing the investment was reclassified to available-for-sale securities and so any changes since the initial listing date have been recorded in other comprehensive income.
The changes in fair market value, which resulted in the write-downs referred to above were based on the Companys estimates of fair value.
These estimates were derived from financial and other publicly available information such as press releases and recent capital raising activities.
b Available-for-sale securities Gain on sale During the year to December 31, 2005 the Company sold an investment in an available-for-sale security, valued at $6 million, realizing a gain on the sale of $3.9 million.
During the year to December 31, 2004 the Company sold an investment in an available-for-sale security, valued at $11.9 million, realizing a gain on the sale of $14.8 million 2003: $nil.
Other-than-temporary impairment The Company recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $0.4 million, $1.6 million and $nil against its available-for-sale securities in the years to December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively.
At December 31, 2005, the Company had no available-for-sale investments in a significant unrealized loss position for which other-than-temporary impairments have not been recognized.
102 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 11 Investments continued c Equity method investments December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 GSK 5,954 6,179 GeneChem Funds 12,659 18,343 Other 4,410 6,324 23,023 30,846 i GSK The Company has accounted for its commercialization partnership with GSK through which the products 3TC and ZEFFIX are marketed in Canada, using the equity method of accounting.
The Companys 50% share of the partnership is included within Equity in losses earnings of equity method investees.
ii GeneChem Funds The GeneChem Technologies Venture Fund and the GeneChem Therapeutics Venture Fund The Funds are Canadian limited partnerships investing in healthcare research and development companies, in which the Company owns 30% and 11% of the issued shares respectively.
At December 31, 2005, the Funds net assets totaled approximately $71 million 2004: $107 million.
The Company is involved as a limited partner and the general partner of the Funds: involvement in the Funds dates from between 1997 and 2000.
The Companys exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with the Funds is limited to the carrying value of the investment, $12.7 million at December 31, 2005 2004: $18.3 million, 2003: $19.8 million and its commitment to further investment of $1.7 million 2004: $2.9 million, 2003: $4.1 million.
During the year to December 31, 2004, the Company recorded an impairment of $4 million against the investment in the Funds following reviews of the Funds investment portfolios that identified other-than-temporary declines in the value of certain private and publicly quoted securities held by the Funds.
12 Property, plant and equipment, net December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 Land and buildings 157,242 80,631 Office furniture, fittings and equipment 91,142 67,301 Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 44,080 31,657 Assets under construction 18,360 3,166 310,824 182,755 Less: accumulated depreciation 76,825 51,404 233,999 131,351 The increase in property, plant and equipment net, is principally due to the acquisition of TKT see Note 4.
Depreciation expense for the years to December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $32.7 million, $22.5 million and $14.1 million respectively.
The expense in 2005 included a $6.5 million impairment loss related to the plant and equipment of the drug formulation business.
At the time of the impairment loss, the Company was expecting to close the business and, because the carrying value of the assets exceeded the expected future cash flows resulting from the closure, the assets were considered impaired.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 103 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 13 Goodwill, net December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 Goodwill arising on businesses acquired 367,652 235,396 The increase in the net book value of goodwill for the year to December 31, 2005, is shown in the table below: $000 As at January 1, 2005 235,396 Acquisitions 166,414 Asset impairments Disposals Foreign currency translation 34,158 As at December 31, 2005 367,652 The Company recognized $166 million as goodwill on acquisition of TKT see Note 4, in accordance with SFAS No.
This goodwill is recorded in the Pharmaceutical Products segment.
Goodwill by operating segment In prior reporting periods, the Companys internal management reporting structure was based on a combination of geography and function.
As a result the Company had operating segments for the US and International sales and marketing businesses, research and development costs and a Corporate segment which included corporate costs and royalty income.
Following an internal restructuring of the business, management has re-evaluated and amended its internal reporting structures and as a result, changed its reporting segments.
Effective January 1, 2005, Shires internal management reporting structures have been changed to show two operating segments, Pharmaceutical Products and Royalties.
The Pharmaceutical Products segment comprises four therapeutic areas: CNS, GI, Shire HGT and GP.
The net book value of goodwill as at December 31, 2005 is all held in the Pharmaceutical Products segment.
14 Other intangible assets, net December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 Other intangible assets: Intellectual property rights acquired 978,869 543,969 Less: accumulated amortization 249, 565 234,672 729,304 309,297 The increase in the net book value of other intangible assets for the year to December 31, 2005 is shown in the table below: Other intangible assets $000 As at January 1, 2005 309,297 Acquisitions 1,155,511 In-process research and development write-off 673,000 Amortization charged 45,266 Asset impairments 5,632 Disposals Foreign currency translation 11,606 As at December 31, 2005 729,304 The Company acquired $481 million of other identifiable intangible assets, net of $673 million of in-process research and development expensed to the income statement, at fair value, as part of the acquisition of TKT.
The weighted average amortization period of these assets is 16.8 years.
These assets relate to intellectual property $335 million, customer relationships $119 million and other finite-lived assets $27 million see Note 4.
104 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 14 Other intangible assets, net continued Amortization charged for the three years to December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $45.3 million, $38.7 million and $26.4 million, respectively.
The useful economic lives of all intangible assets that continue to be amortized under SFAS No.
142 are reviewed periodically by management.
During 2005, management became aware of competitor intelligence, which it believed would reduce the useful economic life of one of the Companys products.
Consequently, the Company has decreased the useful economic life of the product, which has resulted in an additional amortization charge in 2005 of $1.7 million and will increase the expected annual amortization charge from 2006 by $6.8 million.
The effect of this additional charge is to reduce net income in 2005 by $1.2 million and increase losses per share by 0.2.
Management estimates that the annual amortization charges in respect of intangible fixed assets held as at December 31, 2005 will average approximately $90 million for each of the five years to December 31, 2010.
Estimated amortization expense can be affected by various factors including future acquisitions, disposals of product rights and the technological advancement and regulatory approval of competitor products.
During 2005, the Company recorded impairments of $5.6 million.
These impairments resulted from the approval of generic versions of AGRYLIN and the decision not to support and promote certain non-core products going forward.
During 2004, the Company recorded impairments of $13.5 million.
These impairments resulted from a change of operational management and their views of the economic value and strategic worth of the products concerned, which decreased estimated future cash flows.
During 2003 the Company recorded asset impairments of $12.1 million and an asset write-down of $15.4 million.
The asset impairments of $12.1 million resulted from a decline in product prices, which decreased estimated future cash flows.
The asset write-down of $15.4 million resulted from a decision not to renew product licenses that were not core to the business.
15 Other non-current assets December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 Notes $000 $000 SERP investment 28 7,576 7,698 IDB loan 6 31,491 30,000 Other assets 3,840 1,197 42,907 38,895 Further details of the SERP investment are provided in Note 28.
The amount shown above is the cash surrender value of life insurance policies, which is backed by short-term investments.
A liability of $4.6 million is included within Notes 17 and 19 2004: $5.5 million.
16 Accounts payable and accrued expenses December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 Notes $000 $000 Trade accounts payable 70,958 35,008 Accrued rebates Medicaid 83,624 84,758 Accrued rebates managed care 21,825 14,667 Sales return reserve 31,788 22,530 Accrued bonuses 39,372 23,171 Accrued coupons 5,177 15,869 Research and development accruals 22,108 10,924 Marketing accrual 17,415 26,095 Accrued royalties 4,703 8,250 Accrued rent 7,284 Deferred revenue 11,835 14,472 Reorganization accrual 6 3,404 1,936 Accrued settlement costs 13,000 Other accrued expenses 99,326 53,551 431,819 311,231 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 105 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 17 Other current liabilities December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 Notes $000 $000 Income taxes payable 93,563 42,521 Deferred payments 18,980 Value added taxes 3,811 SERP 28 1,277 1,904 Other accrued liabilities 7,342 14,153 105,993 77,558 18 Long-term debt i Multicurrency Revolving Facilities Agreement In connection with the acquisition of TKT, Shire and certain members of the Shire Group entered into a Multicurrency Revolving Facilities Agreement the Facilities Agreement with ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc the Lenders on June 15, 2005.
The Facilities Agreement comprises two credit facilities: i a committed multicurrency three-year revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount of $500 million Facility A and ii a committed 364 day revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount of $300 million Facility B and, together with Facility A, the Facilities.
Shire has agreed to act as guarantor for any of its subsidiaries that borrow under the Facilities Agreement.
Facility A may be used for general corporate purposes, including financing the purchase price and other costs with respect to the acquisition of TKT including refinancing TKTs existing indebtedness.
Facility B may be used only for financing certain milestone payments due under the agreement between Shire and, inter alia, New River Pharmaceuticals Inc. New River, dated January 31, 2005.
Facility A terminates on June 15, 2008 and Facility B terminates on June 14, 2006.
At Shires request, the Lenders may agree to successive annual extensions of Facility B, but not beyond the maturity date of Facility A. Alternatively, Shire has the right to draw Facility B or convert existing loans under Facility B into a term loan with the same maturity date as Facility A.
The availability of loans under each of the Facilities is subject to customary conditions, including the absence of any defaults thereunder and the accuracy in all material respects of Shires representations and warranties contained therein.
The Facilities include representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, including requirements that Shires ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the Facilities Agreement not exceed 3.0 to 1 and that the ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest be not less than 4.0 to 1, both in respect of the most recently ended fiscal year, and limitations on the creation of liens, disposal of assets, incurrence of indebtedness, making of loans and giving of guarantees.
Interest on loans under the Facilities will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which period may be one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire or as otherwise agreed with the Lenders.
The interest rate on each loan for each interest period is the percentage rate per annum, which is the aggregate of the applicable margin ranging from 0.35 to 0.65% per annum, depending on the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA, LIBOR, and mandatory cost, if any as calculated in accordance with Schedule 5 of the Facilities Agreement.
Shire shall also pay fees equal to 35% per annum of the applicable margin on available commitments under Facility A for the availability period applicable to Facility A and 20% per annum of the applicable margin on available commitments under Facility B for the availability period applicable to Facility B in respect of the period prior to January 1, 2007, and 30% per annum of the applicable margin thereafter.
Interest on overdue amounts under the Facilities will accrue at a rate, which is one percent higher than the rates otherwise applicable to the loans under the Facilities.
Upon a change of control of Shire or upon the occurrence of an event of default and the expiration of any applicable cure period, the total commitments under the Facilities may be cancelled, all or part of the loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued or outstanding may be immediately due and payable and all or part of the loans may become payable on demand.
As at December 31, 2005, the Company had not drawn down on these facilities.
ii TKT convertible loan notes As at December 31, 2005 all of TKTs 1.25% 2011 Convertible Notes had been converted and redeemed.
iii Capital leases During the year to December 31, 2004 the Company served notice to buy out its remaining capital leases, totaling $5.7 million, relating to its manufacturing facility in Maryland.
Repayment of the leases occurred in October 2004.
106 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 19 Other long-term liabilities December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 Notes $000 $000 SERP 28 3,314 3,591 Long-term bonuses 4,796 4,425 Deferred revenue 5,939 9,074 Insurance provisions 11,315 9,274 Deferred rent 7,283 Onerous lease provisions 7,705 3,988 Other accrued liabilities 3,085 1,807 43,437 32,159 Deferred revenue relates to amounts received from the out-licensing of AGRYLIN, FOSRENOL, ELAPRASE and REPLAGAL in Japan and the global out-licensing of TROXATYL.
The onerous lease provisions at December 31, 2005 include $4.4 million in respect of the North American site consolidation 2004: $2.5 million.
20 Financial instruments The estimated fair value of the Companys financial instruments as at December 31, 2005 and 2004 is summarized below.
Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The fair value amounts shown below are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Companys intent or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: short-term investments commercial paper and institutional and managed cash funds the carrying value approximates fair value because of the short-term nature of these instruments: restricted cash the carrying value either approximates fair value because of the short-term nature of the instruments or equals the fair value as such instruments are marked to market: investments available-for-sale securities the carrying value of non-current investments with readily determinable market values equals the fair value as such instruments are marked to market: long-term debt the fair value of long-term debt is estimated based on the discounted future cash flows using currently available interest rates or, where the debt instrument is traded, by reference to the market price: IDB subscription receipts the carrying value in 2004 equals the fair value as the subscription receipts were repurchased on January 7, 2005 for $60 million: and derivatives derivative instruments comprise forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps.
As at December 31, 2005 the Company had five outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with a total principal amount of $206 million equivalent to manage the currency risk associated with certain intercompany loans.
The Company does not seek hedge accounting treatment for these hedges and therefore changes in the fair value of these derivatives are accounted for in the statement of operations.
As at December 31, 2005 there were net unrealized gains of $2.6m on these contracts.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 107 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 20 Financial instruments continued The carrying amounts and corresponding fair values of financial instruments are as follows: Carrying amount Fair value December 31, 2005 Notes $000 $000 Financial assets: Short-term investments institutional and managed cash funds 6,947 6,947 Restricted cash 30,568 30,568 Investments available-for-sale securities 11 18,131 18,131 Other current assets derivatives 2,554 2,554 Financial liabilities: Long-term debt 116 116 Carrying amount Fair value December 31, 2004 Notes $000 $000 Financial assets: Short-term investments commercial paper 149,659 149,659 Short-term investments institutional and managed cash funds 174,752 175,185 Restricted cash 21,627 21,627 Investments available-for-sale securities 11 29,970 29,970 IDB subscription receipts 9 60,000 60,000 Financial liabilities: Long-term debt 116 117 The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
21 Commitments and contingencies a Leases Future minimum lease payments presented below include principal lease payments and other fixed executory fees under lease arrangements as at December 31, 2005: Operating leases $000 2006 26,110 2007 26,610 2008 24,847 2009 21,279 2010 16,737 Thereafter 50,016 165,599 i Operating leases The Company leases facilities, motor vehicles and certain equipment under operating leases expiring through 2025.
Lease and rental expense included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying statements of operations amounted to $20.6 million, $15.3 million and $12.2 million for the years to December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
During the year to December 31, 2004, Shire Inc. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire, signed two 11-year operating leases on properties in Wayne, Pennsylvania.
Shire US, Inc. another wholly-owned subsidiary, acts as guarantor in respect of these leases.
The future minimum lease payments under the lease agreements are $57.6 million in aggregate.
viii Restricted cash in respect of leases At December 31, 2005 the Company had $5.5 million of restricted cash held as collateral for certain equipment leases 2004: $5.3 million.
108 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 21 Commitments and contingencies continued b Letters of credit and guarantees As at December 31, 2005 the Company had the following letters of credit: i an irrevocable standby letter of credit with Barclays Bank plc, in the amount of $15 million, providing security on the recoverability of insurance claims.
The Company has restricted cash of $15 million, as required by this letter of credit: and ix an irrevocable standby letter of credit with Bank of America in the amount of $7.9 million, providing security on the payment of lease obligations.
The Company has restricted cash of $7.9 million, as required by this letter of credit.
c Commitments i DAYTRANA In connection with the Companys acquisition in 2003 from Noven Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Noven of the worldwide sales and marketing rights to DAYTRANA, Shire has an obligation to make certain payments on the achievement of the following milestones: $50 million upon FDA approval of the product, which will be capitalized and amortized over its useful economic life: and up to $75 million, linked to future sales performance.
An approvable letter was received from the FDA on December 23, 2005. x NRP104 In connection with the Companys collaboration with New River to commercialize NRP104, the Company has an obligation to make certain payments on the achievement of the following milestones: $50 million upon the FDAs acceptance of filing of the NDA: up to $300 million following the first commercial sale of the product, depending on the characteristics of the approved product labeling: $100 million on achieving a significant sales target: and $5 million following the first commercial sale in certain specified EU markets.
An upfront payment of $50 million was expensed as an R&D cost during the first quarter of 2005.
The NDA for NRP104 was filed on December 6, 2005 and accepted for review by the FDA on January 26, 2006, triggering the $50 million milestone payment, which has now been paid.
xi FOSRENOL patent rights In connection with the Companys purchase of the global patents for FOSRENOL from AnorMed Inc. in 2004, the Company has outstanding commitments to pay AnorMED Inc. $6 million when FOSRENOL is approved in certain European countries and $6 million upon receipt of regulatory approval in Japan.
xii Other research and development commitments As at December 31, 2005, the Company had commitments of $18 million payable on achievement of specified milestones for products under development in-licensed from third parties, of which $6.6 million is committed to be paid in 2006. xiii TKT shareholders seeking appraisal rights As at December 31, 2005, appraisal rights had been asserted in respect of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock.
For further information see section d below.
As at December 31, 2005 the Company recorded a liability of $419.9 million based on the merger consideration of $37 per share for the 11.3 million shares outstanding at that time plus a provision for interest of $7.7 million that may be awarded by the Court see Note 27.
Until such time as the appraisal process is complete the Company is unable to determine the extent of its liability.
xiv Clinical testing As at December 31, 2005, the Company had committed to pay approximately $16.3 million to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
The timing of payments is not reasonably certain as payments are dependent upon actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities.
However, the Company expects to pay $13.2 million for these commitments throughout 2006 as ongoing trials are completed and the remainder in 2007. xv Contract manufacturing As at December 31, 2005 the Company had committed to pay approximately $23.1 million in respect of contract manufacturing over the next 12 months.
xvi Investment commitments As at December 31, 2005 the Company had outstanding commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts totaling $25.2 million 2004: $22 million of which $9.9 million is committed in 2006 and a further $2.9 million could be payable in 2006, depending on the timing of capital calls.
xvii Manufacturing facilities At December 31, 2005 the Company had committed a total of $6.1 million to the expansion and modification of its manufacturing facilities at Owings Mills, Maryland and Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Of this total, $3.2 million is to facilitate the production and packaging of additional strategic products and $2.9 million is for the design and construction of a technology center at Owings Mills.
All costs are expected to be incurred in 2006. xviii Basingstoke, UK expansion The Company is in the process of expanding its UK headquarters at Basingstoke, UK.
As at December 31, 2005 the Company had an outstanding commitment of $4.5 million, which is expected to be incurred in 2006.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 109 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 21 Commitments and contingencies continued d Legal proceedings General The Company accounts for litigation losses and insurance claims and provisions in accordance with SFAS No.
5, Accounting for Contingencies SFAS No.
5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
Where the estimated loss lies within a range and no particular amount within that range is a better estimate than any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
In other cases managements best estimate of the loss is recorded.
These estimates are developed substantially before the ultimate loss is known and the estimates are refined in each accounting period in light of additional information becoming known.
In instances where the Company is unable to develop a reasonable estimate of loss, no litigation loss is recorded at that time.
As information becomes known a loss provision is set up when a reasonable estimate can be made.
The estimates are reviewed quarterly and the estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from the Companys estimate may result in an additional expense in a future accounting period.
As at December 31, 2005 provisions for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $27.8 million 2004: $9.3 million.
Phentermine Shire US Inc. SUS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire, is a defendant in ten lawsuits still pending in both US federal and state courts which seek damages for, among other things, personal injury arising from phentermine products supplied for the treatment of obesity by SUS and several other pharmaceutical companies.
SUS, formerly known as Shire Richwood Inc. has been sued as a manufacturer and distributor of phentermine, an anorectic used in the short-term treatment of obesity and one of the products addressed by the lawsuits.
The suits relate to phentermine either alone or together with fenfluramine or dexenfluramine.
The lawsuits generally allege the following claims: the defendants marketed phentermine and other products for the treatment of obesity and misled users about the products and dangers associated with them: the defendants failed adequately to test phentermine individually and when taken in combination with the other drugs: and the defendants knew or should have known about the negative effects of the drugs and should have informed the public about such risks and or failed to provide appropriate warning labels.
SUS has been named as a defendant in a total of 4,199 such phentermine lawsuits, in respect of which SUS has been dismissed as a defendant in 4,189 cases.
Five of the ten remaining cases name Shire as a defendant, but have not been served as required by state and federal rules of civil procedure.
It is expected that Shire will be dismissed from the remaining cases based upon lack of product identification or agreement of the parties.
SUS became involved with phentermine through its acquisition of certain assets of Rexar Pharmacal Corporation Rexar in January 1994.
In addition to SUS potentially incurring liability as a result of its own production of Oby-Cap, a phentermine product, the plaintiffs may additionally seek to impose liability on SUS as successor to Rexar.
SUS intends to defend vigorously all the lawsuits.
SUS denies liability on a number of grounds including lack of scientific evidence that phentermine, properly prescribed, causes the alleged side effects and that SUS did not promote phentermine for long-term combined use as part of the fen phen diet.
Accordingly, SUS intends to defend vigorously any and all claims made against the Company in respect of phentermine.
Legal expenses to date have been paid by Eon Labs, Inc. Eon, the supplier to SUS, or Eons insurance carriers but such insurance is now exhausted.
Eon has agreed to defend and indemnify SUS in this litigation pursuant to an agreement dated November 30, 2000 between Eon and SUS.
ADDERALL XR a Barr Laboratories, Inc. Shires extended release once daily version of ADDERALL, ADDERALL XR is covered by US patent No.
6,322,819 the 819 Patent and US patent No.
In January 2003 the Company was notified that Barr had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR Barrs ANDA products prior to the expiration date of the Companys 819 Patent, and alleging that the 819 Patent is not infringed by Barrs ANDA products.
In August 2003 Shire was notified that Barr also was seeking permission to market its ANDA products prior to the expiration date of the 300 Patent and alleging that the 300 Patent is invalid.
Shire Laboratories, Inc, Shire Laboratories filed suit against Barr for infringement of the 819 Patent in February 2003 and for infringement of the 300 Patent in September 2003.
The schedules for the lawsuits against Barr with respect to the 819 and 300 Patents were consolidated in December 2003.
The Company is seeking a ruling that Barrs ANDA and ANDA products infringe the 819 and 300 Patents and that its ANDA should not be approved before the expiration date of the patents.
The Company is also seeking injunctions to prevent Barr from commercializing its ANDA products before the expiration of the 819 and 300 Patents, damages in the event that Barr should engage in such commercialization, and its attorneys fees and costs.
On September 27, 2004 Barr filed an amended Answer, Affirmative Defense and Counterclaim in which Barr added the following counterclaims: invalidity of the 819 patent, non-infringement of the 300 Patent and unenforceability of the 819 and 300 Patents due to inequitable conduct.
Shire has asserted affirmative defenses, alleging, among other things, that Barr has waived its right to assert the counterclaims set forth in its September 27, 2004 amended Answer.
Under the Courts schedule summary judgment motions were to be filed and fully briefed by October 14, 2005.
Neither Shire nor Barr filed summary judgment motions.
On December 9, 2005, the Court continued the final pre-trial conference to March 10, 2006.
Shires lawsuits triggered stays of final FDA approval of Barrs ANDA of up to 30 months from the date of the Companys receipt of Barrs notice letters.
The second and final 30-month stay related to the lawsuit regarding the 300 Patent expired on February 18, 2006.
As the stay has expired, the FDA may approve Barrs ANDA, subject to satisfaction by Barr of the FDAs requirements.
Barr could be in a position to market its ANDA products upon receipt of final FDA approval.
On October 19, 2005 Shire brought another lawsuit against Barr in the Southern District of New York alleging infringement of US Patent No.
The Company is seeking an injunction to prevent Barr from infringing the 768 Patent, damages in the event that Barr should commercialize its ANDA Products, attorneys fees and costs.
Barr has moved to dismiss this action asserting that there is no subject matter jurisdiction.
A hearing on this motion was held on February 17, 2006.
No decision on this motion has yet been made.
110 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 21 Commitments and contingencies continued ADDERALL XR continued b Impax Laboratories Inc.
In November 2003, Shire was notified that Impax Laboratories, Inc. Impax had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of the 30mg strength of ADDERALL XR Impaxs ANDA product prior to the expiration date of the 819 and 300 Patents.
In December 2003, Shire Laboratories filed suit against Impax for infringement of the 819 and 300 Patents.
In December 2004, Shire received an additional notification from Impax advising of the filing of an amendment to its ANDA for a generic version of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg and 25mg strengths of ADDERALL XR in addition to the 30mg strength, the subject of Impaxs initial ANDA submission.
In January 2005, Shire Laboratories filed suit against Impax for infringement of the 819 and 300 Patents.
As part of the October 19, 2005 lawsuit against Barr, Shire also brought suit in the Southern District of New York against Impax for infringing the 768 Patent.
Impax filed a declaratory judgment action in Delaware alleging that the 768 Patent was invalid and that its ANDA did not infringe the 768 Patent.
On January 19, 2006, Shire and Impax announced that all pending litigation in connection with Impaxs ANDA had been settled.
As part of the settlement, Impax confirmed that its proposed generic products infringe Shires 819, 300 and 768 Patents and that the three patents are valid and enforceable.
Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Impax will be permitted to market generic versions of ADDERALL XR in the United States no later than January 1, 2010 and will pay Shire a royalty from those sales.
In certain situations, such as the launch of another generic version of ADDERALL XR, Impax may be permitted to enter the market as Shires authorized generic.
No payments to Impax are involved in the settlement agreement.
The settlement agreement, which was effective immediately, has been submitted to the United States Federal Trade Commission for its review, as required by law.
In December 2004, Shire was notified that Colony Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Colony had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration date of the Companys 819 and 300 Patents.
Shire has chosen not to sue Colony.
In February 2005, Shire was notified that Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Teva had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 10mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration date of the Companys 819 and 300 Patents.
In June 2005, Shire was notified that Teva had amended its ANDA to seek permission to market additional strengths of 5mg, 15mg and 20mg of its generic ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of the 819 and 300 Patents.
In January 2006, Shire received a third notice letter that Teva had further amended its ANDA to seek permission to market the 25mg strength generic version of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of the 819 and 300 Patents.
On March 2, 2006 Shire filed a lawsuit in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging that Tevas ANDA products infringe both the 819 and 300 Patents.
The lawsuit will trigger a stay of FDA approval of Tevas 25mg strength product for up to 30 months from the date of the Companys receipt of Tevas notice.
There is no such stay with respect to Tevas 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg and 30mg strength versions of ADDERALL XR.
None of Barr, Colony or Teva may launch their generic versions of ADDERALL XR before they receive final FDA approval of their respective ANDAs.
The FDA may grant 180 days of generic market exclusivity to Barr as the first to file an ANDA for a generic version of ADDERALL XR.
Neither Colony nor Teva may market their ANDA products until FDA final approval of their ANDAs and upon the expiration of the first to files exclusivity rights.
In August 2003, the Company was notified that Nostrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Nostrum had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of the 300mg strength of CARBATROL Nostrums ANDA product prior to the expiration date of the Companys US patents for CARBATROL, US patent No.
5,912,013 the 013 Patent and US patent No.
The notification alleges that the 013 and 570 Patents are not infringed by Nostrums ANDA product.
On September 18, 2003, Shire Laboratories filed suit against Nostrum in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Nostrums ANDA and ANDA product.
The Company was seeking a ruling that Nostrums ANDA infringes the 013 and 570 Patents and should not be approved before the expiration date of the 013 and 570 Patents.
The Company was also seeking an injunction to prevent Nostrum from commercializing its ANDA product before the expiration of the 013 and 570 Patents, damages in the event that Nostrum should engage in such commercialization, as well as its attorneys fees and costs.
On January 23, 2004, the Company amended the complaint to drop the allegations with respect to the 013 Patent while maintaining the suit with respect to the 570 Patent.
By way of counterclaims Nostrum is seeking a declaration that the 570 and 013 Patents are not infringed by Nostrums ANDA product.
Nostrum also was seeking actual and punitive damages for alleged abuse of process by Shire.
On July 12, 2004, the Court dismissed Nostrums abuse of process counterclaim for failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted.
On December 10, 2004, Nostrum filed a summary judgment motion seeking a declaration of non-infringement of the 570 Patent.
Shires opposition to this motion was filed on January 14, 2005.
The Court heard arguments with respect to Nostrums motion on July 15, 2005.
At the conclusion of the hearing the Court denied Nostrums motion for summary judgment of non-infringement.
The parties have been directed by the Court to propose a schedule for expert depositions and claim construction briefing.
No trial date has been set.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 111 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 21 Commitments and contingencies continued Nostrum may not launch a generic version of CARBATROL before it receives final approval of its ANDA from the FDA.
The lawsuit triggered a stay of FDA approval of up to 30 months from Shires receipt of Nostrums notice letter.
The 30-month stay expired on February 6, 2006.
Following expiry of the stay, Nostrum could be in a position to market its 300mg extended-release carbamazepine product upon FDA final approval of its ANDA.
GA-GCB In January 2005, Genzyme Corporation Genzyme filed suit against TKT in the District Court of Tel Aviv-Jaffa, Israel, claiming that TKTs Phase 1 2 clinical trial in Israel evaluating GA-GCB for the treatment of Gaucher Disease infringes one or more claims of Genzymes Israeli Patent No.
In addition, Genzyme filed a motion for preliminary injunction, including a request for an ex parte hearing and relief on the merits, to immediately seize and destroy all GA-GCB being used to treat patients and to prevent TKT from submitting data generated from the clinical trial to regulatory agencies.
In March 2005 the District Court refused to grant Genzymes motion for a preliminary injunction.
The lawsuit was dismissed in January 2006.
DYNEPO In April 1997, Amgen Inc. Amgen commenced a patent infringement action against TKT and Sanofi-Aventis in the United States District Court of Massachusetts.
In January 2001, the United States District Court of Massachusetts concluded that DYNEPO infringed eight of the 18 claims of five patents that Amgen had asserted.
Amgen did not seek and was not awarded monetary damages.
This decision was subsequently appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In January 2003, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision affirming in part and reversing in part the decision of the United States District Court of Massachusetts, remanded the action to the United States District Court of Massachusetts for further proceedings and instructed the United States District Court of Massachusetts to reconsider the validity of Amgens patents in the light of potentially invalidating prior art.
In October 2004, the United States District Court of Massachusetts issued a decision on the remanded issues, finding that certain claims related to four patents held by Amgen are infringed by TKT and Sanofi-Aventis.
In December 2004, TKT and Sanofi-Aventis filed a notice of appeal of the decision of the United States District Court of Massachusetts to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
An oral hearing was held at the Federal Circuit in December 2005.
No decision has been rendered at this time.
If TKT and Sanofi-Aventis are not successful in the DYNEPO litigation at the appellate level, TKT and Sanofi-Aventis would be precluded from making, using and selling DYNEPO in the United States until the expiration of the relevant patents.
TKT is required to reimburse Sanofi-Aventis, which controls the litigation and is paying the litigation expenses, for 50% of the expenses incurred in connection with the litigation from and after March 26, 2004.
In the event that Sanofi-Aventis launches DYNEPO in the US, Sanofi-Aventis is entitled to deduct up to 50% of any royalties that Sanofi-Aventis may otherwise owe to TKT with respect to the sale of DYNEPO until then Sanofi-Aventis has recouped the full amount of TKTs share of the litigation expenses.
TKT has the right to control any other litigation that might arise outside of the United States and is responsible for all litigation expenses incurred in connection with such litigation from and after March 26, 2004.
Gene activation In 1996, Applied Research Systems Holding N. V. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Serono S. A. Serono and Cell Genesys, became involved in a patent interference involving Seronos US Patent No.
5,272,071 the 071 Patent, which purportedly covers certain methods of gene activation.
In June 2004, the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences of the US Patent and Trademark Office PTO held that both Serono and Cell Genesys were entitled to certain claims in their respective patent and patent application, and Serono and Cell Genesys each appealed the decision of the interference to the US District Court of Massachusetts and the US District Court of the District of Columbia, respectively.
TKT was not a party to this interference.
In August 2004, Serono served TKT with an amended complaint in the appeal of the PTO decision that was filed in the US District Court of Massachusetts.
The amended complaint alleges that TKT infringes Seronos 071 Patent.
In August 2005, the US District Court of Massachusetts severed and stayed the infringement action pending resolution of the interference claim at the District Court level.
Appraisal rights In connection with Shires merger with TKT, former holders of approximately 11.7 million shares of TKT common stock submitted written demands to the Delaware Court of Chancery for appraisal of these shares and, as a result, elected not to accept the $37 per share merger consideration.
On October 10, 2005, at the request of one of the holders to tender 365,000 shares at the merger price of $37 per share, TKT filed a motion to dismiss the holders demand.
On October 12, 2005, the Delaware Court of Chancery granted this motion, and the holder tendered the shares at the merger consideration of $37 per share.
Therefore, as at December 31, 2005, former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock maintained written demands for appraisal of these shares and have elected not to accept the $37 merger consideration.
In November 2005, the Delaware Court of Chancery approved a consolidation order filed by TKT whereby actions brought by all petitioners have been consolidated as one case.
To the extent that the remaining demands were validly asserted in accordance with the applicable requirements of Delaware law and the former holders perfect their rights thereunder, such former holders will be entitled to receive the fair value of these shares as determined by the Delaware Court of Chancery.
The determination of fair value will be made excluding any element of value arising from the transaction, such as cost savings or business synergies.
112 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 21 Commitments and contingencies continued The total consideration for the acquisition of TKT, including amounts payable in respect of stock options and convertible securities, is approximately $1.6 billion at the merger price of $37 per share.
This could change if Shire is required to pay a different amount of consideration in respect of the approximately 11.3 million shares for which holders have asserted appraisal rights.
Until such time as the appraisal process is complete, the Company is unable to determine the extent of its liability.
Class action shareholder suit In January and February 2003, various parties filed purported class action lawsuits against TKT and Richard Selden, TKTs former Chief Executive Officer, in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
The complaints generally allege securities fraud during the period from January 2001 through January 2003.
Each of the complaints asserts claims under Section 10 b of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and Section 20 a of the Exchange Act, and alleges that TKT and its officers made false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material information concerning the status and progress for obtaining United States marketing approval of TKTs REPLAGAL product to treat Fabry Disease during that period.
In March 2003, various plaintiffs filed motions to consolidate, to appoint lead plaintiff, and to approve plaintiffs selections of lead plaintiffs counsel.
In April 2003, various plaintiffs filed a Joint Stipulation and Proposed Order of Lead Plaintiff Applicants to Consolidate Actions, to Appoint Lead Plaintiffs and to Approve Lead Plaintiffs Selection of Lead Counsel, Executive Committee and Liaison Counsel.
In April 2003, the Court endorsed the Proposed Order, thereby consolidating the various matters under one matter: In re Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. Securities Litigation, C. A.
In July 2003, the plaintiffs filed a Consolidated and Amended Class Action Complaint the Amended Complaint against TKT: Dr Selden: Daniel Geffken, TKTs former Chief Financial Officer: Walter Gilbert, Jonathan S. Leff, Rodman W. Moorhead, III, and Wayne P. Yetter, then members of TKTs Board of Directors: William R. Miller and James E. Thomas, former members of TKTs Board of Directors: and SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacific Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company, underwriters of TKTs common stock in prior public offerings.
The Amended Complaint alleges securities fraud during the period from January 4, 2001, through January 10, 2003.
The Amended Complaint alleges that the defendants made false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material information concerning the status and progress for obtaining United States marketing approval of REPLAGAL during that period.
The Amended Complaint asserts claims against Dr Selden and TKT under Section 10 b of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder: and against Dr Selden under Section 20 a of the Exchange Act.
The Amended Complaint also asserts claims based on TKTs public offerings of June 29, 2001, December 18, 2001 and December 26, 2001, against each of the defendants under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 and against Dr Selden under Section 15 of the Securities Act: and against SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacific Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company under Section 12 a 2 of the Securities Act.
The plaintiffs seek equitable and monetary relief, an unspecified amount of damages, with interest, and attorneys fees and costs.
In September 2003, TKT filed a motion to dismiss the Amended Complaint.
A hearing of the motion occurred in December 2003.
In May 2004, the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts issued a Memorandum of Decision and Order denying in part and granting in part TKTs motion to dismiss the purported class action lawsuit.
In the Memorandum, the Court found several allegations against TKT arose out of forward-looking statements protected by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 PSLRA.
The Court dismissed those statements as falling within the PSLRAs safe harbor provisions.
The Court also dismissed claims based on the public offerings of June 29, 2001, and December 18, 2001, because no plaintiff had standing to bring such claims.
The Court allowed all other allegations to remain.
In June 2004, TKT submitted an unopposed motion seeking clarification from the Court that the Memorandum dismissed claims based on the first two offerings as to all defendants.
The Court granted the motion.
In July 2004, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed all claims based on the third offering because no plaintiff had standing to bring such claims.
The plaintiffs subsequently filed a motion seeking permission to notify certain TKT investors of the dismissal of the claims based on the offerings, and to inform those investors of their opportunity to intervene in the lawsuit.
TKT filed an opposition to this motion in July 2004.
A hearing on this motion was held in September 2004.
The Court denied this motion.
TKT filed an answer to the Amended Complaint in July 2004.
The plaintiffs then filed a motion for class certification in July 2004.
TKT filed an opposition to this motion in March 2005, and the plaintiffs filed a reply in April 2005.
A hearing on class certification was held in April 2005.
Following that hearing, TKT filed a supplemental brief in opposition to the motion for class certification and the plaintiffs filed a supplemental brief in support of the motion.
In November 2005, the court granted the plaintiffs motion for class certification.
On September 14, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a Notice of Related Case Pursuant to Local Rule 40.1 G, in which they appeared to seek reassignment of a matter filed on September 1, 2005, entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Richard B. Selden, Civil Action No.
the SEC Action, to the court considering this matter.
On September 15, 2005, the defendants filed a response to the notice, opposing reassignment of the SEC Action.
On October 7, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a memorandum in response to the defendants response.
On October 21, 2005, the Court entered an Order, which stated that it did not deem the cases related under Local Rule 40.1.
The Company is obligated to indemnify Dr Selden for his costs incurred in connection with the SEC Action.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 113 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 22 Shareholders equity i Authorized common stock The authorized stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2005 was 18,333,006,420 ordinary shares, 10,000,000 special voting shares, 50,000 non-voting preference shares and two deferred ordinary shares.
The special voting shares are held by a Voting Trustee, providing the holders of exchangeable shares in Shire Acquisition, Inc. with as nearly as practicable voting rights equivalent to those attached to Shires ordinary shares.
The non-voting preference shares and deferred ordinary shares were authorized and issued for the purpose of the Scheme of Arrangement only and will be redeemed in 2006. ii Dividends Under English law, Shire can pay dividends only out of its distributable reserves, defined as the accumulated realized profits under UK generally accepted accounting principles including reserves arising from a reduction of share capital, of the parent Company, Shire plc and not the consolidated Group, so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less accumulated realized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made.
Shire can make a distribution only if the distribution does not reduce its net assets below the aggregate of the called-up share capital and undistributable reserves.
Any dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors, will be declared in US Dollars and will be paid in Pounds Sterling to Ordinary Shareholders, US Dollars to ADS holders and Canadian Dollars to Exchangeable Shareholders.
At December 31, 2005, Shires distributable reserves were $2,946 million.
iii Treasury stock The Company records the purchase of its own shares as a reduction of shareholders equity based on the price paid for the shares.
On December 22, 2005 the Company requested its Employee Share Ownership Trust to place an irrevocable instruction with the Companys brokers to make purchases in the open market of a fixed number of shares during the period between December 23, 2005 and February 23, 2006, the date the Company announced its full-year results for 2005.
As at December 31, 2005 a total of 191,016 shares had been purchased under this purchase instruction for total consideration of $2.5 million, including stamp duty and broker commission.
23 Related parties i Professional fees The Company incurred professional fees with Stikeman Elliott, a law firm in which the Hon James Grant, a Non-executive Director of Shire, is a partner, totaling $0.5 million for the year to December 31, 2005 2004: $2.1 million: 2003: $0.8 million.
In April 2004 Shire BioChem Inc. BioChem, a subsidiary of Shire, sold a Canadian property to NeuroChem Inc. for $7.8 million CAN$10.5 million.
Dr Bellini, a Non-executive Director of Biochem and, until May 10, 2003, a Non-executive Director of Shire and Mr Nordmann, a Non-executive Director of Shire are both Directors of NeuroChem Inc. Dr Bellini had an indirect substantial interest in the issued share capital of Neurochem Inc. at the time of the transaction.
In April 2004, the Company contributed cash of $3.7 million CAN$5 million and equipment and intellectual property to the start-up of a new Canadian-based pharmaceutical research and development organization, ViroChem Pharma Inc. ViroChem, in return for an equity interest and royalties on the sale of certain products subsequently launched by ViroChem.
In April 2005, the Company contributed cash of $4.1 million CAN$5 million to ViroChem in return for an additional equity interest.
Dr Bellini, a Non-executive Director of BioChem and, until May 10, 2003, a Non-executive Director of Shire, had, at the time of the transaction, an indirect substantial interest in a company, which is a co-investor of ViroChem.
The Company has undertaken to invest an additional $4.3 million CAN$5 million in ViroChem.
In October 2005, the Company sub-leased its office premises in Newport to Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. Dr James Cavanaugh, the Non-executive Chairman of the Company, is the Chairman of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. As a result of the transaction the Company will receive $7.8 million net of inducements in lease income over the sub-lease period from Xanodyne.
114 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 24 Earnings per share The following table reconciles loss income from continuing operations and the weighted average ordinary shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented: 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, $000 $000 $000 Loss income from continuing operations 413,968 333,299 297,937 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 20,135 21,886 Gain loss on disposition of discontinued operations 3,125 44,157 Numerator for basic loss earnings per share 410,843 269,007 276,051 Interest charged on convertible debt, net of tax 3,421 5,218 Numerator for diluted loss earnings per share 410,843 272,428 281,269 Year to December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Weighted average number of shares outstanding Number of shares Number of shares Number of Shares Basic 500,243,137 496,306,604 498,212,826 Effect of dilutive shares: Share options 3,035,620 1,859,076 Convertible debt 11,858,416 18,895,493 Warrants 66,792 14,960,828 20,754,569 Diluted 500,243,137 511,267,432 518,967,395 Basic earnings per share: Loss income from continuing operations 82.7 67.2 59.8 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 4.1 4.4 Gain loss on disposition of discontinued operations 0.6 8.9 82.1 54.2 55.4 Diluted earnings per share: Loss income from continuing operations 82.7 65.9 58.4 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 4.0 4.2 Gain loss on disposition of discontinued operations 0.6 8.6 82.1 53.3 54.2 The share options, warrants and convertible debt not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares are shown below: 2005 2004 2003 i ii ii Year to December 31, Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares Share options 20,680,407 16,640,724 17,006,093 Warrants 1,346,407 1,346,407 Convertible debt 5,756 22,032,570 16,640,724 18,352,500 Notes i Not included as the Company made a loss during the calculation period.
ii Not included as the exercise price exceeded the Companys average share price during the calculation period.
During the year to December 31, 2004 the Company recorded a loss on redemption of the convertible loan notes of $7.4 million, which resulted from the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 115 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 25 Segment reporting SFAS No.
131 establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments and related disclosures, products and services, geographic areas and major customers.
Operating segments are components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision-maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
Shire sells a number of pharmaceutical products in multiple geographic markets across the world.
The Company is continuously looking to develop and replenish the pharmaceutical product pipeline and has continued to focus on meeting the needs of the specialist physician in targeting therapeutic areas within its pool of expertize.
In prior reporting periods, the Companys internal management reporting structure was based on a combination of geography and function.
As a result the Company provided segment information, which showed geographic sales and costs for the US and International sales and marketing businesses, research and development costs and a Corporate segment which included corporate costs and royalty income.
Effective January 1, 2005, Shires internal management reporting structures have been changed to show two segments, Pharmaceutical Products and Royalties.
The Pharmaceutical Products segment comprises four therapeutic areas, CNS, GI, Shire HGT and GP and all products have been aggregated for reporting purposes within this segment.
The Company evaluates performance based on revenue and operating income.
The Company does not have inter-segment transactions.
Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the new current period presentation.
The Pharmaceutical Products segment represents the Companys commercial operations and costs in respect of products currently promoted and sold together with costs of developing projects for future commercialization.
The Royalties segment represents royalties earned from the out-licensing of projects to third parties.
These projects have been developed and commercialized by the third party and royalties are being received on the sale of the commercialized product.
All Other has been included in the table below in order to reconcile the segments to the total consolidated figures.
Costs have not been allocated to Royalties below as the magnitude of the costs incurred in respect of managing this segment is small and the internal reporting consequently does not allocate costs to this segment.
Assets that are directly attributable to the Royalty segment have been separately disclosed from the Pharmaceutical Products segment.
Depreciation from manufacturing plants $3.5 million is included in cost of product sales.
116 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 25 Segment reporting continued Pharmaceutical Segment products Royalties sub-total All other Total Year to December 31, 2004 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Product sales 1,112,457 1,112,457 1,112,457 Royalties 230,364 230,364 230,364 Licensing and development 13,479 13,479 Other revenues 6,907 6,907 Total revenues 1,112,457 230,364 1,342,821 20,386 1,363,207 Cost of product sales 141,909 141,909 141,909 Research and development 192,958 192,958 3,307 196,265 Selling, general and administrative 458,132 458,132 458,132 i Depreciation and amortization 58,513 58,513 58,513 Intangible asset impairment 13,477 13,477 13,477 Reorganization costs 48,469 48,469 48,469 Total operating expenses 913,458 913,458 3,307 916,765 Operating income 198,999 230,364 429,363 17,079 446,442 Total assets from continuing operations 2,653,984 60,895 2,714,879 2,714,879 Long-lived assets 785,930 785,930 785,930 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 93,936 93,936 93,936 i Depreciation from manufacturing plants $2.7 million is included in cost of product sales.
Depreciation from manufacturing plants $2.6 million is included in cost of product sales.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 117 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 25 Segment reporting continued Supplemental information To improve comparability between periods for investors, the previous reporting format has also been used to report the current period to December 31, 2005 together with the previously reported segmental analysis for the periods to December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003.
Whilst there is no requirement to include this disclosure under SFAS No.
131 as the new internal reporting format has been used for the current and historic period, management believes that during 2005, it may be useful to include the previously reported segmental analysis for comparative purposes.
This internal management-reporting format is no longer used as the basis for making decisions within the business.
Depreciation from manufacturing plants $3.5 million is included within cost of product sales.
Depreciation and amortization relating to research and development assets are included within US and International segments.
Depreciation and amortization relating to research and development assets are included in US and International segments.
118 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 25 Segment reporting continued US International Corporate R&D Total Year to December 31, 2003 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 External revenues: Product sales 846,438 157,869 1,004,307 Royalties 14 10,314 193,245 203,573 Licensing and development 3,376 301 3,677 Other revenues 13 13 Total revenues 849,841 168,484 193,245 1,211,570 Cost of product sales 94,597 48,563 143,160 ii Research and development 194,902 194,902 Selling, general and administrative 234,091 80,968 56,755 371,814 i ii Depreciation and amortization 19,278 8,536 26,804 54,618 Intangible asset impairment 11,687 15,802 27,489 Total operating expenses 359,653 153,869 83,559 194,902 791,983 Operating income loss 490,188 14,615 109,686 194,902 419,587 Total assets from continuing operations 697,460 413,134 1,269,300 109,131 2,489,025 Long-lived assets 238,774 233,313 200,225 46,691 719,003 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 18,324 46,368 15,827 16,854 97,373 Notes i Included in depreciation and amortization are the write-downs of property, plant and equipment of $6 million Corporate segment and assets held for resale of $10.7 million Corporate segment.
Depreciation from manufacturing plants $2.6 million is included within cost of product sales.
ii Costs associated with the closure of the Lead Optimization division and other related activities in the year to December 31, 2003 are: Research and development $7.2 million and Depreciation and amortization $16.7 million.
These amounts are reflected in reorganization costs in the statement of operations.
Material customers In the periods set out below, certain customers, all within the Pharmaceutical Products operating segment, accounted for greater than 10% of the Companys total revenues: 2005 2005 2004 2004 2003 2003 Year to December 31, $000 % revenue $000 % revenue $000 % revenue Cardinal Health Inc. 599,504 37% 339,136 25% 274,771 23% McKesson Corp. 345,659 22% 303,965 22% 269,364 22% Amerisource Bergen Corp. 154,724 10% 167,998 12% 175,856 15% Walgreen Co. 156,578 11% 158,689 13% Amounts outstanding as at December 31, in respect of these material customers were as follows: 2005 2004 December 31, $000 $000 Cardinal Health Inc. 94,100 28,178 McKesson Corp. 47,230 23,535 Amerisource Bergen Corp. 20,365 8,515 Walgreen Co. 16,975 161,695 77,203 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 119 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 26 Other income expense, net 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, Notes $000 $000 $000 SERP valuation adjustment 489 264 175 Impairment of long-term investments 11 1,973 15,364 15,540 GeneChem Funds management fee 4,332 4,036 3,755 Gain on sale of available-for-sale security 11 3,934 14,805 Gain on sale of drug formulation business 3,561 Foreign exchange 1,396 2,467 6,716 Other 998 2,571 2,319 9,945 3,845 20,645 27 Interest expense Interest expense for the year to December 31, 2005 was $12 million.
Included in this amount was a $7.7 million provision for interest, which may be awarded by the court in respect of amounts due to former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock who have submitted written demands for appraisal of these shares.
The provision was based on an estimate of Shires average marginal cost of borrowing from the acquisition date.
In addition, Shire incurred interest expense of $1.2 million relating to the costs of a bridging loan to finance the TKT acquisition.
In 2004 interest expense of $12.3 million 2003: $9.5 million included the write-off of $7.4 million of deferred financing costs following the redemption of $370.1 million of convertible loan notes during 2004 and the interest expense prior to the redemption of $4.2 million.
28 Retirement benefits a Personal defined contribution pension plans The Company makes contributions to defined contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
For the defined contribution retirement plans, the level of the Companys contribution is fixed at a set percentage of employees pay.
Company contributions to personal defined contribution pension plans totaled $14.1 million, $9 million and $16.1 million for the years to December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and were charged to operations as they became payable.
b Defined benefit pension plans i The Roberts SERP The Roberts SERP is for some US employees of Roberts Pharmaceutical Corporation Roberts who met certain age and service requirements.
Shire acquired Roberts in 1999, and the plan was discontinued in 2000.
There were no contributions payable by the Company in respect of 2005.
The Company paid a lump sum of $18 million into the Roberts SERP, which was accounted for as a fair value adjustment on the acquisition of Roberts to make good the deficit on this scheme at the time of acquisition.
This lump sum payment has led to the Company having no future liability under the SERP, which has been closed to new members with contributions no longer payable by existing members.
Assets are set aside to fund these benefits in a Rabbi Trust.
The legal form of the trust is such that the assets held to cover the pension liabilities are available to the general creditors of the Company on winding up.
Accordingly, the assets held by the trust are not plan assets and are recorded on the balance sheet.
In accordance with EITF 97-14, Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where Amounts Earned Are Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested the assets and liabilities of $7.6 million and $4.6 million, respectively, are shown on the balance sheet within the categories Other non-current assets, Other current liabilities and Other non-current liabilities.
ii The Shire SERP The Shire SERP defined benefit scheme is an unfunded arrangement: the benefits are payable to certain senior US employees as lump sums on leaving the Companys employment or earlier due to death, disability or termination.
The amount of benefit is based on the value of notional contributions increased with earned investment returns as if they were invested in investments of the employees choice.
The entire benefit liability has been recognized on the balance sheet.
120 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 29 Income taxes The components of pre tax income from continuing operations are as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, $000 $000 $000 UK 70,318 67,363 76,267 US 61,162 265,770 285,221 In-process research and development 673,000 Other jurisdictions 220,635 261,487 197,393 Sub-total 320,885 459,894 406,347 Equity Investees 1,000 2,508 1,057 The provision for income taxes by location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years to December 31, consisted of the following: 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, $000 $000 $000 Current income taxes: UK corporation tax 7,417 746 US federal tax 16,740 98,668 101,174 US state and local taxes 7,325 5,107 4,313 Other jurisdictions 39,123 36,417 18,792 Total current taxes 70,605 140,938 124,279 Deferred taxes: UK corporation tax 5,418 482 9,696 US federal tax 8,167 12,171 3,647 US state and local taxes 3,293 104 180 Other jurisdictions 27,520 922 30,449 Total deferred taxes 21,478 11,835 16,926 Total income taxes attributable to continuing operations 92,083 129,103 107,353 Total income taxes attributable to discontinued operations Total income taxes 92,083 129,103 107,353 The reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net losses income of associates and discontinued operations to the provision for income taxes is shown in the table below: 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, $000 $000 $000 Loss income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net losses income of associates and discontinued operations 320,885 459,894 406,347 UK Corporation tax rate 30% 30% 30% Adjustments to derive effective rate: Non-deductible items: Permanent differences 9.4% 2.0% 1.1% In-process research and development 62.9% Other items: Change in valuation allowance 6.7% 3.3% 7.1% Difference in taxation rates 0.4% 0.6% 11.2% Prior year adjustment 1.0% 4.5% 2.1% Change in prior year tax rates 0.7% Other 0.2% 0.5% 2.7% Provision for income taxes on continuing operations 28.7% 28.1% 26.4% Differences between Shires fiscal 2005 effective tax rate and its statutory rate of 30% principally result from the effect of the acquisition of TKT and the impact of the accounting for costs associated with the write-off of in-process research and development.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 121 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 29 Income taxes continued The significant components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities and their balance sheet classifications, as at December 31, are as follows: December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 Deferred tax assets: Deferred revenue 6,375 5,866 Inventory and warranty provisions 12,197 5,928 Losses carried forward 417,877 194,523 Provisions for product returns and doubtful accounts 28,268 7,586 Restructuring 50,318 25,200 Intangibles 19,389 Other 44,845 29,234 Gross deferred tax assets 579,269 268,337 Less: valuation allowance 235,121 152,915 344,148 115,422 Deferred tax liabilities: Excess of tax value over book value of assets 227,968 37,311 Net deferred tax assets 116,180 78,111 Balance sheet classifications: Deferred tax assets current 54,186 70,387 Deferred tax assets non-current 61,994 7,724 116,180 78,111 The approximate net operating loss carry-forwards as at December 31, are as follows: December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 US federal tax NOLs 270,277 25,416 US state tax NOLs 99,386 93,542 UK NOLs 227,755 246,966 Canadian NOLs 153,235 438,523 Foreign tax jurisdictions 82,885 100,808 The tax losses shown above have the following expiration dates: December 31, 2005 $000 Within 1 year 27,133 Within 12 years 13,925 Within 23 years 14,941 Within 34 years 18,784 Within 45 years 22,534 Within 56 years 10,219 Within 67 years 3,943 After 7 years 288,813 Available indefinitely 433,245 As at December 31, 2005, the Company had a valuation allowance of $235 million to reduce its deferred tax assets to estimated realizable value.
The valuation allowance relates to the deferred tax assets arising from operating loss carry-forwards and capital loss carry-forwards.
The utilization of operating loss carry-forwards is restricted to the taxable income of the subsidiary generating the losses.
In addition, capital loss carry-forwards can only be offset against capital gains.
As at December 31, 2005, based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the temporary differences are anticipated to reverse, and reasonable and feasible tax-planning strategies, management believes it is more likely than not that the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences, net of the valuation allowances.
However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if estimates of taxable income are revised.
As at December 31, 2005, we have not made a tax provision on approximately $1.7 billion of unremitted earnings of our international subsidiaries.
As at December 31, 2005, these earnings are expected to be reinvested overseas.
Because of complexity, it is not practical to compute the estimated deferred tax liability on these earnings.
122 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 30 Equity in losses earnings of equity method investees 2005 2004 2003 Year to December 31, Notes $000 $000 $000 GSK 11 5,325 4,433 3,495 GeneChem Funds 11 3,962 75 Other 2,363 2,000 4,552 1,000 2,508 1,057 31 Share-based compensation plans Historically the Company has granted options to Directors and employees over ordinary shares under six stock option plans.
On November 28, 2005 the ordinary shareholders of Shire approved the adoption of the Shire plc Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B, a new share based compensation plan, which provides for stock-settled share appreciation rights and performance share awards to be made to Directors and employees over ordinary shares and American depositary shares.
No further awards will be made under the previous stock option plans.
The following awards were outstanding as at December 31, 2005: Expiration Compensation Number of period from Scheme type awards date of issue Vesting period Executive Scheme Stock options 1,176,784 10 years 3 years, subject to performance criteria 2000 Executive Scheme Stock options 22,787,658 10 years 3 years, subject to performance criteria Sharesave Scheme Stock options 337,371 6 months after vesting 3 or 5 years Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 640,777 On vesting date 27 months SLI Plan Stock options 2,567 10 years Immediate on acquisition by Shire BioChem Plan Stock options 3,525,582 10 years Immediate on acquisition by Shire Total stock option awards 28,470,739 Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share appreciation 3 years, subject to performance criteria rights ordinary shares 449,490 5 years for executive Directors only Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share appreciation 3 years, subject to performance criteria i rights ADSs 2,812,176 5 years for executive Directors only Total Portfolio Share Plan Part A 3,261,666 Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance shares 3 years, subject to performance criteria for executive Directors only i For the purposes of this table ADSs have been converted into ordinary shares.
One ADS is equivalent to three ordinary shares.
a Stock option plans i Shire Pharmaceuticals Executive Share Option Scheme Parts A and B Executive Scheme Options granted under the Executive Scheme are subject to performance criteria and cannot be exercised in full, unless Shires ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period.
If Shires ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of 14.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, 60% of the options may be exercised.
If the share price does not meet these conditions at any time, none of the options will become exercisable.
ii Shire plc 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 Executive Scheme Options granted under this scheme are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 123 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 31 Share-based compensation plans continued The performance criteria were reviewed in 2002 to ensure the criteria reflected the market in which Shire operates.
Given Shires development, it was considered appropriate that an earnings per share-based measure should be adopted in place of share price growth targets.
The performance criteria are based on real growth in the diluted earnings per share reported in the Companys Form 10-K under US GAAP, adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back of significant one time items option EPS.
Therefore, the performance criteria were amended so that an option would become exercisable in full if Shires option EPS growth over a three-year period from the date of award exceeds the UK Retail Prices Index RPI for the following tranches of grants: Options with a grant value of up to 100% of salary RPI plus 9% directors, RPI plus 15% Between 101% and 200% of salary RPI plus 15% Between 201% and 300% of salary RPI plus 21% Over 301% of salary RPI plus 27% The new earnings per share performance criteria apply to options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme from August 2002.
iii Shire Pharmaceuticals Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees.
iv Shire plc Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
v Pharmavene 1991 Stock Option Plan SLI Plan Options issued under the SLI Plan were originally granted over shares in SLI, formerly Pharmavene Inc. a company acquired by the Company on March 23, 1997.
Exercise of these options results in the option holder receiving ordinary shares in Shire.
As a result of the acquisition of SLI, and in accordance with the terms of the original share option plan, all options granted under that plan became immediately capable of exercise.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the SLI Plan.
vi BioChem Stock Option Plan BioChem Plan Following the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. on May 11, 2001, the BioChem Stock Option Plan was amended such that options over BioChem Pharma Inc. s common stock became options over ordinary shares of Shire.
A summary of the status of the Companys stock option plans as at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Weighted average exercise price Number of Year to December 31, 2005 shares Outstanding as at beginning of period 5.85 27,343,625 Granted 5.88 8,733,811 Exercised 4.53 4,701,699 Forfeited 8.17 2,904,998 Outstanding as at end of period 5.85 28,470,739 Exercisable as at end of period 7.97 7,987,369 8,156,000 options were granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme.
These options were granted with exercise prices equivalent to the market value on the date of grant.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 3.08.
124 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 31 Share-based compensation plans continued 110,647 options were granted under the Sharesave Scheme at a price of 5.13.
These options were granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations were issued to employees.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 3.24.
36,690 and 430,474 options were granted under the Stock Purchase Plan at a price of 5.86 and 5.85, respectively.
These options were granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations were issued to employees.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 2.00.
Weighted average exercise price Number of Year to December 31, 2004 shares Outstanding as at beginning of period 6.10 25,995,543 Granted 5.14 6,966,411 Exercised 3.71 2,097,716 Forfeited 7.58 3,520,613 Outstanding as at end of period 5.85 27,343,625 Exercisable as at end of period 8.65 8,728,709 6,665,144 options were granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 2.78.
94,861 options were granted under the Sharesave Scheme at a price of 3.74.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 2.31.
173,613 options were granted under the Stock Purchase Plan at a price of 3.92.
In relation to a grant under the Stock Purchase Plan at a price of 8.06 in 2001, an additional 32,793 options were granted at a price of 4.58 on the 2004 maturity date.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 1.28.
Weighted average exercise price Number of Year to December 31, 2003 shares Outstanding as at beginning of period 7.17 20,051,297 Granted 3.52 9,407,852 Exercised 2.86 1,039,439 Forfeited 6.31 2,424,167 Outstanding as at end of period 6.10 25,995,543 Exercisable as at end of period 7.15 8,989,450 8,819,199 options were granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme.
These options were issued with exercise prices equivalent to the market value on the date of grant.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 1.93.
182,639 options were granted under the Sharesave Scheme at a price of 3.86.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 2.56.
406,014 options were granted under the Stock Purchase Plan at a price of 4.09.
The weighted average fair value of options granted was 2.55.
Options outstanding as at December 31, 2005 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted average exercise average exercise price of options Number of price of options Exercise prices Weighted average outstanding options exercisable Number of options outstanding remaining life exercisable 5,651,719 0.01 4.00 6.8 3.46 26,547 3.19 14,772,839 4.01 6.00 8.1 5.36 2,070,405 5.19 5,739,709 6.01 10.00 4.3 7.05 3,669,918 7.20 2,306,472 10.01 13.00 4.0 11.84 2,220,499 11.89 28,470,739 7,987,369 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 125 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 31 Share-based compensation plans continued b Stock-settled share appreciation rights Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part A are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any award made to executive Directors performance conditions will be based on relative total shareholder return.
Vesting will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one-third of the award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to executive Directors will vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 1 33 3% of stock-settled share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
Awards granted to employees below executive Director level will not be subject to performance conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
A summary of the status of the Companys stock-settled share appreciation rights as at December 31, 2005 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Year to December 31, 2005 Weighted average exercise price Number of Ordinary shares shares Outstanding as at beginning of period Granted 7.17 449,490 Exercised Forfeited Outstanding as at end of period 7.17 449,490 Exercisable as at end of period 449,490 stock-settled share appreciation rights were granted over ordinary shares under the Portfolio Share Plan Part A.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year to December 31, 2005 is 2.85.
Stock-settled share appreciation rights over ordinary shares outstanding as at December 31, 2005 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted average exercise average exercise price of options Number of price of options Exercise prices Weighted average outstanding options exercisable Number of options outstanding remaining life exercisable 449,490 6.01 10.00 4.9 7.17 Year to December 31, 2005 Weighted average exercise price Number of American Depositary Shares $ ADSs Outstanding as at beginning of period Granted 37.80 940,392 Exercised Forfeited 37.70 3,000 Outstanding as at end of period 37.80 937,392 Exercisable as at end of period 940,392 stock-settled share appreciation rights were granted over American Depositary Shares equivalent to 2,821,176 ordinary shares under the Portfolio Share Plan Part A.
The 937,392 stock-settled share appreciation rights over ADSs outstanding at December 31, 2005 are equivalent to 2,812,176 ordinary shares.
The average fair value of options granted in the year to December 31, 2005 is $14.92.
126 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated 31 Share-based compensation plans continued Stock-settled share appreciation rights over American Depositary Shares outstanding as at December 31, 2005 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted average exercise average exercise price of options Number of price of options Exercise prices Weighted average outstanding options exercisable Number of options outstanding $ remaining life $ exercisable $ 2,812,176 35.01 40.00 4.9 37.80 c Performance share plan Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance share awards granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part B are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
For one-third of an award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to executive Directors will vest, the Committee must be satisfied 1 that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 33 3% of stock-settled share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
At December 31, 2005 no awards had been made.
32 Subsequent event IDB loan repayment On February 10, 2006 the Company received notice from IDB that it intended to repay in full all drawings for injectable flu development of $70.6 million, together with accrued and capitalized interest of $8.1 million see Note 6.
The Company received the $78.7 million outstanding on February 14, 2006.
The amounts outstanding in respect of drawings for pipeline development principal drawings of $29.4 million, are unaffected by this repayment.
Quarterly results of operations unaudited The following table presents summarized unaudited quarterly results for the years to December 31, 2005 and 2004.
ii During Q3 2004 the Company recorded a loss on redemption of the convertible loan notes of $7.4 million, which resulted from the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 127 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 128 Five-year review In thousands of US Dollars, except where indicated Selected financial data The selected consolidated financial data presented below as at December 31, 2005 and 2004 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 were derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company, included herein.
The selected consolidated financial data presented below as at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 and for the two years to December 31, 2002 were derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company, which are not included herein.
Certain amounts reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.
These were in respect of the implementation of the new business model in 2004 and the closure of Lead Optimization together with the exit of certain properties in 2003.
Included in 2001 were $29.7 million of asset impairment charges, $83.5 million of merger transaction expenses and $10.2 million of costs in relation to the disposition of certain assets.
All of these costs were in relation to the merger with BioChem in 2001. ii Total other income expense, net includes interest receivable and payable, the gain or loss on the sale of assets, impairment of long-term investments and transactional foreign exchange.
In 2005 it includes $3.9 million on the sale of a portfolio investment and $3.6 million on the sale of the drug formulation business.
In 2004 it includes $14.9 million on the sale of a portfolio investment.
See Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.
In 2001 there was a $55.7 million write-down of investments related to the BioChem merger.
iii As a consequence of the adoption of SFAS No.
142 with effect from January 1, 2002, the amortization expense included in 2001 in the selected consolidated financial data presented is not on a consistent basis of accounting with subsequent periods.
Net income for 2001 would have been $49.5 million if goodwill had not been amortized.
128 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 129 Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial financial statements.
The Directors have chosen to prepare accounts position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Standards IFRS and for the Company in accordance with United irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from the Directors are required to: legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 129 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 130 Summary financial statement IFRS For the year ended 31 December 2005 General Business review The summary financial statement does not contain sufficient A review of the Groups business and important events during the information to allow for as full an understanding of the results year and likely future developments is set out in the Chairmans and state of affairs of the Company or Group and of the policies statement, the Chief Executive Officers review, the financial review and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration, as would and the Directors remuneration report in the full UK statutory annual be provided by the full annual financial statements and reports.
accounts, which are similar to the statements contained in the annual The summary financial statement is prepared in accordance with review at the front of this document which form part of this summary International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
information, the full UK statutory accounts, the auditors report on those accounts and the Directors report should be consulted.
Details of post balance sheet events are contained within the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with Section 239 of the Companies Act 1985 shareholders have a right and can elect to obtain the full report Directors and accounts free of charge by writing to: The Directors who served during the year were as follows: The Company Secretary Dr James Cavanaugh Shire plc Chairman, Non-executive Director Hampshire International Business Park and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chineham Basingstoke Mr Matthew Emmens Hampshire Chief Executive Officer RG24 8EP Mr Angus Russell The full UK statutory annual accounts are signed on behalf Chief Financial Officer of the Board by AC Russell, Chief Financial Officer.
Dr Barry Price The Companys auditors have given an unqualified report on the Senior Non-executive Director statutory accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005. and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The report did not contain any statement under Section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Hon James Grant Non-executive Director Summary Directors report Results and dividends Mr Ronald Nordmann For the year to 31 December 2005, the Companys total revenues Non-executive Director increased by 17% to $1,599.3 million, compared to $1,363.2 million in 2004.
Net loss for the year to 31 December 2005 was $177.4 million Mr Robin Buchanan compared to net income of $96.5 million in 2004.
The results for Non-executive Director 2005 include a $527 million impairment of the goodwill that arose on the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. 2004: $132.6 million Mr David Kappler impairment recorded.
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee The net assets of the Group as at 31 December 2005 were $4,083.1 million 2004: $4,244.9 million.
Mr Patrick Langlois Non-executive Director In respect of the six months to 31 December 2005 the Board appointed 11 November 2005 resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 4.419 per ordinary share 2004: 3.85 US per share.
Together with the first interim payment of 1.8246 US per ordinary share, 2004: 1.82 per share, this represents total dividends for 2005 of 6.2436 per ordinary share 2004: 5.67 per share.
This is consistent with Shires stated policy of paying a dividend Tatjana May semi-annually, set in US per share ADS, with the first interim Company Secretary payment in each year being maintained at a consistent level.
Any 22 March 2006 growth will come through increasing the second interim dividend in a financial year.
130 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 131 Summary financial statement IFRS For the year ended 31 December 2005 Independent Auditors Statement to the Members of Shire plc: Basis of opinion We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 the summary Directors report, consolidated income statement, The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement and Notes 14 of the summary financial statement.
Opinion In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the full annual accounts, the Directors report and the Directors accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has remuneration report of Shire plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not The auditors report on the Groups annual accounts was unqualified.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Deloitte & Touche LLP or for the opinions we have formed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Reading, UK Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 22 March 2006 The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual review and summary financial statement in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We report whether the auditors opinion on the full annual accounts was unqualified or qualified.
We also read the other information contained in the annual review and summary financial statement as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 131 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 132 Summary financial statement IFRS For the year ended 31 December 2005 Consolidated income statement 2005 2004 $000 $000 Continuing operations: Revenue 1,599,316 1,363,207 Cost of sales 215,336 142,557 Gross profit 1,383,980 1,220,650 Research and development 287,146 210,974 Selling, general and administrative including $526,956,000 2004: $132,576,000 goodwill impairment 1,255,707 718,890 Operating loss profit 158,873 290,786 Investment revenues 35,300 21,901 Finance costs 17,420 14,771 Share of post tax loss profit from associates and joint ventures 1,000 4,508 Loss profit before tax 141,993 302,424 Taxation 38,510 141,623 Loss profit for the year from continuing operations 180,503 160,801 Discontinued operations: Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 3,125 64,292 Loss profit for the year 177,378 96,509 Loss earnings per share expressed in per share basic 35.5 19.4 diluted 35.5 19.3 Loss earnings per share from continuing operations expressed in per share basic 36.1 32.4 diluted 36.1 32.2 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 2005 2004 $000 $000 Loss profit for the year 177,378 96,509 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 28,855 34,066 Unrealised holding gain on available-for-sale securities 9,226 Net loss gain recognised directly to equity 19,629 34,066 Total recognised expense income for the year 197,007 130,575 132 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 133 Summary financial statement IFRS For the year ended 31 December 2005 Consolidated balance sheet December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 $000 $000 Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 2,209,460 2,246,220 Other intangible assets 1,394,677 322,258 Property, plant and equipment 218,199 128,202 Deferred tax assets 67,283 85,041 Investments accounted for using equity method 23,023 30,848 Available-for-sale investments 27,139 76,550 Other receivables 42,907 38,895 3,982,688 2,928,014 Current assets Inventories 136,057 41,230 Trade and other receivables 387,206 299,817 Current tax assets 27,983 Trading investments 6,947 324,845 Cash and cash equivalents 656,456 1,111,477 Restricted cash 30,568 21,627 1,245,217 1,798,996 Total assets 5,227,905 4,727,010 Liabilities and shareholders equity Non-current liabilities Borrowings 4,704 4,242 Trade and other payables 18,036 12,963 Deferred tax liabilities 127,691 Long-term provisions 25,401 26,232 175,832 43,437 Current liabilities Borrowings 2,667 2,420 Trade and other payables 435,725 344,367 Liability to dissenting shareholders 427,609 Current tax liabilities 94,416 46,757 Provisions 8,523 45,097 968,940 438,641 Total liabilities 1,144,772 482,078 Shareholders equity Share capital 42,728 36,083 Share premium 2,977 4,883,219 Treasury shares 2,813 264 Exchangeable shares 101,248 195,830 Capital reduction reserve 2,946,490 Capital reserve 4,729 Other reserve 2,099,652 36,121 Retained earnings 1,107,149 910,786 Total shareholders equity 4,083,133 4,244,932 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 5,227,905 4,727,010 The summary financial statement was approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 22 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by: A Russell Director Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 133 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 134 Summary financial statement IFRS For the year ended 31 December 2005 Consolidated cash flow statement 2005 2004 $000 $000 Net cash flows from operating activities 401,187 465,762 Cash flow from investing activities Movement in restricted cash 768 24,847 Purchase of subsidiary undertaking, net of cash and cash equivalents 1,114,048 Expense of acquisitions 37,491 Loan made to ID Biomedical Corporation IDB 43,162 56,838 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 71,946 49,746 Purchase of intangible assets 92,139 42,293 Purchases of financial assets 7,700 6,124 Net decrease increase in current financial assets 366,731 20,282 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment PP&E 1,169 4,360 Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 3,701 Proceeds from sale of financial assets 10,135 26,733 Proceeds from PP&E held for sale 11,289 Proceeds from sale of drug formulation business 557 Proceeds from sale of discontinued business 92,236 34,912 Interest received 34,203 21,901 Dividend received from associates 3,774 1,450 Dividend from joint venture 4,710 4,043 Investing activities of discontinued business 12,715 Net cash used in investing activities 853,739 54,762 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares, net 771 Proceeds from exercise of share options 37,113 13,416 Purchase of treasury shares 2,480 264 Redemption of 2% guaranteed convertible loan notes 2011 370,109 Movement in finance lease obligations 708 5,351 Dividends paid 28,460 8,905 Net cash from used in financing activities 6,881 370,442 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 445,671 40,558 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,111,477 1,063,362 Effect of foreign currency translation 9,350 7,557 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 656,456 1,111,477 134 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 135 Summary financial statement IFRS For the year ended 31 December 2005 1 Basis of preparation The summary financial statement has been prepared under IFRS in accordance with the accounting policies set out in the full UK statutory annual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
2 Directors remuneration Executive remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee considers that an effective remuneration policy, aligned to the Companys business needs, is important to the Companys success.
It directly impacts the Companys ability to recruit, retain and motivate high calibre executives who deliver sustained value to shareholders and build the Company for long-term success.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing, reviewing and overseeing the implementation of the Companys compensation and benefits policy.
The Remuneration Committee regularly monitors the effectiveness of the policy and reviews this policy based on independent analysis and advice, an understanding of the business drivers and competitive environment in which the Company operates and ongoing dialogue with shareholders.
The Companys executive compensation and benefits policy is based on the following principles: base pay is market driven utilising a blended US UK market comparison, and is targeted at or around the median relative to the comparison: the Annual Incentive Plan is performance-based and is linked to the achievement of an appropriate mix of corporate and individual performance targets.
The Annual Incentive Plan allows the Company to measure and reward progress against its strategic goals and is closely tied to delivery of sustained shareholder value: share-based compensation is a key element of the Companys remuneration policy as it aligns the interests of the Companys executives with the interests of its shareholders.
This element of compensation also utilises a blended US UK market comparison to determine face value of awards to executive Directors: benefits programmes are locally competitive and provide for the welfare and well-being of our employees and their families: the Committee currently aims for variable compensation to represent over two-thirds of total remuneration: and the Committee believes that executive Directors should be encouraged to own shares in the Company in order to ensure the alignment of their interests with those of the Companys shareholders.
Share ownership guidelines became effective in 2006.
Aggregate Directors remuneration The total amounts for Directors remuneration and other benefits were as follows: 2005 2004 $000 $000 Emoluments 4,289 4,751 Post-employment benefits 488 450 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 159 Termination benefits 1,172 Gains on exercise of share options 194 216 4,971 6,748 The numbers of Directors who were members of Group retirement schemes were as follows: 2005 2004 Number Number Defined contribution schemes 2 3 Defined benefit scheme SERP 1 1 The above amounts for remuneration include the following in respect of the highest-paid Director: 2005 2004 $000 $000 Aggregate emoluments 2,286 2,601 Pension contributions 323 227 2,609 2,828 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 135 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 136 Summary financial statement IFRS For the year ended 31 December 2005 Directors emoluments Cash Non-cash benefits benefits Total Total Salary Incentive Fees in kind in kind 2005 2004 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Executive i v Mr Matthew Emmens 1,049 1,208 29 2,286 2,601 ii Mr Angus Russell 652 415 26 10 1,103 1,126 ii vi Dr Wilson Totten 469 Total Executive 1,701 1,623 55 10 3,389 4,196 Non-executive i Dr James Cavanaugh 364 364 137 iii Dr Barry Price 132 132 110 i The Hon James Grant 82 82 73 i Mr Ronald Nordmann 114 114 99 iii Mr Robin Buchanan 87 87 73 iii Mr David Kappler 109 109 63 iv vii Mr Patrick Langlois 12 12 Total Non-executive 900 900 555 Total 1,701 1,623 900 55 10 4,289 4,751 Notes i Paid in $.
v The Company underwent a major internal reorganisation in 2004, which resulted in the Company selecting Philadelphia as its US corporate headquarters.
vi Dr Totten stepped down as a Director of the Company on 25 May 2004. vii Mr Langlois was appointed a Non-executive Director on 11 November 2005.
136 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 137 Summary financial statement IFRS For the year ended 31 December 2005 Performance graph The graphs shown set out the Total Shareholder Return TSR for the three and five years ending 31 December 2005.
The graphs compare the performance of a hypothetical 100 holding of the Companys shares with that of a holding of shares in the FTSE 100 index excluding financial institutions and with a holding in a group comprised of the following pharma companies: Novo Nordisk, Schering AG, Serono, Altana, UCB, Lundbeck, Forest Labs, Allergan, Sepracor, Cephalon, Watson, Biovail, King, Valeant, Medicis and Kos.
This comparator group is a blend of US and UK companies with sector, size, complexity and international characteristics similar to those of the Company.
These comparisons will also be used to determine achievement of performance conditions relating to the Annual Incentive Plan and Portfolio Share Plan.
The three-year graph tracks the TSR performance since the Company started to implement its new strategic plan under new management.
Change in Three-year historical TSR performance.
Change in value of a hypothetical 100 holding over three years.
value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years.
160 200 180 140 160 120 140 100 120 80 100 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 31.12.00 31.12.01 31.12.02 31.12.03 31.12.04 31.12.05 31.12.02 31.12.03 31.12.04 31.12.05 Shire TSR Shire TSR Ex-financials FTSE 100 TSR Ex-financials FTSE 100 TSR Comparator group TSR Comparator group TSR 3 Loss earnings per ordinary share EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the loss earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
For the year to 31 December 2005 share options to purchase approximately 20.7 million ordinary shares and warrants to purchase 1.3 million ordinary shares were not dilutive and were therefore excluded from the computation of diluted EPS.
The $370 million loan note convertible debt was excluded from the calculation of weighted average number of shares for diluted EPS in 2004 as it was not dilutive.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 137 Shire plc Value of hypothetical 100 holding Value of hypothetical 100 holding 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 138 Summary financial statement IFRS For the year ended 31 December 2005 Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
Weighted average Loss number of Per-share 2005 $000 shares amount Basic and diluted EPS Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 177,378 500,243,137 35.5 Weighted average Earnings number of Per-share 2004 $000 shares amount Basic EPS Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 96,509 496,306,604 19.4 Effect of dilutive securities Share options 3,035,620 0.1 Warrants 66,792 Diluted EPS 96,509 499,409,016 19.3 Loss earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations: Weighted average Loss number of Per-share 2005 $000 shares amount Basic and diluted EPS Loss from continuing operations 180,503 500,243,137 36.1 Gain from discontinued operations 3,125 500,243,137 0.6 Weighted average Earnings number of Per-share 2004 $000 shares amount Basic EPS Profit from continuing operations 160,801 496,306,604 32.4 Loss from discontinued operations 64,292 496,306,604 13.0 Diluted EPS Profit from continuing operations 160,801 499,409,016 32.2 Loss from discontinued operations 64,292 499,409,016 12.9 138 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 139 Summary financial statement IFRS For the year ended 31 December 2005 4 Loss profit for the year 2005 2004 $000 $000 The following items have been included in arriving at the loss profit from continuing operations: Staff costs: wages and salaries 234,425 179,174 social security costs 20,674 15,333 pensions costs defined contribution plans 13,461 8,722 pensions costs defined benefit plans 607 284 share-based payments to Directors and employees 27,383 15,815 296,550 219,328 Inventories: cost of inventories recognised as expense included in cost of sales 184,353 119,943 inventory write-down included in cost of sales 9,432 3,788 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned assets 20,099 20,140 under finance leases 2,904 2,528 Impairment of goodwill 526,956 132,576 Impairment of intangible assets 4,410 19,626 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 6,458 1,587 Amortisation of intangible assets included in selling, general and administrative expenses all acquired 49,516 42,138 Operating lease rentals: property, plant and machinery 14,445 6,563 other 2,673 3,495 Profit on disposal of financial assets 4,100 14,805 Impairment of financial assets 1,974 17,455 Net foreign exchange losses 10,212 2,466 Reorganisation costs 2,301 55,505 Integration costs 11,727 Government grants towards research 26 Auditors remuneration for audit services 5,121 5,401 Accounts payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and their associates by the Group in respect of non-audit services were $2.8 million 2004: $4.9 million.
A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below.
2005 2004 Year to December 31, $000 $000 i Audit fees 2,731 3,253 ii Audit-related fees 2,390 2,148 iii Tax fees 2,066 4,734 iv All other fees 708 183 Total fees 7,895 10,318 Notes i Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits and included the audit of managements assessment that the Group maintained effective internal control over 10-K financial reporting and the audit of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over 10-K financial reporting.
ii Audit related fees consist of work generally only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory filings.
iii Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance, planning and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
iv All other fees relate to assisting the remuneration committee and corporate responsibility.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 139 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 140 Shire head ofce and main operating locations Shire plc Shire Italia S. p. A.
Chief Executive Officer: Matthew Emmens Managing Director: Gian Piero Reverberi Hampshire International Business Park Via Provinciale Lucchese, 70 Basingstoke, Hampshire RG24 8EP 50019 Sesto F. No FI United Kingdom Italy Tel 44 0 1256 894000 Tel 39 0 55 3025050 Fax 44 0 1256 894708 Fax 39 0 55 3025051 Shire Pharmaceuticals Ltd Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica SL Managing Director: John Freeman Managing Director: Jos Antonio Senz fide Broto Hampshire International Business Park P Pintor Rosales, n 40, Bajo Izda.
Basingstoke, Hampshire RG24 8EP 28008 Madrid United Kingdom Spain Tel 44 0 1256 894000 Tel 34 915 500 691 Fax 44 0 1256 894708 Fax 34 915 493 695 Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd Shire US Manufacturing Inc. General Manager: Brian Martin Executive Vice President Building 1A, Citylink Business Park Global Supply Chain & Quality: John Lee Old Naas Road, Dublin 12 11200 Gundry Lane Ireland Owings Mills, Maryland 21117 Tel 353 1 429 7700 USA Fax 353 1 429 7701 Tel 1 410 413 1000 Fax 1 410 413 2000 Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Ltd Singapore representative office Shire BioChem Inc.
Managing Director: Tony Ooi Vice President and LiFung Centre General Manager: Claude Perron 5 B, Toh Guan Road East, # 03-09A 2250 Alfred-Nobel Blvd.
Suite 500 Singapore 608829 Ville Saint-Laurent, Qubec H4S 2C9 Tel 65 6665 2795 Canada Fax 65 6665 2797 Tel 1 514 787 2300 Fax 1 514 787 2427 Shire Deutschland GmbH & Co KG Managing Director: Leonhard Terp Shire Human Generic Therapies Siegburger Strae 126 Executive Vice President D-50679 Kln and General Manager: David Pendergast Germany 700 Main Street Tel 49 221 8 80 47 30 Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 Fax 49 221 8 80 47 41 USA Tel 1 617 349 0200 Shire France S. A. Fax 1 617 613 4004 Managing Director: Vincent Lucet 88, rue du Dme 92514 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex France Tel 33 0 146 10 90 00 Fax 33 0 146 08 21 49 140 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 141 Shareholder information Registered office address US Shareholders Hampshire International Business Park i ADSs Basingstoke, Hampshire RG24 8EP The Companys American Depository Shares ADSs, each representing United Kingdom three ordinary shares, are listed on the NASDAQ national market under Registered in England the symbol SHPGY.
The Company files reports and other documents No.
05492592 with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC which are available for inspection and copying at the SECs public reference Investor relations facilities or can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
Europe and Rest of the World: Cla Rosenfeld Tel 44 0 1256 894160 ii ADS Depositary Fax 44 0 1256 894708 Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York is the depositary for Email investorrelations@uk.
com Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc ADSs.
All enquiries concerning ADS records, certificates or transfer of ordinary shares into ADSs should North America: Brian Piper be addressed to: Tel 1 484 595 8800 Fax 1 484 595 8151 Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York Email bpiper@us.
com PO Box 8205 Boston, Massachusetts 02266-8205 www.
com USA Tel 1 781 575 4328 Registrars and transfer office Fax 1 781 575 4088 All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed to Lloyds TSB Registrars, clearly stating the registered Canadian Shareholders shareholders name and address.
i Exchangeable Shares of Shire Acquisition Inc.
Exchangeable shares in Shire Acquisition Inc. are convertible into three Lloyds TSB Registrars ordinary shares of Shire or one ADS representing three ordinary shares Customer Services, The Causeway of Shire.
Exchangeable shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA under the symbol SHQ.
Shires ordinary shares are listed on the United Kingdom London Stock Exchange and Shires ADSs are listed on the NASDAQ Tel 44 870 600 3970 national market.
ii Trustee for Exchangeable Shareholders Natcan Trust Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the National Bank of Canada, acts as Trustee for Exchangeable Shareholders.
All enquiries concerning Exchangeable Share records or conversions of Exchangeable Shares into ordinary shares of Shire or ADSs should be addressed to: Natcan Trust Company 1100 University Street Suite 900 Montreal, Qubec H3B 2G7 Canada Tel 1 514 871 7171 1 800 341 1419 Fax 1 514 871 7442 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 141 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 142 Shire Trade Marks Cautionary statements Shire Trade Marks Cautionary statements ADDERALL XR mixed salt of a single entity amphetamine Statements included herein that are not historical facts are forwardADDERALL mixed salt of a single entity amphetamine looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve a AGRYLIN anagrelide hydrochloride number of risks and uncertainties and are subject to change at any AMATINE midodrine hydrochloride time.
In the event such risks or uncertainties materialize, Shires CALCICHEW calcium carbonate results could be materially affected.
The risks and uncertainties CARBATROL carbamazepine include, but are not limited to, risks associated with: the inherent COLAZIDE balsalazide uncertainty of pharmaceutical research, product development, DAYTRANA methylphenidate transdermal system manufacturing and commercialization: the impact of competitive ELAPRASE idursulfase products, including, but not limited to, the impact of those on Shires EQUETRO carbamazepine Attention Deficit and Hyperactivity Disorder ADHD franchise: patents, FOSRENOL lanthanum carbonate including, but not limited to, legal challenges relating to Shires ADHD GENE-ACTIVATED GA-GCB glucocerebrosidase franchise: government regulation and approval, including, but not MESAVANCE mesalamine limited to, the expected product approval dates of SPD503 ADHD, PROAMATINE midodrine hydrochloride SPD465 ADHD, MESAVANCE SPD476 ulcerative colitis, REMINYL galantamine hydrobromide ELAPRASE idursulfase Hunter Syndrome, and NRP104 ADHD, UK and Republic of Ireland including its scheduling classification by the Drug Enforcement REMINYL XL galantamine hydrobromide Administration in the United States: Shires ability to benefit from its UK and Republic of Ireland acquisition of Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. : Shires ability to secure REPLAGAL agalsidase alfa new products for commercialization and or development: and other SOLARAZE diclofenac sodium 3% risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Shires filings and TROXATYL troxacitabine its predecessor registrant Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plcs filings VANIQA eflornithine hydrochloride with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, including Shires XAGRID anagrelide hydrochloride Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year to December 31, 2005.
Third-party Trade Marks The statements of the individuals and medical practitioners appearing 3TC lamivudine trade mark of GSK in the operating review on pages 1635 of this document have been COMBIVIR trade mark of GSK made by and represent the views of the named individuals.
The views DYNEPO trade mark of Aventis Pharma Holdings GmbH represented are those of the named medical practitioners and should EPIVIR trade mark of GSK not necessarily be taken to represent the views of Shire.
EPIVIR-HBV trade mark of GSK HEPTOVIR trade mark of GSK PENTASA mesalamine trade mark of Ferring AS RAZADYNE trade mark of Johnson & Johnson RAZADYNE ER trade mark of Johnson & Johnson REMINYL trade mark of Johnson & Johnson, excluding UK and Republic of Ireland REMINYL XL galantamine hydrobromide trade mark of Johnson & Johnson, excluding UK and Republic of Ireland TRIZIVIR trade mark of GSK ZEFFIX lamivudine trade mark of GSK 142 Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 143 Glossary of terms Animo acid MPS Society An organic compound containing an amino group NH, a carboxylic  Society.
2 acid group COOH, and any of various side groups, especially any of the 20 compounds that have the basic formula NH CHRCOOH,  2 and that link together by peptide bonds to form proteins or that function One of a series of inherited metabolic disorders affecting a type of as chemical messengers and as intermediates in metabolism.
complex carbohydrate called a mucopolysaccharide that is deposited in body tissues because the person lacks the specific enzyme needed Animo acid sequence to metabolize it.
Peptide sequence or amino acid sequence is the order in which amino acid residues, connected by peptide bonds, lie in the chain.
NICE The sequence is generally reported from the N-terminal end containing UK National Institute of Clinical Excellence.
free amino group to the C-terminal end containing free carboxyl group.
Peptide sequence is often called protein sequence if it represents the Pharmacovigilance primary structure of a protein.
The pharmacological science relating to the detection, assessment, understanding and prevention of adverse effects, particularly long-term Carbohydrate structure and short-term side effects, of medicines Source: The Importance In glycoproteins, in addition to the amino acid backbone or otherwise of Pharmacovigilance, WHO 2002. referred to as a protein, other molecules are conjugated to the protein in particular places, such as carbohydrates.
Carbohydrates means sugars Phase 1 or chains of sugars.
A single sugar is a monosaccharide, a long chain Clinical trials usually conducted in healthy human volunteers would be a polysaccharide, etc.
These sugars are important for activity to determine if a drug candidate is safe for more extensive testing.
and are also part of the uptake mechanism for the protein within cells and tissues.
Phase 2 Clinical trials conducted in patients with relevant disease to assess CHADD the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate.
Children and adults with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
Phase 3 Glycoproteins Clinical trials conducted in the target patient population to Any of a group of conjugated proteins that contain a carbohydrate comprehensively assess the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate.
Pivotal study Immunogenic A major clinical trial that has a significant impact on the labeling Producing an immune response.
Lysosomal Platelet Membrane-enclosed compartment in cells, containing many A constituent of blood that help form clots to control bleeding.
hydrolytic enzymes: where large molecules and cellular components are broken down.
Pre-clinical study Studies of compounds conducted in the laboratory, in isolated tissues, Lysosomal Storage Diseases LSDs or in living animals.
Are a group of which over forty disorders are currently known that result from defects in lysosomal function.
Proof of Concept study A study intended to show that a hypothesis or concept is valid.
MHRA Medicine and Healthcare products Regulatory agency.
Molecule The smallest particle of a substance that retains the chemical and physical properties of the substance and is composed of two or more atoms: a group of like or different atoms held together by chemical forces.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 143 Shire plc 6361 Accounts 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:57 Page 144 Designed and produced by Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London The paper used in this publication is made from 100% recycled fibres sourced entirely from post consumer waste, is Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and is accredited to ISO 14001.
6361 Cover 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:56 Page fc2 Shire plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2005 6361 Cover 2005. qxd 24 4 06 12:56 Page fc1 Shire plc Annual review and summary finan Hampshire International Business Park Shire plc Basingstoke, Hampshire RG24 8EP United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1256 894000 Fax 44 0 1256 894708 www.
