Directors Associated British Foods plc responsibilities Remuneration report continued 11.
Compliance statement The board reviews non-executive directors non-executive directors In compliance with the Companies Act 1985 fees periodically in the light of fees payable in The Remuneration committee has as amended, the auditable part of the comparable companies and the importance determined that executive directors serving remuneration report comprises directors attached to the retention and attraction of high as non-executive directors of other companies remuneration on page 41, directors pensions calibre individuals as non-executive directors.
may retain any fees earned.
During the year, on pages 41 and 42, directors share options Fees are paid on a per annum basis and are George Weston served as a non-executive on page 43 and directors beneficial interests not varied for the number of days worked.
The director of Wittington Investments Limited, on page 45. chairman of the Audit committee and the senior for which he received no compensation.
Until independent director are paid an additional fee.
his retirement in March 2005, Peter Jackson Non-executive directors do not participate in earned fees of 29,481 in respect of his Paul Lister, Company Secretary the companys annual or long-term incentive non-executive role at Smiths Group plc.
8 November 2005 plans, and take no part in any discussion or decision concerning their own fees.
This report has been approved by the board and has been signed on its behalf by the Company Secretary.
46 Directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to The directors are responsible for keeping prepare financial statements for each proper accounting records which disclose financial year which give a true and fair with reasonable accuracy at any time the view of the state of affairs of the company financial position of the company and to and of the group and of the profit or loss enable them to ensure that the financial for that period.
In preparing those financial statements comply with the Companies statements, the directors are required to: Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably select suitable accounting policies and open to them to safeguard the assets of then apply them consistently: the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
