Progress Associated British Foods plc report Progress report Saturday nearest to 15 September 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 m m m m m Turnover 4,418 4,545 4,909 5,165 5,622 Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill 320 369 427 478 565 Exceptional items Amortisation of goodwill 73 18 42 46 78 Profits less losses on sale of fixed assets 20 8 12 8 20 Profits less losses on sale of businesses 29 20 7 6 Provision for loss on termination of an operation 47 Investment income 66 57 53 59 49 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 362 416 470 506 503 Interest payable 24 22 30 23 34 Other financial income 69 31 8 11 10 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 407 425 448 494 479 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 129 97 125 146 139 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 278 328 323 348 340 Minority interests 8 3 3 6 7 Profit for the financial year 270 325 326 342 333 Earnings per share 34.2p 41.2p 41.3p 43.3p 42.2p Adjusted earnings per share 37.2p 39.1p 41.3p 46.6p 53.0p 80 Dividends per share 11.8p 13.25p 14.6p 16.4p 18.0p Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the seventieth annual general meeting of the company will be held at The Royal College of Surgeons of England, 35-43 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3PE on Friday 9 December 2005 at 11.00 am to transact the following business: Ordinary business Resolution 1 To receive the accounts and the reports of the directors and the auditors thereon for the year ended 17 September 2005.
Resolution 2 To receive and approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 17 September 2005.
Resolution 3 That a dividend of 12.0p per ordinary share be paid on 13 January 2006 to holders of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders of the company at the close of business on 2 December 2005.
Resolution 4 To re-elect George Garfield Weston as a director.
Resolution 5 To re-elect John George Bason as a director.
Notice Annual Report and Accounts 2005 of meeting Notice of meeting continued Resolution 6 To re-elect Martin Gardiner Adamson as a director.
Resolution 7 To re-elect Willard Gordon Galen Weston as a director.
Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market, OBE as a director.
Resolution 9 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the shareholders, and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
Special business To propose and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: Resolution 10 That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of that Act up to a maximum of 263 million 15 ordinary shares of 5 22p each provided that this authority shall expire on 8 December 2010, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the 81 directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexercised authorities previously granted to the directors to allot relevant securities be and are hereby revoked.
To propose the following resolution as a special resolution: Resolution 11 That the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 10 above as if Section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date s as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on any such record date s, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatever: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate 15 of 39 million ordinary shares of 5 22p each: and shall expire upon the date of the next annual general meeting of the company after the passing of this resolution or 31 December 2006, whichever is sooner, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
By order of the board, Paul Lister, Company Secretary, 8 November 2005 Weston Centre, 10 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 4QY, Registered in England and Wales, Company No.
293262 Notes to Associated British Foods plc the AGM Notes to the notice of meeting 1.
Resolution number 3 The directors have determined that it is appropriate to put a final dividend for the year ended 17 September 2005 to shareholders for their approval.
If approved the dividend will be paid on 13 January 2006 to holders of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders of the company at the close of business on 2 December 2005 making a total dividend in respect of the year ended 17 September 2005 of 18.0p per ordinary share.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the company, the shareholders cannot resolve to pay an amount greater than that recommended by the directors.
Resolutions number 4 to 8 In accordance with the Articles of Association, all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings, and who did not put themselves forward for re-election should do so.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance recommends that all directors should be required to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Biographical details of the directors to be re-elected can be found on page 31.
Details of the performance evaluation process in relation to them can be found on page 35.
In addition the Combined Code provides that non-executive directors may serve longer than nine years, subject to annual re-election.
The Chairman has confirmed, when proposing re-election for non-executive directors, that following formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Resolutions number 10 and 11 The Companies Act 1985 prevents directors allotting unissued shares without the authority of shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution number 10 will authorise the directors to allot substantially all of the present unissued ordinary share capital, which represents approximately 25% of the companys authorised share capital, and approximately 33% of the companys issued ordinary share capital at 8 November 2005, at any time within the next five years.
The proposed renewal of the authority should not be taken as an indication that 82 the directors have any current plans to make an issue of shares.
The directors propose to renew this authority every year asking, on each occasion, for the authority to be granted for a further period of five years.
Where shares are allotted pursuant to a general authority as provided in resolution number 10 and shareholders are required to pay for them in cash, that allotment is subject to Section 89 of the Companies Act, which requires new shares to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
There may, however, be circumstances where directors wish to allot shares for cash other than by way of rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities and this cannot be done unless shareholders have first waived their pre-emption rights.
Resolution number 11 asks shareholders to do this by allowing the directors to allot for cash i by way of a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities to all shareholders subject to certain exclusions and ii up to 5% of the companys present issued ordinary share capital as at 8 November 2005 to persons other than existing shareholders.
By setting the 5% limit, interests of existing shareholders are protected, as their interest in the company cannot, without their consent, be reduced by more than 5% by the issue of new shares for cash to new shareholders.
Appointment of a proxy A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the company to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his place.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the companys registered office or the companys Registrar: or by completing it online at www.
co. uk and following the on-screen instructions to submit it you will need to identify yourself with your personal printed investor code included with the hard copies of the proxy forms: or in the case of shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars online portfolio service, Shareview, they can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company Meetings: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below, and in each case must be received by the company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Notes to Annual Report and Accounts 2005 the AGM Please note that the company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure that no viruses are present in any electronic communication it sends out but the company cannot accept responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening or use of any email or attachments from the company and recommends that the shareholders subject all messages to virus checking procedures prior to use.
Any electronic communication received by the company, including the lodgement of an electronic proxy form, that is found to contain any virus will not be accepted.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time-stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated 83 Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Copies of the directors service contracts with the company and the terms and conditions of the non-executive directors, except for Galen Weston who does not have a formal letter of appointment, are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during usual business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and will be available at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes before the start of the meeting until its conclusion.
Only persons entered on the register of members of the company at 6.00 pm on the date which is two days prior to the meeting or any adjournment of it shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
e Monmouth St Directions Associated British Foods plc to the AGM n a L s S t n i t M r a Fields Chancery Lane Kingsway Waterloo Bridge Drury Endell St Bow St Wellington St Lane Northumberland Ave Directions to the annual general meeting The Royal College of Surgeons of England Chancery Lane British Museum Holborn Lincolns Inn Fields Royal Courts of Justice Royal Covent Opera Garden House 84 Temple Leicester Square Charing Cross River Thames Royal National Theatre Royal Festival Waterloo Hall gh Ho Hi lborn t n e m k n a h b m E LincolnsInn ortugal S t c a i r o t y c Strand i V High Holborn w d Bloomsbury Way Strand L t o n g A c r e l n e P m A k n a b m Gt Queen St E a i r o t c i V Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Associated British Foods plc Weston Centre Annual Report 10 Grosvenor Street London W1K 4QY and Accounts 2005 Tel 020 7399 6500 Fax 020 7399 6580 Web www.
co. uk For an accessible version of the Annual Report and Accounts please visit www.
co. uk Associated British Foods plc
