Financial Annual Report and Accounts 2005 statements Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain assets, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of consolidation The group accounts comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The financial statements of the company and its subsidiary undertakings are made up for the 52 weeks ended 17 September 2005, except that, to avoid delay in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, those of Australia, New Zealand, China, Poland and the North and South American subsidiary undertakings are made up to 31 August 2005.
Acquisitions The consolidated profit and loss account includes the results of new subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates attributable to the period since change of control.
Disposals The results of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates sold are included up to the dates of change of control.
The profit or loss on the disposal of an acquired business takes into account the amount of any related goodwill previously written off directly to reserves, or the net amount of capitalised goodwill remaining unamortised, as appropriate.
Intangible fixed assets Intangible fixed assets consist of goodwill arising on acquisitions since 13 September 1998, being the excess of the fair value of the 53 purchase consideration of new subsidiary undertakings over the fair value of net assets acquired.
Goodwill is capitalised in accordance with FRS 10 and amortised over its useful economic life, not exceeding 20 years.
Goodwill previously written off against reserves has not been reinstated.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included in the carrying value of the investments.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are carried at their original cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on the original cost of assets and is calculated on a straight line basis at rates sufficient to reduce them to their estimated residual value.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or payments on account.
Leaseholds are written off over the period of the lease.
The anticipated life of other assets is generally deemed to be not longer than: Freehold buildings 66 years Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings sugar factories 20 years other operations 12 years Vehicles 8 years Fixed asset investments Joint ventures and associates are accounted for in the financial statements of the group under the equity method of accounting.
Other fixed asset investments in the groups accounts, and all fixed asset investments in the accounts of the company, are stated at cost less amounts written off in respect of any impairment.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value, after making due provision against obsolete and slow-moving items.
In the case of manufactured goods the term cost includes ingredients, production wages and production overheads.
Current asset investments Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost or market value.
Financial Associated British Foods plc statements Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, or at the contracted rate as appropriate.
The assets and liabilities of overseas operations are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of overseas operations have been translated at the average rate prevailing during the year.
Exchange differences arising on consolidation are taken directly to reserves.
Other exchange differences are dealt with as part of operating profits.
Group turnover Turnover represents the net invoiced value of goods and services delivered to customers excluding sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying products and services have been substantially transferred to the customer.
Pension and post-retirement benefits In accordance with FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the operating and financing costs of pension and post-retirement schemes are recognised separately in the profit and loss account.
Service costs are systematically spread over the service lives of the employees and financing costs are recognised in the period in which they arise.
The costs of past service benefit enhancements, settlements and curtailments are also recognised in the period in which they arise.
The difference between actual and expected returns on assets during the year, including changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Research and development Expenditure in respect of research and development is written off against profits in the period in which it is incurred.
54 Leases All material leases entered into by the group are operating leases, whereby substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset remain with the lessor.
Rental payments are charged against profits on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Financial instruments Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options are used to hedge forecast transactional cash flows and accordingly, any gains or losses on these contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account when the underlying transaction is settled.
Derivative commodity contracts are used to hedge committed purchases or sales of commodities and accordingly, any gains or losses on these contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same accounting period as the underlying purchase or sale.
Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments that are cancelled due to the termination of the underlying exposure are taken to the profit and loss account immediately.
Deferred tax Provision for deferred tax is made on all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is not discounted.
