qxd 30 03 2006 11:59 Page 58 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies adopted in SIGs Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 are set out below.
Basis of preparation The Accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued for use in the European Union for the first time in the year ended 31 December 2005 with comparatives at 31 December 2004 being restated.
The Accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivative financial instruments that are stated at their fair value.
IFRS 1 permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
SIG has taken advantage of the following exemptions: a IFRS 3 Business combinations SIG has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to acquisitions that took place before 1 January 2004. b IFRS 2 Share-based payments SIG has elected to apply IFRS 2 only to those share-based payment options that were granted after 7 November 2002 and remained unvested at 1 January 2005. c IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates SIG has elected to reset the hedging and translation reserve to zero at 1 January 2004. d IAS 32 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement SIG has elected to apply UK GAAP to its comparative Accounts i. e. 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 and implement IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 January 2005.
On 1 January 2005, in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39, all derivative financial instruments were recorded at their fair value.
The difference between the fair value and book value of all derivative financial instruments at 1 January 2005 has been recorded in 2005 through the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
There are a number of standards issued but not yet effective which the Group has not applied in these Accounts.
These include IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures.
As this standard relates solely to disclosure, the adoption of this standard would have no impact on the Accounts of the Group except for additional disclosure requirements on capital and derivative financial instruments.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Accounts incorporate the Accounts of the Company and each of its subsidiary undertakings after eliminating all significant inter-company transactions and balances.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interest of SIG except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Consolidated Income Statement disclosure In order to give an indication of the underlying earnings of the Group, certain items are presented separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement.
These include: amortisation of acquired intangibles: goodwill impairment losses: and hedge ineffectiveness.
In 2005, hedge ineffectiveness has arisen in relation to the Groups hedge of its net investment in foreign operations.
Further information is provided in the accounting policy note hedge of net investment in foreign operations and in Note 18 on pages 82 to 84 and also in the Business Review on page 22.
58 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounts 02 0SIG 2005ARB.
qxd 30 03 2006 11:59 Page 59 Goodwill and business combinations All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over SIGs interest in the fair value of identifiable assets including intangible assets and liabilities of the businesses acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently when there is an indication that goodwill may be impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of SIGs cash-generating units CGU expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of remaining goodwill relating to the entity disposed of is included in the determination of any profit or loss on disposal.
Under the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1, SIG has taken the option to apply IFRS 3 to business combinations from the transition date only 1 January 2004, and therefore, has not restated previous acquisitions prior to this date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1 January 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill recorded in foreign currency is retranslated at each period end.
Any movements in the carrying value of goodwill as a result of foreign exchange rate movements are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Intangibles SIG recognises intangible assets at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
SIG recognises two types of intangible assets: acquired and purchased.
Acquired intangible assets arise as a result of applying IFRS 3 which requires the separate recognition of intangible assets from goodwill on all business combinations from 1 January 2004.
Purchased intangible assets relate primarily to software that is separable from any associated hardware.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives as follows: Weighted average Amortisation period period of amortisation Customer relationships Life of the relationship 7.5 years Brands Indefinite N A Non compete contracts Life of the contract 3 years Specific customer contracts Life of the contract 1 year Order-books Life of the order-book 6 months Software Useful life of software N A see Note 12 An indefinite useful life has been determined for brands on the basis that the brand is expected to be maintained indefinitely and is expected to continue to drive value for the Group.
Brands will be reviewed for impairment on at least an annual basis.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods net of allowances and value added tax.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the goods have been received by the customer and title has passed.
Borrowing costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 59 02 0SIG 2005ARB.
qxd 30 03 2006 11:59 Page 60 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies continued Pension costs SIG operates six defined benefit pension schemes.
The Groups net obligation in respect of these defined benefit pension schemes is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in both current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted using an appropriate discount rate to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
Where the benefits of the plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement, on a straight line basis, over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately.
The full service cost of the pension schemes is charged to operating profit.
The finance cost of liabilities and expected return on assets are included within finance charges and finance income respectively in the Consolidated Income Statement and shown separately in Note 3.
The actuarial gain loss arising is charged through the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and is made up of the difference between the expected return on assets and those actually achieved, the difference between the actuarial assumptions for liabilities and actual experience in the period and any changes in the assumptions used in the valuations.
The pension scheme deficit is recognised in full and presented on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The associated deferred tax asset is recognised within non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are included within either accruals or prepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Share-based payment transactions In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all share options granted after 7 November 2002 that remained unvested as of 1 January 2005.
IFRS 2 has also been applied to all share options granted in 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments only share options.
Share options are measured at fair value at the date of grant based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair value determined is then expensed in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of the options is measured by use of the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Trade receivables and trade payables Trade receivables and trade payables are measured initially at fair value and then subsequently at amortised cost.
With regard to trade receivables, when there is objective evidence of impairment appropriate allowances are made for estimated irrecoverable amounts based upon expected future cash flows discounted by an appropriate interest rate where applicable.
60 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounts 02 0SIG 2005ARB.
qxd 30 03 2006 11:59 Page 61 Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates at the date of the transaction or where appropriate at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or where appropriate at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated Income Statement.
For the purpose of consolidation, income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the average rate and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and results of overseas operations and on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such operations, are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency exchange risks arising from operational and financial activities.
In accordance with its Treasury Policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However derivative financial instruments, or part thereof, that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised immediately at cost.
Subsequent to their initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are then stated at their fair value.
Unless hedge accounting is achieved, the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately as hedge ineffectiveness and is disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement for the period.
Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense i. e. equity.
When the forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, then the associated gains or losses that were previously recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense equity are reclassified into the Consolidated Income Statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the Consolidated Income Statement.
For cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of any gain or loss is recognised immediately as hedge ineffectiveness and is disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of any gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense equity.
The ineffective portion of any gain or loss is recognised immediately as hedge ineffectiveness and is disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Fair value hedges For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative financial instruments are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 61 02 0SIG 2005ARB.
qxd 30 03 2006 11:59 Page 62 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies continued Taxation Income tax on the profit or loss for the periods presented comprises both current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
In accordance with IAS 12, the following temporary differences are not provided for: a goodwill not deductible for taxation purposes: b the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and c differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at original cost to the Group less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years Residual values, which are based on market rates, are reassessed annually.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost including an appropriate proportion of attributable overheads, supplier rebates and discounts and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving, or defective items where appropriate.
Leases and hire purchase agreements The cost of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase agreements is capitalised with an equivalent liability categorised as appropriate under current liabilities or non-current liabilities.
The asset is depreciated over its useful life.
Rentals under finance leases and hire purchase agreements are apportioned between finance costs and reduction of the liability.
The finance costs are charged in arriving at the profit before tax.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Property provisions The Group makes provisions in respect of onerous leasehold property contracts and leasehold dilapidation commitments where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle a present obligation.
62 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounts 02 0SIG 2005ARB.
qxd 30 03 2006 11:59 Page 63 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty Impairment of non-current assets Determining whether a non-current asset is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use and or the fair value less costs to sell of the CGU to which the non-current asset has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The key assumptions for these value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs.
The Directors estimate discount rates using post tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the individual CGU.
Cash flow forecasts are prepared using the following years operating budget approved by the Directors and an appropriate extrapolation of cash flows for the next five years.
After five years, the cash flow forecast assumes no change in annual cash flows.
The carrying amount of non-current assets at 31 December 2005 was 337.105m after a goodwill impairment loss of 5.654m was recognised during 2005.
Details of the goodwill impairment loss are provided in Note 11.
Post-employment benefits The Group operates six defined benefit pension schemes.
All post-employment benefits associated with these schemes have been accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits.
As detailed within the Statement of Significant Accounting Polices on page 60, in accordance with IAS 19, all actuarial gains and losses have been recognised immediately through the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
For all defined benefit pension schemes, pension valuations have been performed using specialist advice obtained from independent qualified actuaries.
In performing these valuations, judgements, assumptions and estimates have been made.
These assumptions have been disclosed within Note 27 on pages 90 to 95.
Taxation Accruals for corporation tax contingencies require the Directors to make judgements and estimates as to the level of corporation tax that will be payable based upon the interpretation of applicable tax legislation on a country by country basis and an assessment of the likely outcome of any open tax computations.
All such accruals are included within current liabilities.
Therefore, judgements are required to establish whether deferred tax balances should be recognised.
Share-based payments The Company provides share-based payments under five separate schemes.
In accordance with IFRS 2, share options are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The valuation of these share-based payments requires several judgements to be made in respect of the number of options that are expected to be exercised.
Details of the assumptions made in respect of each of the five share-based payment schemes are disclosed in Note 9 on pages 70 to 73.
Provisions Using information available at the balance sheet date, the Directors make judgements based on experience on the level of provision required to satisfy all onerous lease and dilapidation commitments, to account for potential uncollectible receivables, and to account for the potential for unsaleable inventories.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 63
