8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 63 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies of milestone payments and payments received on Year to Year to the signing of new contracts.
The Companys future 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m General information cash flows will also be impacted by the Companys SkyePharma PLC the Company and its change in strategy as outlined in the EGM notice 98.3 32.0 subsidiaries together the Group is a speciality dated 16 February 2006, principally its stated aim pharmaceutical Group which uses its multiple drug of moving to sustainable profitability in the shortest 19.1 29.1 delivery technologies to create a product pipeline possible time and its refocus to concentrate on oral 80.0 for out-licensing to marketing partners.
Consequently the Groups 0.3 near term working capital requirements are uncertain 5.8 5.9 The Company is incorporated and domiciled in United and sensitive to the timing of a number of initiatives 14.2 12.0 Kingdom, with its registered office at 105 Piccadilly, required to provide the financial flexibility to implement 0.3 London W1J 7NJ.
These initiatives include the licensing 0.9 3.7 of Flutiform in Europe, the divestment of its injectable 7.3 5.3 The principal accounting policies adopted in business interests, which is expected to require the preparation of these consolidated financial shareholder approval, and the delay of certain statements are set out below.
licensing discussions, such as US licensing for 1.0 0.4 DepoBupivacaine pending the divestment of its 7.0 11.0 a Basis of preparation injectables business.
13.3 15.9 In accordance with EU regulations, SkyePharma is required to prepare statutory financial statements The Directors have reviewed the working capital which comply with the International Financial requirements of the Group for the next twelve months Reporting Standards adopted for use in the European and have a reasonable expectation that sufficient Union IFRS starting from the financial year ended funds will be raised from these initiatives and have 31 December 2005, being the first financial year, therefore prepared the financial information contained commencing after 1 January 2005. herein on a going concern basis which assumes that the Company will continue in operational existence The International Financial Reporting Standards for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements adopted for use in the European Union are similar do not reflect any adjustments that would be required with the International Financial Reporting Standards to be made if they were to be prepared on a basis as issued by the IASB, except for certain provisions other than the going concern basis.
concerning fair value accounting for financial liabilities and hedge accounting, which have no Use of estimates impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The preparation of the financial statements, Consequently, the consolidated IFRS financial in conformity with IFRS, requires the use of statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 estimates and assumptions that affect the reported are compliant with both the International Financial amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of Reporting Standards as issued by IASB and the the financial statements and the reported amounts version adopted for use in the European Union.
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on These consolidated financial statements have managements best knowledge of the amount, been prepared in accordance with IFRS and, event or actions, actual results may ultimately the interpretations issued by the International differ from those estimates.
The areas involving Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee higher degree of judgement or complexity, or IFRIC and with those parts of the Companies Act areas where assumptions and estimates are 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
significant to the consolidated financial statements The financial statements have been prepared under are disclosed in Note 3: Critical accounting the historical cost convention, as modified by the estimates and judgements.
revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities.
Company income statement The Companys working capital requirements In accordance with the provisions of section 230 continue to be affected by the timing and receipt of the Companies Act 1985, no separate income SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 63 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 64 Notes to the Financial Statements continued statement has been presented for the Company.
Share-Based Payments to equity instruments that The results for the Company are also presented were granted on or before 7 November 2002 and under IFRS.
The Company elected to adopt full retrospective application of IFRS 2, b IFRS 1 exemptions not taking advantage of the IFRS 1 exemption.
IFRS 1: First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied in preparing Cumulative translation differences: A first-time these financial statements.
IFRS 1 sets out the adopter need not comply retrospectively with the procedures that the Group must follow when it requirements in IAS 21: The Effects of Changes adopts IFRS for the first time.
in Foreign Exchange Rates to classify translation differences as a separate component of equity The Group has established its IFRS accounting related to foreign operations and recycle them policies for the year ending 31 December 2005 and through the income statement on disposal of the applied these standards retrospectively to determine foreign operations.
The Group elected not to take the IFRS opening balance sheet at its date of transition, advantage of this exemption.
1 January 2004, except where permitted or required by IFRS 1 or other applicable standards.
Financial instruments: In its first IFRS financial statements a first time adopter need not restate Except as noted below, at the date of transition to the comparative information in compliance with IFRS, the Group recognised all assets and liabilities IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Disclosure and as required by IFRS and derecognised all assets and presentation and IAS 39: Financial Instruments: liabilities not permitted by IFRS.
Assets and liabilities Recognition and Measurement.
The Company were all measured in accordance with IFRS.
elected not to take advantage of this exemption.
The impact of transition from UK GAAP to IFRS on c Consolidation the Groups shareholders funds as at 1 January 2004 The underlying financial statements comprise a and 31 December 2004, and on the Groups income consolidation of the accounts of the Company and all statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 its subsidiaries and includes the Groups share of the is discussed in Note 37: Transition from accounting results and net assets of its associates.
The accounts practices generally accepted in the UK to of the Groups subsidiaries and associates are made International Financial Reporting Standards.
The adoption of the provisions set out in IFRS 1 Subsidiaries are outlined below.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
Control is achieved where the Company Business combinations: A first-time adopter may has the power to govern the financial and operating elect not to apply IFRS 3: Business Combinations policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its retrospectively to business combinations that activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from occurred before the date of transition to IFRS.
the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The Company elected to take advantage of this They are fide-consolidated from the date on which exemption, not applying IFRS 3 to the business control ceases.
The results of subsidiaries acquired combinations that occurred before the date of or disposed during the year are included in the transition.
Any unamortised goodwill at 1 January consolidated income statement from the effective 2004, calculated in accordance with UK GAAP, date of acquisition or up to the effective date of has been recognised in the IFRS accounts at disposal, as appropriate.
depreciated cost after taking into account potential adjustments required to comply with IFRS The Group uses the purchase method to account measurement principles.
for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the Share-based payments: A first-time adopter is assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities encouraged, but not required, to apply IFRS 2: incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus 64 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 65 Payments to equity instruments that costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable Associates accounting policies have been changed on or before 7 November 2002 and assets acquired and liabilities and contingent where necessary to ensure consistency with the January 2005.
The Company elected liabilities assumed in a business combination policies adopted by the Group.
etrospective application of IFRS 2, are measured initially at their fair values at the antage of the IFRS 1 exemption.
acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any d Foreign currency translation minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition Functional and presentation currency anslation differences: A first-time over the fair value of the Groups share of the Items included in the financial statements of each of not comply retrospectively with the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as the Groups entities are measured using the currency in IAS 21: The Effects of Changes goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the of the primary economic environment in which hange Rates to classify translation fair value of the groups share of the net assets of the entity operates the functional currency.
a separate component of equity the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised The consolidated financial statements are presented ign operations and recycle them directly in the income statement.
in pound sterling, which is the Companys functional come statement on disposal of the and presentation currency.
The Group elected not to take Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised his exemption.
gains on transactions between Group companies are Transactions and balances eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated Foreign currency transactions by Group companies ruments: In its first IFRS financial unless the transaction provides evidence of an are translated in the functional currency at the irst time adopter need not restate impairment of the asset transferred.
Subsidiaries exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
five information in compliance with accounting policies have been changed where Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from ial Instruments: Disclosure and necessary to ensure consistency with the policies the settlement of such transactions and from the nd IAS 39: Financial Instruments: adopted by the Group.
translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary nd Measurement.
The Company assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies take advantage of this exemption.
Associates are recognised in the income statement, except when Associates are all entities over which the Group it relates to items recognised directly in equity n has the power to exercise significant influence but e. g. equities classified as available for sale, the financial statements comprise a not control generally accompanying a shareholding exchange component of that gain or loss will be the accounts of the Company and all of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
and includes the Groups share of the Investments in associates are accounted for by assets of its associates.
The accounts the equity method of accounting and are initially Group companies ubsidiaries and associates are made recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in The results and financial position of all the Group ber.
associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition presentation currency as follows: all entities over which the Group profits or losses is recognised in the income trol is achieved where the Company statement, and its share of post-acquisition i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet o govern the financial and operating movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
presented are translated at the closing rate tity so as to obtain benefits from its The cumulative post-acquisition movements are at the date of the balance sheet: iaries are fully consolidated from adjusted against the carrying amount of the h control is transferred to the Group.
When the Groups share of losses in ii income and expenses for each income statement solidated from the date on which an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its are translated at average exchange rates: and The results of subsidiaries acquired interest or participation, including any other ng the year are included in the unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised ome statement from the effective not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred as a separate component of equity.
on or up to the effective date of obligations or made payments on behalf ropriate.
of the associate or joint venture.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign the purchase method to account Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group entities, are taken to shareholders equity.
The cost of an and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the easured as the fair value of the Groups interest in the associates.
Unrealised losses Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the uity instruments issued and liabilities are also eliminated unless the transaction provides acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets med at the date of exchange, plus evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 65 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 66 Notes to the Financial Statements continued at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, Royalty income accumulated exchange differences are recognised Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in the income statement in the same period in which and represents income earned as a percentage of the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
product sales in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement.
e Segment reporting The Groups primary segment for IFRS segment Manufacturing and distribution reporting is the business segment.
A business Manufacturing and distribution revenues principally segment is a group of assets and operations engaged comprise contract manufacturing fees invoiced to in providing products or services that are subject to third parties and income from product sales.
Revenues risks and returns that are different from those of are recognised upon transfer to the customer of other business segments.
significant risks and rewards, usually upon despatch of goods shipped where the sales price is agreed Geographical regions are the secondary reporting and collectability is reasonably assured.
A geographic segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular g Intangible assets economic environment that are subject to risks and Goodwill return that are different from those of components Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an operating in other economic environments.
acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary Segment reporting reflects the internal management at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually reporting structure and the way the business for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated is managed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
f Revenue recognition Each of those cash generating units represents the Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of Groups investment in each country of operation.
goods and services, net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within Intellectual property the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Intellectual property comprises acquired patents, trade marks, know-how and other similarly identified Contract development and licensing rights.
These are recorded at their fair value at Contract development and licensing income acquisition date and are amortised on a straight line represents amounts earned for services rendered basis over their estimated useful economic lives from under development and licensing agreements, the time they are available for use.
The period over including up-front payments, milestone payments, which the Group expects to derive economic benefits technology access fees and research and does not exceed 20 years.
Revenues are recognised where they are non-refundable, the Research and development Groups obligations related to the revenues have been Research expenditure is charged to the income discharged and their collection is reasonably assured.
statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Refundable contract revenue is treated as deferred Development expenditure is capitalised when the until such time that it is no longer refundable.
criteria for recognising as an asset are met In general up-front payments are deferred and when it is probable that the project will be a success, amortised on a systematic basis over the period of considering its commercial and technological development to filing.
Milestone payments related to feasibility and costs can be measured reliably.
scientific or technical achievements are recognised Regulatory and other uncertainties generally mean as income when the milestone is accomplished.
that such criteria are not met.
Where development costs are capitalised they are amortised over their useful economic lives from product launch.
Prior to product launch the asset is tested annually for impairment.
66 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 67 Computer software is written down immediately to its recoverable s recognised on an accruals basis Costs that are directly associated with the purchase amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than ncome earned as a percentage of and implementation of identifiable and unique its estimated recoverable amount.
accordance with the substance of software products by the Group are recognised as eement.
Expenditures that enhance and Gains and losses on disposals are determined by extend the benefits of computer software programmes comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying nd distribution beyond their original specifications and lives are amount and are included in the income statement.
nd distribution revenues principally recognised as a capital improvement and added to ct manufacturing fees invoiced to the original cost of the software.
Direct costs include i Impairment of assets income from product sales.
Revenues the software development employee costs and an Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not pon transfer to the customer of appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Software subject to amortisation and are tested annually for and rewards, usually upon despatch costs are amortised over their useful economic lives, impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation d where the sales price is agreed generally a period of 3 to 5 years.
or depreciation are reviewed for impairment y is reasonably assured.
whenever events or changes in circumstances h Property, plant and equipment indicate that the carrying amount may not be sets Property, plant and equipment are stated at the recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for cost of purchase or construction less provision for the amount by which the assets carrying amount ents the excess of the cost of an depreciation and impairment.
The cost of property, exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable the fair value of the Groups share of plant and equipment includes acquisition costs and amount is the higher of an assets fair value less ble assets of the acquired subsidiary labour and overhead costs arising directly from the costs to sell and value in use.
Goodwill is tested annually construction or acquisition of an item of property, is charged to the income statement in the year and carried at cost less accumulated plant and equipment.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, es.
Goodwill is allocated to cash assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which for the purpose of impairment testing.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying there are separately identifiable cash in flows cashsh generating units represents the amount or recognised as a separate asset, as generating units.
ent in each country of operation.
appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow The expected cash flows generated by the assets are erty to the Group and the cost of the item can be discounted using asset specific discount rates which erty comprises acquired patents, measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance reflect the risks associated with the groups of assets.
ow-how and other similarly identified expenditures are charged to the income statement These risks vary with the nature and the location of e recorded at their fair value at during the financial period in which they are incurred.
and are amortised on a straight line estimated useful economic lives from Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or j Investments e available for use.
The period over projects under construction.
On other property, plant The Group classifies its investments according to expects to derive economic benefits and equipment, depreciation is provided on the the purpose for which the investments were 20 years.
difference between the cost of an item and its acquired.
Management determines the classification estimated residual value, in equal annual instalments of investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates evelopment over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: the designation at every reporting date.
The Group diture is charged to the income has the following categories of investments: Freehold buildings 2% 5% period in which it is incurred.
Laboratory equipment and machines 10% 33% penditure is capitalised when the Available-for-sale financial assets Office and other equipment 10% 33% nising as an asset are met Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives Motor vehicles 20% ble that the project will be a success, that are not acquired to generate profit from shortShort leasehold property period of the lease ommercial and technological term fluctuations in price.
They are included in nonsts can be measured reliably.
current assets unless management intends to other uncertainties generally mean Assets in the course of construction are depreciated dispose of the asset within 12 months of the balance a are not met.
Where development when they have been brought into operational use.
ised they are amortised over their lives from product launch.
The assets residual values and useful lives are Available-for-sale investments are initially recorded launch the asset is tested annually reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each at cost, being the fair value of consideration given, balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, available-for-sale SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 67 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 68 Notes to the Financial Statements continued investments comprising marketable equity securities is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items that are traded in active markets are carried at their where appropriate.
fair value as of each balance sheet date.
l Trade receivables Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes Trade receivables are non-derivative financial assets in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified with fixed or determinable payments that are not as available-for-sale investments are recognised in quoted in an active market.
They arise when the equity.
When available-for-sale investments are sold Group provides money, goods or services directly to or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
in equity are recycled into the income statement as They are included in current assets, except for gains and losses from investment securities.
maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current The Group assesses at each balance sheet date assets.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at whether there is objective evidence that a financial fair value less provision for impairment.
A provision asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
for impairment of trade receivables is established If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale when there is objective evidence that the Group will financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as not be able to collect all amounts due according to the difference between the acquisition cost and the the original terms of the receivables.
current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised is removed m Cash and cash equivalents from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid Impairment losses recognised in the income investments that are readily convertible to known statement on equity instruments are not reversed amounts of cash and which are subject to an through the income statement.
insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash The Group classifies investments in this category and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in in hand, short term deposits, marketable securities the short term or if so designated by management.
Bank overdrafts are included within Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
are initially recorded, and subsequently carried, at fair value.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses n Borrowings arising from changes in the fair value of assets held in Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, this category are included in the income statement net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are in the period in which they arise.
Financial assets at subsequently stated at amortised cost, any difference fair value through profit or loss are classified as between proceeds net of transaction costs and current assets if they are either held for trading the redemption value is recognised in the income or are expected to be realised within 12 months statement over the period of the borrowings using of the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an k Inventories unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Cost is determined using the firstin-first-out FIFO method.
The cost of finished o Convertible bonds goods and work in progress comprises raw On issue the debt and equity components of a materials, direct labour, other direct costs and convertible bond are separated and recorded at fair an appropriate proportion of related production value net of issue costs.
The fair value of the liability overheads, based on the normal level of production portion is determined by applying a market interest capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond to the price in the ordinary course of business, less forecast cash flows under the convertible bond applicable variable selling expenses.
This amount is recorded as a liability 68 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 69 olete, slow-moving or defective items on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on recorded in the income statement, together with te.
conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The remainder any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset of the proceeds of the bond is allocated to the or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
bles conversion option which is recognised and included s are non-derivative financial assets in shareholders equity, net of income tax effects.
Cash flow hedge erminable payments that are not The value of the conversion option is not changed The effective portion of changes in the fair value of five market.
They arise when the in subsequent periods.
derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash money, goods or services directly to flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or intention of trading the receivable.
p Paul Capital funding liabilities loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised d in current assets, except for The Group entered into two transactions with Paul immediately in the income statement.
er than 12 months after the balance Capital Royalty Acquisition Fund Paul Capital in Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in the e are classified as non-current 2000 and 2002.
Under these transactions Paul Capital income statement in the periods when the hedged ceivables are recognised initially at provided a total of $60m in return for the sale of a item will affect profit or loss.
A provision portion of the potential future royalty and revenue of trade receivables is established streams on a selection of the Groups products.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting jective evidence that the Group will The proceeds received from Paul Capital meet the Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments llect all amounts due according to definition of a financial liability under IAS 39, and are that do not qualify for hedge accounting are ms of the receivables.
treated as such and recorded in borrowings at the recognised immediately in the income statement.
net present value of royalties expected to be paid to sh equivalents Paul Capital over the term of the agreements at the r Leases quivalents are highly liquid effective interest rates at inception of the arrangements.
Lease agreements which transfer to the Group t are readily convertible to known Interest is charged on the liability and royalties paid substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and which are subject to an to Paul Capital are treated as repayment of the liability.
of an asset are classified as finance leases.
Finance of changes in value.
Cash and cash leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease carried in the balance sheet at cost.
q Derivative financial instruments at the lower of the fair value of the leased property, s of the cash flow statement, cash The Group uses derivative financial instruments to plant and equipment or the present value of minimum lents comprise cash at bank and manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated rm deposits, marketable securities foreign exchange rates.
Specifically, the Group uses between the liability and finance charges so as to Bank overdrafts are included within interest rate swaps, forward currency contracts and achieve a constant rate on the finance balance rrent liabilities on the balance sheet.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other longDerivatives are initially recognised at fair value on term payables.
These payments are split between recognised initially at fair value, the date a derivative contract is entered into and capital and interest elements using the annuity n costs incurred.
Borrowings are are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The interest element of the lease rental is ated at amortised cost, any difference The Group designates certain derivatives as either: included in the income statement.
Assets held under ds net of transaction costs and hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or finance leases are depreciated on a basis consistent value is recognised in the income liabilities fair value hedge : or with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter.
he period of the borrowings using hedges of highly probable forecast transactions rest method.
Borrowings are classified cash flow hedges.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
ties unless the Group has an Payments made under operating leases, net of lease ght to defer settlement of the liability For relationships where hedge accounting is applied incentives or premiums received, are charged to the onths after the balance sheet date.
the Group documents at the inception of the income statement on a straight line basis over the transaction the relationship between hedging period of the lease.
bonds instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk bt and equity components of a management objective and strategy for undertaking s Employee benefits are separated and recorded at fair various hedge transactions and reviews this Pension obligations e costs.
The fair value of the liability documentation on an ongoing basis.
The Group operates various defined contribution mined by applying a market interest plans for its employees in the UK and US.
alent non-convertible bond to the Fair value hedge The Groups contributions to these plans are charged ws under the convertible bond Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are to the income statement in the period to which they amount is recorded as a liability designated and qualify as fair value hedges are relate, and the assets are held in separate trustee SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 69 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 70 Notes to the Financial Statements continued administered funds.
The Group has no further payment Non-market vesting conditions are included in obligations once the contributions have been paid.
estimates about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme in respect of its employees in Switzerland and an The Group provides finance to an employee share unfunded defined benefit scheme in respect of its ownership trust to purchase company shares on employees in France.
the open market to meet the Groups obligation to provide shares when employees exercise their The liability recognised in the balance sheet in options or awards.
The costs of running the employee respect of the defined benefit pension plans is the share ownership trust are charged to the income present value of the defined benefit obligations at the statement as they accrue.
Shares held by the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, employee share ownership trust are deducted from together with adjustments for unrecognised past shareholders equity.
Defined benefit obligations for the schemes are calculated annually by independent At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
estimates of the number of options that are expected The present value of the defined benefit obligations to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact are determined by discounting the estimated future of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the cash outflows using interest rates of high quality income statement, and a corresponding adjustment corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency to equity over the remaining vesting period.
in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the t Provisions related pension liability.
Service costs are included in Provisions are recognised when the Group has a staff costs and charged to income statement over the present legal or constructive obligation as a result remaining average expected service lives of employees.
of past events, if it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience and the amount can be reliably estimated.
adjustments and changes actuarial assumptions Restructuring charges are provided in the period are charged or credited to equity in the Consolidated in which management has committed to a plan and Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in it is probable that an obligation has been incurred the period in which they arise.
that can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in u Taxation actuarial assumptions directly in equity, in the period Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable they have occurred, in accordance to the alternative income for the year using the tax rates and laws that treatment allowed by the amendment to IAS 19: have been enacted or substantially enacted at the Employee benefits Actuarial gains and losses, balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax group plans and disclosures.
payable in respect of previous years.
Share-based compensation Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the Incentives in the form of shares are provided to liability method, on temporary differences arising employees under share option, share purchase between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and and long term incentive plans.
The fair value of the their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial employee services received in exchange for the grant statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to of the options and rewards is recognised as an the extent that it is probable that future taxable expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the profits will be available against which the temporary vesting period is determined by reference to the fair differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is value of the options granted, which excludes the determined using tax rates that have been enacted impact of any non-market vesting conditions for or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
70 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 71 ting conditions are included in v Deferred consideration Interest rate risk the number of options that are Provisions for deferred consideration comprise the The Group borrows at fixed and floating rates of ome exercisable.
fair value of contingent consideration arising from interest as deemed appropriate for its circumstances.
The eventual outcome is subject to the Where necessary the Group uses interest rate swaps des finance to an employee share Groups future performance and certain contractual to achieve the desired interest rate profile.
to purchase company shares on terms.
Provisions are reviewed annually by the to meet the Groups obligation Directors, and changes to the estimated fair value Credit risk s when employees exercise their of the contingent consideration are recorded as an The Group is exposed to credit related losses in the s. The costs of running the employee adjustment to goodwill or the underlying asset value.
event of non-performance by third parties to financial trust are charged to the income instruments.
The Group does not expect any third ey accrue.
Shares held by the 2 Financial risk management parties to fail to meet their obligations given the policy ownership trust are deducted from of selecting only parties with high credit ratings and uity.
Financial risk factors minimising its exposure to any one institution.
The Group holds financial instruments to finance sheet date, the entity revises its its operations and to manage the currency risk that Price risk number of options that are expected arises from these operations.
It is the Groups policy The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk isable.
It recognises the impact that no speculative trading in financial instruments because of investments which have been classified original estimates, if any, in the shall be undertaken.
The Group finances its operations on the consolidated balance sheet as at fair value nt, and a corresponding adjustment through a combination of equity, convertible bonds, through profit or loss.
bank loans and other borrowings.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are Fair value estimation liquidity risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, The fair value of financial instruments traded in ecognised when the Group has a credit risk and price risk.
active markets such as trading and  obligation as a result sale securities is based on quoted market prices it is probable that an outflow of Liquidity risk at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price e required to settle the obligation The Groups policy is to maintain continuity of funding used for financial assets held by the Group is the can be reliably estimated.
through a mixture of long-term debt and bank loans, current bid price.
Quoted market prices or dealer harges are provided in the period raised to cover specific projects, and through the quotes for similar instruments are used for other ement has committed to a plan and issue of shares to collaborative partners, where financial instruments.
The fair value of forward t an obligation has been incurred necessary, to finance development contracts.
Shortforeign exchange contracts is determined using bly estimated.
Provisions are not term flexibility is provided through the use of overdrafts.
forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet uture operating losses.
The nominal value less estimated credit Foreign currency risk adjustments of trade receivables and payables are All of the Groups operations are based overseas in assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair e expected tax payable on the taxable Continental Europe and North America giving rise value of the liabilities for the disclosure purposes ear using the tax rates and laws that to exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates is estimated by discounting the future cash flows ed or substantially enacted at the notably the Swiss Franc, Euro and US Dollar.
at the current market interest rates that is available ate, and any adjustment to tax To minimise the impact of any fluctuations, the to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Groups policy has historically been to maintain natural hedges by relating the structure of 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements e tax is provided in full, using the borrowings to the trading cash flows that generate on temporary differences arising them.
Where subsidiaries are funded centrally, this is The preparation of the Consolidated Financial bases of assets and liabilities and achieved by the use of long-term loans, the exchange Statements requires the Group to make estimates mounts in the consolidated financial differences on which are taken to reserves.
and judgements that affect the reported amounts of erred tax assets are recognised to Where it has not been possible to use natural assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related is probable that future taxable hedges, currency options, accrual forward options disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
ailable against which the temporary and forward currency contracts are used.
The Group The Group bases its estimates and judgements on be utilised.
Deferred income tax is has used these financial instruments during the historical experience and on various other assumptions g tax rates that have been enacted year to minimise the currency exposure on that it considers to be reasonable.
Actual results may enacted by the balance sheet date.
differ from these estimates under different assumptions ets and liabilities are not discounted.
SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 71 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 72 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Revenue recognition reviewed annually by the Directors, who make The Groups revenue comprises revenues from significant judgments as to the estimated fair value contract development and licensing, royalties and of the contingent consideration.
Based on these manufacturing and distribution.
The Group enters judgments, changes to the estimated fair value of a wide variety of collaborative arrangements with the consideration are recorded.
its partners from which it may earn all, or some of, these revenue streams.
The application of the Contingent Liabilities Groups revenue recognition policy set out earlier Provisions for contingent liabilities are dependent in this note to its complex collaboration agreements upon estimates and assessments of whether the requires significant estimates and judgement.
criteria for recognition have been met, including In particular, in arrangements with multiple estimates by the Directors as to the probable outcome deliverables, there may be significant judgement in and the amount of the potential cost of resolution.
separating the different revenue generating activities.
Any estimate for such an accrual would be developed in consultation with external legal advisors handling Paul Capital funding liabilities the Groups defence in these matters and would be The proceeds received from Paul Capital are treated based upon an analysis of potential outcomes.
as a liability under IAS 39 and are recorded within borrowings at the net present value of royalties Pensions expected to be paid to Paul Capital at the effective The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses interest rate at inception of the agreement.
arising from experience adjustments and changes in Therefore in order to be able to record the funding actuarial assumptions directly in equity, in the period liability significant estimation of certain of the they have occurred, in accordance to the alternative Groups future cash flows is required.
Royalty cash treatment allowed by the amendment to IAS 19: flows are periodically reassessed to determine the Employee benefits Actuarial gains and losses, estimated funding liability.
In addition such flows group plans and disclosures.
The costs are assessed are subject to foreign exchange movements.
in accordance with advice received from independent actuaries.
These assumptions include inflation rate, Impairment of goodwill rate of increase in salaries, discount rate and The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered expected return on plan assets and are disclosed any impairment, in accordance with the accounting in Note 27: Retirement benefit obligations.
policy stated earlier in this note.
The recoverable The selection of different assumptions could affect amounts of cash-generating units have been the future results of the Group.
determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
The estimates Share based compensation used in goodwill impairment testing as at 31 December Incentives in the form of shares are provided to 2005 and 2004 are presented in Note 12: Goodwill.
employees under share option, share purchase and long term incentive plans.
The fair value of the Impairment of other intangible assets and property, employee services received in exchange for the grant plant ant equipment of the options and rewards is recognised as an The Group tests annually whether other intangible expense.
The expense is based upon a number of assets and property, plant ant equipment have assumptions disclosed in Note 28: Share capital.
suffered any impairment, in accordance with The selection of different assumptions could affect the accounting policy stated earlier in this note.
the future results of the Group.
Amortisation lives Deferred Consideration Other intangible assets are recorded at their fair Provisions for deferred consideration payable by value at acquisition date and are amortised on the Group comprise the fair value of contingent a straight line basis over their estimated useful consideration arising from acquisitions.
The eventual economic lives from the time they are available for outcome is subject to the Groups future performance use.
Any change in the estimated useful economic and certain contractual terms.
Provisions are lives could affect the future results of the Group.
72 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 73 ly by the Directors, who make Taxation ments as to the estimated fair value Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable t consideration.
Based on these income for the year using the tax rates and laws that ges to the estimated fair value of have been enacted or substantially enacted at the n are recorded.
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The Group has lities open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities ntingent liabilities are dependent and, on the basis of external professional advice, and assessments of whether the continues to believe that it has made adequate nition have been met, including provision for any liabilities that may arise from these Directors as to the probable outcome open assessments.
The ultimate liability for such of the potential cost of resolution.
matters may vary from the amounts provided, and such an accrual would be developed is dependent upon negotiations with the relevant with external legal advisors handling tax authorities.
nce in these matters and would be nalysis of potential outcomes.
4 Segment information Primary reporting format business segments nises actuarial gains and losses Based on the risks and returns of the various segments, the Directors consider that the Groups primary erience adjustments and changes in reporting format is by business segment with geographical reporting being the secondary format.
The Group ptions directly in equity, in the period is a speciality pharmaceutical company, using its multiple drug delivery technologies to create a product ed, in accordance to the alternative pipeline for out-licensing to marketing partners.
The business segments consist of the Injectable business ed by the amendment to IAS 19: and the Oral and Inhalation business.
Business segment data includes an allocation of corporate costs to ts Actuarial gains and losses, each segment on an appropriate basis.
There are no material inter-segment transfers.
The costs are assessed segments of UK, Europe, North America and Rest of the World reflect the Groups most significant regional th advice received from independent markets.
Revenue is shown by business segment, revenue stream and location of customer.
Other geographic assumptions include inflation rate, information is provided by location of operation.
All Group activities are continuing operations.
in salaries, discount rate and on plan assets and are disclosed Revenue by business segment: Year ended Year ended ement benefit obligations.
31 December 2005 31 December 2004 different assumptions could affect m m s of the Group.
Injectable 10.5 25.6 Oral and Inhalation 50.8 49.6 mpensation 61.3 75.2 form of shares are provided to r share option, share purchase Revenue earned can be analysed as: centive plans.
The fair value of the Contract development and licensing es received in exchange for the grant Milestone payments 22.1 33.4 d rewards is recognised as an Research and development costs recharged 5.5 6.0 pense is based upon a number of 27.6 39.4 closed in Note 28: Share capital.
Royalties 21.7 25.9 different assumptions could affect Manufacturing and distribution 12.0 9.9 s of the Group.
Total revenue 61.3 75.2 es assets are recorded at their fair on date and are amortised on asis over their estimated useful rom the time they are available for in the estimated useful economic the future results of the Group.
SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 73 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 74 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Operating loss by business segment: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Injectable 18.6 1.4 Oral and Inhalation 2.5 1.0 Operating loss pre exceptional items 16.1 0.4 Exceptional items 21.4 2.7 Operating loss 37.5 3.1 Share of loss in associate 0.8 Net interest 12.3 15.3 Tax 0.3 0.2 Loss after tax 50.9 18.6 Total assets by business segment: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Injectable 57.1 60.4 Oral and Inhalation 93.3 95.6 Total operating assets 150.4 156.0 Investments in associates 0.2 14.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 1.6 5.2 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 0.4 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents 34.3 15.3 Total assets 186.9 191.9 Total liabilities by business segment: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Injectable 40.1 30.5 Oral and Inhalation 41.4 54.0 Total operating liabilities 81.5 84.5 Short-term borrowings: convertible bonds 9.4 Short-term borrowings: other 2.7 3.9 Long-term borrowings: convertible bonds 63.6 50.4 Long-term borrowings: other 7.2 7.2 Total liabilities 155.0 155.4 74 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 75 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by business segment: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m m m 18.6 1.4 Additions 2.5 1.0 Injectable 1.8 2.3 16.1 0.4 Oral and Inhalation 3.3 4.9 21.4 2.7 5.1 7.2 37.5 3.1 0.8 Depreciation and Amortisation 12.3 15.3 Injectable 1.9 1.9 0.3 0.2 Oral and Inhalation 6.4 6.3 50.9 18.6 8.3 8.2 Investments in associates by business segment: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m m m 57.1 60.4 Injectable 0.2 14.3 93.3 95.6 Oral and Inhalation 150.4 156.0 0.2 14.3 0.2 14.3 Secondary reporting format geographic 1.6 5.2 0.4 1.1 Revenue by location of customer: Year ended Year ended 34.3 15.3 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 186.9 191.9 m m UK 23.9 15.2 Europe 23.8 26.0 Year ended Year ended North America 8.7 29.2 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Rest of World 4.9 4.8 40.1 30.5 61.3 75.2 41.4 54.0 81.5 84.5 Total assets by location of operation: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 9.4 m m 2.7 3.9 UK 37.7 30.0 63.6 50.4 Europe 56.9 89.7 7.2 7.2 North America 92.3 72.2 155.0 155.4 186.9 191.9 Property, plant and equipment and intangible asset additions by location of operation: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Europe 3.3 4.9 North America 1.8 2.3 5.1 7.2 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 75 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 76 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5 Exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Impairments 19.4 3.5 Abortive transaction costs 2.0 Restructuring costs 1.2 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 2.0 Convertible bonds exchange 6.2 21.4 8.9 Following the Strategic Review and the Groups decision to focus on its core oral and pulmonary products and to divest its injectable business, the Group no longer views its collaborations with Astralis, Vital Living and Micap as strategic and these investments have therefore been impaired resulting in an exceptional charge of 19.4 million.
See notes 15: Investments in associates and 16: Available for sale financial assets.
During the year the Group incurred 2.0 million legal and professional fees relating to an aborted strategic transaction.
Exceptional items for 2004 include a charge of 3.5 million relating to the impairment in the investment in Vital Living and 1.2 million relating to the reorganisation of some research and development operations and other business functions.
In addition, 2.0 million relates to the profit on disposal of the Groups investment in Transition Therapeutics and a charge of 6.2 million relates to the exchange of convertible bonds.
6 Operating expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Cost of sales 29.2 28.2 Selling, marketing and distribution expenses 5.9 1.7 Depreciation 6.2 6.0 Amortisation 2.1 2.2 Research and development expenses 26.0 28.0 Loss gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.7 0.1 Fair value gain loss on derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.5 Profit on disposal of available for sale financial assets 0.3 Other operating expenses 8.1 9.1 Operating expenses before exceptional items 77.6 75.6 Impairments 19.4 3.5 Abortive transaction costs 2.0 Restructuring costs 1.2 Profit on disposal of available for sale financial assets 2.0 Total operating expenses 99.0 78.3 76 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 77 Services provided by the Groups auditor and network firms Year ended Year ended It is the Groups policy to employ the auditors on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m their expertise and experience with the Group are important, principally tax advice and due diligence reporting on acquisitions, or where they are awarded assignments on a competitive basis.
During the year the Group 19.4 3.5 including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor at costs detailed 2.0 below: 1.2 Year ended Year ended 2.0 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m 6.2 21.4 8.9 Audit services statutory audit 0.4 0.3 audit related regulatory reporting 0.2 0.2 re oral and pulmonary products Further assurance services 1.2 1.0 orations with Astralis, Vital Living Tax services red resulting in an exceptional charge compliance services 0.1 e for sale financial assets.
During the advisory services 0.2 0.6 o an aborted strategic transaction.
2.0 2.2 impairment in the investment in ch and development operations and Included in the analysis above are audit fees paid to the Groups auditor in the UK of 227,000 2004: 177,000 disposal of the Groups investment of which 15,000 2004: 14,000 was paid in respect of the parent company.
Also included above are fees paid ange of convertible bonds.
to the Groups auditor in respect of non-audit services in the UK of 1,295,000 2004: 1,141,000.
7 Staff costs Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m m m 29.2 28.2 Wages and salaries 19.7 19.2 5.9 1.7 Equity settled share based payments 1.9 2.9 6.2 6.0 Social security costs 2.9 2.9 2.1 2.2 Pensions 26.0 28.0 defined benefit plans 0.2 0.7 0.7 0.1 defined contribution plans 0.7 1.3 0.3 0.5 Other benefits 0.8 0.3 26.2 27.0 8.1 9.1 77.6 75.6 The average number of people, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the period was 19.4 3.5 457 persons 2004: 438 persons and the Company numbers 18 persons 2004: 18 persons.
2.0 1.2 Average number of employees by business segment: 2.0 Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 99.0 78.3 Injectable 129 113 Oral and Inhalation 328 325 457 438 The Groups key management comprises only Directors and Director remuneration for the year is shown in the audited part of the Remuneration Report.
SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 77 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 78 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8 Other income and expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Loss gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.7 0.1 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 0.3 2.0 0.4 2.1 9 Finance costs and income Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Interest and similar expense: Interest: bank borrowings 0.5 0.7 Paul Capital arrangements 12.7 11.3 interest on convertible bonds 5.8 5.7 19.0 17.7 Foreign exchange on Paul Capital arrangements 3.3 Fair value losses on financial instruments: loss on exchange of convertible bonds 6.2 Total interest and similar expense 22.3 23.9 Interest and similar income: Paul Capital change in estimated future payments 9.0 6.0 Other interest income 1.0 0.8 Foreign exchange on Paul Capital arrangements 1.8 Total interest and similar income 10.0 8.6 10 Income tax Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Current income tax expense: Foreign tax 0.3 0.2 There was no deferred tax component in the tax charge.
Foreign tax relates principally to withholding tax paid on remittance of royalties to Switzerland which is not recoverable.
78 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 79 The tax on the Groups losses before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using Year ended Year ended the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The differences are explained below: 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Year ended Year ended m m 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 % % 0.7 0.1 Rate of corporation tax in the UK 30.0 30.0 0.3 2.0 0.4 2.1 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 4.4 17.2 Adjustment to tax in respect of prior periods 0.1 Year ended Year ended Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7.1 8.2 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Tax losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 19.6 40.0 m m Tax losses utilised 1.0 1.9 Capital allowances utilised 0.2 Withholding taxes 0.6 0.7 0.5 0.7 Other 0.1 1.3 12.7 11.3 Effective tax rate 0.6 1.0 5.8 5.7 19.0 17.7 3.3 The Group has estimated total tax losses available to be set off against future taxable profits of 280.0 million 31 December 2004: 271.1 million.
These losses arise primarily in Switzerland and the US.
Of the 6.2 280.0 million of losses carried forward, 22.0 million expire in 2006, 65.1 million expire between 2007 and 22.3 23.9 2009, 191.6 million expire from 2010 onwards and 1.3 million of losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
The Group also has other tax allowances available of 59.8 million 31 December 2004: 56.6 million 9.0 6.0 No deferred tax asset has been recognised, given the uncertainty of the recoverability of the Groups tax losses 1.0 0.8 carried forward.
1.8 10.0 8.6 11 Earnings per share Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Year ended Year ended Attributable loss before exceptional items 29.5 9.7 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Exceptional items 21.4 8.9 Basic and diluted attributable loss 50.9 18.6 0.3 0.2 Number Number m m Basic and diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 624.9 615.2 yalties to Switzerland which Loss per Ordinary Share before exceptional items 4.7p 1.6p Exceptional items 3.4p 1.4p Basic and diluted loss per Ordinary Share 8.1p 3.0p There is no difference between basic and diluted loss per share since in a loss making year all potential shares from convertible bonds, stock options, warrants and contingent issuance of shares are anti dilutive.
Shares held by the SkyePharma PLC General Employee Benefit Trust have been excluded from the weighted average number of shares.
SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 79 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 80 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12 Goodwill As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Group m m Cost Beginning of the year 82.7 82.7 Additions during the year Exchange differences End of the year 82.7 82.7 Accumulated impairment and depreciation Beginning of the year 14.0 14.0 Amortisation charge Exchange differences End of the year 14.0 14.0 Net book value Beginning of the year 68.7 68.7 End of the year 68.7 68.7 Goodwill arose on the acquisition of SkyePharma Inc 35.6 million, SkyePharma Canada Inc 29.2 million and SkyePharma AB 3.9 million and has been allocated to the following business segments cashgenerating units: As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Injectables 38.6 38.6 Oral and Inhalation 30.1 30.1 68.7 68.7 Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Value in use calculations are generally utilised to calculate recoverable amount.
Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted cash flows of the cashgenerating unit to which goodwill is allocated.
The cash flow projections are based on the most recent business plans approved by management which cover a period of 10 years, and are adjusted where necessary to take account of longer patent lives.
The discount rate applied may vary depending on the risk profile of the asset being valued but is typically 15%, which is the Groups average pre-tax discount rate derived from a capital asset pricing model.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the launch dates of products, their growth rates, the discount rates used and the period over which the cash flows are projected.
The assumptions made reflect past experience, market research and expectations of future market trends.
Goodwill was tested for impairment both at 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004.
All amortisation charges in the year have been charged through administrative expenses.
requently if there are indications that ed to calculate recoverable amount.
Intellectual property acquired during 2005 mainly relates to the purchase of licenses to intellectual property in the area of pulmonary delivery.
djusted cash flows of the cashare based on the most recent Included within intellectual property is 2.0 million of assets which are not yet in use.
These assets have s, and are adjusted where necessary not been amortised but have been tested for impairment consistent with the method set out for goodwill depending on the risk profile in note 12.
e pre-tax discount rate derived g the launch dates of products, cash flows are projected.
ectations of future market trends.
Included in freehold property is an amount of 4.9 million 2004: 5.1 million in respect of land which is not depreciated.
At 31 December 2005, the carrying amount of the Groups laboratory equipment and machines includes an amount of Nil 2004: 1.2 million and motor vehicles an amount of 0.1 million 2004: 0.1 million in respect of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase arrangements.
82 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 83 At 31 December 2005, the net book value of the tangible assets pledged as collateral in the framework of various borrowing agreements disclosed in Note 23: Borrowings was 1.9 million 2004: 2.1 million.
Office and Motor quipment vehicles Total The Group did not identify any tangible assets temporarily idle as at the balance sheet date.
Impairment 16.3 End of the year 0.2 14.3 ion in respect of land which The investment in Astralis Limited was recorded at 0.2 million at 31 December 2005 2004: 14.3 million and had a market value of 0.4 million 2004: 9.6 million.
Following the Strategic Review and the Groups pment and machines includes decision to focus on its core oral and pulmonary products and to divest its injectable business, the Group 0.1 million 2004: 0.1 million no longer views its collaboration with Astralis as strategic.
This combined with the current uncertainties ments.
concerning Astralis financial position resulted in the Group impairing its investment to its estimated fair value.
As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Company m m Beginning of the year 14.3 Reclassification of investment as associate 14.2 Additions 3.0 0.1 Impairment 17.1 End of the year 0.2 14.3 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 83 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 84 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16 Available for sale financial assets As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Group m m Beginning of the year 5.2 22.0 Exchange 0.1 Reclassification as associate 14.2 Additions 0.1 2.0 Disposal 1.8 0.6 Impairments 2.6 3.5 Revaluation surplus deficit transfer 0.6 0.5 End of the year 1.6 5.2 As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Company m m Beginning of the year 3.6 16.3 Reclassification as associate 14.2 Additions 0.1 2.0 Disposal 1.8 Revaluation surplus deficit transfer 0.6 0.5 End of the year 1.3 3.6 Group and Company Available for sale financial assets comprise the following unlisted securities: Vectura Group plc Vectura is a UK emerging pharmaceutical company traded on the Alternative Investment Market.
Vectura is developing a range of inhaled drugs for the treatment of lung diseases and conditions where delivery via the lungs can provide significant benefits, such as rapid onset of action, improved efficacy and improved tolerability compared with current therapies.
During 2005 the Group sold 2 million ordinary shares in Vectura for 1.6 million.
As at 31 December 2005 the remaining holding was 1.2 million ordinary shares.
The investment was recorded at 1.0 million at 31 December 2005 2004: 2.0 million.
In January 2006 the Group sold the remaining 1.2 million ordinary shares.
Vital Living Inc Vital Living primarily develops and markets evidence-based nutriceuticals.
These are developed for incorporation by physicians into a standard physician patient program, supported by a specially designed compliance regimen.
Vital Living is based in the US.
During 2005 the Group received 2,101,422 Vital Living common shares with a value of 68,000 $120,000 in lieu of interest due on the 12% senior secured convertible notes.
As at 31 December 2005 the total SkyePharma holding was 16,993,599 common shares, 1 million series D convertible preferred shares, $1 million 12% senior secured convertible notes due 2008 and 4 million warrants expiring 2008, representing approximately 17.2% of the common shares.
The investment in Vital Living was recorded at 0.4 million at 31 December 2005 2004: 1.7 million.
The Company recorded 0.1 million at 31 December 2005 2004: 0.1 million.
Following the Strategic Review and the Groups decision to focus on its core oral and pulmonary products and to divest its injectable business, the Group no longer views its collaboration with Vital Living as strategic and this investment has therefore been impaired.
84 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 85 Micap plc As at As at Micap plc is a UK science-based technology company traded on the Alternative Investment Market.
As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m 31 December 2005 the total SkyePharma holding was 5,238,334 ordinary shares and 1,830,000 convertible shares, representing approximately 9.4% of the ordinary share capital.
The investment in Micap recorded 5.2 22.0 at 0.2 million at 31 December 2005 2004: 1.5 million.
Following the Strategic Review and the Groups 0.1 decision to focus on its core oral and pulmonary products and to divest its injectable business, the Group 14.2 no longer views its collaboration with Micap as strategic and this investment has therefore been impaired.
0.1 2.0 1.8 0.6 Cade Struktur Corp 2.6 3.5 Cade Struktur was formerly a drug delivery company engaged in research and development and worldwide 0.6 0.5 commercialisation of pharmaceutical formulations.
The current business is the development, financing and 1.6 5.2 completion of industrial and infrastructure projects in Europe.
As at 31 December 2005, the total SkyePharma As at As at holding of Cade Struktur, a Canadian company, was 869,086 shares, representing approximately 10.1% of 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 the ordinary share capital.
The shares were originally acquired consequent upon the acquisition of the assets m m of Hyal Pharmaceutical Corp. SkyePharma has not attributed a fair value to these shares and they have been 3.6 16.3 recorded at Nil 2004: Nil.
14.2 0.1 2.0 17 Shares in and loans to Group undertakings 1.8 Shares in Group Loans to Group undertakings undertakings Total 0.6 0.5 Company m m m 1.3 3.6 Beginning of the year 163.5 237.3 400.8 Additions 19.0 19.0 Provision 80.0 80.0 es: End of the year 163.5 176.3 339.8 Following the Strategic Review the Company has reviewed the funding of its overseas subsidiaries and tive Investment Market.
Vectura is recorded a provision in respect of recoverability of loans to Group undertakings of 80.0 million.
nd conditions where delivery via the ved efficacy and improved tolerability Principal subsidiaries are detailed in note 35: Principal subsidiaries.
rdinary shares in Vectura for on ordinary shares.
The investment 18 Inventories January 2006 the Group sold the As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December2004 Group m m Raw materials and consumables 2.1 1.2 s. These are developed for Work in progress 1.0 0.2 upported by a specially designed Finished goods 1.0 0.1 up received 2,101,422 Vital Living 4.1 1.5 n the 12% senior secured convertible Inventory provisions 0.5, 599 common shares, 1 million 3.6 1.5 vertible notes due 2008 and 4 million n shares.
The investment in The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales is disclosed in Note 6: million.
The Company recorded Operating expenses.
egic Review and the Groups decision le business, the Group no longer as therefore been impaired.
SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 85 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 86 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company As at As at As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m m m Trade receivables 2.4 3.5 Less provision for impairment 0.1 Net trade receivables 2.3 3.5 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 5.2 5.2 Other receivables 2.2 1.9 0.5 1.0 Interest receivable 0.6 0.4 Prepayments and accrued income 9.1 12.4 0.2 14.2 18.2 5.7 6.4 20 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Group Group As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Beginning of the year 1.1 1.0 Revaluation to fair value 0.7 0.1 End of the year 0.4 1.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss comprise 5% convertible loan notes due at par in June 2007.
The notes were received from GeneMedix plc in 2002 as an initial payment under an agreement to jointly develop an extended release formulation of Interferon alpha-2b using SkyePharmas DepoFoam technology.
The notes are convertible at any time, at SkyePharmas option, into between approximately 8.3 million and 11.2 million GeneMedix ordinary shares.
There are no restrictions or a lock-up period on conversion of the notes.
GeneMedix can elect to redeem in cash some or all of the notes on conversion.
The notes were designated as at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
21 Cash and cash equivalents Group Group Company Company As at As at As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 26.8 15.3 24.1 11.3 Short term deposits 7.5 7.5 34.3 15.3 31.6 11.3 The short term deposit is a dual currency deposit of sterling versus US dollars, which earns an effective interest rate of 10.5%.
If the sterling US dollar spot rate is at or above 1.75 at expiry, the 7.5 million deposit will be returned in US dollars at 1.75 $13.1 million, otherwise it will be returned in sterling.
22 Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company As at As at As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m m m Trade payables 6.8 6.7 0.6 0.6 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 89.7 77.3 Other taxation and social security costs 2.0 1.2 0.1 0.1 Accruals 12.2 12.7 1.1 2.5 21.0 20.6 91.5 80.5 86 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 87 23 Borrowings Company Company Group Group Company Company As at As at As at As at As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m m m m m Current Convertible bonds due June 2005 9.4 9.4 5.2 5.2 Bank borrowings 2.3 3.5 0.8 1.9 0.5 1.0 Property mortgage 0.3 0.3 Paul Capital funding liabilities 0.7 0.2 Finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.1 5.7 6.4 Other current borrowings 3.4 3.9 0.8 1.9 Total current borrowings 3.4 13.3 0.8 11.3 Group Group As at As at Non-current 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Convertible bonds due May 2024 50.8 50.4 1.1 1.0 Convertible bonds due June 2025 12.8 0.7 0.1 63.6 50.4 0.4 1.1 Bank borrowings 0.6 0.6 Property mortgage 6.6 7.1 ble loan notes due at par in June Paul Capital funding liabilities 43.9 44.7 ayment under an agreement to jointly Finance lease liabilities 0.1 yePharmas DepoFoam technology.
Other non-current borrowings 51.1 51.9 0.6 en approximately 8.3 million and ck-up period on conversion of the Total non-current borrowings 114.7 102.3 0.6 n conversion.
The notes were Total borrowings 118.1 115.6 1.4 11.3 Company Company Bank borrowings As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 At 31 December 2005 bank borrowings include two amounts due to the Basellandschaftliche Kantonalbank m m of 0.9 million CHF 2 million and 0.7 million CHF 1.5 million 2004: 0.9 million CHF 2 million and 24.1 11.3 0.7 million CHF 1.5 million.
Both loans can be terminated with six weeks notice by either party and bear 7.5 interest at 6.5% and 6.0% respectively.
Both loans are secured on the assets of Jago and the 0.7 million 31.6 11.3 CHF 1.5 million loan is guaranteed by SkyePharma PLC.
ollars, which earns an effective The Group had a loan as at 31 December 2005 with GE Capital Corp of 1.4 million $2.4 million 5 at expiry, the 7.5 million deposit 2004: 1.9 million $3.7 million.
The loan is secured by certain assets of SkyePharma Inc, SkyePharma US Inc eturned in sterling.
The loan bears interest at 8.0% and is repayable by instalments until September 2007.
Convertible bonds Company Company Convertible bonds are disclosed in Note 24: Convertible bonds.
As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Property mortgage 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2005, the Group had a property mortgage facility with the Basellandschaftliche Kantonalbank 89.7 77.3 of 6.9 million CHF 15.5 million 2004: 7.4 million CHF 16.1 million.
The mortgage is in two tranches, both 0.1 0.1 secured by the assets of Jago.
The first tranche of 2.7 million CHF 6.2 million bears interest at 2.75% and 1.1 2.5 is repayable by instalments over 20 years semi-annually.
The second tranche of 4.1 million CHF 9.3 million 91.5 80.5 bears interest at 2.75% and is repayable by instalments over 50 years semi-annually.
SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 87 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 88 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Paul Capital funding liabilities The Group entered into two transactions with Paul Capital Royalty Acquisition Fund Paul Capital in 2000 and 2002.
Under these transactions Paul Capital provided a total of $60 million in return for the sale of a portion of the potential future royalty and revenue streams on a selection of the Groups products.
Whilst the contractual arrangement with Paul Capital is a royalty agreement under which royalties are payable on revenues earned and payments received, the proceeds received from Paul Capital meet the definition of a financial liability under IAS 39, and are treated as a financial liability.
Royalties paid to Paul Capital are treated as repayment of the liability and interest is charged on the liability using the effective interest rate at inception of each agreement.
The estimated future payments to Paul Capital are discounted using each contracts original effective interest and any adjustment is recognised as income or expense in the income statement Finance lease liabilities Obligations under hire purchase and finance leases are secured upon the assets to which they relate and as at 31 December 2005 Nil 2004: 0.1 million SKR 0.9 million is guaranteed by SkyePharma PLC.
Maturity analysis of non-current borrowings As at 31 December 2005 1 to 2 Years 2 to 5 Years Over 5 Years Total m m m m Convertible bonds 63.6 63.6 Bank borrowings 0.6 0.6 Property mortgage 0.3 0.8 5.5 6.6 Paul Capital funding liabilities 4.9 22.1 16.9 43.9 Non-current borrowings 5.8 22.9 86.0 114.7 As at 31 December 2004 1 to 2 Years 2 to 5 Years Over 5 Years Total m m m m Convertible bonds 50.4 50.4 Property mortgage 0.3 0.8 6.0 7.1 Paul Capital funding liabilities 10.6 21.5 12.6 44.7 Finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.1 Non-current borrowings 11.0 22.3 69.0 102.3 Currency analysis of borrowings As at 31 December 2005 Sterling $US Swiss francs Total m m m m Convertible bonds 63.6 63.6 Bank borrowings 0.6 0.6 Property mortgage 6.6 6.6 Paul Capital funding liabilities 43.9 43.9 Total borrowings 63.6 44.5 6.6 114.7 88 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 89 As at 31 December 2004 Sterling $US Swiss francs Total tion Fund Paul Capital in 2000 m m m m million in return for the sale of a Convertible bonds 50.4 50.4 of the Groups products.
Property mortgage 7.1 7.1 Paul Capital funding liabilities 44.7 44.7 ent under which royalties are payable Finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.1 Paul Capital meet the definition of a Total borrowings 50.4 44.7 7.2 102.3 lties paid to Paul Capital are treated he effective interest rate at inception Interest rate analysis scounted using each contracts As at 31 December 2005 expense in the income statement Sterling $US Swiss francs %%% Convertible bonds 8.9.
9.5 13.3 assets to which they relate and Bank borrowings 8.0 anteed by SkyePharma PLC.
Property mortgage 2.8 Paul Capital Funding liabilities 24.0 30.0 As at 31 December 2005 As at 31 December 2004 Over 5 Years Total Sterling $US Swiss francs m m %%% 63.6 63.6 Convertible bonds 8.9.
9.5 13.3 0.6 Property mortgage 2.8 5.5 6.6 Paul Capital Funding liabilities 24.0 30.0 16.9 43.9 Finance lease liabilities 6.5 86.0 114.7 Fair values As at 31 December 2004 At 31 December 2005, the carrying amount of non-current liabilities, compared with the fair value was as follows: Over 5 Years Total m m Carrying Amount Fair Value 50.4 50.4 m m 6.0 7.1 Convertible bonds 63.6 83.5 12.6 44.7 Bank borrowings 0.6 0.6 0.1 Property mortgage 6.6 6.6 69.0 102.3 Paul Capital funding liabilities 43.9 43.9 114.7 134.6 As at 31 December 2005 At 31 December 2004, the carrying amount of non-current liabilities, compared with the fair value was as follows: Swiss francs Total m m Carrying Amount Fair Value 63.6 m m 0.6 Convertible bonds 50.4 85.9 6.6 6.6 Property mortgage 7.1 7.1 43.9 Paul Capital funding liabilities 44.7 44.7 6.6 114.7 Finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.1 102.3 137.8 Undrawn facility At 31 December 2005 the Group had an overdraft facility of 1.3 million CHF 3 million 2004: 1.4 million, CHF 3 million with the Basellandschaftliche Kantonalbank secured on the assets of Jago.
SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 89 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 90 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24 Convertible bonds In June 2005 the Group issued 20 million 8% convertible bonds, with a first put after five years by the holder of the bonds, and a final maturity of June 2025.
The bonds are convertible at the option of the holder into SkyePharma Ordinary Shares at an initial conversion price of 77 pence at any time prior to maturity.
The bond contains a price reset feature such that if on 3 June 2006 the Companys average share price for the preceding 10 days reset price is less than the conversion price, then the conversion price shall be adjusted to the reset price subject to a maximum reduction of 25% in the conversion price.
Unless previously redeemed or converted, the bonds will be redeemed by the Group at their principal amount in June 2025.
The convertible bonds existing at 31 December 2005, due in May 2024, were not affected by this transaction.
On 19 June 2005 9.8 million of convertible bonds due June 2005 were redeemed in full by the Company at their principal amount.
As a result of these transactions the Group has 69.6 million convertible bonds due May 2024 at a conversion price of 95 pence, and 20 million convertible bonds due June 2025 at a conversion price of 77 pence.
25 Derivative financial instruments As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Group and Company m m Interest rate swap 0.2 Total derivative financial instrument liabilities 0.2 The Groups policy is to hedge interest rate exposures through the use of interest rate swaps and currency exposures through the use of currency options, accrual forward options and forward currency contracts.
None of these derivative financial instruments qualify to be treated as hedges and accordingly gains and losses are recorded in the income statement.
26 Provisions Pension Restructuring Total Group m m m At 1 January 2005 1.7 0.3 2.0 Actuarial gains losses 0.3 0.3 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 Utilised 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2005 1.9 1.9 As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Current restructuring 0.3 Non-Current pension 1.9 1.7 1.9 2.0 Pension provision The pension provision relates to the retirement commitments under its defined benefit schemes in respect of its employees in Switzerland and France.
Restructuring provision The restructuring provision relates to the reorganisation of research and development operations and other business functions involving reductions in staff at most sites.
90 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 91 27 Retirement benefit obligations first put after five years by the holder le at the option of the holder into Defined contribution plans any time prior to maturity.
The bond The Group operates various defined contribution plans for its employees in the UK and US.
The Groups average share price for the preceding contributions to these plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate, n price shall be adjusted to the reset and the assets are held in separate trustee administered funds.
The income statement charge related ss previously redeemed or converted, to defined contributions plan is disclosed in Note 7: Staff costs.
Defined benefit plan The Group operates unfunded defined benefit schemes in respect of its employees in Switzerland and France.
deemed in full by the Company The liabilities of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group are presented below: As at As at bonds due May 2024 at a conversion 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 onversion price of 77 pence.
m m Balance sheet obligations for: Defined benefit pension benefits 1.9 1.7 As at As at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: As at As at 0.2 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 0.2 m m Present value of funded obligations 6.4 6.3 interest rate swaps and currency Fair value of plan assets 5.3 5.3 nd forward currency contracts.
None 1.1 1.0 nd accordingly gains and losses are Present value of unfunded obligations 0.8 0.7 Liability in the balance sheet 1.9 1.7 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Restructuring Total Year ended Year ended m m 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m 0.3 2.0 0.3 Current service cost 0.3 0.2 0.1 Interest cost 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Expected losses on assets 0.2 0.2 1.9 Total included in staff cost 0.4 0.3 As at As at The actuarial return on plans assets was 0.2 million 2004: 0.2 million.
31 December 2005 31 December 2004 0.3 The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: 1.9 1.7 Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 1.9 2.0 m m Beginning of the year 7.0 6.7 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.1 efined benefit schemes in respect Current service cost 0.3 0.2 Contributions 0.3 0.3 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 0.3 0.3 Expected losses on assets 0.2 0.2 development operations and other Actuarial losses recognised in equity 0.2 0.4 End of the year 7.2 7.0 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 91 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 92 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The movement in the fair value of the plan assets over the year is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m Beginning of the year 5.3 4.7 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.3 Current service cost 0.3 0.2 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 0.3 0.3 Benefits paid 0.7 0.5 Actuarial gains recognised in equity 0.2 0.3 End of the year 5.3 5.3 At 31 December 2005 and 2004 actuarial valuations were performed by professionally qualified actuaries on the present value of the accrued liabilities calculated under the projected unit method.
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 2005 2004 % per annum % per annum Inflation rate 1.9 2.0 Rate of increase in salaries 2.3 2.5 Discount rate 3.7 4.0 Expected return on plan assets 2.0 2.4 Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice in accordance with published statistics and experience in Switzerland and France.
2005 2004 years years Male 17.3 17.3 Female 20.8 20.8 2005 2004 m m Actuarial gains recognised in equity 0.3 Cumulative actuarial gains recognised in equity 0.3 Plan assets are comprised as follows: 2005 2004 m m Equity 4.7 4.3 Other 0.6 1.0 5.3 5.3 Expected contributions to post employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2006 are 0.6 million.
28 Share capital 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Group and Company Number of shares Number of shares m m Authorised Ordinary Shares of 10p each 1,102,000 1,102,000 110.2 110.2 92 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 93 ws: Ordinary Shares of Nominal value Deferred B Shares Nominal value Total nominal Year ended Year ended 10p each Number m of 10p each Number m value m 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 At 1 January 2004 618,669,940 61.9 12,000,000 1.2 63.1 m m Exercise of share options 478,803 5.3 4.7 Issue of shares to Research 0.1 0.3 Development Foundation 3,250,000 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 At 1 January 2005 622,398,743 62.2 12,000,000 1.2 63.4 0.3 0.3 Rights issue 125,627,357 12.6 12.6 0.7 0.5 Acquisition of shares in Astralis 5,482,238 0.6 0.6 0.2 0.3 Exercise of share options 255,808 5.3 5.3 At 31 December 2005 753,764,146 75.4 12,000,000 1.2 76.6 rofessionally qualified actuaries The Group raised 34.8 million net of expenses by means of a rights issue of 125,627,357 new ordinary shares.
The principal The Group also issued 5,482,238 Ordinary Shares to two former Astralis Directors to acquire 11,160,000 2005 2004 % per annum % per annum common shares in Astralis.
1.9 2.0 2.3 2.5 Deferred B shares 3.7 4.0 In July 2000, 12 million deferred A and 12 million deferred B shares were issued to Dr Gonella, the vendor of 2.0 2.4 Jago, under a settlement agreement that established the full and final settlement of the deferred consideration payable on the acquisition of Jago.
The holders of deferred A and B shares have no rights to participate in the profits of the Company, no voting rights and on a winding up or other return of capital only receive the ce in accordance with published nominal value of their shares if the holders of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company have received 2005 2004 the sum of 1 million per Ordinary Share.
Under the terms of the settlement agreement, following the US years years launch and first commercial sale of Paxil CR by GlaxoSmithKline in 2002, the 12 million deferred A shares 17.3 17.3 were automatically converted into 12 million Ordinary Shares.
20.8 20.8 The 12 million deferred B shares automatically convert to 12 million Ordinary Shares on the Companys 2005 2004 receipt of a royalty statement under the current license agreement stating that reported sales of Paxil CR m m have exceeded $1,000 million during any calendar period prior to 1 January 2006 or exceeded $337 million 0.3 between 1 January 2006 and 3 May 2006.
The conditions have not been met and the deferred B shares 0.3 will be transferred to the Company Secretary for no consideration for him to hold as custodian.
2005 2004 Warrants m m The Company has the following warrants outstanding: 4.7 4.3 0.6 1.0 a D and E warrants 5.3 5.3 The D and E warrants were issued in March 2002 as part of the consideration for the agreement with Paul Capital to fund new product development.
The D and E warrants entitle the holders to subscribe g 31 December 2006 are 0.6 million.
for a total of 5 million Ordinary Shares at any time during the period to 31 December 2008 at an exercise price of 73.75 pence per Ordinary Share.
A value of 0.3 million, deemed to be the fair value of the D and E warrants, has been recorded in Other Reserves.
31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m b F warrants The F warrants were issued in December 2003 as part of the 2.7 million $5 million loan with GE Capital 110.2 110.2 Corp.
The F warrants entitle the holders to subscribe for a total of 300,000 Ordinary Shares at any time until the repayment date of the loan at an exercise price of 1.20 per Ordinary Share.
A value of 39,000, deemed to be the fair value of the F warrants, has been recorded in Other Reserves.
SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 93 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 94 Notes to the Financial Statements continued c Other warrants Warrants were issued in December 1999 as part of the acquisition of DepoTech and entitle the holders to subscribe for 371,353 Ordinary Shares at any time during the period beginning 31 December 1999 and ending on 25 February 2005 at an exercise price of $1.142 59.5 pence per Ordinary Share.
All of these warrants lapsed unexercised on 25 February 2005.
Potential Issues of ordinary shares a Employee share schemes The Group encourages employee participation in its shares through ownership and continues to operate various incentive schemes whereby Directors and employees are to able to acquire shares, and potential shares, in the Company.
Further details are provided in Note 29: Share based payments.
b Deferred consideration on acquisition of Krypton The deferred consideration on the acquisition of Krypton provides that a maximum of 37.5 million Ordinary Shares would be issued contingent on a change in control of the Company at a share price of not less than 80 pence compounded at an annual rate of 10% 2.08 as at 31 December 2005, or satisfaction of various conditions and hurdles which lapsed on 31 December 2003.
No provision for deferred consideration has been recognised as at 31 December 2005. c Paul Capital Royalty Acquisition Fund In March 2002 the Group announced a second transaction with Paul Capital Royalty Acquisition Fund under which SkyePharma would issue Ordinary Shares up to a value of $7.5 million if royalties and milestones received by SkyePharma in respect of those products included in the transaction were not in excess of minimum annual payments required to be made to Paul Capital.
During 2005 the royalties received by SkyePharma were substantially in excess of the minimum payments required to be made to Paul Capital, consequently the Company has not recognised a provision.
29 Share based payments The Group operates various share based compensation plans as follows: Option schemes Options granted to UK and European employees are only exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant, and are subject to the Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for dealing in Shares, and the Model Code.
Options granted to US employees prior to 2001 vest at 25% per annum from the date of grant and there were no performance criteria.
UK and European options granted prior to 2001 may only be exercised if the growth in the Companys share price over a consecutive three-year period exceeds the growth over the same period in the FTSE All Share Index.
This criteria was satisfied for the first time in March 2000.
Employees with options that are within their exercise period are now able to exercise those options within any one-year period from the date the performance condition is satisfied.
Super Options are exercisable after five years and are subject to higher performance conditions in accordance with those recommended by the Association of British Insurers.
Following changes to the option plans approved at the Annual General Meeting in June 2001, options granted to Directors and senior employees since that date are subject to performance conditions linked to the total shareholder return of a comparator group of companies, and are not subject to retesting.
Options granted to other US employees continue to vest at 25% per annum with no performance criteria, and other European employees who are not Directors or senior employees can exercise their options after three years and are not subject to performance conditions.
The Groups option plans are detailed further in the Remuneration Report.
It is the intention of the Group that no further options grants will be made under any of the option plans.
94 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 95 The following table summarises the activity in share options for the year to 31 December 2005: oTech and entitle the holders to Share options Option price nning 31 December 1999 and ending At 1 January 2004 52,345,218 44.8p 93.0p ary Share.
All of these warrants Exercised 478,803 44.8p 66.5p Cancelled or expired 3,883,170 46.5p 91.3p At 31 December 2004 47,983,245 44.8p 93.0p Exercised 255,808 46.5p 55.6p Forfeited 9,654,453 46.5p 92.0p Cancelled or expired 2,171,974 46.5p 92.0p rship and continues to operate Rights issue adjustment see below 1,596,534 1.8p 3.7p o acquire shares, and potential At 31 December 2005 37,497,544 43.0p 89.3p sed payments.
Exercisable 22,180,175 43.0p 89.3p maximum of 37.5 million Ordinary The weighted average exercise price as at 31 December 2005 was 58.6 pence.
y at a share price of not less than r 2005, or satisfaction of various The market value of Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2005 was 49.75 pence.
The market value of Ordinary for deferred consideration has been Shares during 2005 ranged from the lowest closing mid-price of 34.25 pence to the highest closing mid-price of 66.75 pence per share.
No options were granted during the current year.
At 31 December 2005 the following Ordinary Shares were under option to employees or former employees of tal Royalty Acquisition Fund under the Group: lion if royalties and milestones Option price for each Number of options over saction were not in excess of Normal expiry date Ordinary Share of 10p Ordinary Shares of 10p 2005 the royalties received by 29 April 2006 72.0p 930,937 ired to be made to Paul Capital, 7 April 2007 63.8p 529,100 28 January 2008 49.0p 129,254 31 March 2008 89.3p 829,615 5 October 2008 43.0p 570,128 19 April 2009 66.7p 2,272,318 25 May 2009 54.4p 5,076,891 7 September 2009 54.6p 199,044 ween the third and tenth anniversary 6 June 2010 87.6p 442,185 Conduct and Ethics for dealing in 3 November 2010 78.4p 1,411,387 001 vest at 25% per annum from the 12 June 2011 77.4p 4,066,007 options granted prior to 2001 may 31 October 2011 53.4p 913,309 cutive three-year period exceeds the 12 April 2012 69.4p 4,847,662 s satisfied for the first time in March 24 May 2012 75.4p 447,637 w able to exercise those options 25 September 2012 49.6p 1,114,377 tisfied.
Super Options are exercisable 7 April 2013 44.6p 13,570,809 dance with those recommended by 26 September 2013 59.5p 146,884 37,497,544 eeting in June 2001, options granted ance conditions linked to the total Following completion of the Companys Rights Issue announced on 28 September 2005 the number and ect to retesting.
Options granted to exercise price applicable to options were adjusted to take account of the dilution in the value of options caused ance criteria, and other European by the Rights Issue.
The number of options was increased by 4% and the exercise price was reduced by 4%.
options after three years and are not further in the Remuneration Report.
As stated above, no options were granted to employees in 2004 or 2005.
For those options granted in prior e under any of the option plans.
years which impact the income statement, fair values were determined using an option pricing model based SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 95 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 96 Notes to the Financial Statements continued on Black-Scholes but adjusted to model the particular features of the options.
The fair value of these options is consistent with the values previously disclosed for SEC filing purposes.
The Rights Issue had no effect on the fair value of options.
The total expense relating to share based payments, which are all equity settled transactions, is disclosed in Note 7: Staff costs.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSB Under the rules of this plan, Directors and senior employees receive conditional rights to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company, at the prevailing market rates at the time of grant.
Eligible employees are awarded rights to acquire a maximum number of shares at the beginning of a three year period, a proportion of which they will be entitled to receive at the end of that period depending on the extent to which the performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the time the allocation is made are satisfied.
If the performance conditions are not satisfied the share award will lapse.
Awards are either linked to the deferral of annual bonus DSB Matching Share Awards or stand alone share awards LTIP Awards.
Further information on awards and performance conditions are detailed in the Remuneration Report.
DSB Matching LTIP Awards Share Awards Outstanding At 1 January 2005 3,679,499 2,046,093 Granted 3,979,684 640,103 Rights Issue Adjustment 301,830 90,299 Forfeited Cancelled or expired 518,084 88,801 Released 434,395 At 31 December 2005 7,442,929 2,253,299 Following completion of the Companys Rights Issue announced on 28 September 2005 the number of shares comprising the LTIP Awards and DSB Matching Share Awards was adjusted to take account of the dilution in the value of conditional shares caused by the Rights Issue.
The number of shares under award was increased by 4%.
For the purposes of IFRS 2 the fair values of LTIP Awards and DSB Matching Shares Awards have been determined using a Monte Carlo Simulation model.
The Monte Carlo Simulation model takes into account the comparative total shareholder return performance element attaching to these share awards.
The following table sets out the assumptions used in determining the fair value of these share awards: DSB Matching LTIP Awards Share Awards Model Monte Carlo Simulation Rationale This model takes into account the market based performance conditions comparative TSR attaching to the LTIP Awards and DSB Matching Share Awards.
Date of Grant 3 June 2005 9 June 2005 2 February 2005 Share Price on Grant 0.54 0.53 0.64 Exercise Price nil nil nil Expected Dividend Yield n a n a n a Expected Volatility 47.23% 47.18% 48.96% Risk Free Interest Rate 4.22% 4.73% 4.57% Expected Life 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair Value 0.40 0.40 0.57 96 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 97 ions.
The fair value of these options The excepted volatility is calculated as the historic volatility of the Company share return over the three years prior to each grant date.
In determining the charge to the income statement, the Company has assumed that the number of share settled transactions, is disclosed awards that will ultimately vest is reduced by 5% per annum.
The Rights Issue had no effect on the fair value of LTIP Awards and DSB Matching Share Awards.
ditional rights to acquire Ordinary The total expense relating to share based payments, which are all equity settled transactions, is disclosed t. Eligible employees are awarded in Note 7: Staff costs.
e year period, a proportion of which extent to which the performance International Share Purchase Plan ISPP is made are satisfied.
If the All employees are eligible to participate in the ISPP whereby employees buy shares in the Company.
rds are either linked to the deferral These shares are called Partnership Shares and are held in trust on behalf of the employee.
For every rds LTIP Awards.
Further Partnership Share bought by the employee the Company will give the employee one share free of charge muneration Report.
The employees have to take their shares out of the plan on leaving the Company and will not be entitled to the Matching Shares if they leave within three years of buying the Partnership Shares.
DSB Matching In addition, the Company can also award employees rights to acquire up to a maximum of 3,000 of shares LTIP Awards Share Awards Free Shares.
There are no vesting conditions attaching to the Free Shares other than being continuously 3,679,499 2,046,093 employed by a Group company on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
3,979,684 640,103 301,830 90,299 Matching Shares Free Shares Outstanding At 1 January 2005 348,831 30,411 518,084 88,801 Granted 211,460 434,395 Rights Issue Adjustment n a 2,723 7,442,929 2,253,299 Forfeited Cancelled or expired 41,109 7,855 ptember 2005 the number of shares Released 88,347 ed to take account of the dilution in At 31 December 2005 430,835 25,279 f shares under award Following the completion of the Companys Rights Issue announced on 28 September 2005 the number of shares applicable to Free Shares was adjusted to take account of the dilution in the value of conditional shares ing Shares Awards have been caused by the Rights Issue.
ulation model takes into account to these share awards.
For the purposes of IFRS 2 the fair value of these Matching Shares and Free Shares is determined as the value of these share awards: market value of the shares at the date of grant.
In determining the charge to the income statement, the Company has assumed that the number of share awards that will ultimately vest is reduced by 10% per annum.
DSB Matching LTIP Awards Share Awards The Rights Issue had no effect on the fair value of the Free Shares.
Monte Carlo Simulation model takes into account the market based ce conditions comparative TSR attaching to The total expense relating to share based payments, which are all equity settled transactions, is disclosed P Awards and DSB Matching Share Awards.
9 June 2005 2 February 2005 0.53 0.64 nil nil n a n a 47.18% 48.96% 4.73% 4.57% 3 years 3 years 0.40 0.57 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 97 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 98 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Reserves Share premium Translation reserve Fair value reserve Retained losses Group m m m m At 1 January 2004 319.3 1.6 364.3 On issue of shares to Research Development Foundation 1.5 Exercise of share options 0.2 Exchange adjustments 2.5 Revaluation deficit transfer 0.5 Loss for the year 18.6 Share based payments charge 4.1 Pension actuarial losses 0.1 At 31 December 2004 321.0 0.9 0.5 378.9 Rights issue 25.1 Expenses of rights issue 2.9 Acquisition of shares in Astralis 2.3 Exercise of share options 0.1 Exchange adjustments 0.3 Impairments 0.5 Revaluation surplus transfer 0.2 Loss for the year 50.9 Share based payments charge 2.4 Purchase of own shares 0.4 Repayment of convertible bonds due June 2005 0.7 At 31 December 2005 345.6 1.2 0.2 427.1 Share premium Fair value reserve Retained losses Company m m m At 1 January 2004 319.3 18.4 On issue of shares to Research Development Foundation 1.5 Exercise of share options 0.2 Revaluation deficit transfer 0.5 Loss for the year 32.0 Share based payments charge 1.1 At 31 December 2004 321.0 0.5 49.3 Rights issue 25.1 Expenses of rights issue 2.9 Acquisition of shares in Astralis 2.3 Exercise of share options 0.1 Impairments 0.5 Revaluation surplus transfer 0.2 Loss for the year 98.3 Share based payments charge 1.3 Purchase of own shares 0.4 Repayment of convertible bonds due June 2005 0.7 At 31 December 2005 345.6 0.2 146.0 As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Income Statement of the Company is not presented.
The loss of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2005 was 98.3 million 2004: 32.0 million.
98 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 99 31 Other reserves Fair value reserve Retained losses Equity of m m Merger reserve Warrants reserve convertible bonds Total other reserves Group m m m m 364.3 At 1 January 2004 9.0 0.4 0.7 10.1 Exchange and issue of convertible bonds due May 2024 22.3 22.3 At 31 December 2004 9.0 0.4 23.0 32.4 Issue of convertible bonds due June 2025 6.1 6.1 0.5 Repayment of convertible bonds due June 2005 0.7 0.7 18.6 At 31 December 2005 9.0 0.4 28.4 37.8 4.1 0.1 The merger reserve relates to the acquisition of Krypton Limited during 1996.
The warrant reserve relates to 0.5 378.9 the D, E and F warrants described in note 28: Share capital.
The equity element of the convertible bonds reserve relates to the convertible bonds due May 2024 and June 2025.
Equity of Merger reserve Warrants reserve convertible bonds Total other reserves Company m m m m 0.5 At 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 9.0 0.4 0.7 10.1 0.2 Repayment of convertible bonds due June 2005 0.7 0.7 50.9 At 31 December 2005 9.0 0.4 9.4 2.4 0.4 32 Commitments Group Group Company Company 0.7 As at As at As at As at 0.2 427.1 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 m m m m Fair value reserve Retained losses Commitments under operating leases m m Operating leases on land and buildings: 18.4 In one year or less 2.3 2.5 0.6 In two to five years 10.4 10.7 In five years or more 14.6 15.6 0.3 0.5 27.3 28.8 0.3 0.6 32.0 1.1 Other operating leases: 0.5 49.3 In one year or less 0.1 0.1 In addition the Group has committed to undertake certain clinical trials on behalf of its partners under development and licensing agreements.
0.5 0.2 The Group is committed to make certain payments to third parties contingent upon future events such 98.3 as the approval and launch of products.
1.3 0.4 0.7 0.2 146.0 ement of the Company er 2005 was 98.3 million SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 99 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 100 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33 Contingencies At 31 December 2005 the Company had provided guarantees on various bank borrowings of its subsidiaries as set out in Note 23: Borrowings.
In common with most business enterprises, Group companies are subject to a number of claims from third parties, the outcome of which cannot at present be determined but which are not considered to be material in the context of these financial statements.
Provisions have been made in these financial statements for any liabilities which are expected to materialise from such claims.
34 Related Parties Group Directors transactions At the end of December 1998, Ian Gowrie-Smith through a family-owned trust acquired a 51% interest in 10 East 63rd Street Inc. the company which owns 10 East 63rd Street, a property in New York.
In December 2002 Mr. Gowrie-Smith acquired a further 49% interest.
SkyePharma PLC has been in occupation of approximately half of that property since January 1997, subject to tenancy agreements based upon independent valuation.
In August 2003 the Company took occupation of the entire building under an eight-year tenancy agreement, at which time the annual rent was increased from $420,000 per annum to $720,000 per annum until August 2008, and $942,500 per annum from August 2008 to August 2011.
A portion of these premises is currently sub-let by the Group.
Company The Company has issued share options to employees of subsidiary undertakings and in accordance with IFRS 2 has made a charge of 1.3 million 2004: 1.1million.
The Company has charged 1.6 m 2004: 1.9m to subsidiary undertakings and the Company was charged 0.5 m 2004: 0.3m by subsidiary undertakings for corporate services provided.
The Company has intercompany loans and accounts with its subsidiary undertakings and details can be found in notes 17: Shares in and loans to Group undertakings, 19: Trade and other receivables and 22: Trade and other payables.
Interest is charged on inter company loans and accounts at 0.5% above one month LIBOR or 1.0% above three month LIBOR and totalled 7.5m for the year 2004: 9.1m.
The Groups key management comprises only Directors and Director remuneration for the year is shown in the audited part of the Remuneration Report.
There are no material balances held with associates at the year ended 31 December 2005 or 2004.
100 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 101 35 Principal subsidiaries ank borrowings of its subsidiaries Subsidiary undertakings % held of Country of nominal value t to a number of claims from third Company incorporation and voting rights Principal activities are not considered to be material SkyePharma Canada Inc. Canada 100% Research and development n these financial statements for SkyePharma Production SAS France 100% Manufacturing of pharmaceuticals SkyePharma Jersey Limited Jersey 100% Issue of bonds Krypton Limited Gibraltar 100% Exploitation of intellectual property SkyePharma AB Sweden 100% Research and development Jago Holding AG Switzerland 100% Holding company Jagotec AG Switzerland 100% Exploitation of intellectual property trust acquired a 51% interest in SkyePharma AG Switzerland 100% Research and development perty in New York.
In December 2002 SkyePharma Holding AG Switzerland 100% Holding company een in occupation of approximately SkyePharma Holding Inc.
US 100% Holding company ased upon independent valuation.
US 100% Development of pharmaceuticals an eight-year tenancy agreement, SkyePharma US Inc.
US 100% Development of pharmaceuticals and licensing o $720,000 per annum until August Directly held by the Company.
on of these premises is currently Associates % held of Country of nominal value Company incorporation and voting rights Principal activities takings and in accordance with Astralis Limited US 40% Research and development 36 Subsequent event gs and the Company was charged In May 2006 SkyePharma announced that it had entered into an agreement with Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc rovided.
Kos will have exclusive rights to market Flutiform in the US and a right of first negotiation in Canada.
SkyePharma could receive up to $165 million in milestone payments on achievement ndertakings and details can be found of all regulatory and revenue targets of which $25 million has been paid up front together with royalties her receivables and 22: Trade and starting in the mid teens on sales by Kos.
at 0.5% above one month LIBOR 9.1m.
muneration for the year is shown December 2005 or 2004.
SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 101 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 102 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37 Transition from accounting practices generally accepted in the UK to International Financial Reporting Standards The Group reported under UK GAAP in its financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Group is required under the Listing Rules to report under IFRS for the year ending 31 December 2005 and present comparatives for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Consequently, the Groups date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2004.
Set out below are reconciliations of total equity and reserves and income from UK GAAP to IFRS.
Total equity and reserves 31 December 2004 1 January 2004 Notes m m Total equity and reserves as reported under UK GAAP 63.6 84.9 Adjustments to conform to IFRS Revenue recognition a 6.7 19.6 Sale of royalty interests to Paul Capital b 39.0 36.1 Goodwill amortisation d 4.1 Convertible bonds e 16.4 1.5 Fixed assets investments f 0.5 Other financial instruments g 0.2 0.4 Pensions h 1.2 1.3 Total equity and reserves under IFRS 36.5 29.8 Loss for the year Year ended 31 December 2004 Notes m Loss for the year as reported under UK GAAP 24.3 Adjustments to conform to IFRS Revenue recognition a 13.1 Sale of royalty interests to Paul Capital b 1.7 Share based payments c 2.8 Goodwill amortisation d 4.1 Convertible bonds e 6.5 Other financial instruments g 0.5 Loss for the year under IFRS 18.6 Cash flow statement The transition from UK GAAP to IFRS does not change any of the cash flows of the Group.
The IFRS cash flow statement is similar to UK GAAP, but presents various cash flows in different categories and in a different order from the UK GAAP cash flow statement.
All of the IFRS accounting adjustments net out within cash generated from operations, except for the inclusion of the repayment of the Paul Capital funding liabilities.
102 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 103 The IFRS adjustments set out in the reconciliations are explained below: ar ended 31 December 2004. a Revenue recognition e year ending 31 December 2005 Under UK GAAP SkyePharma has generally recognised up front payments immediately in full where there uently, the Groups date of transition are no material future obligations and the payments are non-refundable, on the basis that the up front payment relates to past services.
Under IFRS up front payments will generally be deferred and amortised on a systematic basis over the period of product development to filing.
However, the accounting for each from UK GAAP to IFRS.
agreement will continue to be determined on an individual basis.
The IFRS restatement increases revenue in the year to 31 December 2004 by 13.1 million so reducing 31 December 2004 1 January 2004 operating and retained loss by 13.1 million.
This relates to up front payments that have been previously m m recognised in the UK GAAP financial statements in earlier years but which under IFRS would not have been 63.6 84.9 recognised in full, but deferred across the period of development to filing.
The restatement increases deferred income at 31 December 2004 by 6.7 million 2003: 19.6 million.
6.7 19.6 39.0 36.1 b Sale of royalty interests to Paul Capital 4.1 The Group entered into two transactions with Paul Capital Royalty Acquisition Fund Paul Capital in 2000 and 16.4 1.5 2002.
Under these transactions Paul Capital provided a total of $60 million in return for the sale of a portion 0.5 of the potential future royalty and revenue streams on a selection of the Groups products.
Under UK GAAP the 0.2 0.4 proceeds received from Paul Capital are treated as a sale and recorded as operating income and the royalties 1.2 1.3 are expensed when incurred.
36.5 29.8 Under IFRS the proceeds received from Paul Capital meet the definition of a financial liability under IAS 39, and are treated as such.
No operating income is recognised, royalties paid to Paul Capital are treated as Year ended 31 December 2004 repayment of the liability and in addition interest is imputed on the liability using the effective rate as at Notes m inception of the agreement.
The contractual arrangement with Paul Capital is unaffected by this change in 24.3 accounting and the arrangement remains a royalty agreement under which royalties are payable on revenues earned and payments received.
The liability has no face amount but represents the net present value of a 13.1 royalties we expect to pay Paul Capital over the term of the agreement, discounted at the effective rate at b 1.7 inception of the agreement.
c 2.8 d 4.1 The IFRS restatement increases the loss in the year to 31 December 2004 by 1.7 million and decreases e 6.5 net assets at 31 December 2004 by 39.0 million 2003: 36.1 million.
g 0.5 18.6 c Share based payments IFRS 2 requires that for share option awards to employees, the fair value of the employee services received should be measured by reference to the fair value of the share option at the grant date.
This differs ws of the Group.
The IFRS cash flow significantly from the treatment under UK GAAP where the charge to the profit and loss account was based rent categories and in a different on the difference between the fair value of the shares at the date of grant and the exercise price.
Since adjustments net out within cash SkyePharma has historically granted employee options where the share price at the date of grant equals he Paul Capital funding liabilities.
the exercise price, there has been no charge recorded under UK GAAP.
SkyePharma has adopted full retrospective application of IFRS 2.
The IFRS restatement results in an additional charge to the income statement in the year to 31 December 2004 of 2.8 million, increasing both operating and retained loss.
The restatement has no impact on net assets.
d Goodwill amortisation Under UK GAAP goodwill has been amortised over its estimated expected useful life which the Directors determined as 20 years.
Under IFRS, goodwill is considered to have an indefinite life and so is not amortised, but is subject to annual impairment testing.
Therefore the annual goodwill charge made under UK GAAP will SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 103 8155 LR Back 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:41 Page 104 Notes to the Financial Statements continued not be recorded under IFRS from 1 January 2004, the IFRS transition date.
The IFRS restatement results in a reduction in the amortisation charge in the year to 31 December 2004 of 4.1 million thereby reducing both operating and retained loss.
e Convertible bonds Under UK GAAP the total net proceeds of the convertible bond issues in 2000 due in 2005 and 2004 due in 2024 were recorded as debt.
Under IFRS the conversion feature of each of the bonds must be split from the debt and classified as equity.
The net impact of the changes to IFRS and in particular the split of the equity component of each bond has led, at 31 December 2004, to a reduction in the carrying value of convertible debt of 16.4 million 2003: 1.5 million and a corresponding increase in equity.
While the carrying value of the convertible debt in the balance sheet is reduced, the amount of debt repayable at maturity is unchanged and consequently under IFRS the Group records higher interest charges in each year to maturity or conversion.
In the year to 31 December 2004, the impact of these factors led to an additional interest charge of 0.3million.
The terms of the debt are unaffected and the physical cash payments due remain the same: as such the cost of the debt in cash terms is unaffected.
During the year to 31 December 2004 the Group exchanged 49.6 million of the convertible bonds due 2005 for bonds due 2024 in the same amount, leaving 9.8 million 2005 bonds outstanding.
Under UK GAAP no gain or loss arose on the exchange.
However un-amortised issue costs of 0.3 million were written off under UK GAAP as exceptional interest charge.
Under IFRS the refinancing of the 49.6 million convertible is treated as an extinguishment of the original debt and the issue of new debt recorded at fair value since the discounted present value of the cash flows of the two instruments differ by more than 10% 2005 Bond replaced by a 2024 Bond.
The extinguishment and debt issue costs lead to the additional charge of 6.2 million recorded in the IFRS income statement in 2004.
In total the IFRS adjustments on the convertible bonds result in an additional interest charge in the 2004 income statement of 6.5 million and an increase in net assets at 31 December 2004 by 16.4 million.
Of the 6.5m additional interest charge, 0.3m relates to the IFRS accounting for convertible bonds in general and 6.2 million is an additional charge caused by the 2004 refinancing of SkyePharmas convertible bond due 2005. f Fixed assets investments Under UK GAAP fixed asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Under IFRS most of SkyePharmas investments are classified as Available-for-sale financial assets and as such stated at fair value with any unrealised gains or losses recorded in equity.
The IFRS restatement reduces net assets at 31 December 2004 by 0.5 million 2003: Nil and does not effect the income statement.
g Other financial instruments Under UK GAAP, periodic gains and losses on interest and foreign currency derivatives designated as hedges are not recognised until the operational transactions to which they are linked occur.
No derivatives have qualified as hedges under IFRS and therefore in accordance with IAS 39 such instruments have been recognised at fair value at the balance sheet date with gains and losses being recorded in the income statement.
104 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Covers 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:44 Page 2 Contents 01 Our Mission SkyePharma is adopting full retrospective application of IAS 32 and IAS 39 and has therefore restated 02 Corporate Highlights its opening balance and 2004 result accordingly.
This restatement has led to an additional charge in the year 03 Financial Highlights to 31 December 2004 of 0.5 million, increasing both operating and retained loss.
As at 31 December 2004 04 Chairmans Statement the IFRS restatement reduces net assets by 0.2 million 2003: 0.4 million increase.
06 Our Strategy 07 Review of Operations h Pensions 12 Product Pipeline The IFRS adjustment on pensions relates to the Companys pension schemes in Switzerland and France.
14 Products on the Market In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has fully recognised all actuarial gains and losses on its pension 15 Upcoming Products schemes in Switzerland and France at 1 January 2004, its transition date.
Ongoing actuarial gains and 16 Flutiform losses will be recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expenditure.
17 The Shares 20 Corporate Social Responsibility i Other 22 Financial Review Under IFRS the Group is required to capitalise research and development costs when the criteria laid out in 26 Directors and Officers IAS 38 are met.
The Group has reviewed its historical research and development projects and determined that 28 Report of the Directors no expenditure incurred to date meets the criteria for capitalisation in IAS 38.
However the Group will continue 30 Corporate Governance to review its development expenditure against the relevant criteria and will capitalise such expenditure when 36 Statement of Directors' Responsibility it is appropriate.
in Relation to the Accounts 37 Remuneration Report Company 53 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SkyePharma PLC Total equity and reserves 31 December 2004 1 January 2004 55 Consolidated Income Statement m m 56 Consolidated Balance Sheet Total equity and reserves as reported under UK GAAP 349.6 373.1 57 Company Balance Sheet Adjustments to conform to IFRS 58 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Share based payments 1.1 Income and Expense Convertible bonds 3.1 1.5 58 Company Statement of Recognised Income Fixed assets investments 0.5 and Expense Other financial instruments 0.2 0.4 59 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Total equity and reserves under IFRS 344.7 375.0 61 Company Cash Flow Statement 63 Notes to the Financial Statements Loss for the year Year ended 31 December 2004 m Loss for the year as reported under UK GAAP 26.9 Adjustments to conform to IFRS Share based payments 1.1 Convertible bonds 3.8 Other financial instruments 0.2 Loss for the year under IFRS 32.0 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Covers 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:44 Page 1 Registered Head Office 105 Piccadilly London W1J 7NJ Telephone: 020 7491 1777 Fax: 020 7491 3338 Registered No: 107582 Company Secretary: Douglas Parkhill Auditors  LLP Chartered Accountants 1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH Solicitors UK Stringer Saul 17 Hanover Square London W1S 1HU US Sullivan & Cromwell 1 New Fetter Lane London EC4A 1AN Corporate Broker and Financial Adviser Credit Suisse First Boston 20 Columbus Courtyard London E14 4DA Bankers National Westminster Bank plc Bishopsgate Business Centre PO Box 34 15 Bishopsgate London EC2P 2AP Registrars Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Depositary The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street New York NY 10286 USA Annual Report 2005 Making Good Drugs Better SkyePharma Annual Report 2005
