Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Operational management team Phillip Williams, 48 a Ian Scho eld, 44 b Matthew Kennerly, 39 d Group Property Director Group Engineering Director Port Director, Hull & Goole Phillip has worked for ABP since 1994 and joined the Ian became Group Engineering Director in 2002.
Matthew joined the operational board when he was operational board in 2002.
He is responsible for the In addition to overseeing engineering matters at the promoted to the position of Port Director, Hull & Goole, groups entire property portfolio, including AMPORTS ports, Ian leads the companys health and safety and in June 2005.
Matthew joined ABP as a management in the USA.
Since assuming the role, he has developed environment teams, is Chairman of ABP Marine trainee in 1989, based at the Port of Newport.
the groups long-term property strategy, identi ed Environmental Research Ltd and Vice-Chairman of Subsequently, he became Marketing Manager for pro table land-disposal opportunities, increased the Port Skills and Safety Ltd.
He is working consistently Grimsby & Immingham, Operations Manager and then ef ciency of the estate-management functions and to improve the companys safety culture and to reduce Assistant Port Manager at Newport and Deputy Port directed land assembly for ongoing major infrastructure the incidence of work-related accidents and cases of Manager for ABPs South Wales Ports.
Having originally joined the company as work-related ill health.
Ian joined ABP in 1991 as Matthew implemented the reorganisation of the regions Development Manager for ABPs property subsidiary, Assistant Port Engineer for Goole: he then worked at operational activities.
Following his promotion to the Phillip went on to become Head of ABP Group Property Hull and the groups north-east ports until he was position of Assistant Port Manager, Southampton, before he was promoted to his current position.
appointed Port Manager for Kings Lynn in 1999.
Prior Matthew led the expansion of the City Cruise Terminal He joined ABP from the Port of Pembroke.
to joining ABP, he spent 11 years in line management in in order to accommodate larger cruise vessels for the mining industry.
Matthew is a member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport and the Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers.
Nick Palmer, 46 c Matt Jukes, 34 e Port Director, Grimsby & Immingham Port Director, Shortsea Ports Nick was appointed Port Director, Grimsby & Matt has been a member of ABPs operational Immingham, in May 2004.
Since taking up this role, board since October 2005, when he was promoted contracts have been secured for the 27.5m from his previous position as Deputy Port Manager, development of Imminghams Outer Harbour and the Hull & Goole, and put in charge of the groups 59.5m extension to Humber International Terminal.
Matt joined ABP in 1994 as Nick became a member of the operational board in a dredging technician and has since worked in many 2002, when he was appointed Port Director, Shortsea varied positions throughout the company, including as Ports.
He has held a number of management positions Quay Foreman and Assistant Operations Manager at since joining ABP as a graduate trainee in 1980.
He was Grimsby & Immingham and as Marketing Manager and Assistant Port Manager for Kings Lynn before moving Operations Manager at Hull.
While at Hull, Matt was to the then ABP subsidiary Red Funnel Group as involved in the contract extension, further investment General Manager for Ferries.
In 1997, he returned to and subsequent expansion of the Finland Terminal.
ABP as Deputy Port Manager for Grimsby & He also worked extensively on the planning and Immingham, playing a leading role in the development application process for ABPs new shortsea container of Humber International Terminal.
facility at the port, for which the government granted its approval in December 2005.
Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Consistent team, consistently pro table John Fitzgerald, 43 g Hywel Rees, 47 i Bo Lerenius, 59 f Port Director, South Wales Ports Company Secretary and Head of Group Personnel Group Chief Executive John has been an operational board member since Hywel joined ABP in 1984 as Secretariat Clerk.
By For full biography, please see page 101.
He has been employed by ABP since 1987, he had been promoted to Secretary of ABP: 1997, initially serving as Sales & Marketing Manager for he became Company Secretary two years later.
He Doug Morrison, 54 k Grimsby & Immingham, before being promoted to was, additionally, appointed Head of Group Personnel Port Director, Southampton Deputy Port Manager in 2002.
Hywels accomplishments include modernising For full biography, please see page 101.
Director of Shortsea Ports until assuming his current ABPs personnel policies and launching a number of role in October 2005.
John was instrumental in the employee share schemes.
Other initiatives introduced Richard Adam, 48 l business development of both phases of Humber under his leadership include an employee-assistance Group Finance Director International Terminal at the Port of Immingham.
As programme and employee forums.
Hywel has also For full biography, please see page 100.
Port Director, Shortsea Ports, he was responsible for worked to extend employee choice by reactivating consolidating the management and administration of ABPs relationship with the Transport and General those 11 ports and restructuring them into four Workers Union.
Before joining the group, John worked in the ports industry for 16 years.
He began his career as a graduate trainee with Ocean Group, served as a marketing assistant for Ocean Port Services and later held a number of positions at Medway Ports.
Andrew Garner, 37 h David Twidle, 57 j General Counsel Assistant to Group Chief Executive Andrew became ABPs General Counsel in November David has been Assistant to Bo Lerenius since 1999.
2005 and is responsible for providing the group with He has worked for ABP for 38 years in a variety of legal support.
He joined the company from First Choice senior management and accounting roles at head of ce Holidays plc, where he served as General Counsel and at the ports, and, as a result, has a thorough Corporate from 2001 onwards.
At First Choice, Andrew knowledge of the business and the industry.
He was advised on many of the companys worldwide Group Management Accountant at head of ce in acquisitions and was responsible for legal matters London for 10 years and Port Accountant for the northaffecting the UK tour operating and retail businesses.
Davids achievements in his He also represented the company at the Federation current role include improving communications within of Tour Operators, the UK tour operator trade the group, encouraging a more transparent corporate association.
Andrew quali ed as a solicitor with law culture and devolving ABPs marketing functions from rm Linklaters & Paines before joining Unigate plc now head of ce to the ports and business units.
Uniq plc, which included the Unigate Dairies, St Ivel and Wincanton Logistics businesses.
