Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Notice of meeting The 24th Annual General Meeting AGM Group Chief Executive of Pilkington plc ii the directors be and are authorised to of Associated British Ports Holdings PLC since 2002.
Further biographical details are amend the rules of The Associated will take place at the Queen Elizabeth II set out on page 100.
British Ports Executive Share Option Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Scheme the Scheme in the manner Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Resolution 7 explained in the letter from the Chairman Wednesday 26 April 2006 at 12 noon for THAT Mr R P Edey be re-elected as of the company to shareholders dated the following purposes: a director.
16 March 2006 and to do all such acts and things as may be necessary to carry Ordinary resolutions Mr Edey joined the board on 1 March 2006. the same into effect: and Mr Edey is currently a senior adviser at Resolution 1 Rothschilds and has been a non-executive iii the directors be and they are authorised THAT the directors report and the audited member of a wide variety of boards over to vote and be counted in the quorum on accounts for the year ended 31 December the past 17 years.
any matter connected with the Plans and 2005 be received and adopted.
the Scheme except that no director may Resolution 8 vote or be counted in the quorum in Resolution 2 THAT Mr S R Melliss be re-elected as respect of his own participation and any THAT the remuneration report, as set a director.
prohibition on voting contained in the out on pages 118 to 128 of the Annual articles of association of the company be Report & Accounts, be approved.
Mr Melliss joined the board as a nonand is relaxed accordingly.
Mr Resolution 3 Melliss is on the board of Hammerson Plc, Resolution 12 THAT a final dividend of 9.75 pence per where he has been Group Finance Director THAT the directors be and they are authorised ordinary share of the company be for the past 11 years.
to amend the rules of the Associated British declared.
Ports Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Resolution 9 in the manner explained in the letter from the Resolution 4 THAT  LLP be Chairman of the company to shareholders THAT Mr D D Morrison be re-elected as reappointed as auditors of the company to dated 16 March 2006 and to do all such acts a director.
hold of ce until the conclusion of the next and things as may be necessary to carry the general meeting at which accounts are laid same into affect.
Mr Morrison is the Port Director for before the company.
Southampton and has spent 37 years in Resolution 13 the ports industry gaining experience in Resolution 10 THAT the directors be authorised to distribute a variety of roles within the group.
Further THAT the directors be authorised to set the relevant securities within the meaning of biographical details are set out on page 101. remuneration of  Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up LLP as auditors.
to an aggregate nominal amount of Resolution 5 25,183,766 being the lesser of the unissued THAT Mr R J Adam be re-elected as Resolution 11 ordinary share capital of the company and a director.
THAT: one-third of the issued equity share capital i the establishment of The Associated of the company until the date of the AGM Mr Adam is the companys Group Finance British Ports Performance Share Plan in 2007, and at any time afterwards, in Director and has 18 years of experience as and The Associated British Ports Share support of any offer or agreement made by a finance director on a number of boards.
Matching Plan together the Plans, the company during that time.
Further biographical details are set out on a summary of the principal provisions page 100. of each of which is set out in the Special resolutions Appendix to the letter from the Chairman Resolution 6 of the company to shareholders dated Resolution 14 THAT Mr S J Chambers be re-elected as 16 March 2006, be and they are THAT subject to the passing of resolution 13, a director.
approved and the directors be and they the directors be empowered under section are authorised to do all acts and things 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to distribute Mr Chambers is a non-executive director necessary to establish and carry them company shares for cash in connection with of the company and chairman of its into effect: an offer of shares, for a period determined by Remuneration Committee.
He has been the directors, by way of rights to holders of 134 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave ordinary shares on the register on a xed 1.
The insertion of new sub-paragraphs iii The Register of Directors Shareholdings date in proportion to their respective and iv in article 99 F : will be available for reference at the AGM.
holdings or in accordance with the rights iii the giving to him of any other attached to them but subject to such indemnity where all other directors Members entitled to attend and vote at the exclusions or other arrangements as the are being offered indemnities on AGM are entitled to appoint one or more directors may deem necessary or expedient substantially the same terms proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead to deal with fractional entitlements that iv the funding by the company of his of them: a proxy need not be a member.
would otherwise arise, or with legal or expenditure on defending To be effective, proxies must be lodged at practical problems under the law or proceedings or the doing by the Computershare Investor Services PLC, requirements of any regulatory body or stock company of anything to enable him Registrars, PO Box 435, Owen House, exchange in any territory up to an aggregate to avoid incurring such expenditure 8 Bankhead Crossway North, Edinburgh nominal value of 3,777,564 being not more where all other directors are being EH11 4BR, no later than 48 hours before than five per cent of the issued ordinary offered substantially the same the time of the meeting.
share capital of the company.
Shareholders may appoint a proxy The authority will expire on the date of the 2.
The deletion of the existing article 144 and electronically.
To submit a proxy form via next AGM after the passing of the substitution therefore of the following: the internet, shareholders will need an resolution, although the directors may still internet-enabled PC with Internet Explorer distribute shares to complete an offer or 144.
Indemnity of directors 4 or Netscape 4 or above.
A shareholder agreement made before the expiry date.
Subject to the provisions of the reference number SRN and Personal Companies Acts, the company Identi cation Number PIN, both of which Resolution 15 may indemnify any director of the are on the proxy form, are required to THAT the company be authorised to make company or of any associated access the service.
The electronic proxy one or more market purchases of company company against any liability and appointment service is optional.
shares see Section 163 3 of the may purchase and maintain for Shareholders may continue to submit their Companies Act 1985 on the London Stock any director of the company or of proxy card by post, if preferred.
Exchange of up to the lesser of: any associated company insurance against any liability.
Under regulation 20 and schedule 4 of the i 30.2m ordinary shares of 25 pence each Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001, being 10 per cent of the companys The company may also fund a only shareholders on the Register of issued ordinary share capital as at 22 directors expenditure on Members as at 12 noon on 24 April 2006 February 2006 defending proceedings or in will be entitled to attend or vote at the AGM connection with any application in respect of the number of ordinary shares ii 10 per cent of the companys issued under the Companies Acts and registered in their name at that time.
ordinary share capital as at the date this may do anything to enable a Changes to entries in the Register after resolution is passed director to avoid incurring such 12 noon on 24 April 2006 will be expenditure all as provided in the disregarded in determining the rights of any at a price per share of not less than 25 pence Companies Acts.
person to attend or vote at the meeting.
and not more than 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations as 3.
The renumbering of the sub-paragraphs derived from the London Stock Exchange in article 99 F and any relevant crossDaily Of cial List for the five business days references to take account of the above.
prior to the day of purchase.
Unless revoked or varied, this authority will expire at the By order of the board conclusion of the company AGM in 2007, although the company may still buy shares at any later date in order to ful l a contract or contracts made before the expiry date.
Hywel Rees Company Secretary Resolution 16 150 Holborn THAT the companys articles of association London EC1N 2LR be amended as follows: 16 March 2006 135 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
