OPERATING ACTIVITIES MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Smith & Nephews customers are the various providers of medical and surgical services worldwide.
In certain parts of the world, including the UK, much of Continental Europe, Australia, Canada and South Africa, these are largely governmental organisations funded by tax revenues.
In the US, the Groups major customers are public and private hospitals, many of which have combined to form large purchasing groups and receive revenue from private health insurance and governmental reimbursement programmes.
In the US, Medicare is the major source of reimbursement for knee and  and for  regimes.
Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
In many countries, providers are under pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare delivery.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as amongst the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in the long term.
Smith & Nephew competes against both specialised and multinational corporations, includingthose withgreater financial, marketingand other resources.
The Groups customers reflect the wide range of distribution channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries worldwide.
The largest single customers worldwide are the National Health Service in the UK and HealthTrust in the US.
Sales to these customers in 2005 represented approximately 5% and 4% of the Groups worldwiderevenue respectively.
In the US the Groups products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities.
Each business unit operates a separate specialised sales force.
Within the orthopaedics business further specialisation of the sales force continues to be introduced progressively for reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapy products.
In both orthopaedics reconstruction and endoscopy the US sales forces consist largely of independent commissioned sales agents who are managed by a mix of independent agents and the Groups own managers.
These agents are not permitted contractually to sell products that compete with Smith & Nephews.
In both businesses, products are shipped and invoiced directly to the ultimate customer.
The trauma and clinical therapies and advanced wound management businesses in the US operate sales forces of their own employees who market directly to the ultimate customer.
In the US, trauma and clinical therapy products are shipped and invoiced directly to the ultimate customer whereas advanced wound management products are shipped and invoicedto a numberof large wholesale distributors.
In the other direct markets of the UK, Ireland, France, Germany, Italy, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Japan the business units manage separate sales forces directly.
Except in Australia and New Zealand where independent sales agents are used the sales forces of the direct markets comprise employees and market directly to the ultimate customer.
The indirect markets unit comprises direct selling and marketingoperations inAustria, Belgium, Denmark, Eastern Europe, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, China, Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, South Africa, Mexico and Puerto Rico.
In these markets orthopaedics and endoscopy frequently share sales resources.
The advanced wound management sales force is separate since it calls on different customers.
In all other countries Smith & Nephew sells to third party distributors whichmarket the Groups products locally.
In Continental Europe, the Group operates three centralised distribution facilities.
Orthopaedics operates a facility in Paris which acts as a central holding and consolidation point for Continental European stock and stock returns.
Product is shipped to Group companies who hold small amounts of stock locally for immediate or urgent customer requirements.
Advanced wound management operates distribution centres at Nijmegen, Netherlands and Gothenburg, Sweden from where stock is shipped directly to the ultimate customer in most European markets.
MANUFACTURE AND SUPPLY Where management considers that the Group possesses a core competence its policy is to manufacture products internally whenever possible to ensure quality, regulatory and cost goals are met.
The Group invests in the expansion of its manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet these aims.
The Group may outsource some manufacturing for several reasons including requirements for specialised expertise, where appropriate to achieve lowercosts of productionand due to capacity constraints.
13 Where products and services are outsourced, suppliers are determined based on a number of factors which include the complexity of the product, manufacturing technology, manufacturing capabilities, cost competitiveness and intellectual property.
Suppliers are selected based on their capability to provide products and services, their ability to establish and maintain a quality system and their financial stability.
Suppliers are monitored by on-site assessments and on-going monitoring of delivered products.
Ongoing product assurance is maintainedby effective quality plans.
Each business unit purchases raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials from certain key suppliers.
These comprise principally metal forgings and stampings for orthopaedics, optical and electronic sub-components and finished goods for endoscopy, active ingredients and finished goods for advanced wound management and packaging materials for all businesses.
Management believes that whilst prices of principal raw materials can be volatile the effect is not material to the Group.
Finished goods purchased for resale are primarily SUPARTZ joint lubricant and the BHR hip resurfacing product in the orthopaedic business, screen displays and electrical devices in the endoscopy business and enzyme debrider agents and ACTICOAT in the advanced woundmanagement business.
SEASONALITY Smith & Nephews revenues are generally at their highest in quarter four of any year.
This is caused by the relatively high number of accidents and sports injuries which occur in the North American and European autumn and winter seasons which increase revenues of orthopaedic and endoscopy products and by the higher rates of elective surgery inthe quarter.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The business units each manage a portfolio of short and long-term product development projects designed to meet the future needs of their customers and to continue to provide growth opportunities for their businesses.
The Groups research and development is directed towards all three business segments.
Expenditure on research and development amounted to 67m in 2005 2004 66m, 2003 67m, representing approximately 5% of groupturnover 2004 5%, 2003 6%.
The Groups principal research facility is located in York, England.
The Groups research programme seeks to underpin the longer-term technology requirements for its businesses and to provide a flow of innovative products.
The Group continues to invest in future technology opportunities, particularly bio-resorbable materials, tissue engineering and non-invasive healing devices across the Group.
In-house research is supplemented by work .
Product development is carried out at the Groups principal locations, notably in Memphis, Tennessee orthopaedics, Andover and Mansfield, Massachusetts endoscopy and Hull, England advanced wound management.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Management believes that the Groups policy concerning intellectual property rights promotes innovation in its businesses.
Smith & Nephew has a policy of protecting, with patents, the results of the research and development carried out by the Group.
Patents have been obtained for a wide range of products, including those in the fields of orthopaedic, endoscopic and advanced wound management technologies.
Patent protection for Group products is sought routinely in the Groups principal markets.
Currently, the Groups patent portfolio stands at over 2,300 existing patents and patent applications.
Smith & Nephew also has a policy of protecting the Groups products in the markets in which they are sold by registering trademarks as soon as possible under local laws.
The Group vigorously protects its trademarks against infringement and currently is not aware of any significant infringement of its trademark registrations.
The present trademark portfolioof the Group consists of over 3,300 trademarks and design rights.
Smith & Nephews principal products are protected by intellectual property comprising patents, licences and know-how, and it strives to provide a collection of intellectual property for each major product that reduces the risk associated with failure of any individual piece of intellectual property.
In addition, most pieces of intellectual property protect a relatively small proportion of the Groups annual revenue.
As a result, the Group tries to ensure that its overall business is not sensitive to the loss however caused of any single piece of intellectual property.
14 In addition to maintaining a policy of protecting its market position by the filing and enforcement of patents and trademarks, Smith & Nephew has a policy of opposing third party patents and trademarks in those areas that mightconflictwiththe Groups business interests.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group enters into a number of licensing arrangements with respect to its products.
None of these arrangements individually is considered material to the operations and the financial results of the Group.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT TheGroups  as follows: Approximate area Square feet 000s Group Head Office inLondon, England................................................ 15 Group research facility inYork, England................................................ 83 Orthopaedics headquarters and  inMemphis, Tennessee.............. 784 Orthopaedics distributionfacility inMemphis, Tennessee................................. 102 Orthopaedics  inMemphis, Tennessee............................... 84  inAndover, Massachusetts..................................... 112  inMansfield, Massachusetts............................. 98  inOklahomaCity, Oklahoma............................. 100 Advanced WoundManagement headquarters and  inHull, England........ 546 Advanced WoundManagement  inGilberdyke, England................. 269 Advanced WoundManagement  inLargo, Florida....................... 188 The orthopaedic headquarters and manufacturing facilities in Memphis and the advanced wound management facilities in Hull, Gilberdyke and Largo are freehold while all other  leasehold.
TheGroup has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in other countries throughout the world, but no other is significant individuallyto the Group.
Whererequired, the appropriate governmental authoritieshave approved the facilities.
During 2005 the Group announced the closure of two of its manufacturing locations.
The endoscopy facility in Andover, Massachusetts will be closed gradually during 2006 and its production relocated partly to other endoscopy facilities and partly out-sourced to third party suppliers.
Production at the advanced wound management facility in La Jolla, California has ceased following the decision to exit its tissue engineering operations and the facility willbe closed inthe first quarter of 2006.
As a result of its rapid rate of sales growth in recent years and anticipated continuing strong demand for its products, the orthopaedics business increased its manufacturing capacity and administrative facilities in 2005 in line with its capacity expansion plans.
Additional freehold manufacturing space of 104,000 square feet and leasehold administrative space of 84,000 square feet were acquiredinMemphis.
During 2005, in the UK, new leasehold facilities for the development, manufacture and distribution of BHR products were acquired in the Warwick area and consolidated with the UK Orthopaedics operations.
The expansion in the Groups facilities did not and is not expected to have a material impact on liquidity and resources.
15 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to product liability and various legal proceedings, some of which include claims for substantial damages, which are considered to constitute ordinary and routine litigation incidental to the businesses conducted by the Group.
The outcome of such proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but other than as detailed below management believes that they will not result in any material adverse effect onthe  of operations of the Group.
In August 2003 the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe, the first component having been implanted in December 2001.
The product was withdrawn when management became aware of a higher than usual percentage of reports of early revisions revisions are implants which need to be replaced.
It appears that some patients do not achieve adequate initial fixation and that in other patients, while there appears to be good initial fixation, this does not persevere.
Smith & Nephew has extensively tested and investigated the cause of these early revisions.
A group of medical and scientific experts retained and managed by the Groups defence lawyers is expected to finish its workinthis regard inmid-2006.
As at 31 December 2005 955 implants had been revised and settlements agreed with patients in respect of 771 of these revisions.
The total amount paid out in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses was 78m of which 32m was recovered from the insurer that provides the primary layer and 65% of the first excess layer in the Groups global product liability programme.
The balance of 46m is due from insurers in respect of the remainderof the first excess layer and the second excess layer.
In December 2004 the Group was notified that two insurance carriers who comprise 35% of the first and 80% of the second excess layers of the Groups global product liability programme had declined coverage for macrotextured claims due to differences in the interpretation of the policy wording.
In December 2005 the other insurance carrier with a 20% participation in the second excess layer declined coverage.
Management intends to take all steps available to it in order to enforce this coverage.
A charge of 80m representing the amount outstanding from these insurers and an estimate of the cost associated with claims likely to arise in the future assuming that insurance cover continues to be unavailable from these and subsequent excess layer insurers was recorded in 2004.
Apart from the impact of translational exchange rate movements there has been no changeto the estimated liabilityduring2005.
The charge was calculated based on: 1 the amount outstanding at 31 December 2004 from the insurers who declined coverage: 2 an estimate of the average cost in respect of revisions where claims were unresolved at that date: and 3 an estimate of the number of settlements of future revisions based on the current trend and decaying to zero after five years and an estimation of the average future cost per settlement.
The amount of provision remaining at 31 December 2005 to cover pending claims and claims in respect of future revisions, assuming noinsurancecoveris available, was 44m, whichmanagement believes is adequate.
As at 24 February 2006, 964 implants had been revised and settlements agreed with patients in respect of 796 of these revisions.
The Groups assessment of the impact of these revisions and related matters constitute forward looking statements that are subject to uncertainties, including uncertainties relating to the outcome of settlements as compared to the assumptions made in estimating claim amounts.
Smith & Nephew cannot provide assurance that these estimates will prove correct.
Depending on the number and average cost of future settlements, costs may be greater orless than the amountprovided see Risk Factors.
In March 2005 the US Attorneys Office in Newark, New Jersey issued a subpoena to the Groups orthopaedic business asking for copies of its consulting, professional service and remuneration agreements with orthopaedic reconstructive surgeons.
Four of the divisions major competitors received similar subpoenas.
The Company is co-operating fully with the US Attorney, has provided copies of the requested contracts and is gathering additional documentswhichhave also been requested.
