NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS 1.
General Information Smith & Nephew plc the Company is a publicly limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
In these accounts, Group means the Company and all its subsidiaries.
 of the Group are described inDescriptionof the Group Business Description.
Presentation of financial information From 1 January 2005, as required by the European Unions IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 1985, the Group has prepared its accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU differ in certain respects from IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
However the Group accounts for the years presented would be no different had the Group applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter shouldbe construedas reference to IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Accounting Policies  inthe preparation of the Groups accountsare set out below: Basis of Preparation The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Smith & Nephew plc the Company and all the subsidiaries and associated undertakingsfor the periods duringwhichthey were members of the Group.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are included in the Group accounts from the date that the Group obtains control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses ontransactions between groupcompaniesare eliminated onconsolidation.
On acquisition, identifiable assets and liabilities  of subsidiaries are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition with any excess of the cost of acquisition over this value being capitalised as goodwill.
Interest in Joint Venture A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The Groups interest in the results and assets and liabilities of its joint venture, which is a jointly controlled entity, are included in the accounts using the equity method of accounting.
Interest in Associated Undertaking Entities in which the Group has a beneficial interest of 50% or less in the equity capital and where the Group exercises significant influence over commercial and financial policy decisions are associated undertakings.
The Groups interest in the results and assets and liabilities of the associated undertaking are included in the accountsusingthe equity method of accounting.
Non-Current Assets Held for Sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale rather than from continued use.
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of their carrying 76 2.
Accounting Policies continued amount and fair value less costs to sell.
IFRS 5: Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which determines when an entity ceases to be consolidated, has been applied with effect from 1 January 2005.
Revenue Revenue comprises sales of products and services to third parties at amounts invoiced net of trade discounts and rebates, excluding taxes on revenue.
Revenue from the sale of products is recognised upon transfer to the customer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
This is generally when goods are despatched to customers except that sales of inventory located at customer premises and available for customers immediate use are recognised as soon as notification is received that the product has been implanted or used.
Appropriate provisions for returns, trade discounts and rebates are deducted from revenue.
Rebates comprise retrospective volume discounts granted to certain customers on attainment of certain levels of purchases from the Group.
These are accrued over the course of the year based on estimates of the level of business expected and adjusted at the end of the year to reflect actual volumes.
ForeignCurrencies Balance sheet items of foreign operations and foreign currency borrowings are translated into Sterling at year end rates of exchange.
Income statement items and the cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakingsand associated undertakingsare translated at average rates for the year.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreignentity and translated at the closingrate.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange rulingat the balance sheet date.
The following are recorded as movements in other reserves: exchange differences on the translation at closing rates of exchange of overseas opening net assets: the differences arising between the translation of profits at average and closing exchange rates: and, to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective, the difference on translation of foreign currency borrowings or swaps that are used to finance or hedge the Groups net investments in foreign operations.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in arriving at profit before taxation.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation, net of related movements on hedging instruments, would be recycledfrom equity intoincome.
Taxation The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the correspondingtax bases used incomputationof taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of investments in subsidiaries and associates where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that this will not reverse in the foreseeable future: on the initial recognition of non-deductible goodwill: and on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a , , .
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date onthe same basis.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis, and at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled.
It is recognised in the income statement except when it relates , .
Accounting Policies continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authorityand whenthe Group intends to settle its currenttax assets and liabilities ona net basis.
AdvertisingCosts Expenditure onadvertising costs is expensed as incurred.
Intangible Fixed Assets Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book value as at this date.
Goodwill recognised subsequent to 1 January 2003, representing the excess of purchase consideration over fair value of net assets acquired, is capitalised.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairmentannually.
Purchased intangibles, including purchased patents, know-how, trademarks, licences and distribution rights are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The amortisation of intangibles acquired as part of a business combination is presented separately after trading profit but before operating profit.
The estimated useful life of an intangible asset ranges between 3 and 20 years depending onits nature.
Research and Development The Group considers that the regulatory, technical and market uncertainties inherent in the development of new products means that development costs should not be capitalised as intangible fixed assets until products receive approval from the appropriate regulatory body.
Substantially all development expenditure is complete by the time the product is submitted for regulatory approval.
Consequently expenditure on research and development is expensed as incurred.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment where appropriate.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis at between 2% and 5% per annum.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful lives and the terms of the leases.
Plant and equipment is depreciated over lives ranging between three and 20 years by equal annual instalments to write down the assets to their estimated disposal value at the end of their workinglives.
Financecosts relating to the purchase of fixed assets are not capitalised.
Impairment of Assets Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to cash-generating units equivalent to the reported business segments.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amountof the  whichit belongs.
LeasingCommitments Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownershipto the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised as property, plant or equipment and depreciated accordingly.
The capital element of future lease payments is included in borrowings and interest is charged to profit before .
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Accounting Policies continued Investments In 2003 and 2004 trade investments were stated at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
From 1 January 2005, after initial recognition at fair value plus transaction costs, these are designated as available for sale financial assets.
Investments in unlisted equity instruments are measured at cost as management believe that their fair value cannot be reliably measured.
Losses relating to impairment are recognisedas an expense immediately.
Inventories Finished goods and work-in-progress are valued at factory cost, including appropriate overheads, on a first-in first-out basis.
Raw materials and bought in finished goods are valued at purchase price.
All inventoriesare reduced to net realisable value where lowerthan cost.
Orthopaedic instruments are generally not sold but loaned to customers and distributors for use in orthopaedic surgery.
They are recorded as inventory until they are deployed at which point they are transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
DerivativeFinancial Instruments In 2004 and 2003 currency swaps to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities were translated into Sterling at year-end exchange rates.
Changes in the principal values of currency swaps were matched in reserves against changes in the values of the related assets.
The fixed rate element of currency swaps and interest rate swaps transacted to protect interest costs and interest income were accounted for as hedges.
Changes in the values of interest rate hedges were recognised against interest in the period relating to the hedge.
From 1 January 2005, derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value and then for reportingpurposes remeasured to fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast third party and intercompany transactions are recognised directly in equity until the associated asset or liability is recognised.
Amounts deferred in this way are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitments or forecasted transactions are recognisedinthe incomestatement.
Currency swaps to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities are fair valued at year end.
Changes in the principal values of currency swaps that are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched inequity against changes invalue of the related assets.
Ineffective hedges and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accountingare recognisedinthe incomestatement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained there until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulativegainorloss recognisedinequity is transferred to the incomestatement for the period.
Retirement Benefits The Groups major pension plans are of the defined benefit type.
For these plans, the employers portion of past and current service cost is charged to trading profit, with the interest cost net of expected return on assets in the plans reported within other finance costs.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised directly in equity such that the balance sheet reflects the entire schemes surplus or deficit as at the balance sheet date.
Where defined contribution plans operate the contributions to these plans are charged to trading profit as they become payable.
Share Based Payments The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using an option pricing model and the correspondingexpense is recognisedover the vesting period.
