OPERATING ENVIRONMENT REGULATION The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that shouldbe allotted to suchdevelopment.
National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare and pharmaceutical products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that products be authorised or registered prior to manufacture, marketing or sale and that such authorisation or registration be subsequently maintained.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith & Nephews products are the FDA in the US, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK and the Ministry for Health Labour and Welfare in Japan.
Payment for many medical device products is governed by reimbursement tariff agencies ineach individualcountry.
The trend in recent years has been towards greater regulation and higher standards of technical appraisal, which generally entail lengthy inspections for compliance with appropriate standards, including regulations such as good manufacturing practices.
Smith & Nephew believes that these recent changes will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and the results of operations.
All significant facilities within the Group are subject to regular internal audit for medical device regulatory compliance with national and Group standards and policies.
Smith & Nephew believes that the Groups operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Although the Group continues to make capital expenditure for environmental compliance, it is not currently aware of any significant expenditure that would be required as a result of suchlaws and regulationsthat wouldhave a material adverse impact uponthe Groups financialcondition.
PRODUCT LIABILITY The Group monitors the safety of its products from initial product development through to product use or application.
In addition, the businesses of the Group analyse on a worldwide basis reports of adverse reactions and complaints relating to its products.
Each business reviews these adverse reactions and complaints and any safety matters arising with independent medical advisors.
These conclusions are subsequently reviewed by the Groups independent medical advisor.
Product liability is a commercial risk for the industry of which the Group is a part, particularly in the US.
Smith & Nephew has implemented systems it believes are appropriate in respect of loss control techniques.
These include reporting mechanisms to ensure early notification of complaints and a legal department which manages  and lawsuits.
The Group carries product liability insurance to cover exposure as far as practicable.
With the exception of the macrotextured product liability claim, discussed under Legal Proceedings, and Risk Factors instances of loss to the Group arising from product liability claims have been covered either directly by the Group or by insurance.
Apart from the macrotextured claims, there are no individual product liability claims, and no group of similar claims, that are expected to have a material adverse effect onthe Groups financialposition.
There can be no assurance that consumers, particularly in the US, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the future or that the Group will continue to resolve such claims within insurance limits in view of changing legal doctrines and attitudes regardingsuchmatters.
See Risk Factors  and Loss of Reputation.
11 RISK MANAGEMENT Smith & Nephews products include implantable devices but are not life support medical devices.
If these devices malfunction, they could damage or impair the repair of body functions.
Management believes that the Groups quality, regulatory and medical controls and insurance cover is adequate and appropriate for this class of products.
The Groups reputation is crucially dependent on strong performance in this area and on appropriate crisismanagement if a serious medical  shouldoccur.
The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems, which accord with the Turnbull Guidance and have been in place for 2005 and to the date of approval of the report and accounts, involve: the identification, evaluation and management of key risks through a Risk Committee, whichreports to the Board annually:business reviews by the Board: and the review by the Audit Committee of internal financial controls and the risk management process.
These systems are reviewed annually by the Board.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, these systems are designed to identify and manage those risks that could adversely impact the achievement of the Groups objectives.
The Group maintains insurance against product, employers and directors and officers liabilities, and physical and consequential loss, subject to limits and deductibles.
The Group maintains liability provisions to cover known uninsured risks.
The Group has been advised that three insurers have declined coverage for macrotextured knee claims.
