NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS 1.
General Information Smith & Nephew plc the Company is a publicly limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
In these accounts, Group means the Company and all its subsidiaries.
 of the Group are described inDescriptionof the Group Business Description.
Presentation of financial information From 1 January 2005, as required by the European Unions IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 1985, the Group has prepared its accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU differ in certain respects from IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
However the Group accounts for the years presented would be no different had the Group applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter shouldbe construedas reference to IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Accounting Policies  inthe preparation of the Groups accountsare set out below: Basis of Preparation The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Smith & Nephew plc the Company and all the subsidiaries and associated undertakingsfor the periods duringwhichthey were members of the Group.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are included in the Group accounts from the date that the Group obtains control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses ontransactions between groupcompaniesare eliminated onconsolidation.
On acquisition, identifiable assets and liabilities  of subsidiaries are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition with any excess of the cost of acquisition over this value being capitalised as goodwill.
Interest in Joint Venture A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The Groups interest in the results and assets and liabilities of its joint venture, which is a jointly controlled entity, are included in the accounts using the equity method of accounting.
Interest in Associated Undertaking Entities in which the Group has a beneficial interest of 50% or less in the equity capital and where the Group exercises significant influence over commercial and financial policy decisions are associated undertakings.
The Groups interest in the results and assets and liabilities of the associated undertaking are included in the accountsusingthe equity method of accounting.
Non-Current Assets Held for Sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale rather than from continued use.
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of their carrying 76
