28 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued 01 Smiths Medical, Keene, New Hampshire, US.
01 02 John Crane, Inc. litigation Report.
The Company expects to publish its 2004 05 full year As previously reported, John Crane, Inc. John Crane, a results restated under IFRS in late Autumn 2005.
Smiths has subsidiary of the Company, is one of many co-defendants continued to report its consolidated accounts in accordance in numerous law suits pending in the United States in which with UK GAAP for 2004 05. plaintiffs are claiming damages arising from exposure to, or The programme to effect the transition to IFRS is well advanced.
use of, products containing asbestos.
The John Crane products The project has involved a detailed assessment of the impact of generally referred to in these cases are ones in which the IFRS on Smiths accounting policies and reported results, system asbestos fibres were encapsulated in such a manner that, changes, training of staff and communications.
As part of the according to tests conducted on behalf of John Crane, the transition to IFRS, on 6 July 2005, information about Smiths IFRS products were safe.
John Crane ceased manufacturing accounting policies and the interim results to 31 January 2005, products containing asbestos in 1985. and July 2004 and January 2005 balance sheets, were restated John Crane has resisted every case in which it has been named in order to enable an early understanding of the effect of IFRS and will continue its robust defence of all asbestos-related on the Companys financial reporting.
A copy of this information claims based upon this safe product defence.
In addition, is available on the website www.
John Crane has access to insurance cover which, while it is The consolidated shareholders funds as at 1 August 2004 kept under review, is judged sufficient to meet all material restated for IFRS may be summarised as follows: costs of defending these claims for the foreseeable future.
1 August 2004 m As a result of its defence policy, John Crane has been dismissed before trial from cases involving approximately Shareholders funds under UK GAAP 1,122.5 113,000 claims over the last 26 years.
John Crane is currently Development expenditure capitalised 65.1 a defendant in cases involving approximately 174,000 claims.
Dividend reversal 102.5 Despite these large numbers of claims, John Crane has had Deferred tax 2.9 final judgments against it, after appeals, in only 46 cases, Other adjustments 6.2 amounting to awards of some US$39m over the 26-year 1,281.0 period.
These awards, the related interest and all material defence costs have been met in full by insurance.
Principal impacts of IFRS are as follows: No provision relating to this litigation has been made in Research and development these accounts.
Under UK GAAP, research and development expenditure, other than that recoverable from third parties, is written off International Financial Reporting Standards in the year in which it is incurred.
From August 2005 onwards, in common with all listed companies Under IAS38 Intangible Assets, the Company is required in the European Union, Smiths will be required to prepare its to capitalise the cost of developments which meet certain consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial recognition criteria, including the technical feasibility and Reporting Standards IFRS.
As a result, the Financial Statements probable future economic benefits arising from the project.
for 2004 05 are the last to be prepared under existing UK This expenditure is then amortised over the anticipated Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
future life of the resulting income stream.
The first financial information to be reported by the Group Customer-funded and unfunded development projects are in accordance with IFRS will be for the six months ending treated on a similar basis, although the increased risk implicit 31 January 2006, but the requirement to present comparative in most funded development projects means that the criteria information means that a balance sheet as at 31 July 2004 for capitalisation are less likely to be met.
Where costs are and primary statements for 2004 05, prepared under IFRS, will capitalised on funded development contracts, the associated also be required for comparison purposes in the 2006 Annual 29 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued funding is held as a deferred liability on the balance sheet, and Share-based payment released to the income statement in step with the amortisation Smiths operates a number of share-based incentive schemes of the capitalised intangible asset.
both awards of options and awards of shares that are impacted by IFRS2 Share-based Payment.
Under UK GAAP, Research costs and development costs which do not meet the Smiths recognises an expense based on the intrinsic value of relevant capitalisation criteria are written off in the year in which the options the difference between the exercise price and the they are incurred.
market value at the date of the award, other than for Save-AsAs a result of this policy, net assets as at 1 August 2004 before You-Earn schemes for which UK GAAP includes an exemption deferred tax adjustment increased by 65.1m.
Intangible assets goodwill Under IFRS, the cost of all share-based payments is based Under UK GAAP, goodwill on businesses acquired by the Group on the fair value of the options or shares at the date of grant after 1 August 1998 is capitalised and amortised on a straightcalculated using an appropriate pricing model: the cost is line basis over its anticipated future life up to a maximum of recognised over the vesting period of the award.
Goodwill in respect of businesses acquired prior basis of accounting for share-based payment does not have a to 1 August 1998 was set off against reserves in the year of significant impact on the Groups net assets at 1 August 2004. acquisition.
On subsequent disposal of a business acquired Retirement benefits prior to 1 August 1998, purchased goodwill previously set off Under UK GAAP, the Company had already adopted FRS17 against reserves is recycled and included in the profit or loss Retirement Benefits.
Under FRS17, the assets and liabilities of on disposal of the business.
the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are recognised at Under IFRS, from 1 August 2004 onwards, goodwill will no longer fair value in the balance sheet and the operating and financing be amortised, but will instead be subject to annual impairment costs of defined benefit pension schemes are recognised in the review.
On disposal of a business acquired before 1 August 1998, profit and loss account as operating costs and finance costs goodwill set off against reserves will no longer be recycled as respectively.
Variations from expected costs arising from the part of the profit or loss on disposal of that business.
experience of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the Statement of Total Recognised Intangible assets other Gains and Losses.
IAS38 requires intangible assets arising on acquisitions after 1 August 2004, Smiths transition date to IFRS, to be separately The change to IAS19 Employee Benefits does not give rise to identified and amortised over their useful economic life.
As a result, any significant change in the basis of accounting for pensions, intangible assets arising on acquisitions, such as trademarks and as Smiths will adopt early the option allowed under IAS19 customer relationships, will be separately valued and recognised, to take actuarial gains and losses immediately directly to and then amortised over their useful economic lives.
equity through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Changes are largely confined to presentation, in Dividends that retirement benefit scheme surpluses and deficits must Under UK GAAP, dividends relating to an accounting period be aggregated separately on the face of the balance sheet, but declared after the balance sheet date, are recognised as a and shown gross, rather than net, of deferred taxation.
liability even if the approval of that dividend took place after the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation Under UK GAAP, deferred tax is recognised in respect of Under IFRS, proposed dividends do not meet the definition all timing differences that have originated but not reversed of a liability until such time as they have been declared, and at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events have in the case of the final dividend, approved by shareholders at occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay the Annual General Meeting.
This results in a balance sheet more, or a right to pay less or to receive more tax.
reclassification from current liabilities to retained profit of 102.5m as at 1 August 2004.
