62 62 Smiths Gr Smiths Group pl oup plc c Annual r Annual report and ac eport and acc counts 2005 ounts 2005 Accounting policies Accounting policies Accounting convention valuation, less depreciation on the enhanced values calculated in The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies accordance with the policy set out above.
The directors have decided Act 1985, as amended and with all applicable financial reporting and to invoke the transitional provisions of FRS15 Tangible Fixed Assets, accounting standards under the historical cost convention modified and do not intend to revalue these properties every year.
to include the revaluation of certain properties.
Leased properties Basis of consolidation Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sub-let under terms such The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company that the rental income is insufficient to meet all outgoings, provision is and its subsidiaries.
made for the anticipated future shortfall up to termination of the lease.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has the power to Stocks govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a Stocks and work in progress are valued at cost, including related shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are production overheads, reduced to estimated net realisable value fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the where appropriate.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Financial instruments Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Financial assets are recognised in the balance sheet at the lower fair value of the Companys share of the identifiable net assets of the of cost and net realisable value.
Financial liabilities are recognised acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Identifiable net assets at amortised cost.
Discounts, premia and related costs of issue are include intangible assets other than goodwill.
Any such intangible charged or credited to the profit and loss account over the life of the assets are amortised over their expected future lives.
asset or liability to which they relate.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries before 1 August 1998 The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its is set against reserves.
Goodwill impairment on prospective disposals exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
is recognised through the profit and loss account.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries after 1 August 1998 on an accruals basis over the life of the instrument.
is included in intangible assets.
It is capitalised at cost and amortised Foreign currency assets and liabilities covered by forward contracts on a straight-line basis over an estimated useful economic life of up are translated at the contract rates of exchange.
Other assets and to 20 years.
liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates.
Turnover Foreign currencies Turnover comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, The profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries are translated net of trade discounts and sales related taxes, and the value of work into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
undertaken during the year on long-term funded contracts.
Turnover is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying sale have Exchange adjustments arising from the retranslation of opening been transferred to the customer, which is usually where title passes.
net assets in overseas subsidiaries and their results for the year at closing rates, and the translation of foreign currency borrowings Long-term funded contracts to match overseas investments, are taken to the statement of total Where the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably, turnover recognised gains and losses.
All other exchange gains and losses and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of are taken to the profit and loss account.
the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
The Group uses the percentage of completion method to determine the appropriate Taxation amount to recognise in a given period.
The assessment of the stage Deferred tax is recognised in respect of timing differences that of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will have originated but not reversed as at the balance sheet date.
Timing generally be based on the extent to which the Company has obtained differences are differences between the Groups taxable profits and the right to consideration in exchange for performance under the its results as disclosed in the accounts, arising from the inclusion of contract.
If a contract is expected to be loss-making, a provision is gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those recognised for the entire loss.
in which they are recognised in the accounts.
Research and development Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of Expenditure, other than that recoverable from third parties, is written overseas subsidiaries and associates only to the extent that, at the off in the year in which it is incurred.
This includes expenditure on balance sheet date, dividends have been declared or an obligation unfunded development contracts.
is present to distribute past earnings.
Deferred tax is not recognised on any fixed assets that have been revalued unless there is a binding Tangible fixed assets agreement to sell the asset.
Depreciation is provided at rates estimated to write off the relevant assets by equal annual amounts over their expected useful lives.
Post-retirement benefits In general, the rates used are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings For defined benefit schemes, the cost of benefits accruing during 2%, Short leasehold property over the period of the lease, Plant, the year in respect of current and past service is charged against machinery, etc.
10% to 20%, Motor vehicles 25%, Tools and other operating profit.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the equipment 10% to 33%.
increase in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in other finance income.
Actuarial Fixed assets held under finance leases are capitalised and gains and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised depreciated in accordance with the Companys depreciation policy.
The balance sheet includes the surplus deficit in The capital element of future lease payments is included in creditors.
schemes taking assets at their year-end market values and liabilities Payments made under operating leases are charged to the profit and at their actuarially calculated values discounted at year-end AA loss account as incurred over the term of the lease.
Freehold properties Amounts charged in respect of defined contribution schemes are the These financial statements include certain properties at 1974 contributions payable in the year.
