Additional Information 159 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY Directors are not required to retire at For all general meetings, a quorum of two AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in England a particular age.
shareholders present in person or by proxy and Wales on 17 June 1992 under the is required.
It is a public limited Directors are required to beneficially own company domiciled in the UK.
The Companys Ordinary Shares in the Company of an aggregate Shareholders and their duly appointed proxies registered number is 2723534 and its registered nominal amount of $125.
At present, this and corporate representatives are entitled to office is at 15 Stanhope Gate, London W1K means they must own at least 500 shares.
be admitted to general meetings.
From February 1993 until April 1999, the Company Rights, preferences and restrictions Limitations on the rights to own shares was called Zeneca Group PLC.
On 6 April attaching to shares There are no limitations on the rights to 1999, the Company changed its name to The share capital of the Company is divided own shares.
into 2,400,000,000 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of $0.25 each and 50,000 The Company was formed when the Redeemable Preference Shares with a nominal pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty value of 1.00 each.
The rights and restrictions chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical attaching to the Redeemable Preference Industries PLC were demerged in 1993.
Shares differ from those attaching to Ordinary In 1999, the Company sold the specialty Shares as follows: chemical business.
Also in 1999, the Company merged with Astra AB of Sweden.
In 2000, The Redeemable Preference Shares carry it demerged the agrochemical business and no rights to receive dividends.
merged it with the similar agribusiness of Novartis AG to form a new company called The holders of Redeemable Preference Syngenta AG.
Shares have no rights to receive notices of, attend or vote at general meetings except The Company owns and operates numerous in certain limited circumstances.
They have R&D, production and marketing facilities one vote for every 50,000 Redeemable worldwide.
Its corporate headquarters are Preference Shares held.
at 15 Stanhope Gate, London W1K 1LN and its R&D headquarters are at SE-151 85 On a distribution of assets of the Company, Sdertlje, Sweden.
on a winding-up or other return of capital subject to certain exceptions, the holders MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION of Redeemable Preference Shares have Objects priority over the holders of Ordinary Shares As is typical of companies registered in to receive the capital paid up on those England and Wales, the Companys objects, shares.
which are detailed in the Memorandum of Association, are broad and wide-ranging and Subject to the provisions of the Companies include manufacturing, distributing and trading Act 1985, the Company has the right to pharmaceutical products.
redeem the Redeemable Preference Shares at any time on giving not less than Directors seven days written notice.
Subject to certain exceptions, Directors do not have power to vote at Board meetings on Action necessary to change the rights matters in which they have a material interest.
of shareholders In order to vary the rights attached to any class The quorum for meetings of the Board of of shares, the consent in writing of the holders Directors is a majority of the full Board, of of three quarters in nominal value of the issued whom at least four must be Non-Executive shares of that class or the sanction of an Directors.
In the absence of a quorum, the extraordinary resolution passed at a general Directors do not have power to determine meeting of such holders is required.
compensation arrangements for themselves or any member of the Board.
Annual general meetings and extraordinary general meetings The Board of Directors may exercise all the Annual general meetings and extraordinary powers of the Company to borrow money.
general meetings where a special resolution Variation of these borrowing powers would is to be passed or a Director is to be appointed require the passing of a special resolution require 21 clear days notice to shareholders.
All other extraordinary general meetings require 14 clear days notice.
