AstraZeneca Annual Report and 116 Form 20-F Information 2005 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 2005 2004 2003 $m $m $m Commitments Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in these accounts 220 298 421 Included in the above total are contracts related to certain product purchase and licence agreements with deferred consideration obligations, the amounts of which are variable depending upon particular milestone achievements.
Sales of the products to which these milestones relate could give rise to additional payments, contingent upon the sales levels achieved.
Guarantees and contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, for which no security has been given, are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
During December 2005 AstraZeneca entered into three collaboration agreements with Protherics PLC, Targacept, Inc. and AtheroGenics, Inc. for initial consideration of $41m, $10m and $50m respectively.
The transactions were completed in January 2006.
All the collaboration agreements have deferred consideration obligations, dependent upon particular milestone events.
AstraZeneca also entered into an agreement in December 2005 to acquire the total share capital of KuDOS Pharmaceuticals Limited for $210m.
The transaction was completed in January 2006.
Arrangements with Merck Introduction In 1982, Astra AB set up a joint venture with Merck & Co. Inc. for the purposes of selling, marketing and distributing certain Astra products in the US.
In 1998, this joint venture was restructured the Restructuring.
Under the agreements relating to the Restructuring the Agreements, a US limited partnership was formed, in which Merck is the limited partner and AstraZeneca is the general partner, and AstraZeneca obtained control of the joint ventures business subject to certain limited partner and other rights held by Merck and its affiliates.
These rights provide Merck with safeguards over the activities of the partnership and place limitations on AstraZenecas commercial freedom to operate.
The Agreements provide for: Annual contingent payments.
A payment to Merck in the event of a business combination between Astra and a third party in order for Merck to relinquish certain claims to that third partys products.
Termination arrangements which, if and when triggered, cause Merck to relinquish its interests in AstraZenecas products and activities.
These elements are discussed in further detail below together with a summary of their accounting treatments.
Annual contingent payments AstraZeneca makes ongoing payments to Merck based on sales of certain of its products in the US the contingent payments on the agreement products.
As a result of the merger of Astra and Zeneca in 1999, these contingent payments excluding those in respect of Prilosec and Nexium cannot be less than annual minimum sums between 2002 and 2007 ranging from $125m to $225m.
AstraZenecas payments have exceeded the minimum level in 2002 to 2005 and, other than the possible entry of a generic competitor to Toprol-XL, AstraZeneca has no reason to believe that the annual payments in the future will fall below the minimum obligations.
Payment in the event of a business combination On the merger of Astra and Zeneca, a one-time Lump Sum Payment of $809m was triggered.
As a result of this payment, Merck relinquished any claims it may have had to Zeneca products.
Termination arrangements The Agreements provided for arrangements and payments under which, subject to the exercise of certain options, the rights and interests in AstraZenecas activities and products held by Merck immediately prior to the merger would be terminated, including details of: The Advance Payment The Partial Retirement The First Option and True-Up The Loan Note Receivable The Second Option Advance Payment The merger between Astra and Zeneca triggered the first step in the termination arrangements.
Merck relinquished all rights, including contingent payments on future sales, to potential Astra products with no existing or pending US patents at the time of the merger.
As a result, AstraZeneca now has rights to such products and is relieved of potential obligations to Merck or restrictions in respect of those products including annual contingent payments, affording AstraZeneca substantial freedom to exploit the products as it sees fit.
At the time of the merger, the Advance Payment was paid.
It was calculated as the then net present value of $2.8bn discounted from 2008 to the date of merger at a rate of 13% per annum and amounted to $967m.
It is subject to a true-up in 2008, as discussed under First Option and True-Up below.
Financial Statements 117 25 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Partial Retirement In 2008, there will be a partial retirement of Mercks limited partnership interest by payment to Merck of an amount calculated as a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 on the relevant products, plus $750m.
Upon the Partial Retirement, Mercks rights in respect of certain of the agreement products will end.
The products covered by the Partial Retirement include Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort and Symbicort, the last of which is not yet launched in the US and is subject to approval by the FDA.
First Option and True-Up In 2008, a calculation will be made of the Appraised Value, being the net present value of the future contingent payments in respect of all agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, other than Prilosec and Nexium.
Payment of the Appraised Value to Merck in 2008 will take place only if Merck exercises the First Option.
Should Merck not exercise this option in 2008, AstraZeneca may exercise it in 2010 for a sum equal to the 2008 Appraised Value.
Contingent payments will continue from 2008 to 2010 if AstraZeneca exercises in 2010.
Upon exercise of the First Option Merck will relinquish its rights over the agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, other than Nexium and Prilosec.
If neither Merck nor AstraZeneca exercises the option, the contingent payment arrangements in respect of these agreement products will continue as will AstraZenecas other potential obligations and restrictions in respect of these products and the Appraised Value will not be paid.
Products covered by the First Option include Atacand, Plendil and certain compounds still in development, including Exanta.
In addition, in 2008 there will be a true-up of the Advance Payment.
The true-up amount will be based on a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 in respect of all the agreement products with the exception of Prilosec and Nexium subject to a minimum of $6.6bn, plus other defined amounts totalling $912m.
It is then reduced by the Appraised Value whether paid or not, the Partial Retirement and the Advance Payment at its undiscounted amount of $2.8bn to determine the true-up amount.
The true-up will be settled in 2008 irrespective of whether the First Option is exercised, and this could result in a further payment by AstraZeneca to Merck or a payment by Merck to AstraZeneca.
Should Merck exercise the First Option in 2008, AstraZeneca will make payments in respect of the Partial Retirement, the First Option and the trueup totalling a minimum of $4.7bn.
If AstraZeneca exercises the First Option in 2010, the combined effect of the amounts paid to Merck in 2008 and 2010 will total the same amount.
Loan Note Receivable Included in the assets and liabilities covered by the Restructuring is a loan note receivable by AstraZeneca from Merck with a face value of $1.4bn.
In 2008, at the same time as the settlement of the Partial Retirement and the true-up, Merck will settle the loan note receivable by paying AstraZeneca $1.4bn.
Second Option A Second Option exists whereby AstraZeneca has the option to re-purchase Mercks interests in Prilosec and Nexium in the US.
This option is exercisable by AstraZeneca two years after the exercise of the First Option, whether the First Option is exercised in either 2008 or 2010.
Exercise of the Second Option by AstraZeneca at a later date is also provided for in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided, in each case, that the First Option has been exercised.
The exercise price for the Second Option is the net present value of the future annual contingent payments on Prilosec and Nexium as determined at the time of exercise.
If the Second Option is exercised, Merck will then have relinquished all its interests in the partnership and the agreement products including rights to contingent payments.
General The precise amount and timing of settlements with Merck under the Partial Retirement, the First Option and the true-up cannot be determined at this time.
Various components of the calculations are based, in part, on net sales between 2005 and 2007 and on forecasted performance beyond 2007, and payment of the First Option is contingent upon Merck or AstraZeneca exercising the First Option.
Similarly, the timing and amount of the Second Option cannot be determined at this time.
With the exception of the interests in Nexium and Prilosec, the total of the payments yet to be made under the termination arrangements is based, in part, on the contingent payments made in 2005 to 2007 subject to the minimum amount and is likely to be substantially driven by the sales of Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort and Atacand.
However, AstraZeneca anticipates that the benefits that accrue under all the termination arrangements arise: Currently, from the substantial freedom over products acquired or discovered post-merger.
On occurrence of each stage of such arrangements, from enhanced contributions from, and substantial freedom over, those products that have already been launched for example, Rhinocort and Atacand, those that are due to be launched in the US in particular, Symbicort, subject to approval by the FDA and those that are in development.
Benefits include relief from contingent payments, anticipated cost savings from cessation of manufacturing arrangements and other cost efficiencies together with the strategic advantages of increased freedom to operate.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 118 Form 20-F Information 2005 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Accounting treatments Annual contingent payments: The annual contingent payments on agreement products are expensed as incurred.
Payment in the event of a business combination: The Lump Sum Payment was expensed at the point of merger since it caused no incremental benefits over the prior years aggregate Astra and Zeneca performance to accrue to the merged AstraZeneca entity.
Termination arrangements: AstraZeneca considers that the termination arrangements described above represent the acquisition, in stages, of Mercks interests in the partnership and agreement products including Mercks rights to contingent payments and depend, in part, on the exercise of the First and Second Options.
The effects will only be reflected in the Financial Statements as these stages are reached.
If and when all such payments are made, AstraZeneca will have unencumbered discretion in its operations in the US market.
The Advance Payment has been accounted for as an intangible asset and is being amortised over 20 years.
This approach reflects the fact that, under the Agreements, AstraZeneca has acquired rights relieving it of potential obligations or restrictions in respect of Astra products with no existing or pending patents at the time of merger.
Although these rights apply in perpetuity, the period of amortisation of 20 years has been chosen to reflect the typical timescale of development and marketing of a product.
The payments under the Partial Retirement, the First Option and true-up and the Second Option will be accounted for under the extant guidance when they are paid, with allocations to intangibles and goodwill, as appropriate.
If Merck exercises the First Option in 2008, the net minimum payment to be made to Merck, being the combined payments of $4.7bn less the repayment of the loan note of $1.4bn, would be $3.3bn.
In accounting for the Restructuring in 1998, the loan note was included in the determination of the fair values of the assets and liabilities to be acquired.
At that time, the loan note was ascribed a fair value of zero on acquisition and on the balance sheet because it was estimated that the net minimum payment of $3.3bn equated to the fair value of the rights to be acquired under the Partial Retirement, true-up and First Option.
Ongoing monitoring of the projected payments to Merck and the value to AstraZeneca of the related rights takes full account of changing business circumstances and the range of possible outcomes to ensure that the payments to be made to Merck are covered by the economic benefits expected to be realised.
Should the monitoring reveal that these payments exceed the economic benefits expected to be realised, a provision for an onerous contract would be recognised.
Environmental costs and liabilities The Groups expenditure on environmental protection, including both capital and revenue items, relates to costs which are necessary for implementing internal systems and programmes and meeting legal and regulatory requirements for processes and products.
They are an integral part of normal ongoing expenditure for carrying out the Groups research, manufacturing and commercial operations and are not separated from overall operating and development costs.
There are no known changes in legal, regulatory or other requirements resulting in material changes to the levels of expenditure for 2003, 2004 or 2005.
In addition to expenditure for meeting current and foreseen environmental protection requirements, the Group incurs costs in investigating and cleaning up land and groundwater contamination.
In particular, AstraZeneca and or its affiliates have environmental liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, leased and third party sites.
In the US, the AstraZeneca affiliate, Zeneca Inc. and or its indemnitees, have been named as potentially responsible parties PRPs or defendants at approximately 14 sites where Zeneca Inc. is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocations schemes.
Similarly, the AstraZeneca affiliate, Stauffer Management Company LLC SMC, which was established in 1987 to own and manage certain assets of Stauffer Chemical Company acquired that year, and or its indemnitees, have been named as PRPs or defendants at approximately 32 sites where SMC is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocations schemes.
In Europe and other parts of the world outside the US, AstraZeneca is likely to incur costs at three currently owned sites and has given indemnities to third parties in respect of approximately 45 other sites.
These environmental liabilities arise almost entirely from legacy operations that are not part of our current pharmaceuticals business and, at most of these sites, remediation, where required, is either completed or nearing completion.
In the aggregate, however, expenditure on clean up and monitoring is likely to be required.
AstraZeneca has made provisions for the estimated costs of future environmental investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance activity beyond normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the Groups R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges where a present obligation exists, it is probable that such costs will be incurred, and they can be estimated reliably.
With respect to such estimated, future costs, there were provisions at 31 December 2005 in the aggregate of approximately $80m, of which approximately $68m relates to the US.
These provisions do not include possible additional costs that are not currently probable, nor do these provisions include costs that, by agreement, will be borne by viable third party indemnitors.
In addition, these provisions: 1 include, where appropriate, unasserted claims where future costs are nonetheless probable at owned sites, for example : 2 are based, where applicable, on liability allocation or cost sharing agreements that we believe are enforceable against viable third parties: 3 reflect expected insurance recoveries where an insurer has agreed to provide an indemnity: and 4 typically cover a time period of five years with the exception of operation and maintenance activities, which can last for decades.
AstraZeneca is not presently aware of any circumstances or uncertainties regarding the viability of liable third parties, indemnitors or insurers that would cause these provisions to be altered.
Financial Statements 119 25 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED It is possible that the Company, or its affiliates, could incur future environmental costs beyond the extent of our current provisions.
The extent of such possible, additional costs is inherently difficult to estimate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: 1 the nature and extent of claims that may be asserted in the future: 2 whether the Company or any of its affiliates has or will have any legal obligation with respect to asserted or unasserted claims: 3 the type of remedial action, if any, that may be selected at sites where the remedy is presently not known: 4 the potential for recoveries from or allocation of liability to third parties: and 5 the length of time that the environmental investigation, remediation and liability allocation process can take.
Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing, it is estimated that potential additional loss for future environmental investigation, remediation and remedial operation and maintenance activity above and beyond our provisions could be, in the aggregate, in the order of $20m to $40m.
Legal proceedings AstraZeneca is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its businesses, including litigation relating to employment, product liability, commercial disputes, infringement of intellectual property rights, the validity of certain patents, and securities law.
The more significant matters are discussed below.
Crestor rosuvastatin AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and or AstraZeneca LP in the US were served with two individual lawsuits in 2004 involving alleged injury in association with the use of Crestor.
One of these lawsuits has now been dismissed.
In addition, a motion for authorisation to institute a class action and to be a representative was filed in Quebec, Canada against AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca Canada Inc.
The petitioner claims alleged injury as a result of the use of Crestor.
During 2005, AstraZeneca was served with five other similar complaints in the US, two of which were recently dismissed.
AstraZeneca is vigorously defending all the remaining actions.
Diprivan propofol In August 2002, AstraZeneca LP received a letter from ESI Lederle, a division of Wyeth, informing AstraZeneca of Wyeths intention to market a generic version of Diprivan prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents covering the current formulation.
AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Wyeth in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Through a series of transactions, the holder of the relevant Abbreviated New Drug Application and now defendant in AstraZenecas suit is Mayne Pharma USA Inc. formerly called Faulding Pharmaceutical Co.. Mayne responded to AstraZenecas complaint and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability.
The trial, post-trial briefing and closing arguments took place in early 2005.
In November 2005, the court issued its decision finding the AstraZeneca patents to be valid and enforceable and infringed by Maynes propofol product.
The court has issued an injunction preventing the manufacture, use, sale and offering for sale in the US of Maynes propofol product.
Mayne has filed an appeal of the courts findings to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals.
In September 2005, AstraZeneca received notification from Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Inc. under section 505 b 2 of the US Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act that, after approval by the FDA, it intends to manufacture and sell propofol in the US prior to the expiration of certain of AstraZenecas propofol-related patents.
Amphastar contends that these patents would not be infringed by such manufacture and sale.
AstraZeneca did not file a patent infringement complaint against Amphastar.
Exanta ximelagatran Four putative and essentially similar securities class actions were filed in the US against AstraZeneca PLC, Hkan Mogren, Sir Tom McKillop, Jonathan Symonds and Percy Barnevik between January and March 2005.
These actions allege that the defendants made materially false and misleading statements regarding Exanta clinical trials and the status of the Exanta New Drug Application in the US.
The cases purport to assert claims on behalf of purchasers of AstraZeneca publicly traded securities during the period 2 April 2003 to 11 October 2004 under sections 10 b and 20 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5.
The cases were all filed in federal district courts one in the District of Massachusetts, one in the District of Delaware and two in the Southern District of New York.
The Delaware case was dismissed voluntarily and the Massachusetts case has been transferred to the Southern District of New York by way of stipulation.
The remaining cases are likely to be consolidated in a single action in New York.
The defendants deny the allegations made in the lawsuits and will vigorously defend the actions.
Iressa gefitinib During 2004 and 2005, five claims have been filed against AstraZeneca KK in Japan, in the Osaka and Tokyo District Courts.
In four of the claims, it is alleged that Iressa caused a fatal incidence of interstitial lung disease ILD in a Japanese patient.
In the fifth claim, which did not involve a fatality, it is alleged that Iressa caused an incidence of ILD.
AstraZeneca KK, following consultation with external legal advisers, believes the claims are without merit and is defending all of the cases.
ILD is a known complication of lung disease, including advanced lung cancer, regardless of treatment.
Losec Prilosec omeprazole In 2001, AstraZeneca filed suit in the US against Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for infringement of a patent directed to a process for making an omeprazole formulation the 281 patent.
Andrx filed counterclaims of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability for inequitable conduct during prosecution of the 281 patent.
Andrx also asserted that in addition to the 281 patent, two other formulation patents, the 505 and 230 patents, were unenforceable for alleged litigation misconduct by AstraZeneca.
Both parties sought attorneys fees.
In May 2004, the US District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled that the 281 patent was infringed, but also ruled that the 281 patent was invalid.
The court dismissed Andrxs litigation misconduct and other counterclaims and affirmative defences, leaving intact the courts October 2002 decision finding the 230 and 505 patents not invalid and infringed by Andrx.
The October 2002 decision was affirmed in all respects on appeal in December 2003.
The court entered final judgement regarding the 281 patent in July 2004, after determining to stay the attorneys fees claims pending any appeals.
Andrx has appealed the judgement and AstraZeneca has cross-appealed.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 120 Form 20-F Information 2005 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED During 2000 and 2001, AstraZeneca had filed suits against Lek Pharmaceutical and Chemical Company d. d. and Lek Services USA, Inc. Impax Laboratories Inc. Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. Apotex Corp, Apotex, Inc. and Torpharm, Inc. and Zenith Goldline Pharmaceuticals, Inc. now known as IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc..
These suits followed the filing of Abbreviated New Drug Applica tions by these companies with the FDA concerning the companies intention to market generic omeprazole products in the US.
The basis for the proceedings is that the actions of all the companies infringe the 505 and 230 formulation patents relating to omeprazole.
The cases are proceeding under the US Hatch-Waxman legislation.
The case against IVAX was dismissed without prejudice shortly after it was filed, after IVAXwithdrew its application to market generic omeprazole.
During 2003, after Mylan commenced commercial sale of its product, AstraZeneca filed suit against Laboratorios Esteve, SA and Esteve Quimica, SA, manufacturers of the omeprazole product to be distributed in the US by Mylan.
In 2003 and 2004, Lek, Apotex and Impax all began commercial sales of their generic omeprazole products.
In July 2004, Lek filed a motion for summary judgement of noninfringement.
In January 2005, AstraZeneca filed suit against Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. which are marketing and selling Impaxs omeprazole products.
The Teva case was stayed in June 2005 until liability issues in the Impax action are resolved.
AstraZeneca has made claims for damages against each of the selling defendants.
Anti-trust and non-infringement counterclaims have been filed by Andrx, Apotex Torpharm, Impax, Eon and Lek.
All defendants except Lek have also raised invalidity and unenforceability counterclaims.
The anti-trust counterclaims, as well as AstraZenecas claims for damages, have been stayed pending resolution of the patent liability issues.
The cases have been consolidated for discovery before, or are directly assigned to, Judge Jones in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
All discovery in these cases was completed in February 2005.
Briefing on the summary judgement motion filed by Lek and 14 additional motions for summary judgement was completed in July 2005.
All of the defendants motions for summary judgement were denied in January 2006.
In July 2005, AstraZeneca filed suit against Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. Ranbaxy Inc. and Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for infringement of the505 and 230 formulation patents.
The Ranbaxy case has been consolidated with the other omeprazole patent cases for pre-trial purposes.
Judge Jones has scheduled a consolidated bench trial to begin in March 2006.
In June and July 2004, AstraZeneca applied in France for injunctions based on its omeprazole formulation patent against six companies for marketing generic omeprazole.
In August 2004, the applications were rejected at first instance.
AstraZeneca appealed this decision and in March 2005 the applications were rejected on appeal.
In May 2004, AstraZeneca also started legal proceedings against the same companies for infringement of its omeprazole formulation patent in France.
These proceedings have been consolidated with a case challenging the validity of the patent, brought by one of the companies against AstraZeneca.
No date has yet been set for a hearing.
During 2000, AstraZeneca was granted interlocutory injunctions based on certain of AstraZenecas omeprazole patents against the generic company, Scandinavian  AB Scand Pharm, in Denmark and Norway.
In October 2001, Oslo City Court in Norway confirmed that Scand Pharm had infringed AstraZenecas formulation patent for omeprazole.
At the same time, the court declared AstraZenecas formulation patent valid.
In November 2004, these findings were upheld by the Appeal Court.
As a result of the Norwegian case, Scand Pharm cannot sell its omeprazole product in Norway.
Furthermore, it is also prevented from selling its omeprazole product in Denmark pending the outcome of the main action in the Danish case.
If the final decision in this case is against AstraZeneca, Scand Pharm may claim damages for lost sales due to the interlocutory injunctions.
During 2003 and 2004, AstraZeneca was denied interlocutory injunctions based on certain of its omeprazole patents against Novartis Sverige AB and ratiopharm AB in Sweden and Novartis Finland Oy and ratiopharm Oy in Finland.
An interlocutory injunction against Biochemie Novartis Healthcare A S was granted in Denmark during 2003, based on AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
Also during 2003, the District Court in Norway found that the generic omeprazole product marketed by ratiopharm AS did not infringe AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
This judgement was confirmed by the Norwegian Appeal Court in October 2005.
In January 2006, the Supreme Court in Norway denied AstraZeneca leave to appeal.
In December 2004, an interlocutory injunction against Nomeco A S, a Danish distributor of a generic omeprazole product from ratiopharm, was granted in Denmark based on AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
The case was heard on appeal in November and December 2005.
The courts decision is anticipated in February 2006.
AstraZeneca continues to be involved in numerous proceedings in Canada involving Reddy Cheminor and Apotex.
These cases relate to omeprazole capsules or omeprazole magnesium tablets and involve various patents.
Apotex launched a generic omeprazole capsule product in Canada in January 2004.
Following this launch, AstraZeneca commenced judicial review proceedings seeking to quash Apotexs notice of compliance marketing approval and AstraZeneca sued Apotex in July 2004 alleging infringement of its formulation patents by Apotexs omeprazole capsules.
In May 2005, the Canadian Federal Court of Appeal quashed Apotexs notice of compliance marketing approval, overruling the first instance decision in September 2004, which went against AstraZeneca.
In June 2005, the Canadian Federal Court of Appeal granted Apotexs motion for a stay of the courts decision to quash the notice of compliance, pending an application by Apotex for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.
The Supreme Court of Canada has granted Apotex leave to appeal and the appeal is tentatively scheduled to be heard in May 2006.
The Supreme Court has also continued the stay granted by the Federal Court of Appeal, thereby allowing Apotex to continue selling its omeprazole capsules pending a decision by the Supreme Court on Apotexs appeal.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca Canada Inc. was served with a claim in the Federal Court of Canada for payment of an undetermined sum based on damages allegedly suffered by Apotex due to the delay from January 2002 to January 2004 in the issuance to Apotex of a notice of compliance marketing approval in Canada for its 20mg omeprazole capsule product.
AstraZeneca believes the claim is without merit and intends to defend it and to pursue its already pending patent infringement action against Apotex vigorously.
Financial Statements 121 25 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In February 2000, the European Commission commenced an investigation relating to certain omeprazole intellectual property rights, and associated regulatory and patent infringement litigation.
The investigation is pursuant to Article 82 of the EC Treaty, which prohibits an abuse of a dominant position.
The investigation was precipitated by a complaint by a party to a number of patent and other proceedings involving AstraZeneca.
AstraZeneca has, in accordance with its corporate policy, co-operated with the Commission.
In July 2003, the Commission served a Statement of Objections on AstraZeneca, referring to alleged infringements regarding the obtaining of supplementary protection certificates for omeprazole in certain European countries: and regarding AstraZenecas replacement of omeprazole capsules by omeprazole MUPS tablets and withdrawal of capsule marketing authorisations in three European countries.
AstraZeneca replied fully to the Commission, explaining why its actions were in AstraZenecas view lawful.
An oral hearing took place in February 2004.
In June 2005, the European Commission notified AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca AB of its Decision to impose fines totalling60m on the companies for infringement of European competition law Article 82 of the EC Treaty and Article 54 of the EEA Agreement.
The Commission alleges that the companies abused their dominant positions in the periods between 1993 and 2000 by making a pattern of misleading representations before the patent offices and or courts in Belgium, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and the UK in regard to obtaining supplementary protection certificates for omeprazole: and by requesting the surrender of market authorisations for omeprazole capsules in Denmark, Norway and Sweden, combined with withdrawal from these countries of omeprazole capsules and the launch of omeprazole MUPS tablets.
AstraZeneca does not accept the Commissions Decision and has appealed it to the Court of First Instance.
AstraZeneca denies that it had a dominant position or that it was engaged in the behaviours as characterised by the Commission.
In the meantime, the fine was fully provided for in the half year results through a charge to operating profit of $75m.
It is alleged by the Commission that these activities had the effect of hindering the entry of the generic version of Losec and parallel trade.
It is possible that third parties could seek damages for alleged losses arising from this matter.
Any such claims would be vigorously resisted.
Nexium esomeprazole AstraZeneca entities have been sued in various state and federal courts in the US in purported representative and class actions involving the marketing of Nexium esomeprazole.
These actions generally allege that AstraZenecas promotion and advertising of Nexium to physicians and consumers is unfair, unlawful and deceptive conduct, particularly as the promotion relates to comparisons of Nexium with Prilosec.
They also allege that AstraZenecas conduct relating to the pricing of Nexium was unfair, unlawful and deceptive.
The plaintiffs allege claims under various state consumer protection, unfair practices and false advertising laws.
The plaintiffs in these cases seek remedies that include restitution, disgorgement of profits, damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, attorneys fees and costs of suit.
The first action was brought in 2004 in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles by the AFL-CIO, two unincorporated associations and an individual on behalf of themselves, the general public and a class of California consumers, third party payers, cash payers and those making co-pay.
A second action was filed in the same court on behalf of a similar putative class of consumers.
Actions making substantially similar allegations were filed in 2004 and 2005 on behalf of putative classes of consumers, third party payers, purchasers and labour management trust funds in the Circuit Court of Searcy County, Arkansas: in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County: in the Superior Court of Massachusetts in Boston: in the US District Court for the District of Delaware: and in the Circuit Court of the 11th Judicial Court in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida.
In September 2005, the court in California issued a ruling on AstraZenecas demurrer and motion to strike in the two California actions.
The court granted AstraZenecas motion with respect to the associational plaintiffs and denied the motion with respect to the individual plaintiffs, allowing the cases of the individuals to proceed.
In October 2005, the court in Massachusetts issued an order denying AstraZenecas motion to dismiss.
In November 2005, the US District Court for the District of Delaware issued an order granting AstraZenecas motion to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint in the three consolidated Delaware actions.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations and is vigorously defending each of these actions.
In November 2003, the European Patent Office ruled that the European substance patent covering magnesium esomeprazole, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Nexium, is valid.
The patent, which expires in May 2014, was challenged by the generic manufacturer ratiopharm.
The European Patent Office ruling has been appealed by ratiopharm.
It is not anticipated that the appeal will be heard before the end of 2006.
In October 2004, AstraZeneca LP filed suit in the US District Court for the District of Delaware seeking declaratory judgement that its Better is Better campaign for Nexium is not false or misleading advertising in violation of section 43 a of the Lanham Act, a federal statute governing false advertising claims.
The action was taken in response to a letter from TAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc. demanding that AstraZeneca immediately withdraw the television commercial and other components of the direct-to-consumer advertising campaign for Nexium on the basis that they allegedly violated the statute.
In November 2004, TAP requested expedited consideration of the case by filing a motion for a preliminary injunction and in December 2004, the court denied the request for a preliminary injunction.
The case is scheduled to be tried in the second or third quarter of 2006.
In October 2005, AstraZeneca received a notice from Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. that Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited had submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application to the US FDA for esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 20mg and 40mg.
The ANDA contained paragraph IV certifications of invalidity and or non-infringement in respect of certain AstraZeneca US patents listed in the FDAs Orange Book with reference to Nexium.
In November 2005, AstraZeneca commenced wilful infringement patent litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its affiliates in response to Ranbaxys paragraph IV certifications regarding Nexium.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 122 Form 20-F Information 2005 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In January 2006, AstraZeneca received a notice from IVAX Pharmaceuticals Inc. that IVAX Corporation had submitted an ANDA to th e US FDA for esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 20mg and 40mg.
IVAX also certified in respect of certain other AstraZeneca US patents listed in the Orange Book with reference to Nexium that IVAX will not launch its product prior to the expiry of those patents, the latter of which expires in October 2007.
The 45 day time period within which AstraZeneca can commence a patent infringement lawsuit against IVAX that would automatically stay, or bar, the FDA from approving IVAX s ANDA for 30 months or u ntil an adverse court decision, whichever occurs earlier expires in March 2006.
AstraZeneca continues to have full confidence in and will vigorously defend and enforce its intellectual property protecting Nexium.
Nolvadex tamoxifen AstraZeneca is a co-defendant with Barr Laboratories, Inc. in numerous purported class actions filed in federal and state courts throughout the US.
All of the state court actions were removed to federal court and have been consolidated, along with all of the cases originally filed in the federal courts, in a federal multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
Some of the cases were filed by plaintiffs representing a putative class of consumers who purchased tamoxifen.
The other cases were filed on behalf of a putative class of third party payers including health maintenance organisations, insurers and other managed care providers and health plans that have reimbursed or otherwise paid for prescriptions of tamoxifen.
The plaintiffs allege that they paid supra-competitive and monopolistic prices for tamoxifen as a result of the settlement of patent litigation between Zeneca and Barr in 1993.
The plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, treble damages under the antitrust laws, disgorgement and restitution.
In April 2002, AstraZeneca filed a motion to dismiss the cases for failure to state a cause of action.
In May 2003, the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss.
The plaintiffs appealed the decision.
In November 2005, the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the District Courts decision.
The plaintiffs have moved for re-hearing by the original panel of judges in the case and re-hearing by a panel of all of the judges on the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
Pulmicort Respules budesonide inhalation suspension In September 2005, AstraZeneca received a notice from IVAX Pharmaceuticals Inc. that IVAX had submitted an Abbreviated New Drug App lication to the US FDA for a budesonide inhalation suspension containing a paragraph IV certification and alleging invalidity and non-infringement in respect of certain of AstraZenecas patents relating to budesonide inhalation suspension.
In October 2005, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against IVAX in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey.
In December 2005, IVAX responded and filed counterclaims alleging no n-infringement and invalidity.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca filed an Amended Complaint, withdrawing averments as to the infringement of one of the patents-in-suit.
AstraZeneca continues to have full confidence in and will vigorously defend and enforce its intellectual property protecting Pulmicort Respules.
Seroquel quetiapine fumarate AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP were named as defendants in the case of Susan Zehel-Miller et al.
v. AstraZenaca [ sic], AstraZenaca Pharmaceuticals, LP [ sic], a putative class action suit filed in August 2003 in the US District Court for the Middl e District of Florida on behalf of a purported class consisting of all persons in the US who purchased and or used Seroquel contending that AstraZeneca failed to provide adequate warnings in connection with an alleged association between Seroquel and the onset of diabetes.
In the first quarter of 2005, subsequent to a 2004 court decision denying class certification in this matter, the case was dismissed with prejudice.
A second Seroquel lawsuit involving a minor who claimed to have developed diabetes mellitus as a result of using Seroquel was also dismissed with prejudice in December 2005, approximately one week before oral argument on AstraZenecas motion for summary judgement was scheduled to take place.
Since 2003, AstraZeneca has been served with approximately 60 lawsuits in the US in which plaintiffs have contended that they developed diabetes or other allegedly related injuries as a result of taking Seroquel and or other atypical anti-psychotics made by other pharmaceutical companies.
About 40 of these cases were filed in Missouri in August 2005, days before Missouris tort reform laws became effective.
Eli Lilly, the maker of olanzapine, is a defendant in the majority of the cases served on AstraZeneca.
Janssen Pharmaceutica and Bristol-Myers Squibb are also defending a number of them.
AstraZeneca is also aware of more than 100 other cases involving Seroquel that have recently been filed in California, Delaware, Illinois, Louisiana, Missouri, New Jersey and Texas, but these have not been served.
One involves a putative nationwide class action complaint, which was recently filed in federal court in the Southern District of Illinois.
AstraZeneca has seen this complaint and it is very similar in form and content to the complaint filed in the US District Court for the Middle District of Florida in 2003 Susan Zehel-Miller et al.
v. AstraZenaca [ sic], Astr aZenaca Pharmaceuticals LP, [ sic], described above that sought certification of a nationwide class of Seroquel users and others, including individuals who were alleged to have developed diabetes as a result of using Seroquel.
The federal court in Florida denied certification of the class in the Zehel-Miller case.
In early 2005, after the plaintiffs efforts in that case to secure appellate relief failed, the plaintiffs agreed to a voluntary dismissal of all of their claims with prejudice.
It is possible that plaintiffs lawyers are contemplating the filing of potentially numerous lawsuits against AstraZeneca and other manufacturers of atypical anti-psychotics involving allegations of diabetes.
AstraZeneca intends to defend vigorously all of the pending cases relating to Seroquel.
In September 2005, AstraZeneca received a notice from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA that Teva had submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA for quetiapine fumarate tablets 25mg base to the US FDA.
The ANDA contained a paragraph IV certification alleging invalidity and noninfringement in respect of AstraZenecas US patent listed in the FDAs Orange Book with reference to Seroquel.
In November 2005, in response to Tevas ANDA and Tevas intent to market a generic version of Seroquel in the US prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patent, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit against Teva in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey for wilful patent infringement.
AstraZeneca continues to have full confidence in and will vigorously defend and enforce its intellectual property protecting Seroquel.
Financial Statements 123 25 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Symbicort budesonide formoterol In March 2005, the European Patent Office ruled that the European patent covering the combination of formoterol and budesonide in Symbicort is valid.
The patent, which expires in 2012, was challenged by the generic manufacturers Yamanouchi Europe BV, Miat SpA, Liconsa, Chiesi Farmaceutici SpA, Zambon Group SpA, Generics UK Limited and Norton Healthcare Ltd.
In May 2005, the European Patent Office ruled that the European patent for Symbicort in the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD is valid.
The patent, which expires in 2018, was challenged by the generic manufacturers Chiesi Farmaceutici SpA, Norton Healthcare Ltd and Generics UK Limited.
The European Patent Office rulings relating to both the combination and the COPD European patents for Symbicort have been appealed by certain of the opponents in the proceedings.
It is not anticipated that the appeals will be heard before 2007.
In February 2004, IVAX Pharmaceuticals UK Limited initiated proceedings against AstraZeneca AB claiming that the UK parts of t he two European patents related to Symbicort were invalid.
In May 2004, the court granted AstraZenecas application for a stay of the proceedings pending the determination of the parallel opposition proceedings before the European Patent Office, described above.
In April 2004, IVAX ini tiated proceedings against AstraZeneca AB in relation to the Republic of Ireland claiming that the Irish parts of the two European patents related to Symbicort were invalid.
In October 2004, the court granted AstraZenecas application for a stay of proceedings pending the final decision of the European Patent Office and its Boards of Appeal in the opposition proceedings.
Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate In May 2003, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against KV Pharmaceutical Company in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in response to KVs notification of its intention to market a generic version of Toprol-XL tablets in the 200mg dose prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents covering the substance and its formulation.
In response to later similar notices from KV related to the 25mg, 50mg and 100mg doses, AstraZeneca filed further actions.
KV responded in each instance and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the listed patents.
In February 2004, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Andrx Pharmaceuticals LLC in the US District Court for the District of Delaware in response to Andrxs notification of its intention to market a generic version of Toprol-XL tablets in the 50mg dose prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents.
In response to two later similar notices from Andrx related to the 25mg, 100mg and 200mg doses, AstraZeneca filed two additional patent infringement actions in the same court.
In each instance, Andrx claimed that each of the listed patents is invalid, not infringed and unenforceable.
In April 2004, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. in the US District Court for the District of Delaware in response to Eons notification of its intention to market generic versions of Toprol-XL tablets in the 25mg, 50mg, 100mg and 200mg doses prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents.
In its response, Eon alleged that each of the listed patents is invalid, not infringed and unenforceable.
Eon also alleged that the filing of the infringement complaints, as well as other actions by AstraZeneca, constitutes anti-competitive conduct in violation of US anti-trust laws.
Pursuant to a joint motion of AstraZeneca and Eon these anti-trust counts were severed from the case and stayed, for possible consideration depending on the outcome of the trial of the patent claims.
In January 2005, AstraZeneca filed a terminal disclaimer of the Toprol-XL patents-in-suit over one of the other patents raised by the defendants, which will result in a revision of the expiration date of the Toprol-XL patents-in-suit from March 2008 to September 2007.
All of the patent litigation relating to Toprol-XL against KV, Andrx and Eon was consolidated for pre-trial discovery purposes and motion practice in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.
The defendants filed a motion for summary judgement in December 2004 alleging that the Toprol-XL patents are invalid due to double patenting.
A summary judgement motion of unenforceability was filed by the defendants in 2005 and AstraZeneca filed summary judgement motions on infringement and validity in 2005.
Oral argument on all of the pending summary judgement motions was heard in November 2005.
In January 2006, the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri issued a ruling finding that the two patents-in-suit are unenforceable based on the Companys inequitable conduct in the prosecution of these patents in the US Patent and Trademark Office and invalid.
AstraZeneca disagrees with and is disappointed by these conclusions.
It will appeal this decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
None of the Abbreviated New Drug Applications filed by KV, Andrx or Eon has received tentative approval from the US Food and Drug Administration.
Under the ANDA statute, the January 2006 adverse decision concerning the validity and enforceability of the AstraZeneca patents-in-suit automatically removes any stay on the FDAs authority to grant a final approval of the ANDAs.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca was served with a complaint filed in the US District Court for the District of Delaware entitled Meijer, Inc. and Meijer Distribution, Inc. v. AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, AstraZeneca LP, AstraZeneca AB and Aktiebolaget Hassle.
The complaint is a putative class action that alleges that the AstraZeneca defendants attempted to illegally maintain monopoly power in the US over Toprol-XL in violation of the Sherman Act through the listing of invalid and unenforceable patents in the FDAs Orange Book and the enforcement of such patents through litigation against generic manufacturers seeking to market metoprolol succinate.
The complaint seeks treble damages based on alleged overcharges to the putative class of plaintiffs.
The lawsuit is based upon the finding described above by the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in the consolidated litigation against KV, Andrx and Eon that the AstraZeneca patents relating to Toprol-XL are invalid and unenforceable.
As noted above, AstraZeneca is appealing this ruling in the patent litigation.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations of this anti-trust complaint and will vigorously defend the lawsuit.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 124 Form 20-F Information 2005 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED AstraZeneca continues to maintain that its patents for Toprol-XL are valid, enforceable and infringed by the proposed generic products of KV, Andrx and Eon and that its enforcement of its patents did not violate anti-trust laws.
Zestril lisinopril In 1996, two of AstraZenecas predecessor companies, Zeneca Limited and Zeneca Pharma Inc. as licensees, Merck & Co. Inc. and Merck Frosst Canada Inc. commenced a patent infringement action in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex Inc. alleging infringement of Mercks lisinopril patent.
Apotex has sold and continues to sell a generic version of AstraZenecas Zestril and Mercks Prinivil tablets.
Apotex has admitted infringement but has raised positive defences to infringement, including that it acquired certain quantities of lisinopril prior to issuance of the patent and that certain quantities were licensed under a compulsory licence.
Apotex has also alleged invalidity of the patent.
The trial started in January 2006.
AstraZeneca as licensee has a case pending in the Federal Court of Canada against Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc. pertaining to the same Merck lisinopril patent, on the basis that Cobalt is seeking a notice of compliance marketing approval in Canada based on a comparison with AstraZenecas Zestril.
AstraZeneca is potentially liable for damages in the event that Cobalts market entry is held to have been improperly delayed.
Zestoretic lisinopril hydrochlorothiazide AstraZeneca as licensee has a case pending in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex Inc. pertaining to Mercks lisinopril hydrochlorothiazide combination patent, on the basis that Apotex is seeking a notice of compliance marketing approval in Canada based on a comparison with AstraZenecas Zestoretic.
AstraZeneca is potentially liable for damages in the event that Apotexs market entry is held to have been improperly delayed.
Average wholesale price class action litigation In January 2002, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant along with 24 other pharmaceutical manufacturers in a class action suit, in Massachusetts, brought on behalf of a putative class of plaintiffs alleged to have overpaid for prescription drugs as a result of inflated wholesale list prices.
The suit seeks to recover unspecified damages.
Following the Massachusetts complaint, nearly identical class action suits were filed against AstraZeneca and various other pharmaceutical manufacturers in four other states.
AstraZeneca and other manufacturers have since been sued in similar lawsuits filed by the state Attorneys General of Pennsylvania, Nevada, Montana, Wisconsin, Illinois, Alabama, Kentucky, Arizona and Mississippi, as well as by multiple individual counties in the State of New York.
The Attorney General lawsuits seek to recover alleged overpayments under Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programmes.
In several cases, the states are also suing to recover alleged overpayments by state residents.
Many of these suits have been consolidated with the Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes, pursuant to federal multi-district litigation procedures.
In August 2005, the District Court in Boston issued a decision on class certification favourable to the defendants.
The plaintiffs in the consolidated class action suit had sought to certify three types of nationwide classes of plaintiffs: 1 Medicare Part B beneficiaries who paid allegedly inflated co-insurance for certain  drugs reimbursed under the Medicare Part B programme: 2 third party insurers offering coverage for the same  drugs: and 3 third party insurers for certain self-administered non-Part B drugs.
The court denied the self-administered drug class entirely.
As to the proposed classes involving  drugs, the court certified a nationwide class of Part B beneficiaries against AstraZeneca and three other manufacturers.
The additional proposed classes involving  drugs, third party payers who reimbursed for  drugs or who covered Part B co-payments, have been certified only as Massachusetts state, as opposed to nationwide, classes.
For all classes, the only AstraZeneca drug at issue is Zoladex goserelin acetate implant.
There is a possibility that the decision on class certification will be appealed.
Following a decision on the appeal, the court will set a schedule for summary judgement proceedings and trial.
In the interim, Attorney General cases are proceeding independently of the consolidated action in Pennsylvania, Alabama, Mississippi, Arizona and Wisconsin.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations made in all of the average wholesale price lawsuits and will vigorously defend the actions.
340b class action litigation In August 2004, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant along with multiple other pharmaceutical manufacturers in a class action suit filed in the Alabama federal court on behalf of all  share entities.
These are the hospitals and clinics that treat a substantial portion of uninsured patients and thus qualify for preferential pricing under the US Public Health Service Act drug discount programme the 340b programme.
According to the complaint, the genesis of the suit is an audit report by the US Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General OIG in June 2004.
A similar class action suit was filed in August 2005 by the County of Santa Clara in the California state court.
In the second suit, the County of Santa Clara is suing as a representative of a class of similarly situated counties and cities in California alleged to have overpaid for 340b drugs.
AstraZeneca believes the allegations in both of these lawsuits are without merit and intends to defend them vigorously.
Financial Statements 125 25 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Additional government investigations into drug marketing practices As is true for most, if not all, major prescription pharmaceutical companies operating in the US, AstraZeneca is currently involved in multiple US federal and state criminal and civil investigations into drug marketing and pricing practices.
Two of the active investigations are being handled by the US Attorneys Office in Boston.
The first involves a request for production of documents and information relating to speaker programmes involving healthcare professionals at three regional healthcare entities in the Boston area.
The second involves a subpoena for documents and information relating to marketing and sales interactions with a leading provider of pharmacy services to long term care facilities.
In October 2004, AstraZeneca received a subpoena from the US Attorneys Office in Philadelphia principally seeking documents relating to the formulary status of AstraZeneca drugs at a regional health maintenance organisation and a national pharmacy benefits manager.
Most recently, AstraZeneca, along with 12 other pharmaceutical manufacturers, was served with a subpoena from the US Attorneys Office in Philadelphia seeking documents in connection with the governments pending civil litigation against Medco Health Systems.
That subpoena seeks documents relating to contracts, programmes, grants or payments to Medco.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca first received notice of an investigation by the US Attorneys Office in Los Angeles into field promotional activities in the area served by AstraZenecas Los Angeles regional business centre.
AstraZeneca has been provided with little information concerning the nature of the investigation, other than a representation that the government is looking into the preparation and dissemination of patient education and similar materials to physicians.
It is not possible to predict the outcome of any of these investigations, which could include the payment of damages and the imposition of fines, penalties and administrative remedies.
Drug importation anti-trust litigation In May 2004, plaintiffs in a purported class action filed complaints in the US District Court for Minnesota and for New Jersey, alleging that AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and eight other pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants conspired to prevent American consumers from purchasing prescription drugs from Canada, depriving consumers of the ability to purchase drugs at competitive prices.
The New Jersey case was voluntarily dismissed in July 2004.
In August 2005, the Minnesota District Court dismissed with prejudice the plaintiffs federal anti-trust claims and declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction in relation to the state statutory and common law claims, which claims were dismissed without prejudice.
The plaintiffs have appealed the district courts decision.
In August 2004, Californian retail pharmacy plaintiffs filed an action in the Superior Court of California making similar allegations.
In July 2005, the court overruled in part and sustained in part, without leave to amend, the defendants motion to dismiss the plaintiffs third amended complaint in these proceedings.
The court overruled the defendants motion in respect of conspiracy claims but sustained the motion in respect of the California Unfair Competition Law claims.
Discovery is ongoing and the trial is scheduled for September 2006.
AstraZeneca denies the material allegations of both the Minnesota and California actions and is vigorously defending these matters.
StarLink AstraZeneca Insurance Company Limited AZIC has commenced arbitration proceedings in the UK against insurers in respect of amounts paid by Garst Seed Company of the US in settlement of claims arising in the US from Garsts sale of StarLink, a genetically engineered corn seed.
The English High Court has ruled, on appeal by reinsurers from a preliminary finding in AZICs favour by the arbitration panel, that English law applies to recovery under the reinsurance arrangements.
This is contrary to AZICs view, which is that recovery should be assessed under Iowa law, and AZIC is seeking leave to appeal this finding to the Court of Appeal.
AstraZenecas interest in Garst was through AstraZenecas 50% ownership of Advanta BV, the sale of which to Syngenta AG was announced in May 2004 and completed in September 2004.
AZICs claim against the insurers was not affected by the disposal of AstraZenecas interest in Advanta BV.
Aptium Oncology In April 2004, Comprehensive Cancer Centers, Inc. CCC, a subsidiary of Aptium Oncology formerly called Salick Health Care received a subpoena from the US Department of Justice seeking, among other items, medical records and related documentation for services provided to patients at the Comprehensive Cancer Center at Desert Regional Medical Center in Palm Springs, California.
The Center is managed by CCC, which is co-operating fully with the document request.
Avorelin In 1999, AstraZeneca UK Limited entered into a licence agreement with Mediolanum farmaceutici SpA under which Mediolanum licensed to AstraZeneca certain rights in respect of avorelin, a luteinising hormone-releasing hormone agonist.
At the end of 2000, AstraZeneca terminated the agreement.
Mediolanum commenced proceedings against AstraZeneca alleging that AstraZeneca breached the terms of the agreement and claiming damages.
This matter has now been settled by the parties on terms satisfactory to AstraZeneca which admits no liability.
