Explanation of transition to IFRS 137 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS These are the Groups first consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The accounting policies set out on pages 87 to 89 have been applied in preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, the comparative information presented in these financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2004 and 31 December 2003 and in the preparation of an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2003 the Groups date of transition.
In preparing its opening balance sheet, the Group has adjusted amounts reported previously in Financial Statements prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
An explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS has affected the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows is set out in the following tables and the notes that accompany the tables.
The information below differs from that presented in January 2005 in the 2004 Annual Report and Form 20-F Information in that certain income statement and balance sheet items have been reclassified.
In addition, as noted in the accounting policies on page 88, the comparative information has also been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement the Fair Value Option.
31 Dec 2004 1 Jan 2003 Total equity $m $m Total equity under UK GAAP 14,519 11,226 Adjustments to conform to IFRS Employee benefits 2,010 1,380 Financial instruments 11 153 Share-based payments Goodwill 108 Dividends 1,061 808 Capitalised software and other intangibles 106 80 Other 12 1 Deferred tax IFRS adjustments above 579 362 other 111 82 Total equity under IFRS 14,497 11,168 Year ended 31 Dec 2004 Profit for the period $m Profit for the period under UK GAAP 3,831 Adjustments to conform to IFRS Employee benefits 1 Financial instruments 163 Share-based payments 147 Goodwill 49 Capitalised software and other intangibles 21 Other 2 Deferred tax IFRS adjustments above 26 other 67 Profit for the period under IFRS 3,683 Under IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements, movements on cash and cash equivalents are reconciled: under UK GAAP the statement reconciles cash only.
The change in the presentation of the cash flow statement under IAS 7 makes no difference to the free cash generated by the Group.
IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND EARLY ADOPTION When preparing the consolidated balance sheet under IFRS at 1 January 2003, the date of transition, the following optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies have been adopted: Business combinations the provisions of IFRS 3 have been applied prospectively from 1 January 2003. Business combinations that occurred before 1 January 2003 have not been restated.
Employee benefits the accumulated actuarial gains and losses in respect of employee defined benefit plans have been recognised in full through reserves at 1 January 2003.
Cumulative exchange differences cumulative translation differences on net investments have been set to zero at 1 January 2003.
The following optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies have not been adopted: Fair value or revaluation an entity may elect to use fair value or a previous GAAP revaluation at the opening balance sheet date.
This exemption did not apply to AstraZeneca.
Compound financial instruments If the compound financial instruments are no longer outstanding at the date of transition, then the entity is not required to split the instrument into the separate equity and liability components.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 138 Form 20-F Information 2005 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND EARLY ADOPTION CONTINUED In addition the Group has chosen to restate comparative information with respect to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payments has been adopted with full retrospective application.
The Group has also adopted the amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits early, allowing actuarial gains or losses to be recognised directly in the consolidated statement of income and expense in the period in which they arise.
Comparative information has been prepared on this basis.
OTHER RECLASSIFICATIONS Phase 4 post-launch trial costs of $388m in 2004 were reclassified to selling, general and administrative costs from research and development as part of the transition to IFRS.
This is not shown in the above reconciliations as there was no profit or equity impact.
EFFECTS OF IFRS IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Employee benefits IAS 19 requires deficits and surpluses in company pension schemes to be recorded on the balance sheet.
IAS 19 also requires separate recognition of the operating and financing costs of defined benefit pensions and other post-retirement employee benefits in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense and cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2003 have been recognised in full as an adjustment to opening retained earnings.
Financial instruments IAS 32 sets out the presentation and disclosure requirements in respect of financial instruments, whilst IAS 39 stipulates the measurement and recognition requirements.
The general principle of IAS 39 is that financial assets and liabilities should be recognised at fair value.
AstraZeneca has opted to apply the financial instruments standards, IAS 32 and IAS 39, retrospectively in order to give a more meaningful view of the Groups results and financial position.
Accounting for the movements in fair value is dependent on the designation of the relevant financial instrument, with movements going through either the income statement and or being taken directly to equity.
Share-based payments IFRS 2 requires that a charge is recorded in respect of shares and share options that are granted to employees.
AstraZeneca has recognised a charge to income representing the fair value of outstanding employee share options granted to approximately 9,000 employees and has followed the optional transitional arrangements which allow companies that have previously disclosed the fair value charge, to apply IFRS 2 fully retrospectively to all options granted but not fully vested at the relevant reporting date.
This approach is encouraged in the standard and gives a better indication of how past results are affected by IFRS 2. Business combinations IFRS 3 prohibits merger accounting and the amortisation of goodwill.
The standard requires goodwill to be carried at cost with impairment reviews both annually and also when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Under the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1 a company has the option of applying IFRS 3 prospectively from the transition date to IFRS.
AstraZeneca has chosen this option rather than to restate all previous business combinations including accounting for the merger of Astra and Zeneca.
The impact of IFRS 3 and associated transitional arrangements on AstraZeneca are as follows: All prior business combination accounting is frozen at the transition date.
The value of goodwill is frozen at 1 January 2003 and amortisation previously reported under UK GAAP for 2003 and 2004 is removed.
Dividends IAS 10 requires dividends to be recognised as a liability when they are declared.
For the final dividend this is usually after the accounting period to which it relates, when the dividend is approved by the Board.
Consequently there is an adjustment to remove the liability for the final dividend declared post year end.
Capitalised software and other intangibles IAS 38 requires all intangible assets that meet the capitalisation criteria to be capitalised.
For AstraZeneca, this led to the following Group policies being applied: In respect of internal product development expenditure, it is managements view that it is not possible to demonstrate with sufficient certainty that, prior to regulatory approval, these criteria are met.
Consequently, AstraZeneca would not expect to capitalise internal development costs.
In respect of internal development expenditure on software, it is managements view that some projects have met the criteria for capitalisation.
Results have been adjusted to include both the capitalised costs and associated amortisation of these projects.
The standard requires all externally acquired intangibles to be capitalised and the results have been adjusted to recognise a small number of products in early phase development that had been expensed under UK GAAP.
Deferred taxation IAS 12 requires deferred tax to be calculated using the purchasers tax rate instead of the vendors tax rate under UK GAAP, changing the methodology used to calculate deferred tax on unrealised profit on intra-group sales.
The standard further requires a deferred tax provision for all rolled over capital gains rather than those expected to crystallise.
