AstraZeneca Code of Conduct 157 ASTRAZENECA CODE OF CONDUCT INTRODUCTION situations should be sought from management.
AstraZeneca funds will not be used in We are committed to dealing with all our In addition, Legal Department and Group payments, direct or indirect, to government stakeholders with the highest ethical standards, Internal Audit are available on a confidential officials, people participating in government integrity and as responsible corporate citizens.
basis as independent sources of advice.
bodies, employees of state organisations or The trust and confidence of all our stakeholders, representatives of political parties, for unlawful together with our reputation, are among the It is the responsibility of each employee to or improper purposes.
most valuable assets of the Group.
Along with report promptly any violations of the Code our commitment to competitiveness and of Conduct of which they become aware.
Equal opportunities performance, we will continue to be led by AstraZeneca assures individual employees All employees shall be treated with equal our values to achieve sustainable success.
who raise issues that they will be protected respect and dignity and shall be provided from any adverse impact on their employment with equality of opportunity to develop Every AstraZeneca employee is required to as a result.
AstraZeneca actively encourages themselves and their careers.
make a personal commitment to follow the employees to raise issues of concern.
Companys Code of Conduct, as well as the AstraZeneca is striving to achieve diversity detailed standards issued in support of it, and STANDARDS OF CONDUCT at all levels of the organisation and values the uphold our commitment to our values, integrity Business practices individuality, diversity and creative potential and corporate responsibility.
AstraZeneca Companies, and their employees, that every employee brings to its business must comply with the laws of all countries and supports the continuous development We are all privileged to work for one of the best in which they operate, with appropriate of their skills and abilities.
companies in the world and must ensure we international and national industry codes of leave a lasting legacy.
Nothing not the need practice and with the high ethical standards Judgements about people for the purpose to meet targets, or direct orders from a specified by AstraZeneca.
of recruitment, development or promotion superior should ever compromise our shall be made solely on the basis of a persons commitment to honesty and integrity.
It is the responsibility of all employees to ability and potential in relation to the needs of ensure, by taking advice where appropriate, the job and shall only take account of matters SIR TOM MCKILLOP that they are fully aware of all relevant laws, relevant to the performance of that job.
Overall, Chief Executive regulations, practices and codes of practice, success and advancement within AstraZeneca July 2003 particularly as they relate to their job.
shall depend solely on personal ability, behaviour and work performance.
POLICY Employees should ensure that, within their AstraZeneca requires its companies, and their sphere of business activity, AstraZeneca In some countries these principles may employees, to observe the highest standards Companies carry out their contractual be modified by national legal requirements of integrity and honesty and act with due skill, obligations in a proper and timely manner for affirmative action.
care, diligence and fairness in the conduct and are not in breach of contract.
To this end all AstraZeneca Personal harassment Companies, and their employees, are required Business practice, and what amounts Personal harassment, such as verbal abuse to comply with the laws of all countries in to improper conduct, varies from country or sexual harassment, of any employee which they operate and with the high ethical to country and from industry to industry.
All of AstraZeneca, its suppliers or customers standards detailed by AstraZeneca in support employees will comply with a the high ethical is unacceptable in any form whatsoever.
standards specified by AstraZeneca b any published overall AstraZeneca Code relating Any person who believes they have been COMPLIANCE to business practices and c any international personally harassed should report the incident It is the responsibility of management to ensure and national codes of practice applicable to and circumstances to their immediate manager that the AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and the conduct of business in each environment.
or HR manager or other senior manager who standards are communicated, understood will arrange for it to be investigated impartially and acted upon.
They are required to positively Gifts, entertainment and personal favours may and confidentially.
promote them by personal example and are only be offered to a third party if modest in not entitled to permit any exceptions to the value and if they are consistent with customary AstraZeneca is fully supportive of the principles required behaviour.
No gifts, entertainment or set forth in the UN Declaration of Human personal favour may be offered in contravention Rights.
These include freedom from torture All employees should familiarise themselves of any applicable law or code of practice.
and arbitrary arrest, the right to a fair trial and with the Code of Conduct and must comply equality before the law.
Failure to act in compliance with the No employee should seek or accept a gift, Code will result in appropriate disciplinary entertainment or personal favour which Political contributions action against both the employee committing might reasonably be believed to have any Any political contributions by AstraZeneca the breach and others who condone it.
An offer of Companies must be lawful and approved entertainment should not be accepted unless under procedures laid down by the board or The Standards set out in the Code are general the offer is within the bounds of accepted governing body of the Company concerned.
and do not address each and every situation business hospitality.
Gifts which do not meet that may confront employees in markets around the above criteria should be reported to Approval should not be given to any political the world.
In appropriate cases, guidance management who shall determine how they contributions by AstraZeneca Companies on the application of the Code to particular shall be dealt with.
which, by their scale or affiliation, might AstraZeneca Annual Report and 158 Form 20-F Information 2005 ASTRAZENECA CODE OF CONDUCT CONTINUED be seen as excessive or inappropriate.
Property and resources Records, disclosures and communications AstraZenecas accounting procedures require AstraZeneca resources should be kept AstraZeneca PLC and all AstraZeneca any political contribution to be reported securely and should only be used for the Companies and their employees are to AstraZeneca headquarters as part of the proper advancement of its business and required to keep proper accounting and annual consolidation of results.
other records which give a true and fair view of the financial position, results of Conflicts of interest Individuals expending AstraZeneca resources operations, transactions, assets and Employees dealing with AstraZenecas should recognise that they owe a duty of care liabilities so as to enable the Company business must act in the best interests to the shareholders of AstraZeneca, who to make full, fair, accurate, timely and of AstraZeneca and must disregard any are its ultimate owners.
Commitments and understandable disclosures in all reports personal preference or advantage.
expenditure should only be such as could it is required to publish, file or submit be justified to shareholders if the facts were to shareholders and regulators and in all Employees should avoid entering into situations known.
This includes any expenses claimed other communications which it publishes.
in which their personal, family or financial and purchases made for which reimbursement interests may conflict with those of AstraZeneca.
All accounting and other records will be Where any potential conflict of interest may maintained in a manner that describes and arise, the employee shall declare that interest AstraZeneca resources include not only documents accurately the Companys true and seek advice from senior management.
tangible assets such as materials, equipment financial position and results of operations and and cash, but also intangible assets such the true nature of its business transactions, Examples of conflict to be declared and as computer systems, trade secrets and assets and liabilities.
Accounting records will resolved include: confidential information.
Employees should be kept in accordance with AstraZeneca policies, observe global and local guidelines relevant accounting standards and appropriate Having a family interest in a transaction with concerning the classifying and handling of generally accepted accounting principles.
AstraZeneca or one of its subsidiaries the documents and electronic data.
The storage Company or any supplier or customer.
of personal data in an electronic medium may Employees must ensure that all reports Hiring of a family member in any capacity.
be governed by laws with which relevant published, filed or submitted to shareholders Having an interest, directly or through employees should familiarise themselves and regulators and all other communications family, in a competitor, supplier or customer and comply.
which are published by the Company are full, of the Company.
fair, accurate, timely and understandable: they Having an interest, directly or through Information generated within AstraZeneca, must not mislead the reader in any way or omit family, in an organisation that has, or seeks including research and development and anything necessary to make them full, fair and to do business with the Company.
manufacturing data, costs, prices, sales, profits, accurate.
The Chief Executive and the Acquiring an interest in property such markets, customers and methods of doing Companys senior financial officers have as real estate, patent rights or securities business, is the property of AstraZeneca and a particular responsibility in this regard.
where the Company has, or might have, must not, unless legally required, be disclosed an interest.
outside AstraZeneca without proper authority.
These examples do not extend to normal and Policies, delegated authorities proper financial investments in publicly quoted and reserved powers companies.
AstraZeneca employees are expected to make themselves aware of and comply Insider information with the letter and spirit of all AstraZeneca Employees must not use confidential policies and with the reserved powers and information obtained through their delegated authorities established by the employment for personal gain.
Copies of these are available on the Companys intranet site s. It is AstraZeneca policy, and in certain countries a legal requirement carrying criminal sanctions, The freedoms which individuals have to carry that employees in possession of confidential out their jobs must be exercised within both price sensitive information in relation to the letter and spirit of AstraZeneca policies securities do not make use of such information and procedures, reserved powers and to deal in securities of AstraZeneca or provide delegated authorities.
These are designed such information to third parties for that to empower people to carry out their purpose.
The same considerations apply responsibilities within a necessary framework in relation to confidential price sensitive of corporate control and legal responsibility information relating to other companies and but are not so voluminous as to prescribe dealing in their securities.
appropriate action in every circumstance.
