Financial Statements 87 ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING basis over their useful economic lives from Payments to defined contribution schemes The consolidated financial statements have product launch.
Payments to in-licence are recognised in the income statement as been prepared under the historical cost products and compounds from external third they fall due.
convention, modified to include revaluation parties, generally taking the form of up-front to fair value of certain financial instruments payments and milestones, are capitalised and Taxation as described below, in accordance with the amortised, generally on a straight line basis, The charge for taxation is based on the profits Companies Act 1985 and International over their economic lives from launch.
Under for the year and takes into account taxation Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as this policy, it is not possible to determine deferred because of temporary differences adopted by the European Union in response precise economic lives for individual classes between the treatment of certain items for to the IAS regulation EC 1606 2002. of intangible.
However, lives range from three taxation and for accounting purposes.
Full years to twenty years.
Intangible assets relating provision is made for the tax effects of these Where there are significant differences to to products in development both internally differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised US GAAP these have been described in the generated and externally acquired are subject to the extent that it is probable that taxable US GAAP section on pages 130 to 136. to impairment testing at each balance sheet profit will be available against which the asset date.
All intangible assets are tested for can be utilised.
This requires judgements to In preparing their individual financial statements, impairment when there are indications that be made in respect of the forecast of future the accounting policies of some overseas the carrying value may not be recoverable.
subsidiaries and associated undertakings Any impairment losses are recognised do not conform with IFRSs.
Therefore, where immediately in the income statement.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised appropriate, adjustments are made in order in respect of temporary differences associated to present the Group Financial Statements Business combinations and goodwill with investments in subsidiaries, branches on a consistent basis.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are and joint ventures where the Group is able attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities to control the timing of reversal of the AstraZenecas management considers the and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill temporary differences and it is probable that following to be the most important accounting arises where the fair value of the consideration the temporary differences will not reverse in policies in the context of the Groups operations.
given for a business exceeds the fair value the foreseeable future.
of such assets, liabilities and contingent In applying these accounting policies liabilities acquired.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management makes certain judgements and management to make judgements and estimations.
Judgements include classification Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised estimates of ultimate exposures in relation to of transactions between the income statement and subject to an impairment review, both tax audit issues.
Tax benefits are not recognised and balance sheet, whilst estimations focus on annually and when there is an indication that unless the tax positions will probably be areas such as carrying values and estimated lives.
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Once considered to be probable, Prior to 1 January 2003, goodwill was management reviews each material tax benefit The accounting policy descriptions set out the amortised over its estimated useful life: such to assess whether a provision should be areas where judgement needs exercising, the amortisation ceased on 31 December 2002. taken against full recognition of that benefit most significant of which are the classification of on the basis of potential settlement through financial instruments and the transition elections The Groups policy up to and including 1997 negotiation and or litigation.
Any recorded made under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of was to eliminate goodwill arising upon exposure to interest on tax liabilities is International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under IFRS 1 provided for in the tax charge.
First-time Adoption of International Financial Revenue Reporting Standards and IFRS 3 Business Share-based payments Sales exclude inter-company sales and valueCombinations, such goodwill will remain The fair value of employee share option plans added taxes and represent net invoice value eliminated against reserves.
is generally calculated using the Black-Scholes less estimated rebates, returns and settlement model.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based discounts.
Sales are recognised when the Employee benefits Payments, the resulting cost is recognised in significant risks and rewards of ownership have The Group accounts for pensions and other the income statement over the vesting period been transferred to a third party.
No revenue employee benefits principally healthcare under of the options, being the period in which the is recognised when there are significant IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
In respect of services are received.
The value of the charge uncertainties regarding the consideration defined benefit plans, obligations are measured is adjusted to reflect expected and actual to be received or the costs associated with at discounted present value whilst plan assets levels of options vesting, except where the the transaction.
are measured at fair value.
The operating and failure to vest is as a result of not meeting financing costs of such plans are recognised a market condition.
All plans are classified Research and development separately in the income statement: service as equity settled.
Research expenditure is recognised in costs are spread systematically over the lives the income statement in the year in which of employees and financing costs are Property, plant and equipment it is incurred.
recognised in full in the periods in which they The Groups policy is to write off the difference arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised between the cost of each item of property, Internal development expenditure is recognised immediately in the statement of recognised plant and equipment and its residual value in the income statement in the year in which income and expense.
systematically over its estimated useful life.
it is incurred unless it meets the recognition Assets under construction are not depreciated.
criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Regulatory Where the calculation results in a benefit to the and other uncertainties generally mean that Group, the recognised asset is limited to the Reviews are made annually of the estimated such criteria are not met.
Where, however, the present value of any future refunds from the remaining lives and residual values of individual recognition criteria are met, intangible assets plan or reductions in future contributions to the productive assets, taking account of are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line plan.
commercial and technological obsolescence AstraZeneca Annual Report and 88 Form 20-F Information 2005 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED as well as normal wear and tear.
Under this Inventories For assets and long term loans classified policy it becomes impractical to calculate Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or as fair value through profit or loss and assets average asset lives exactly.
However, the total net realisable value.
The first in, first out or held for trading, all changes in fair value are lives range from approximately thirteen to fifty an average method of valuation is used.
For recognised in the income statement.
years for buildings, and three to fifteen years finished goods and work in progress, cost for plant and equipment.
All items of property, includes directly attributable costs and certain Contingent liabilities plant and equipment are tested for impairment overhead expenses including depreciation.
Through the normal course of business, when there are indications that the carrying Selling expenses and certain other overhead AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, the value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment expenses principally central administration settlement of which may involve cost to the losses are written off immediately to income.
Net realisable value is Group.
Provision is made where an adverse determined as estimated selling price less all outcome is probable and associated costs Borrowing costs estimated costs of completion and costs to be can be estimated reliably.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental Write downs of inventory occur regularly in the liabilities relating to its past operations, Leases general course of business and are included principally in respect of soil and groundwater Assets held under finance leases are capitalised in cost of sales in the income statement.
Provisions for these costs and included in tangible fixed assets at fair are made when there is a present obligation value.
Each asset is depreciated over the Financial instruments and where it is probable that expenditure shorter of the lease term or its useful life.
Financial instruments are recorded initially at on remedial work will be required and that The obligations related to finance leases, net fair value.
Subsequent measurement depends a reliable estimate can be made of the cost.
of finance charges in respect of future periods, on the designation of the instrument, as follows: Provisions are discounted where the effect are included, as appropriate, under current is material.
Investments other than interests in joint ventures, associates and fixed deposits Foreign currencies The interest element of the rental obligation and short term investments other than Income statement items in foreign currencies is allocated to accounting periods during the fixed deposits are normally designated are translated into US dollars at average lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest as available for sale.
Where the exposure exchange rates, which approximate to actual on the remaining balance of the obligation for to a change in fair value of such an asset rates, for the relevant accounting periods.
is substantially offset by the exposure Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange to a change in the fair value of derivatives, rates prevailing at the date of the Group Rentals under operating leases are charged to the asset is generally classified as fair value balance sheet.
the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Exchange gains and losses on short term Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Fixed deposits, comprising principally foreign currency borrowings and deposits are A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly or funds held with banks and other financial included within finance income and finance indirectly, by AstraZeneca.
Control is regarded institutions, classified as loans and expense.
Exchange differences on all other as the power to govern the financial and receivables, and short term borrowings transactions, except relevant foreign currency operating policies of the entity so as to obtain and overdrafts, classified as other liabilities, loans, are taken to operating profit.
are held at amortised cost.
In the consolidated financial statements An associate is an undertaking, not being Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, exchange differences arising on consolidation a subsidiary or joint venture, over whose foreign exchange contracts and options of the net investments in subsidiaries, joint commercial and financial policy decisions and embedded derivatives, are classified ventures and associates together with those AstraZeneca has significant influence.
on relevant foreign currency loans are taken directly to equity via the statement of recognised A joint venture is an entity which is jointly Long term loans, where the change in fair income and expense.
controlled by AstraZeneca and one or more value is substantially offset by the exposure other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
to a change in the fair value of derivatives, IFRS transitional arrangements are classified as fair value through profit or and early adoption AstraZenecas share of the profits less losses loss when certain criteria are met.
When preparing the consolidated balance of joint ventures and associates is included in sheet under IFRS at 1 January 2003, the date the Group income statement on the equity Changes in the fair value of financial of transition, the following optional exemptions accounting basis.
The holding value of instruments are dealt with as follows: from full retrospective application of IFRS associates and joint ventures in the Group accounting policies have been adopted: balance sheet is calculated by reference to For available for sale assets, exchange losses AstraZenecas equity in the net assets of such and impairments are taken to the income Business combinations the provisions associates and joint ventures, as shown by the statement.
All other changes in fair value are of IFRS 3 have been applied prospectively most recent accounts available, adjusted taken to reserves.
On disposal of the related from 1 January 2003. Business combinations where appropriate and including goodwill on asset, the accumulated changes in fair value that occurred before 1 January 2003 have acquisitions made since 1 January 1998. recorded in reserves are included in the gain not been restated.
or loss recorded in the income statement.
Financial Statements 89 Employee benefits the accumulated actuarial gains and losses in respect of employee defined benefit plans have been recognised in full through reserves.
Cumulative exchange differences cumulative translation differences on net investments have been set to zero at 1 January 2003.
The following optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies have not been adopted: Fair value or revaluation an entity may elect to use fair value or a previous GAAP revaluation at the opening balance sheet date.
Compound financial instruments if the compound financial instruments are no longer outstanding at the date of transition, the entity is not required to split the instrument into the separate equity and liability components.
In addition, the Group has chosen to restate comparative information with respect to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 2 Sharebased Payments has been adopted with full retrospective application.
The Group has also adopted the amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits early, allowing actuarial gains or losses to be recognised directly in the consolidated statement of income and expense in the period in which they arise.
Comparative information has been prepared on this basis.
Accounting standards issued but not adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures was issued in August 2005.
It revises and enhances previous disclosures required by IAS 32 and IAS 30 Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and similar Financial Institutions.
It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
The adoption of IFRS 7 will have no impact upon the results or net assets of AstraZeneca.
Accounting policies in respect of the company information for AstraZeneca PLC are set out on page 141.
These are in accordance with UK GAAP.
