Company Information 141 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described below, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies under UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
New Accounting Standards The Company has adopted the following accounting standards in the year: Financial Reporting Standard No.
Under FRS 20, the Company is required to reflect share-based payments in the profit and loss account.
In the Companys case, share-based payments comprise primarily share options through the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan.
The provisions of FRS 20 have been applied to options granted after 7 November 2002.
The adoption of FRS 20 had no effect on the Companys profit or net assets.
21Events after the Balance Sheet Date FRS 21.
The major effect of FRS 21 is to change the approach to dividends declared after the balance sheet date in respect of the year under review such that these dividends are no longer accrued for in the balance sheet.
As a result of adopting FRS 21, the Companys net assets at 31 December 2004 increased by $1,061m.
23The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates FRS 23.
FRS 23 sets out additional guidance on the translation method for transactions in foreign currencies and on determining the functional and presentation currencies.
The adoption of FRS 23 had no effect on the Companys profit or net assets.
25Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation FRS 25.
FRS 25 sets out the requirements for the presentation of, and disclosures relating to, financial instruments.
The adoption of FRS 25 had no effect on the Companys profit or net assets: disclosures complying with the requirements of FRS 25 are included in the Financial Statements.
FRS 26 sets out requirements for measurement, recognition and derecognition of financial instruments.
The adoption of FRS 26 had no effect on the Companys profit or net assets.
FRS 28 sets out the requirements for the disclosure of corresponding amounts for items shown in an entitys primary financial statements and the notes to the financial statements.
The adoption of FRS 28 had no effect upon the Companys profit or net assets.
Foreign currencies Profit and loss accounts in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars at average rates for the relevant accounting periods.
Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Company balance sheet.
Exchange gains and losses are included within net interest payable.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting purposes.
Full provision is made for the effects of these differences.
Deferred tax asset valuation allowances are made where it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future.
These valuations require judgements to be made including the forecast of future taxable income.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless the tax positions will probably be sustained.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of that benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any recorded exposure to interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
All provisions are included in creditors due within one year.
Investments Fixed asset investments, including investments in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Financial instruments Loans and receivables are held at amortised cost.
Long term loans payable are held at amortised cost.
Other financial instruments, including derivatives, are held at fair value: changes in fair value are reflected in the income statement.
Contingent liabilities Through the normal course of business, AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, the settlement of which may involve cost to the Company.
Provision is made where an adverse outcome is probable and associated costs can be estimated reliably.
