AstraZeneca Annual Report and 82 Form 20-F Information 2005 PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES These are the Groups first consolidated The Company Financial Statements are The Directors are responsible for keeping financial statements prepared in accordance required by law to give a true and fair view of proper accounting records that disclose with with IFRS.
the state of affairs of the Company.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to The Directors are responsible for preparing the In preparing each of the Group and Company ensure that its financial statements comply Annual Report and Form 20-F Information and Financial Statements, the Directors are with the Companies Act 1985.
They have the Group and Company Financial required to: general responsibility for taking such steps as Statements, in accordance with applicable law are reasonably open to them to safeguard the and regulations.
Select suitable accounting policies and assets of the Group and to prevent and detect then apply them consistently.
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company Financial Make judgements and estimates that are Under applicable law and regulations, the Statements for each financial year.
Under that reasonable and prudent.
Directors are also responsible for preparing law the Directors are required to prepare the a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Group Financial Statements in accordance For the Group Financial Statements, Report and Corporate Governance Statement with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have state whether they have been prepared that comply with that law and those regulations.
elected to prepare the Company Financial in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Statements in accordance with UK by the EU.
The Directors have also presented additional information under For the Company Financial Statements, US requirements.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject The Group Financial Statements are required to any material departures disclosed and by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU explained in the Company Financial to present fairly the financial position and Statements.
performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial Prepare the financial statements on the statements that references in the relevant part going concern basis unless it is of that Act to financial statements giving a true inappropriate to presume that the Group and fair view are references to their achieving a and the Company will continue in business.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION AND PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION The preparation of the Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
