A R 2005 17 3 06 01:1 pm Page 44 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that have been adopted by the European Union EU.
In accordance with IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards an explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the previously reported financial results was provided in a 2004 restatement issued on 12th July 2005.
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions to assist companies as they change to report under IFRS.
The following exemptions have been taken by the Group in preparation of its consolidated accounts for the year ended 31st December 2005: Financial Instruments - The Group has elected to adopt IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement prospectively from 1st January 2005.
Post-retirement benefits - The Group has chosen to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans in equity at 1st January 2004.
In preparing 2004 and 2005 financial information the directors have elected to adopt the endorsed December 2004 amendment to IAS 19 - Employee Benefits that allows actuarial gains and losses to be recognised immediately in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Share Schemes - The transitional requirements of IFRS 2 require all share-based payment awards made after 7th November 2002 to be restated.
The restatement of awards made before that date is optional but we have chosen to adopt IFRS 2 from 1st July 2001 to give greater clarity and comparibility between accounting periods.
Business Combinations - The Group has elected to apply IFRS 3 prospectively from the date of transition to IFRS.
Therefore business combinations that took place prior to 1st January 2004 have not been restated.
Cumulative translation differences - Under IAS 21, cumulative foreign exchange movements on translation of foreign entities on consolidation should be disclosed as a seperate reserve within equity.
However, for simplicity, the Group has adopted the election to reset the foreign currency translation reserve to zero as at 1st January 2004.
Property, plant and equipment IAS 16 - The Group has elected to cease revaluing freehold premises and to use the carrying amounts as at 1st January 2004 as deemed cost.
The preparation of consolidated accounts in conformity with IFRS requires the directors to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The key areas where estimates have been used and assumptions applied are in impairment testing of goodwill and in assessing the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities.
The following adopted IFRS were available for early application but have not been applied by the Group in these accounts: Amendment to IAS 1 Capital Disclosures Amendment to IAS 39, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions Amendment to IAS 39, Fair Value Option Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4, Financial Guarantee Contracts IFRS 7, Financial Instruments Disclosures IFRIC 4 determining whether an Arrangement contains a lease.
The company does not expect the above amendments to have any significant impact on the accounts for the period commencing 1st January 2006.
With respect to financial guarantee contracts where the company enters into contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect the company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Basis of accounting i Subsidiaries The Group accounts include the results of the company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The accounts of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities for which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The accounts include the Group's share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
