A R 2005 17 3 06 01:1 pm Page 44 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that have been adopted by the European Union EU.
In accordance with IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards an explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the previously reported financial results was provided in a 2004 restatement issued on 12th July 2005.
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions to assist companies as they change to report under IFRS.
The following exemptions have been taken by the Group in preparation of its consolidated accounts for the year ended 31st December 2005: Financial Instruments - The Group has elected to adopt IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement prospectively from 1st January 2005.
Post-retirement benefits - The Group has chosen to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans in equity at 1st January 2004.
In preparing 2004 and 2005 financial information the directors have elected to adopt the endorsed December 2004 amendment to IAS 19 - Employee Benefits that allows actuarial gains and losses to be recognised immediately in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Share Schemes - The transitional requirements of IFRS 2 require all share-based payment awards made after 7th November 2002 to be restated.
The restatement of awards made before that date is optional but we have chosen to adopt IFRS 2 from 1st July 2001 to give greater clarity and comparibility between accounting periods.
Business Combinations - The Group has elected to apply IFRS 3 prospectively from the date of transition to IFRS.
Therefore business combinations that took place prior to 1st January 2004 have not been restated.
Cumulative translation differences - Under IAS 21, cumulative foreign exchange movements on translation of foreign entities on consolidation should be disclosed as a seperate reserve within equity.
However, for simplicity, the Group has adopted the election to reset the foreign currency translation reserve to zero as at 1st January 2004.
Property, plant and equipment IAS 16 - The Group has elected to cease revaluing freehold premises and to use the carrying amounts as at 1st January 2004 as deemed cost.
The preparation of consolidated accounts in conformity with IFRS requires the directors to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The key areas where estimates have been used and assumptions applied are in impairment testing of goodwill and in assessing the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities.
The following adopted IFRS were available for early application but have not been applied by the Group in these accounts: Amendment to IAS 1 Capital Disclosures Amendment to IAS 39, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions Amendment to IAS 39, Fair Value Option Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4, Financial Guarantee Contracts IFRS 7, Financial Instruments Disclosures IFRIC 4 determining whether an Arrangement contains a lease.
The company does not expect the above amendments to have any significant impact on the accounts for the period commencing 1st January 2006.
With respect to financial guarantee contracts where the company enters into contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect the company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Basis of accounting i Subsidiaries The Group accounts include the results of the company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The accounts of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities for which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The accounts include the Group's share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
42 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 01:1 pm Page 45 iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the accounts.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group's interest in the entity.
iv Company Under Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement.
Foreign currency i On consolidation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange ruling during the year.
Differences arising from the changes in rates of exchange are treated as part of the trading profit where they relate to items of a trading nature.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to a seperate translation reserve within equity.
They are recycled and recognised in the income statement upon disposal of the operation.
In respect of all foreign operations, any differences that have arisen before 1st January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are not presented as a separate component of equity.
ii Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates fair value was determined.
Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The associated gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the period in which the transaction to which it relates occurs.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in a separate translation reserve within equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value prior to 1st January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis at rates which write down the value of assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives.
The principal rates are as follows: Freehold buildings 1.5% Office furniture and fittings 10% Motor vehicles 20% Plant and machinery 10 - 12.5% Office equipment 12.5-20% Tooling and patterns 10% Intangible assets i Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1st January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under previous UK GAAP.
ii Research and development Expenditure on research and development is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred except that, development expenditure is capitalised where the development costs relate to new or substantially improved products that are subsequently to be released for sale and will generate future economic benefits.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see below and any impairment losses.
iii Other intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost or fair value less accumulated amortisation see below and any impairment losses.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 43 A R 2005 17 3 06 01:1 pm Page 46 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued iv Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually.
The principal amortisation rates are as follows: Capitalised development costs 20% Manufacturing designs and Computer software 12.5 - 20% core technology 10% Customer relationships 20% Non compete undertaking 50% Brand names and trademarks 10 - 20% Stocks Stock and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost, including overheads where appropriate, and estimated net realisable value.
Provision is made for slow-moving and obsolete items based on an assessment of technological and market developments and on an analysis of usage.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group's cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit plans The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are calculated in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees' services.
The Group's net obligation in respect of defined benefit pensions is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted at rates reflecting the yields on AA credit rated corporate bonds to determine its present value.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the expected and actual returns, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in the year they arise.
Any scheme surplus to the extent it is considered recoverable or deficit is recognised in full in the balance sheet.
The cost of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over the period which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees' services, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
iii Employee share plans Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and share award schemes.
The fair value of these options and awards at their date of grant is charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
iv Long term share incentive plans The fair value of awards is measured at the date of grant and the cost spread over the vesting period.
The amount recognised as an expense is not adjusted to reflect market based performance conditions.
Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Revenue from projects or service contracts is recognised as income in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
The stage of completion is assessed depending on the specific circumstances of each case.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due or associated costs, or there is the possibility of return of the goods.
No revenue is recognised if there is significant continuing management involvement with the goods.
As soon as the outcome of a project or service contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and expenses are recognised in the income statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the project or service contract.
An expected loss on a project or service contract is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Leases i Operating leases Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
