Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 119 Glossary 3G Third Generation Future generation of mobile communications following first generation analogue and second digital.
10 Gig E 10-gigabit Ethernet Networking technology enabling Ethernet data to be transported at 10 gigabits per second.
Access The connection between the local exchange and the home ofce, etc also referred to as the Access Network or the Local Loop.
ATM Asynchronous High-speed transmission technology used for transporting multiple simultaneous services voice, data and Transfer Mode multimedia applications with high quality of service levels.
Broadband Generic term for devices with a bandwidth greater than one megabit per second.
CDMA Code Division Technology allowing communications circuits to carry multiple conversations simultaneously, thus increasing Multiple Access its capacity.
DSL Digital Subscriber Line Technology that uses existing telephone copper lines to transport high-bandwidth data such as multimedia and video to service subscribers.
Ethernet A family of networking technologies developed for local area networks and now migrating to metro area networks.
Gig E Gigabit Ethernet Transmission protocol over a local area network that operates at a speed of 10 billion bits gigabit per second.
GPS Global Positioning System A system for determining location and height at any point on the earths surface.
A receiver uses minute differences in measured time signals from clocks on satellites to calculate these positions and altitudes.
HSDPA High-speed Downlink An evolution of W-CDMA.
Packet Access Internet protocol multimedia A standardised next-generation architecture for telecoms operators who want to provide mobile and xed multimedia subsystem IMS services.
Internet telephony Generic term used to describe various approaches to running voice telephony over IP Internet Protocol.
IP Internet Protocol Data protocol used by many networking devices to facilitate and control the ow of data.
Generally excludes suburban zones but can include university campuses.
Triple play Voice, video and data transmitted over a single transport medium.
VoIP voice over IP The technology that makes it possible to have a telephone conversation where the signal is carried over the Internet or a dedicated network in Internet Protocol IP packets, instead of over dedicated voice transmission lines.
W-CDMA Wideband CDMA A global standard for mobile 3G.
