16 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Report of the directors continued Creditor payment policy Annual General Meeting Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and The AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 3 May 2006 at The conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are Copthorne Hotel London Gatwick, Copthorne Way, Copthorne, Crawley, conducted and it is Group policy to comply with those terms and to make West Sussex RH10 3PG, United Kingdom.
Auditors At 31 December 2005, the Company had an average of 48 days purchases A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorising outstanding in trade creditors 2004 54 days.
the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Corporate governance The Directors statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 17 By Order of the Board to 19.
The Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of preparing the financial statements appears below.
Paul Eardley Company Secretary Going concern 23 February 2006 After making enquiries, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The Companies Act 1985 requires directors to prepare financial statements The directors are responsible for: for each accounting period which give a true and fair view of the state of keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the accounting period accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements financial statements the directors are required to: comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, for the Group, Article 4 of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: International Accounting Standards Regulation: and make judgements and estimates that are both reasonable and prudent: taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
state whether applicable accounting standards, International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union or UK Generally The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Accepted Accounting Practice, as appropriate, have been followed, subject Companys website.
Financial information published on the website is based to any material departures being disclosed and explained in the notes to on legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements: and financial statements that may be different from comparable legislation in other jurisdictions.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the financial position and financial performance of the entity.
