Notes to the Financial Statements 31 December 2005 1 Basis of preparation policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its These financial statements have been prepared in accordance activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated or deconsolidated from with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC the effective date control is transferred to or from the Company.
interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU and with those On acquisition, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets historical cost convention.
A summary of the more important Group acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any excess of the fair values of accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation of the identifiable net assets over the cost of acquisition is recognised where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption directly in the income statement.
of new accounting standards in the year.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its own profit and loss account.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Where necessary, adjustments are 2 First time adoption of IFRS made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the On transition to IFRS, an entity is generally required to apply IFRS accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
retrospectively except where exemption is available under IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Reporting Standards.
The ii Associates and joint ventures following is a summary of the key elections from IFRS1 that were An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position made by the Group: to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions IFRS3 Business Combinations : The Group has elected to apply of the investee.
the exemption in relation to business combinations and will only apply IFRS3 prospectively from 1 January 2004.
The balance A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and of goodwill under UK GAAP as at 31 December 2003 is the other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint deemed cost of goodwill under IFRS as at 1 January 2004. control.
Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are IAS19 Employee Benefits : The Group has elected to recognise referred to as jointly controlled entities.
all cumulative actuarial gains and losses on its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes at the transition date.
The Group The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint has also elected to early adopt the amendment to IAS19, controlled entities are incorporated in the financial statements recognising all actuarial gains and losses in full as they arise using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
and joint controlled entities are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post acquisition changes in the Groups share of the IAS21 The Effects of Change in Foreign Exchange Rates : The net assets of the associate or joint venture, less any impairment in Group has elected to apply the IFRS1 exemption and to reset the the value of the individual investments.
Losses of the associates or foreign currency translation reserve to zero at the date of transition.
joint ventures in excess of the Groups interest in those associates or joint ventures are not recognised.
IAS32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement : Any excess of the costs of acquisition over the Groups share of The Group has elected to apply the exemption from restatement the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate or joint of comparatives for IAS32 and IAS39, and applies UK GAAP venture at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any rules to derivatives, financial assets and financial liabilities and to excess of the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net hedging relationships for the 2004 comparative information.
The assets of the associate or joint venture over the costs of acquisition adjustments required for differences between UK GAAP and IAS32 is recognised directly in the income statement.
and IAS39 are determined and recognised at 1 January 2005.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate or joint Reconciliations on the transition to IFRS are on pages 77 to 80. controlled entity, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate or joint venture.
Losses 3 Summary of significant accounting policies may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless b Foreign currency translation otherwise stated.
i Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, a Basis of consolidation which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
i Subsidiaries Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company environment in which the entity operated the functional currency.
made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating Abbot Group plc 45 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, b Foreign currency translation continued other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost, ii Transactions and balances less estimated residual value, of each asset over their estimated Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated and useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Freehold buildings 50 years translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Leasehold land 50 years Gains and losses arising on retranslation are recognised in the income Leasehold buildings 50 years or over the unexpired statement for the period, except where hedge accounting is applied.
lease, if shorter Plant, machinery and vehicles 2-10 years iii Group companies Drilling rigs and equipment 3-16 years On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas entities are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance Drilling rigs and equipment are not depreciated when idle.
Income and expense items are translated at average are considered for impairment at least annually.
Assets in the course exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of construction are not depreciated until brought into use.
The gain of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the dates, in which case the actual transaction rate will be used.
difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Such translation differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the operation is f Impairment disposed of.
The Group performs impairment reviews in respect of goodwill annually, and other intangible assets and property, plant and iv Goodwill and fair value adjustments equipment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of may not be recoverable.
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing exchange rate.
g Capitalisation of borrowing costs and interest Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of tangible c Goodwill fixed assets are added to the cost of those assets, until such time Goodwill arising on consolidation representing the excess of fair as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
All other value of the consideration given over the fair value of the separable borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the net assets acquired is recognised as an asset and reviewed for period in which they are incurred.
On disposal of an entity the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of profit and h Investments loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date Investments held as fixed assets are shown at cost less appropriate of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP provision where the directors consider that impairment in value amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Investments are considered for impairment at Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 least annually.
has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
i Inventories Stocks of spare parts which are held for use in the Groups drilling d Other intangible assets operations are stated at cost less a provision in respect of those Intangible assets are recognised at cost less accumulated spares attached to the older rigs and equipment.
On acquisition of an entity, other intangible assets work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable are identified and evaluated to determine the carrying value on value.
Cost is calculated using the weighted average method.
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of each asset over their estimated useful lives, using j Cash and cash equivalents the straight-line method, on the following bases: Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits with maturities of less than three months held with banks and bank Customer relationships 7 years overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current Other 3-5 years liabilities on the balance sheet.
e Property, plant and equipment k Taxation Property, plant and equipment held for use in the Groups The tax charge represents the sum of tax currently payable and operations, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance deferred tax.
Tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit sheet at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Taxable profit differs from the profit reported in the Cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing income statement due to items that are not taxable or deductible costs capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
in any period and also due to items that are taxable or deductible in a different period.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
46 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Accounting policy pre 1 January 2005 pre adoption of IAS39 k Taxation continued Instruments accounted for as a hedge are designated as a hedge Deferred income tax is provided, using the full liability method, on at the inception of contracts.
Receipts and payments on interest rate temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and instruments are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial the life of the instrument.
Gains and losses on foreign currency statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from hedges are recognised on maturity of the underlying transaction.
depreciation on property, plant and equipment, tax losses carried forward and, in relation to acquisitions, the difference between the Post 1 January 2005 following adoption of IAS39 fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax base.
Tax rates Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the enacted, or substantially enacted, by the balance sheet date are contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their used to determine deferred income tax.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable instrument, and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair temporary differences can be utilised.
value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash l Employee benefits flow hedges : or hedges of net investments in foreign operation i Pension obligations net investment hedges.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Where hedging is to be undertaken, the Group documents at the inception of the transactions the relationship between the hedging For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing instrument and the hedging item, as well as its risk management benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement, and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used through in the statement of recognised income and expense.
in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The Group performs Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless effectiveness testing on a semi-annual basis.
the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting The Group currently only uses cash flow hedges and did not period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on enter into any fair value or net investment hedges during the a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges that are designated represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the fair value of scheme assets.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial ii Share-based plans asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the of the asset or liability.
grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net m Financial assets and liabilities profit or loss.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument contractual provisions of the instrument.
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the i Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
