Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued sheet date.
This is normally measured by the proportion that m Financial assets and liabilities continued contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the The fair value of the interest rate swaps is estimated based on the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be discounting of expected future cash flows at prevailing interest representative of the stage of completion.
Revenue variations in rates at the balance sheet date.
contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed in writing by the customer.
The fair value of the forward currency contracts has been estimated based on market forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Where the outcome of a long-term engineering contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent ii Bank borrowings of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which proceeds received.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total revenue, the expected loss is recognised in full as an n Provisions expense immediately.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation r Leases at the balance sheet date.
Rentals payable on operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
o Profit from operations Profit from operations is stated after the share of results of s Disclosure of impact of future accounting standards associates, net of taxation, but before investment income and IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures finance costs.
This standard consolidates IAS30 and the disclosure requirements of IAS32 relating to financial instruments.
We do not anticipate p Revenue recognition that this standard will have any material impact on the Groups Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration financial statements.
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of IFRIC4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease discounts, value-added tax and other sales related taxes.
IFRIC4 contains guidance on determining whether arrangements that do not take the legal form of a lease should nonetheless Sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which be accounted for in accordance with IAS17 Leases.
We do not the services are rendered.
anticipate that this will have any material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
4 Significant accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of Incentive income is recognised when earned.
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the year.
principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results q Engineering contracts ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Where significant Where the outcome of a long-term engineering contract can be estimates or assumptions have been applied in estimating estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference balances in the financial statements, these have been disclosed to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance in the relevant notes to those balances.
