Notes to the Financial Statements 31 December 2005 1 Basis of preparation policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its These financial statements have been prepared in accordance activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated or deconsolidated from with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC the effective date control is transferred to or from the Company.
interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU and with those On acquisition, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets historical cost convention.
A summary of the more important Group acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any excess of the fair values of accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation of the identifiable net assets over the cost of acquisition is recognised where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption directly in the income statement.
of new accounting standards in the year.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its own profit and loss account.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Where necessary, adjustments are 2 First time adoption of IFRS made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the On transition to IFRS, an entity is generally required to apply IFRS accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
retrospectively except where exemption is available under IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Reporting Standards.
The ii Associates and joint ventures following is a summary of the key elections from IFRS1 that were An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position made by the Group: to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions IFRS3 Business Combinations : The Group has elected to apply of the investee.
the exemption in relation to business combinations and will only apply IFRS3 prospectively from 1 January 2004.
The balance A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and of goodwill under UK GAAP as at 31 December 2003 is the other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint deemed cost of goodwill under IFRS as at 1 January 2004. control.
Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are IAS19 Employee Benefits : The Group has elected to recognise referred to as jointly controlled entities.
all cumulative actuarial gains and losses on its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes at the transition date.
The Group The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint has also elected to early adopt the amendment to IAS19, controlled entities are incorporated in the financial statements recognising all actuarial gains and losses in full as they arise using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
and joint controlled entities are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post acquisition changes in the Groups share of the IAS21 The Effects of Change in Foreign Exchange Rates : The net assets of the associate or joint venture, less any impairment in Group has elected to apply the IFRS1 exemption and to reset the the value of the individual investments.
Losses of the associates or foreign currency translation reserve to zero at the date of transition.
joint ventures in excess of the Groups interest in those associates or joint ventures are not recognised.
IAS32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement : Any excess of the costs of acquisition over the Groups share of The Group has elected to apply the exemption from restatement the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate or joint of comparatives for IAS32 and IAS39, and applies UK GAAP venture at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any rules to derivatives, financial assets and financial liabilities and to excess of the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net hedging relationships for the 2004 comparative information.
The assets of the associate or joint venture over the costs of acquisition adjustments required for differences between UK GAAP and IAS32 is recognised directly in the income statement.
and IAS39 are determined and recognised at 1 January 2005.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate or joint Reconciliations on the transition to IFRS are on pages 77 to 80. controlled entity, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate or joint venture.
Losses 3 Summary of significant accounting policies may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless b Foreign currency translation otherwise stated.
i Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, a Basis of consolidation which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
i Subsidiaries Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company environment in which the entity operated the functional currency.
made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating Abbot Group plc 45
