Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Abbot Group plc 13.1 subject to resolution 12 above being passed, to allot equity the Company will be held at Minto Drive, Altens, Aberdeen AB12 3LW securities within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act on 24 May 2006 at 11.00am for the following purposes:- of the Company for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 12: and Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report, Auditors Report 13.2 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
To declare a final dividend of 3.3p per ordinary share for the year in either case as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such ended 31 December 2005 payable to eligible ordinary shareholders allotment provided that this power shall be limited:- on the register of members at the close of business on 5 May 2006. i to allotments of equity securities where such securities have 3.
To re-appoint as a director Michael J. L. Salter who has offered been offered whether by way of a rights issue open offer himself for re-appointment in accordance with Article 97 of the or otherwise to holders of ordinary shares of the Company Articles of Association of the Company.
and, if in accordance with their rights as the directors so determine, holders of other equity securities of any class 4.
To re-appoint as a director John W. Hollis who has offered himself made in proportion as nearly as may be to their existing for re-appointment in accordance with Article 97 of the Articles holdings of ordinary shares as the case may be and other of Association of the Company.
equity securities of the class concerned so that any offer to holders of other equity securities of any class shall be on 5.
To re-appoint as a director George E. Watkins who has offered a basis of their rights to receive such offer and, failing which, himself for re-appointment in accordance with Article 97 of the shall be on the basis that their holdings had been converted Articles of Association of the Company.
into or that they had subscribed for ordinary shares on the basis then applicable but subject in either case to the 6.
To re-appoint as a director Javier Ferrn who retiring in accordance directors having a right to make such exclusions or other with Article 90 of the Articles of Association of the Company offers arrangements in connection with such offering as they himself for re-appointment.
To re-appoint as a director Isla M. Smith who retiring in accordance a to sell, for the benefit of those shareholders who are with Article 90 of the Articles of Association of the Company offers citizens of or resident in any overseas territory where herself for re-appointment.
in the opinion of the directors it would at the time of the offer be illegal by relevant law or unduly costly 8.
To re-appoint as a director Holger W. Temmen who retiring in or burdensome for the Company to make or for those accordance with Article 90 of the Articles of Association of the shareholders to accept an offer of equity securities of Company offers himself for re-appointment.
the Company, the equity securities to which they would otherwise be entitled, save that the proceeds net of 9.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the expenses of 3 or less due to any such shareholders Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next General may be retained for the benefit of the Company: and Meeting at which accounts are laid.
b to aggregate and sell for the benefit of the Company all 10.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration fractions of a share which may arise in apportioning the of the Auditors.
equity securities among the original shareholders: and Special Business ii to allotments otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph As Special Business, to consider and if thought fit, pass the following i above of equity securities having in the case of relevant resolutions of which resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed as ordinary shares as defined in Section 94 of the Act a nominal resolutions and resolutions 13 to 16 will be proposed as special resolutions: amount, or in the case of other securities, giving the right to subscribe for or convert into relevant shares having a Ordinary Resolution nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 1,384,708, 11.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report as set out on pages 36 to 40 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
and this power shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and the date fifteen 12.
That, in substitution for any previous authority, the directors be months after the passing of this Resolution save that the Company and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as the directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer defined in that section up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution hereby of relevant securities of 9,205,840, being 33.24 per cent of the issued had not expired.
share capital of the Company as at 17 March 2006, to expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting 14.
That, in accordance with Article 50 of the Articles of Association of of the Company and the date fifteen months after the passing of the Company and Chapter VII of Part V of the Act and subject to the this resolution, but the Company may before this authority expires following provisions of this Resolution, the Company be and is hereby make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 166 of securities to be allotted after this authority expires, and the Company the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section may allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement 163 3 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares of 15p each on as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
such terms and in such manner as the directors of the Company may from time to time determine provided that:- Special Resolutions 13.
That, the directors be and they are hereby generally empowered i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares of 15p each pursuant to Section 95 of the Act:- authorised to be acquired is 18,462,774 representing just under 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary capital as at 17 March 2006 : 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 ii the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting 1.
A holder of ordinary shares who is entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General is 15p exclusive of expenses : Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is iii unless a tender or partial offer is made to all holders of the enclosed for use by shareholders.
In order to be valid, an appointment of proxy must ordinary shares on the same terms, the maximum price exclusive be returned by one of the following methods:- of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share is, in 1.1 in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the address shown on the respect of a share contracted to be purchased on any day, to form of proxy: be not more than 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotation of an ordinary share of the Company taken 1.2 in the case of CREST members, by utilising the procedure set out below under from the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the heading FOR CREST MEMBERS ONLY.
the five business days immediately preceding the day on which To be valid, proxies must be received not later than 48 hours before the Annual the contract of purchase is made: General Meeting.
Ordinary shareholders who have lodged proxy forms are not thereby prevented from attending the meeting and voting in person if so desired.
iv the Company may enter into one or more contracts to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before this authority expires 2.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority is determined by the order in which the of the authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares names of the holders stand in the register of members of the Company in respect of in pursuance of any such contracts: and the joint holding.
v this authority will unless renewed expire at the conclusion of 3.
The following documents, which are available for inspection during normal business the next Annual General Meeting of the Company held after hours at Minto Drive, Altens, Aberdeen AB12 3LW Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual the date on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, twelve General Meeting from 10.45 a. m. on 24 May 2006 until the conclusion of the months from the date of passing of this resolution.
That the Articles of Association of the Company be amended 3.1 The register of directors and their families interests in the share capital of the by deleting the figure of 125,000 in Article 108 and replacing Company: and it with the figure 250,000.
3.2 Copies of all directors service contracts and contracts of appointment between the directors and the Company.
That the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by the deletion of Article 170 and the insertion of a new Article In addition, copies of the Articles of Association will be available for inspection 170 as follows: at Minto Drive, Altens, Aberdeen AB12 3LW and at the offices of the Companys solicitors, Pinsent Masons, Dashwood House, 69 Old Broad Street, London EC2M 1NR during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted 170 Right to indemnity from the date of this Notice until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
170.1 Subject to the provisions of the Act, but without prejudice to any indemnity to which he may otherwise 4.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the be entitled, every person who is or was a Director or time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is 6.00 p. m. on 22 May other officer of the Company other than any person 2006 being not more than 48 hours prior to the time fixed for the Annual General engaged by the Company as the Auditors may be Meeting or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, such time being not more indemnified out of the assets of the Company against that 48 hours prior to the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the incurred by him from time to time whether in right of any person to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
connection with any negligence, default, breach of For CREST members only duty or breach of trust by him or otherwise in relation CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy to the affairs of the Company or any other member of appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 24 May 2006 the Group or the actual or purported execution and or and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
discharge of the duties of his office and or the exercise CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members or purported exercise of his powers or discretions, who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
including any liability suffered or incurred by him in disputing, defending, investigating or providing In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the evidence in connection with any actual, threatened or appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings, in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for whether civil or criminal, or in connection with any such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a application for relief under the Act.
previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified 170.2 The Directors may also, subject to the provisions of in this notice of the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the the Act, provide funds to any Director or other officer time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications of the Company other than any person engaged by Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies the Company as the Auditors to meet, or do anything appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
to enable a Director to avoid incurring, expenditure incurred or to be incurred by him in defending any CREST members, and where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers criminal or civil proceedings or in connection with should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any any application for relief under the Act.
Normal systems timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his By order of the Board CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors Alec W. J. Banyard or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Company Secretary Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
14 April 2006 The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
