Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Notice of Meeting 63 iii the maximum price which may be paid for NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Resolution 10 an ordinary share shall not be more than SIXTEENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING that subject to the passing of resolution 9 the 5% above the average of the middle of Scottish and Southern Energy plc will Directors be and they are hereby empowered market quotations for an ordinary share be held at the Pitlochry Festival Theatre, pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act as derived from the London Stock Port-na-Craig, Pitlochry PH16 5DR on 1985 the Act to allot equity securities as Exchange Daily Official List for the five Thursday, 28 July 2005 at 12 noon for the defined in section 94 of the Act wholly for business days immediately preceding the following purposes: cash pursuant to the authority conferred by date on which the ordinary share is resolution 9 as if section 89 1 of the Act did purchased: To consider and, if thought fit, pass not apply to any such allotment, provided that resolutions 1 to 9 as ordinary resolutions, and this power shall be limited to the allotment of iv unless previously renewed, varied or resolutions 10 and 11 as special resolutions: equity securities: revoked, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the conclusion of the Resolution 1 a in connection with an offer of such companys next Annual General Meeting to receive the Accounts and the Reports of securities by way of rights to holders of or 15 months from the date of passing of the Directors and the auditor for the financial ordinary shares in proportion as nearly this resolution, if earlier: and year ended 31 March 2005. as may be practicable to their respective holdings of such shares, but subject to v the company may make a contract or Resolution 2 such exclusions or other arrangements contracts to purchase ordinary shares to approve the Remuneration Report for the as the Directors may deem necessary or under the authority hereby conferred prior financial year ended 31 March 2005. expedient in relation to fractional to the expiry of such authority which will entitlements or any legal or practical or may be executed wholly or partly after Resolution 3 problems under the laws of any territory, the expiry of such authority and may make to declare a final dividend for the year ended or the requirements of any regulatory a purchase of ordinary shares in 31 March 2005 of 30.3 pence per ordinary body or stock exchange: and pursuance of any such contract or share.
b otherwise than pursuant to subResolution 4 paragraph a above up to an aggregate By Order of the Board to re-elect Colin Hood as a Director of nominal amount of 21,470,614: Vincent Donnelly the company.
Company Secretary and shall expire on the conclusion of the next 17 May 2005 Resolution 5 Annual General Meeting of the company after to re-elect Ren Mdori as a Director of the passing of this resolution save that the Registered Office: the company.
company may before such expiry make an Inveralmond House offer or agreement which would or might 200 Dunkeld Road Resolution 6 require equity securities to be allotted after Perth to re-elect Sir Robert Smith as a Director of such expiry and the Directors may allot equity PH1 3AQ the company.
securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power Resolution 7 conferred hereby has expired.
that KPMG Audit Plc be appointed auditor of the company to hold office from the This power applies in relation to a sale conclusion of this meeting until the of shares which is an allotment of equity conclusion of the next general meeting at securities by virtue of section 94 3A of which the accounts are laid before the the Act as if in the first paragraph of this company.
resolution the words pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 9 Resolution 8 were omitted.
that the Directors be authorised to determine the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 11 that, pursuant to Article 12 of the Articles Resolution 9 of Association, the company be and is that the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make one or more Act 1985 to exercise the powers of the market purchases within the meaning of company to allot relevant securities as section 163 3 of the Act on the London Stock defined within that section up to an Exchange of ordinary shares of 50p each in aggregate nominal amount of 143,137,431, the capital of the company provided that: provided that this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General i the maximum number of ordinary shares Meeting of the company after the passing of authorised to be purchased is 85,880,075 this resolution save that the company may representing 10% of the companys issued before such expiry make an offer or ordinary share capital: agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted ii the minimum price which may be paid for after such expiry and the Directors may allot such shares is 50p per share which relevant securities in pursuance of such offer amount shall be exclusive of expenses: or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred hereby has expired.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Notice of Meeting Continued 64 Notes 1.
Only holders of ordinary shares on the register at 11.00 pm.
on 26 July 2005 may attend and vote in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
A shareholder of the company is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
A Proxy Form is enclosed with this Notice.
The Proxy Form, duly completed and signed, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof, must reach the registrar of the company, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS13 8FB, not later than 12 noon on 26 July 2005.
Alternatively, you can submit your proxy vote electronically.
Further information can be found in the Guidance Notes on the reverse of the Proxy Form.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday public holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until the date of the Meeting and thereafter at the place of the Meeting from 11.45 am until the conclusion of the Meeting: i the register of Directors share interests kept pursuant to section 325 of the Companies Act 1985: and ii copies of Directors service contracts and non-Executive Directors appointment letters.
The Audited Accounts are set out on pages 40 to 61: the Remuneration Report is set out on pages 34 to 38: details of the total dividend for this year are set out in the Directors Report on page 32: Directors biographical details are set out on page 30: information on the Directors seeking re-election is set out on page 26: and explanations of resolutions 9 to 11 are set out in the Directors Report on pages 32 and 33.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Shareholder Information Website Shareholder Enquiries Financial Calendar Shareholder Information You can contact the registrar, Computershare Annual General Meeting The companys website at Investor Services PLC Computershare, by 28 July 2005 scottish-southern.
co. uk has a dedicated phoning the dedicated shareholder helpline Ex dividend date shareholder information section where on 0845 143 4005, or writing to them at: The 24 August 2005 shareholders can find more information Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS13 8FB.
Record date about the services available to them, 26 August 2005 download forms, view and update their Computershare deal with the following: Final dividend payable shareholding online, manage their portfolio 23 September 2005 through Investor Centre and view share price k Shareholding details Interim announcement and dividend histories and trading graphs.
16 November 2005 k Transferring shares Voting Electronically The Groups half-year results will be The website and the Guidance Notes on the k Dividends published on the companys website at reverse of the Proxy Form contain information scottish-southern.
co. uk on 16 November on how shareholders can appoint their proxy k Death of a shareholder and in the Independent newspaper on electronically.
Your on-line proxy can be 17 November, and will detail the ex dividend checked and updated up until 12 noon on k Lost share certificates and record dates for the interim dividend 26 July 2005. payable in March 2006.
Paper copies of k Merging duplicate share accounts the half-year results are not distributed to individual shareholders, although k eCommunication shareholders who have elected for eCommunications do receive notification Shareholder Services of the half-year results on the companys Scottish and Southern Energy has a number website.
of services including: Provisional dates k Elect for eCommunications and have a tree planted Copy Reports Copies of the following documents can be k Telephone, Internet and postal share obtained, free of charge, from the Company dealings services with ShareGift option Secretary, Scottish and Southern Energy plc, Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, Perth k Merge duplicate share accounts and have a PH1 3AQ or by accessing the companys tree planted website at scottish-southern.
co. uk: k Dividend reinvestment plan k Annual Report and Accounts 2005 You can find further information on these k Annual Review 2005 services on the companys website at scottish-southern.
co. uk shareholder, or k Sustainability Report 2005 on the Proxy Form.
k Corporate Profile 2005 Annual Report 2005 Annual Review 2005 Sustainability Report 2005 Corporate Profile 2005 Scottish and Southern Energy Scottish and Southern Energy now Caring for the environment is one of SSE has consistently set out four delivered an excellent financial has 6.1m energy supply customers, Scottish and Southern Energys core areas in which it can enhance and performance in 2004 05, achieving an increase of 16% in 2004 05.
SSE participated in the 2004 create value for shareholders: results well in excess of expectations the second largest, and most diverse BitC Environmental Index, the UKs maintaining and investing in energy at the start of the year.
This was and flexible, generation portfolio in leading environmental benchmarking networks: adding to its leading-edge supported by a strong operational the UK.
SSEs investment in the tool.
SSEs score was 98.80%, making generation portfolio: growing its performance, driven by the fact that Scotland and South of England gas it the joint top performing company energy supply business: and putting customers first is one of distribution networks will make it the in its sector.
This result places developing its contracting, SSEs core values.
As a result, the second largest energy distributor in SSE in BitCs Premier League connections, telecoms and gas company has continued to meet its the UK.
core objective, which is to deliver sustained real growth in the dividend.
For further information about Scottish and Southern Energy plc Telephone: 01738 456000 Scottish and Southern Energy Corporate Communications Fax: 01738 457005 please contact: Inveralmond House Email: info@scottish-southern.
co. uk 200 Dunkeld Road Web: scottish-southern.
co. uk Perth PH1 3AQ Registered in Scotland No.
