Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 International Financial Reporting Standards 62 UK listed companies are required to comply k Income taxes SSE believes it will be well placed to finalise with the European Union regulation to Under IFRS IAS 12 the discounting its IFRS transition.
Further standards and prepare consolidated financial statements of deferred tax liabilities is no longer interpretations of standards may be issued in accordance with International Financial allowed.
Furthermore, deferred tax that may be adopted for financial years from Reporting Standards IFRS from 2005 liabilities have to be recognised for all 2005.
This is expected to be a process of onward.
The first annual report and accounts taxable temporary differences.
As a result, the full for SSE prepared under IFRS will be for the the deferred tax liability currently being effect of IFRS restatement will be subject year ended 31 March 2006, with comparative held on the balance sheet will increase to change.
information for 2005 restated in accordance by more than 300m.
Interim financial Under the guidelines laid down by the statements for the period to 30 September k Property, Plant and Equipment Committee of European Security Regulators 2005 will also be prepared on an IFRS basis.
Under IFRS IAS 16 Hydro Civil Assets, CESR, SSE intends to publish the results for which are presently considered to have the year end 31 March 2005, restated under SSE has had an IFRS working group, an indefinite life under UK GAAP and IFRS, sometime in September 2005, in comprising senior management, in place for the expenditure to maintain the hydro advance of the announcement of the interim over a year, which has been reporting to the generation infrastructure, which is statements for the period to 30 September Audit Committee.
The working group has presently dealt with using renewals 2005.
At the same time, a presentation will be been responsible for assessing the financial accounting, will be reassessed, with given to analysts outlining the impact of IFRS and operational impact of applying IFRS appropriate IFRS book value restatement going forward.
Further to this, the working and new depreciation policies are to group has been responsible for managing be adopted.
the conversion process and ensuring the Groups procedures, systems and controls k Employee benefits are ready to implement IFRS from 1 April SSE was an early adopter of the full 2005.
A number of workshops have taken FRS 17 disclosure for its defined benefit place with the Groups auditors and they have pension schemes.
As a result, the change been kept informed of the progress made by to IAS 19 is not anticipated to result in the working group.
The groups accounting policies under IFRS k Goodwill will differ in certain significant respects from Under UK GAAP, the Group capitalises those under UK GAAP.
The summary below and amortises goodwill from business highlights the main areas of impact identified acquisitions.
Under IAS 36, residual in respect of the recognition and measurement goodwill balances will no longer be issues on conversion to IFRS.
amortised but will instead be subject to an annual impairment review.
k Financial Instruments Under IFRS IAS 39, certain commodity k Share-Based Payments contracts which meet the definition of Under IFRS IFRS 2, a charge is derivative instruments are required to be recognised based on the fair value of the recognised on the balance sheet at fair share-based payment awards.
This is value with the movement on fair value calculated at the grant date using an being taken through the income statement.
option-pricing model but is not considered Other commodity contracts will be a material change for SSE.
designated as being held for SSEs expected purchase, sale or usage k Emissions rights requirements referred to as own use or SSEs current policy under UK GAAP is will be subject to hedge accounting rules.
explained in the notes to the accounts.
These requirements will introduce the The International Financial Reporting potential for earnings volatility.
The Groups Interpretations Committee IFRIC has interest rate and foreign currency risk published IFRIC 3 in response to the products, policies and strategies will also introduction of the EU Emissions Trading need to be considered under IAS 39.
Further interpretation from the and 32 will introduce a significant increase IFRIC is anticipated which may change the in the accounting, compliance and previously published position.
The IFRS disclosure burden for the Group.
financial statements of SSE will be prepared in accordance with future IFRS best practice.
