Shareholder Information Financial Calendar Investor Relations Website 2005 The Companys investor relations website can be found at www.
Ex-dividend date 17 August Record date i. e. qualifying date for final dividend 19 August Share Price Information Annual General Meeting 8 September The latest information on the Companys share price can be found at Final dividend payment 14 September www.
Share price information is also available on Ceefax and Teletext and is published in the financial pages of the national press.
2006 Registrar Announcement of interim results January All enquiries relating to shareholdings in the Company should be made to the Interim dividend payment February Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Preliminary announcement of final results July Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Shareholders can access the details of their shareholdings in the Company and update address details and mandate information online at www.
Share Dealing Service A share dealing service is available to existing shareholders to buy or sell the Companys shares via Capita Share Dealing Services.
Online and telephone dealing facilities provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: www.
com online dealing 0870 458 4577 telephone dealing Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell their shares.
Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which enables shareholders to use their future cash dividends to buy additional shares in the Company.
Further details of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be obtained from www.
com or by contacting Capita Registrars.
56 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report Advisers Company Secretary and Registered Ofce REGISTRARS Sarah-Jane Goulbourne Capita Registrars Stanley House, 151 Dale Street The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road Liverpool L2 2JW Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Registered in England, number 1519749 PRINCIPAL BANKERS The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1 Exchange Flags Liverpool L2 3XN Barclays Bank PLC Birmingham Corporate Banking Centre 15 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 2EP AUDITORS  LLP 101 Barbirolli Square Lower Mosley Street Manchester M2 3PW FINANCIAL ADVISERS & STOCKBROKERS JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 20 Moorgate London EC2R 6DA SOLICITORS Ashurst Broadwalk House 5 Appold Street London EC2A 2HA Eversheds LLP Eversheds House 70 Great Bridgewater Street Manchester M1 5ES Designed & produced by www.
