Accounting Policies Accounting Convention No depreciation is provided on land or on assets in the course of The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost construction prior to being commissioned.
Depreciation on other convention as modied by the revaluation of certain properties and assets is calculated so as to write off the cost or valuation of tangible licences, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable xed assets, less their estimated residual values, over the expected accounting standards.
useful economic lives of the assets concerned, at the following rates: Basis of Consolidation Freehold and long leasehold 2% per annum on a straightline basis The consolidated Financial Statements include those of the Company properties and all of its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of profits Short leasehold Over the term of the associated lease or losses and reserves of its joint ventures and associates.
Financial properties on a straightline basis Statements are prepared for the financial year ending on the Sunday In view of the high residual values of casino and betting ofce nearest to 30 April.
For the current year this Sunday was 1 May 2005. licences, properties are reviewed annually for potential impairment.
The results of businesses acquired or disposed of are accounted for Leasehold improvements Over the shorter of the term of the from or to the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
associated lease or 50 years on a straightline basis Goodwill Fixtures, ttings and 15-25% per annum on a reducing Since 2 May 1999, goodwill arising on consolidation being the excess equipment balance basis of cost of acquisition over the fair value of net assets at the date of Motor vehicles 25% per annum on a straightline basis acquisition and purchased goodwill are capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives, up to a maximum of 20 Gross interest costs incurred in funding the construction of properties years, in accordance with FRS 10.
Prior to 2 May 1999, goodwill was are capitalised at the weighted average cost of the related borrowings written off to reserves in the year in which it arose.
This goodwill will during the period of construction.
be charged to the profit and Loss Account as appropriate on any subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates.
Tangible Assets held for Disposal Assets held for disposal are included at the lower of their net book Turnover value or realisable value.
Betting Turnover represents total amounts staked by customers on betting Pension Costs activities including FOBTs, numbers bets and online betting and The costs of contributions to the Groups dened benefit pension net takings from customers from AWPs excluding VAT.
Turnover for arrangements are charged to the profit and Loss Account on a internet gaming represents gross gaming yield.
systematic basis allowing the expected pension costs to be spread over the remaining service lives of the scheme members, as calculated Gaming by a qualied independent actuary.
Turnover represents gross gaming yield received from casino gaming activities including casino gaming machines excluding VAT and The costs of the Groups dened contribution pension arrangements are catering revenues.
charged to the profit and Loss Account on the basis of contributions payable in respect of the accounting period.
Trade Debtors Full provision is made in the profit and Loss Account for all unpaid Foreign Currencies gaming debts at the Balance Sheet date, net of amounts recovered up The balance sheets of overseas undertakings are translated into sterling to the date of approval of the accounts.
at the rates ruling at the year-end.
Trading results are translated into sterling at the average rates ruling during the year.
Translation Fixed Assets and Depreciation differences arising on foreign currency loans which finance investments The Groups properties are carried at an open market, existing use in overseas undertakings are offset against the differences arising on valuation including the benefit of casino and betting ofce licences the retranslation at closing rates of the opening net assets and trading where applicable.
results of those undertakings and the resulting translation differences are accounted for through reserves.
The Groups properties are revalued by professionally qualied external valuers every five years with interim valuations performed Differences on exchange arising in the normal course of trading are at least every third year.
The Groups properties were revalued as at dealt with in the profit and Loss Account.
Net revaluation surpluses are credited to reserves.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
28 29 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report Accounting Policies continued Operating Leases The cost of operating leases is charged to the profit and Loss Account as incurred.
Leased Assets Assets subject to finance leases or hire purchase agreements are shown as xed assets and depreciated over the asset life.
The corresponding liability for the capital element is shown as a finance lease or hire purchase creditor and the interest element is charged to the profit and Loss Account over the period of the lease or agreement.
Share Option Awards In accordance with UITF Abstract 17 Employee Share Schemes, provision is made over the performance period of awards made under the Stanley Leisure plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP for the anticipated cost to the Company.
Taxation Corporation tax is provided on the assessable profits of the Group at the appropriate rates in force.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Groups taxable profits and its results as stated in the Financial Statements.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Deferred tax is not recognised when xed assets are revalued unless by the Balance Sheet date there is a binding agreement to sell the revalued assets and the gain or loss expected to arise on the sale has been recognised in the Financial Statements.
Neither is deferred tax recognised when xed assets are sold and it is expected that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Financial Instruments The Group uses instruments to hedge the risk associated with interest rates.
Interest differentials on financial instruments are recognised by adjusting net interest payable.
Gains or losses on the hedges are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Costs of arranging debt finance are amortised over the life of the related borrowing facilities.
Financial Statements Contents Consolidated profit and Loss Account 32 Balance Sheets 33 Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 34 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 34 Historical Cost profits and Losses 34 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 35 Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Notes to the Financial Statements 38 Five Year Financial Summary 55 Shareholder Information 56 Financial Calendar 56 30 31 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report
