Our financial results Summary of Financial Results Exceptional Items and Goodwill were also enhanced by further development Total sales of 3,342 million were 175 million Amortisation of global export sales initiatives.
Exchange rate Exceptional items totalled a net charge of Obesity concerns and dietary trends translation reduced sales by 168 million.
An continued to increase demand for bottled Underlying sales growth was driven by operating exceptional charge of 55 million water and diet soft drinks, at the expense of sucralose sales of 115 million, an increase was recognised reflecting the payment made  carbonated beverages.
of 41 million in sales of other value added to end the long running high fructose corn Sales volumes of sweetener products were products, an increase of 66 million resulting syrup civil legal case in the US.
Non-operating below prior year, although overall market from higher prices within the sugar trading exceptional items totalled a credit of share remained constant.
Gross margins business and growth of 121 million within 10 million.
A gain of 16 million following were lower due to reduced volumes and the rest of the business.
settlement of the outstanding balance due selling prices not keeping pace with Profit before interest, tax, exceptional items on the loan notes issued by the purchaser of increased raw material costs.
and amortisation increased by 10% from Western Sugar was partially offset by a The contribution from ethanol was 251 million to 276 million reflecting the 2 million loss on disposal of operations within significantly increased: selling prices rose in impact of profits from the sucralose ingredients the UK animal feed and bulk storage business response to higher retail gasoline prices and business following the realignment of the and an anticipated loss on disposal of demand growth fuelled by more US states Groups relationship with McNeil Nutritionals.
2 million in respect of the Groups banning the alternative oxygenate, methyl Exchange impacts, principally arising from monosodium glutamate business in China.
the weaker US dollar, reduced profit before A loss of 2 million arose from disposal of Manufacturing operations experienced interest by 13 million compared to the fixed assets in a number of locations.
higher variable costs due to increased comparative period.
The margin of profit before Amortisation of capitalised intangibles energy, chemicals and packaging materials interest, tax, exceptional items and amortisation totalled 13 million in the year 2004 costs.
Fixed costs were above the prior year as a percentage of total sales increased 8 million.
This comprised patent amortisation due to higher maintenance and research from 7.9% to 8.3%.
Profit before interest of 4 million 2004 nil million and goodwill costs.
and tax after exceptional items of 45 million amortisation of 9 million 2004 8 million.
Our bio-gum semi works facility was 2004 nil million and the amortisation successfully commissioned during the year.
charge of 13 million 2004 8 million Segmental Analysis of Profit A new wellness starch semi works facility is was 218 million, compared with 243 Before Interest under construction and is expected to be million in the year to 31 March 2004.
The following paragraphs refer to profit commissioned by the end of the calendar Interest costs, before exceptional credits before interest and exceptional items but year.
During 2005, the Group invested of nil million 2004 5 million, reduced after the amortisation of intangible assets.
12 million from a total anticipated from 24 million to 21 million.
Subsidiaries investment of 27 million in the Bio-3G interest cover before amortisation and Sweeteners & Starches Americas joint venture.
Development continues to be exceptional items increased from 9.3 times Profits before exceptional items and interest in line with Groups original expectations.
After amortisation and increased by 34 million to 161 million.
Start up losses within this joint venture of exceptional items, subsidiaries interest Exchange rate translation reduced profits by 2 million were borne by the Group in the cover reduced from 8.7 times to 8.6 times.
Sucralose generated profits of year to 31 March 2005 and are expected Profit before tax, exceptional items and 47 million 2004 nil million, 9 million of to be higher in the year to 31 March 2006 amortisation was 255 million, 28 million or profits were reported in the Other as we commission the plant.
12% above last years profit of 227 million.
Businesses and Activities segment in 2004.
At Almex, our joint venture in Mexico, Profit before tax, exceptional items and profits were above the comparative period.
amortisation at constant exchange rates Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas High fructose corn syrup HFCS volumes increased by 18%, after adjusting for the Our US Food & Industrial Ingredients increased, reflecting improved sales made 12 million adverse impact of exchange business achieved good growth within its to non soft drink markets and additional translation.
Profit before tax, after value added product lines, although overall demand from customers granted exemption exceptional items and amortisation was performance was below the comparative from the tax on soft drinks containing HFCS.
197 million compared with 224 million period due to reduced sweetener gross Starch volumes were also considerably in the year to 31 March 2004. margins and the impact of higher operating higher.
Access into Mexico for US HFCS Diluted earnings per share before costs.
Corn prices were somewhat higher under the North American Free Trade exceptional items and amortisation for the than in the comparative period, although Agreement remains unresolved between year to 31 March 2005 were 38.0p 2004 higher co-product prices largely mitigated the Mexican and US governments.
Diluted earnings per share after the impact of this increase.
The citric acid business generated higher exceptional items and amortisation were Continued focus on value added products profits in 2005 due to firmer pricing as the 29.4p 2004 32.6p.
underpinned higher gross margins within global citric acid market continued to The Board is recommending a 0.5p per food ingredients, where sales volumes improve.
Increased market demand, coupled share increase in the final dividend from increased.
Industrial products generated with continued industry rationalisation by 13.2p to 13.7p to bring the total dividend for strong results, fuelled by improved demand ourselves and competitors, pushed selling the year to 19.4p per share.
The proposed from the US paper industry, which drove prices some 8% above the prior year.
dividend is covered 2.0 times by earnings volumes and selling prices above last year.
Operating costs were also higher due to before amortisation and exceptional items, Total gross margins on industrial starch increased substrate and energy costs.
0.2 times higher than the previous year.
Results of Earnings after exceptional items and food ingredients and industrial products amortisation covered the dividend 1.5 times 2004 1.7 times.
Net debt increased by 63 million from 388 million to 451 million.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 13 Operating and financial review continued Our joint venture facility to produce Sales growth is being actively managed the tax on products containing HFCS, selling Aquasta, a natural source of astaxanthin within these constraints, in close prices and volumes were both above the which acts as a nutrient and pigment for collaboration with the existing customer prior period, although operational issues farm-raised fish, was commissioned.
during the 2004 crop year led to lower prices were in line with expectations, and, To meet the increasing demand, two production volumes and higher with start-up costs, the business reported capacity expansions at the Alabama facility manufacturing costs.
The prospects a loss during the year.
have been announced at a total cost of over for the coming year remain good.
These expansions are expected Sucralose to be completed by April 2006, by which Sweeteners & Starches Europe The SPLENDA Sucralose ingredient time the capacity from the Alabama site will Profit before exceptional items and interest business has enjoyed an excellent first year be more than double its level at the time of decreased by 3%, from 111 million to within the Group, with sales of 115 million the realignment.
Exchange rate translation US$212 million and profit before interest, In November 2004, we announced an reduced profits by 1 million.
exceptional items and amortisation of investment in a second sucralose 52 million US$95 million in the year to manufacturing plant in Singapore.
This will Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe 31 March 2005.
This compares to proforma cost around 100 million, and is scheduled Our European Food & Industrial Ingredients sales of 70 million US$130 million and for completion in January 2007 with a business reported lower profits following the profit before interest, exceptional items and capacity of approximately two thirds of high raw material costs during the first half amortisation of 21 million US$38 million the expanded Alabama facility.
We expect of the year, which were not fully recovered in the twelve months to 31 December 2003, start-up costs in relation to the Singapore through higher selling prices.
The harvest the last full financial year of operation prior plant to approach 10 million in the year in the summer of 2003 suffered from dry to realignment of the alliance with McNeil to 31 March 2006. growing conditions, leading to low yields Nutritionals.
One-off costs relating to the Overall prospects for the SPLENDA and sharp increases in prices, which were realignment totalled 3 million US$6 million.
Sucralose business remain strong, and expected to remain until the new harvest.
SPLENDA Sucralose is now approved calendar year 2005 will see further product However, it became clear during early in over 80 countries.
The approval process launches in the USA from the major soft summer 2004 that growing conditions for in the European Union EU was finally drink manufacturers: a new Diet Coke, and cereals were ideal across Europe, resulting completed in January 2005 when the reformulated Diet 7UP and Pepsi One, all of in record crops.
Consequently, raw material provisions of the amended Sweeteners which are sweetened with SPLENDA Brand prices declined faster than had been Directive came into effect in all member Sweetener.
development in Europe will be constrained Co-product prices were weaker not only Over 4,000 products globally are now by product availability, but will be a key because of lower cereal prices but also from sweetened with SPLENDA Sucralose component of the Groups Solution Set imports which were made competitive by the across a broad range of product categories.
roll-out during 2006. weak US dollar and the large global soya Demand continues to be exceptionally Patents, both process and product harvest.
Vital wheat gluten prices did not strong and exceeds current plant output.
related, continue to be filed to strengthen return to levels seen before the impact of the the proprietary intellectual property position poor 2003 harvest.
Export volumes reduced where we deem this appropriate.
as dietary trends changed in the USA.
Customer focus Sales volumes of both sweetener and Sugars, Americas starch products increased.
Sales of value Tate & Lyle extends nutritional options Our Canadian sugar business performed added food ingredients from recent without compromising on taste or broadly in line with the prior year.
Our sugar investments were encouraging.
To help global food and refining operation produced profits above the margins were reduced by the weaker beverage manufacturers, our team prior year.
Volumes were slightly ahead of US dollar.
in Europe successfully matches key the prior period, while selling prices were Energy and fuel prices increased but were sensory qualities of popular yoghurt lower.
Ocean freight costs increased partially offset by improved energy efficiency.
brands while reducing calorie content significantly, although these were offset by The Eaststarch joint ventures in Central by 56% compared to indulgence improved efficiencies within other areas of and Eastern Europe contributed an improved products, and by 23% compared to manufacturing costs.
The increase in the profit over last year.
Sales prices improved current lowest calorie non-fat options.
world price of raw sugar resulted in a in both Slovakia and Hungary following This is just one in a range of exclusive stockholding gain of 2 million compared accession to the EU in May 2004 but the solutions catering specifically for with a 2 million loss in the previous year.
higher raw material costs were felt across market segments including beverages, Our blending and packaging operation in Europe.
Sales in Turkey were higher.
sauces and dressings, snacks, bakery, Niagara performed below the level of prior Following a competitive annual pricing granola bars and others.
year, with selling prices adversely impacted round in Europe, net margins during by the weaker US dollar.
calendar year 2005 in both sweetener and Anti-dumping and countervailing duties starch products are expected to be slightly which provide protection to the Canadian below the level achieved during calendar domestic sugar industry are due to be year 2004. reviewed during the 2006 financial year.
Occidente, our joint venture cane sugar Sugars, Europe business in Mexico, enjoyed a satisfactory The UK and Portuguese sugar businesses year, although reported profits were lower generated profits in line with the prior year.
than the previous year as a result of The UK operations benefited from increased significantly higher cane costs.
Driven by production volumes and lower manufacturing 14 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 e n o Z y t i n u t r o p p O Customer focus TM To help our food and beverage Tate & Lyle Rebalance, together The Rebalance curve TM customers lead in the marketplace with additional services Create, High TM TM we track changes in peoples eating Optimize, and Enrich, help our Diet products preferences and aspirations by customers develop products that conducting international consumer hit new cost and nutrition targets: research.
People increasingly want all without compromising on taste alternatives to full calorie or indulgence or texture.
As a core part of this brands but dont want to compromise service we have increased sensory TM on taste.
Tate & Lyle Rebalance is a testing, providing independent new service that helps our customers Indulgence evidence to demonstrate how our create or reformulate their products to products solutions perform against leading Traditional limits meet specific nutritional profiles, taking products in the market.
on taste & health brands into the Opportunity Zone Low High by substituting traditional ingredients Taste with our new solution sets.
consistently first Health & nutrition Quality Quality is our customers primary That is why we were delighted when Industrial starch requirement.
As the worlds leading we were recognised in 2005 by the US customer service improvements producer of industrial starches we Technical Association of the Pulp 120 constantly look at ways to improve and Paper Industry.
This award 100 our customer service.
We actively celebrated 75 years of continuous support our customers efforts to membership and our record in 80 improve efficiency and product quality.
technical information exchange, Tate & Lyle people often participate training and continual innovation in 60 directly in customer improvement paper production.
Our leadership 40 teams, to help optimise manufacturing in industrial starches is based on efficiency and focus on substituting quality of product and a strong 20 high-priced chemicals with starch commitment to serving our customers.
98 99 00 01 02 03 04 Complaints Shipments Indexed to 1998 consistently first Operating and financial review continued costs.
Higher UK gas prices were offset by brand Melli specifically targeted at the increase of 47 million from 451 million improved energy efficiency and forward Vietnamese market.
Drought conditions in the prior year.
The interest rate for cover.
have continued locally and are expected subsidiaries in the year when measured The higher cost of export licences in to impact the cane crop for 2006. against average net debt was 4.2% 2004 the second half of the year reduced gross 5.1%.
Interest cover based on profit before margins by 4 million.
Export licence costs Animal Feed and Bulk Storage exceptional items, amortisation and interest are expected to increase again in the 2006 Profit before exceptional items and of Tate & Lyle PLC and its subsidiaries financial year.
interest increased by 1 million to 7million.
increased from 9.3 times to 11.3 times.
Capital expenditure continued to be below Exchange translation reduced profit by depreciation and the businesses contributed 1 million.
Profit before taxation strong cash flow to the Group.
The demand for molasses in Europe Profit before taxation but after exceptional Tate & Lyle Light Cane was launched with remained high in the first half of the financial items and amortisation was 197 million, much success during the year, combining year and, combined with strong demand in compared with 224 million in the prior year.
the strengths of our traditional sugar Asia in the second half, resulted in higher business with sucralose.
In the UK, the Taxation The renewal of the EU sugar regime, Group terminated a number of molasses The Group taxation charge was lower, at expected from July 2006, is covered in and storage operations, which resulted in 53 million 2004 69 million, principally detail in the Chief Executives review on improved profitability.
due to tax relief on the 2005 operating pages 8 and 9. exceptional item.
The effective rate of tax, Other Businesses and Activities on profit before exceptional items and Eastern Sugar This segment includes head office activities amortisation, was 27.7% 2004 29.0%.
The Eastern Sugar Group, our European and, in the year to 31 March 2004, licence We expect the tax rate in the 2006 financial beet sugar joint venture, operates in fee income arising under the previous Global year to be slightly higher than 2005.
Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, Alliance Agreement with McNeil Nutritionals.
which all acceded to the EU on 1 May 2004.
Net costs increased by 17 million, of Dividend The business returned to profitable trading in which 9 million relates to the inclusion A final dividend of 13.7p will be the 2005 financial year, reflecting the positive of licence fee income in the comparative recommended as an ordinary dividend to be impact of alignment with the EU sugar period.
The balance of 8 million included paid on 3 August 2005 to shareholders on regime during the year.
Competitive pricing costs related to our strategy for growth the register on 8 July 2005.
This represents pressures reduced selling prices slightly together with higher personnel costs and an increase in the total dividend for the year during the second half of the year.
An interim dividend of All of Eastern Sugars factories had a The Groups Bermuda-based captive 5.7p 2004 5.6p was paid on 11 January successful beet sugar campaign in the reinsurance company recognised a small 2005.
Earnings before exceptional items and current year with production significantly underwriting loss on the policies provided to amortisation covered the proposed total above the prior year.
The company continues dividend 2.0 times.
the process of running-off existing third party Sweeteners & Starches liabilities, of which approximately half have Rest of the World now been commuted or settled.
A small Profit before exceptional items and interest underwriting profit was reported in the year increased from 8 million to 13 million.
from these third party activities.
Quality Exchange rate translation reduced profits The Group continues to believe it can by 1 million.
minimise the effect of higher insurance In Europe our starches are made Profit from our sugar trading business costs as well as provide price and coverage from wheat and corn, and in the was above that in 2004, with higher profits stability to Group businesses by retaining US mainly corn.
Our starches provide generated in Thailand.
This was a result of risk and premium in its own reinsurance strength or gloss to paper and card, India switching from being a net exporter to company.
improving manufacturing efficiency a net importer of sugar which pushed prices and reducing the use of chemicals.
to record highs throughout Asia.
Profits from Interest, Tax and Dividend If our total industrial starch volume Brazil were in line with the previous year.
Interest was used in magazine paper Nghe An Tate & Lyle NAT&L, the Groups The net Group interest charge was production it would be enough to cane sugar business in Vietnam, achieved 21 million compared with 24 million in the make 35 billion magazines a year.
Adverse weather year to 31 March 2004.
The comparative conditions affected the industry widely period included credits of 6 million relating and the business experienced a reduction to interest income from the loan notes in sugar production of some 25% to issued to the purchasers of Domino and 105,000 tonnes.
However, tightening of Western Sugar.
Underlying expense was supply within the region served to increase below the comparative period due principally wholesale prices within the Vietnamese to lower interest rates and the favourable market by almost one third during the year.
The year was marked by safety milestones The average net debt of Tate & Lyle PLC being passed and the launch of the sugar and its subsidiaries was 498 million, an Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 17 Operating and financial review continued Retirement Benefits The charge to operating profit for retirement Sucralose Realignment As permitted under the transitional benefits in the year to 31 March 2005 was We announced the realignment of our provisions of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits 25 million 2004 30 million.
In the UK, SPLENDA Sucralose activities with McNeil the Group continued to account for the regular service cost was lower due to a Nutritionals in February 2004.
The main retirement benefits under SSAP 24 in reduction in active members.
In the US, a elements of the transaction were as follows: the year to 31 March 2005. change in funding regulations reduced the The UK Tate & Lyle Group Pension service cost during the 2005 financial year.
The cash price of 72 million was paid in Scheme fund was actuarially valued at Under SSAP 24 the net pension asset April 2004.
In addition, the terms of the 31 March 2003, which identified a deficit of increased by 21 million to 32 million, and realignment included contingent deferred 13 million under SSAP 24.
As previously the US healthcare provision reduced by payments and receipts that reflect reported, we are funding the deficit and 4 million to 97 million.
continued participation in the success of future costs of the scheme over five years.
each partys ongoing sucralose activities: During the year, regular contributions of FRS 17 Tate & Lyle became the sole manufacturer 7 million were supplemented by additional FRS 17 uses different assumptions to value of sucralose and sells SPLENDA contributions of 10 million.
An actuarial post-retirement obligations and requires any Sucralose as an ingredient to food and valuation of the scheme is being prepared at surplus or deficit in a defined benefit scheme beverage companies worldwide: and 31 March 2005. to be included in the balance sheet.
The McNeil Nutritionals buys sucralose from profit and loss account contains two main Tate & Lyle and sells SPLENDA Brand SSAP 24 elements: a service charge to operating tabletop products worldwide.
Under SSAP 24, pension costs for defined profit, representing the annual ongoing cost benefit pension and post-retirement of providing benefits to active members: and The cash price of 72 million reflected healthcare schemes are charged to the profit a net finance cost or credit, representing the payment to acquire tangible and intangible and loss account so as to accrue the cost difference between return on the assets in assets with a fair value of 78 million and over the service lives of employees in the the fund and interest on servicing future 32 million respectively.
schemes on the basis of a constant liabilities, calculated using a corporate Under the deferred payment terms, the percentage of earnings.
Any surplus or bond yield.
Group recognised a provision for amounts deficit arising under SSAP 24 is amortised The calculations under FRS17 would result due to McNeil Nutritionals of 57 million, through the profit and loss account over a in increased volatility in the financial representing the best estimate of amounts period representing the estimated remaining statements.
The balance sheet is impacted due under the deferred payment obligation.
service lives of the employees.
by changes in the market values of assets No value has been recognised for future and liabilities, while the finance charge in the deferred receipts from McNeil Nutritionals, profit and loss account fluctuates depending which are expected to at least match the on the changes in returns and the bond yield deferred payments.
used to discount the liabilities.
The formal unwinding of the earlier If the accounts had been prepared under arrangements, which included the FRS17, the net position for all Group defined termination of certain pre-existing benefit pension schemes at 31 March 2005 contractual rights and obligations as well would have been a deficit of 128 million, as mutual intellectual property and other 22 million lower than the FRS 17 deficit of asset transfers, gave rise to a tax liability of Relationships 150 million that would have been recorded 19 million.
A related deferred tax asset with at 31 March 2004.
The potential US a discounted value of 15 million has been TM Oil-based DuPont Sorona fibre is healthcare liability would have increased from recognised reflecting timing differences.
already produced and marketed by 81 million at 31 March 2004 to 105 million The net impact of the realignment led DuPont.
However, in early 2006 a at 31 March 2005 due to higher claims to initial goodwill under UK GAAP of renewable alternative will be available during the 2005 year and an increase in 23 million.
The estimate of deferred when our new joint venture plant future medical cost trend assumptions.
payments may be revised as further TM comes on stream making Bio-3G After taking account of deferred tax, the information becomes available with from corn.
Sorona and Sorona fibre Groups net assets at 31 March 2005 would corresponding adjustments to goodwill.
made from this plants renewable have reduced by 112 million from 1,047 Deferred payments under the realignment TM Bio-3G will save around 92 million million under SSAP 24 to 935 million.
agreements which arose during the year litres 20 million gallons of oil a year.
Profit before interest would have increased to 31 March 2005 have been reflected in by 5 million, compared with a 10 million the movement of provisions.
Deferred increase in the previous year, and the net receipts have been reflected as deductions interest charge would have increased by to goodwill.
2 million, compared with 10 million in the previous year.
The total charge to profit under FRS17 would have been 22 million, 3 million less than the charge under SSAP 24.
18 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 Relationships Strong relationships help us deliver Our manufacturing know-how and Energy reduction using Bio-3G product innovation and it is our technical knowledge in fermentation relationship with DuPont that is led DuPont to select Tate & Lyle.
100% TM delivering Bio-3G, a renewable When made into Sorona and Sorona monomer made from corn.
When fibre, Bio-3G brings great functional 80% TM polymerised, Bio-3G produces benefits.
DuPont Sorona has superior 60% Sorona the latest polymer characteristics to nylon and polyester, innovation from DuPont.
and is used in a range of textiles.
It is TM 40% Bio-3G replaces petrochemical ideal for carpets as well as clothing.
based alternatives, cutting energy The annual addressable market for TM 20% consumption by nearly 40%.
Bio-3G is at least $2 billion so whats good for the environment 0 can also be good for the bottom line.
Oil-based Bio-3G 3G consistently first Cumulative non-renewable energy consumption of Bio-3G, relative to oil-based 3G Leadership We are the worlds only manufacturer This market leadership is driven Ingredient sales of SPLENDA Sucralose of SPLENDA Sucralose, the no by more than just great taste split by application during financial year 2005 calorie sweetener that is made from and functionality.
The success sugar and tastes like sugar.
Driven of SPLENDA Sucralose is also 8% by its great taste and unique attributable to its exemplary quality functionality, SPLENDA Sucralose standards.
One of the worlds most 53% has enjoyed phenomenal uptake tested food ingredients, sucralose across the globe, stimulating brand more than meets the exacting extensions and new products.
Total standards set by regulators such 39% sales of sucralose during financial as the US Food and Drug year 2004 rose to 115 million, with Administration, giving major branded Food 53% being used in food applications food and beverage customers the Beverages and 39% in beverages.
assurance they need to reformulate Pharmaceutical their trusted brands.
consistently first Operating and financial review continued International Financial Reporting Free cash flow representing operating cash 5.75% bond maturing in 2006, the 150 Standards flow after interest, taxation and capital million Floating Rate Note maturing in 2007 The Group currently prepares its financial expenditure, before the impact of this and the 200 million 6.50% bond maturing statements under UK GAAP.
From 1 April exceptional cash flow totalled 103 million in 2012.
At 31 March 2005 the Groups 2005 onwards, the Group is required to 2004 62 million.
long term credit ratings from Moodys and prepare its consolidated financial statements Equity dividends of 89 million 2004 Standard and Poors were Baa2 and BBB in accordance with International Financial 87 million were offset by other net dividend respectively.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by inflows of 22 million 2004 7 million.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient the EU and implemented in the UK.
In total, a net 87 million 2004 115 million undrawn committed bank facilities to provide To explain how the Groups reported was paid to providers of finance as liquidity back-up for its US commercial paper performance and financial position are dividends and interest.
programme and other short term money affected by this change, pages 103 to 123 Investment expenditure was 86 million, market borrowing for the foreseeable future.
set out unaudited financial information primarily reflecting an investment of 70 The Group has committed bank facilities of for the year to 31 March 2005 prepared million in sucralose after the impact of US$615 million which mature in 2009 with a under IFRS.
deferred payment streams during the year core of highly rated banks.
These facilities and 12 million in the Bio-3G joint venture.
are unsecured and contain common financial Segmental Reporting We expect capital expenditure for the year covenants for Tate & Lyle and its subsidiary Following a period of five years in which the to 31 March 2006 to be at least twice companies that subsidiaries pre-exceptional Group has focused on its core activities depreciation.
and amortisation interest cover ratio should through disposal, and to reflect the evolving We received 25 million proceeds from the not be less than 2.5 times and the ratio of strategy of the Group, a new basis for disposal of businesses and assets during the net debt to EBITDA, as defined in our providing segmental financial information will year to 31 March 2005, compared with financial covenants, should not be greater be adopted with effect from 1 April 2005.
63 million in the previous year.
The Group monitors The following reported segments will be was received in consideration for the compliance against all its financial disclosed: remaining balance due on the loan notes obligations and it is Group policy to manage issued by the purchaser of Western Sugar.
the consolidated balance sheet so as to Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas: Proceeds from the sale of tangible fixed operate well within covenanted restrictions at Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe: assets totalled 4 million.
The majority of the Groups Sugars, Americas and Asia: A net inflow of 10 million was received borrowings are raised through the Group Sugars, Europe: and from employees exercising share options Sucralose.
Exchange translation, and other non-cash movements, reduced net These business segments will represent the debt by 7 million.
primary basis of segmentation as required The Groups net borrowings increased Leadership under IFRS.
Historical information for the from 388 million to 451 million.
year to 31 March 2005 in these segments The ratio of net borrowings to earnings SPLENDA Sucralose is heat stable, will be published prior to the 2006 interim before interest, tax, depreciation and shelf-life stable and blends well with announcement.
amortisation EBITDA before exceptional other high intensity and nutritive items increased from 1.2 times to 1.3 times sweeteners, making it an integral Cash Flow and Balance Sheet and gearing defined as the ratio of net ingredient in over 4,000 products.
Cash flow and debt borrowings to total net assets increased to With high profile brand extensions Operating cash flow, after operating 43% at 31 March 2005 2004 40% after announced recently by major exceptional items, totalled 263 million restatement for adoption of UITF 38.
During customers, SPLENDA Sucralose compared with 289 million in the previous the year net debt peaked at 576 million in has enabled manufacturers to offer year.
There was an operating working capital August 2004 April 2003 during the year consumers a far greater range of outflow of 35 million 2004 31 million ended 31 March 2004 498 million.
great tasting, reduced calorie outflow reflecting supplementary payments products than ever before.
to the Groups pension funds of 11 million Funding and liquidity management and payments made against provisions.
The Group funds its operations through a Contributions to the Groups pension funds, mixture of retained earnings and borrowing both regular and supplementary, totalled facilities, including capital markets and bank 35 million, marginally above 34 million borrowings.
Interest paid In order to ensure maximum flexibility in totalled 20 million, broadly in line with the meeting changing business needs, the charge recognised in the profit and loss Group seeks to maintain access to a wide account.
Net taxation paid remained at range of funding sources.
2004, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC Capital expenditure of 121 million issued a US$500 million 5.00% bond in the was marginally above depreciation of US 144A bond market maturing in 2014.
The proceeds of the issue have been used An operating exceptional outflow of to repay certain debt obligations and for 55 million related to the settlement of general corporate purposes.
Other capital the HFCS civil legal case in the US.
market borrowings include the 300 million Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 21
