Accounting Policies Basis of accounting in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in On disposal of a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity, the accordance with applicable International Accounting Standards attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination IAS and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as of the profit or loss on disposal.
adopted for use in the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts The disclosures concerning the transition from UK GAAP to subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill IFRS, namely the reconciliations of equity at 1 January 2004 written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not the date of transition to IFRS, at 31 December 2004 date of been reinstated and is not included in determining any last UK GAAP financial statements and the reconciliations of subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
profit and cash ow for 2004, as required by IFRS 1, are set out in note 36.
Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on or receivable, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and the historical cost basis, except where stated below.
The after eliminating sales within the Group.
principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial a Private housing, development properties and land sales statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration Control is achieved where the company has the power to received or receivable on legal completion.
govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The existence and b Contracting work effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group Where the outcome of a construction contract can be controls another entity.
estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of of work performed to date.
Variations in contract work, claims acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as probable that they will result in revenue and they are capable goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair of being reliably measured.
values of the identiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract against the interests of the parent.
costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from Tender costs the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of significant tender costs are treated as recoverable once the disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are directors consider that it is probable that the contract will be made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the won.
This is presumed to be when preferred bidder status is accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Foreign currencies The individual statements of each Group company are Joint ventures are consolidated under the equity accounting presented in the currency of the primary economic method rather than the alternative treatment of proportionate environment in which it operates its functional currency.
consolidation allowed under IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the Goodwill transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of functional currency are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the identiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or jointly the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately are included in net profit or loss for the period.
Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 49 Accounting Policies continued On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing of assets over their estimated useful lives.
Depreciation is on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are charged, where material, on buildings over the life of the asset.
translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless Other assets are depreciated using the straight-line method, exchange rates uctuate signicantly.
Exchange differences on the following bases: arising are classied as reserves and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised Plant, xtures and equipment 20%-25% as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Computer equipment 33% Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on income.
acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as assets and liabilities denominated in the functional currency of the Own shares company in which they arise.
The cost of the companys investment in its own shares, which comprise shares held in treasury by the company and shares The Group enters into forward contracts and currency options held by employee benefit trusts for the purpose of funding in order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange certain of the companys share option plans, is shown as a transaction risks relating to the functional currency in reduction in shareholders equity.
It also uses foreign currency borrowings and currency swaps to hedge its net investment Financial instruments exposure to certain overseas subsidiaries see below for details Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the of the Group's accounting policies in respect of such derivative Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the financial instruments.
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Operating leases Trade receivables and other receivables Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances Benets received and receivable and costs paid and payable for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Financial Liability and Equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied Property and plant according to the substance of the contractual arrangements Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after the balance sheet at their revalued amounts, being the fair value deducting all of its liabilities.
at the date of revaluation, determined from market-based evidence by appraisal undertaken by professional valuers, less Borrowings any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the accumulated impairment losses.
Revaluations are performed proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, with sufficient regularity such that the carrying amount does not including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and differ materially from that which would be determined using fair direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the values at the balance sheet date.
profit and loss account using effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent Any revaluation increase arising on the revaluation of such land that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
and buildings is credited to the properties revaluation reserve, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease for Trade payables the same asset previously recognised as an expense, in which Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are case the increase is credited to the income statement to the stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended extent of the decrease previously charged.
A decrease in terms, particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair carrying amount arising on the revaluation of such land and value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
buildings is charged as an expense to the extent that it exceeds The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of the balance, if any, held in the properties revaluation reserve the credit term and charged to finance costs.
relating to a previous revaluation of that asset.
Equity instruments On the subsequent sale or retirement of a revalued property, Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the the attributable revaluation surplus remaining in the properties proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
revaluation reserve is transferred directly to accumulated profits.
50 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 Accounting Policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been The Group uses forward exchange contracts and currency enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
options to hedge transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group also uses foreign currency borrowings Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable and currency swaps to hedge its net investment exposure on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and to movements in exchange rates on translation of certain liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax individual financial statements denominated in foreign bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is currencies other than pounds sterling which is the functional accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred currency of the Company.
Interest rate derivatives are used tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary to manage interest rate risk in respect of specic borrowings.
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against speculative purposes.
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition policies approved by the board of directors, which provide other than in a business combination of other assets and written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of net investments in Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary foreign operations are recognised directly in reserves and the differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests ineffective portion, if any, is recognised immediately in the in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the income statement.
reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer entry in profit or loss.
Gains or losses from re-measuring the probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign currency all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is component of its carrying amount, are recognised in profit calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the or loss.
period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the reserves, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging Share-based payments instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 in reserves is retained in reserves until the forecasted November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005. transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to in reserves is transferred to the income statement for the certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are period.
measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based Inventories on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, Employee benets direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred The Group accounts for pensions and similar benets under IAS in bringing the inventories to their present location and 19 Employee benets.
In respect of dened benefit plans, condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The operating and incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
nancing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the income statement: service costs are spread systematically over Taxation the lives of employees and nancing costs are recognised in the The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are payable and deferred tax.
recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense, rather than adoption of the corridor method The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that Payments to dened contribution schemes are charged as an are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes expense as they fall due.
items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 51
