Accounting Policies The following accounting policies have been used The hedged items are adjusted for changes in exchange consistently, unless otherwise stated, in dealing with items rates, with gains or losses from re-measuring the carrying which are considered material.
amount being recognised directly in reserves.
Basis of preparation Share-based payments The Companies Act financial statements have been prepared The company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Sharein accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting based payments.
In accordance with the transitional standards under the historical cost convention.
As permitted provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity by the Companies Act 1985 the company has not presented instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as its own profit and loss account.
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1, the company is The company issues equity-settled share-based payments to exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash ow certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are statement on the grounds that its consolidated financial measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is statements, which include the company, are publicly expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, available.
based on the estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Note 21, on pages 72 to 74, and note 34, on pages 79 and 80, Employee benets to the Taylor Woodrow plc consolidated financial statements The company accounts for pensions and similar benets form part of these financial statements.
In respect of dened benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The operating and nancing costs of such plans are recognised Group undertakings separately in the consolidated income statement: service Investments are included in the balance sheet at cost less costs are spread systematically over the lives of employees any provision for permanent diminution in value.
and nancing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised Deferred taxation immediately in the consolidated statement of recognised Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences that income and expense.
result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates Payments to dened contribution schemes are charged as an expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax expense as they fall due.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods Own shares different from those in which they are included in the financial The cost of the companys investment in its own shares, statements.
which comprise shares held in treasury by the company and shares held by employee benefit trusts for the purpose of Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is funding certain of the companys share option plans, is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
shown as a reduction in shareholders funds.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Overseas currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in sterling at actual rates as of the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
Unrealised exchange differences on inter-company long term loans and foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they hedge the companys investment in overseas investments, are taken to translation reserve.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The company uses foreign currency borrowings and currency swaps to hedge its investment in overseas investments.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of investment in overseas operations are recognised directly in reserves and the ineffective portion, if any, is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
84 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005
