Information for shareholders Financial calendar 17 May 2005 Preliminary statement published for the year ended 31 March 2005.
3 August 2005 Quarterly results published for the quarter ended 30 June 2005.
29 September 2005 Annual report and accounts and notice of Annual General Meeting posted to shareholders.
3 November 2005 Interim statement published for the six months ended 30 September 2005.
provisional date UK taxation Tax consequences of the reconstruction of The General Electric Company, p. l. c. and the merger of the MES business with British Aerospace plc in November 1999 For the purposes of UK taxation of chargeable gains, as a result of the reconstruction in November 1999, GEC shareholders received, in exchange for each GEC ordinary share: 1 Marconi plc now known as M 2003 plc ordinary share 0.428792819 new British Aerospace plc ordinary share 13.542904p in nominal value of 7.45% unsecured capital amortising loan stock 2000 2003 of British Aerospace plc CALS The calculation of the percentage of the base cost in GEC shares to be allocated to each element above is as follows: Marconi plc now known as M 2003 plc share 82.7690871% British Aerospace plc share 15.8827107% CALS 1.3482022% Tax consequences of receiving new shares and warrants as a result of the restructuring of the Marconi Group in May 2003 the Restructuring The receipt of new ordinary shares of 5p each and warrants in Marconi Corporation plc will be treated as a part disposal of M 2003 plc shares on 19 May 2003, which may, depending on individual circumstances and the availability of applicable exemptions or reliefs, result in an allowable loss or a chargeable gain for the purposes of UK tax on capital gains.
The disposal will be treated as being for the market value of the shares and warrants received and the proportion of the base cost in the M 2003 plc shares which is allowed as a deduction from the disposal proceeds will be: A A B, where: A the market value of new shares and warrants: and B the market value of M 2003 plc shares immediately following the issue of the new shares and warrants.
The UK Inland Revenue has confirmed that the M 2003 plc shares were of negligible value immediately following the Restructuring and that, in the above calculation, B can be taken to be zero.
Accordingly, shareholders will be able to deduct the full base cost of their M 2003 plc shares from the market value of the shares and warrants received.
Based upon published UK Inland Revenue guidance on valuation, the market value of the shares and warrants received i. e. A in the above calculation should be calculated as follows: The market value of new shares 58.875p x the number of new shares received plus The market value of warrants 25.5p x the number of warrants received.
It is expected that in the majority of cases, the part disposal will result in an allowable loss.
Shareholders who received new shares and warrants with a value of less than 3,000 should note that, under UK Inland Revenue practice, they can choose not to treat the receipt of the new shares and warrants as a part disposal of their M 2003 plc shares, but to deduct the value of the new shares and warrants from the base cost of their M 2003 plc shares.
Any subsequent disposal of their M 2003 plc shares may result in a gain or loss depending on each shareholders individual circumstances.
The UK Inland Revenue has confirmed that there will be no charge to income tax on the receipt of new shares and warrants.
87 Information for shareholders continued Notwithstanding that shareholders will be treated as making a part disposal of M 2003 plc shares for market value of the shares and, if applicable, warrants received, they will have no base cost in the new shares received.
Shareholders may realise a chargeable gain on a sale of new shares for market value immediately following receipt.
It is, however, anticipated that in the majority of cases the allowable loss arising on the part disposal would be sufficient to shelter this chargeable gain, although this is dependent on the particular circumstances of each shareholder.
The UK Inland Revenue has confirmed that the base cost of any warrants received will be their market value on issue.
Negligible value claims in relation to M 2003 plc shares Such claims should not now be necessary, as the UK Inland Revenue has confirmed that B in the calculation described above equals zero.
However, if a shareholder has elected to deduct the value of the new shares and warrants from its base cost in their M 2003 plc shares, rather than treating the receipt of new shares and warrants as a part disposal, a negligible value claim would constitute a disposal of the M 2003 plc shares.
Use of allowable losses Any allowable loss realised by making a part disposal and validly notified to the UK Inland Revenue will be set off against any chargeable gains realised in the year in which the disposal is made and to the extent that this is not possible, the capital loss can be carried forward and set against chargeable gains arising in subsequent years.
Notification of any capital loss to the UK Inland Revenue must be given within five years of 31 January following the shareholders year of assessment in which the effective date of the Restructuring 19 May 2003 falls.
It should be noted that in the case of an individual, the amount of the allowable loss will be set against any chargeable gains made in the relevant year of assessment before any annual exemption from capital gains tax which was 8,200 for the 2004-05 tax year and was 7,900 for 2003-04 for that year is taken into account.
Accordingly the benefit of the annual exemption would be lost save to the extent that the chargeable gains exceed the allowable losses.
Tax consequences of the one for five share consolidation of Marconi Corporation plc in September 2003 On 9 September 2003 the share capital of Marconi Corporation plc was consolidated, such that every five ordinary shares of 5p each were consolidated into one new ordinary share of 25p.
Shareholders holding less than five shares of 5p each were paid the cash proceeds of the sale of their fractional entitlements.
Tax consequences of receiving new shares For the purposes of UK taxation of chargeable gains, to the extent that new shares of 25p each were received as a result of the share consolidation, this should not be treated as a disposal of any existing shares in Marconi Corporation plc.
The new shares are treated as the same asset as, and as having been acquired at the same time and at the same aggregate cost as, the holding of the existing shares from which they derived.
Tax consequences of receiving cash in respect of fractional entitlements If only cash was received under the share consolidation, this is treated as a disposal of existing shares in Marconi Corporation plc.
As a result, depending on individual circumstances, a chargeable gain or an allowable loss may be realised for tax purposes.
If cash and new shares of 25p each were received as a result of the share consolidation, under current UK Inland Revenue practice, the cash received can be treated as a deduction from any base cost in existing shares but see below rather than as consideration for a disposal of the existing shares representing such fractional entitlement.
If the existing Marconi Corporation plc shares held prior to the share consolidation were received on the Restructuring see above, they will have no base cost and the practice referred to in the preceding paragraph will not apply.
Any cash received will be treated as consideration for the disposal of existing shares representing such fractional entitlement and will give rise to a chargeable gain.
However, in such circumstances any allowable loss realised on the Restructuring in respect of the M 2003 plc shares and other reliefs may be available to offset the gain.
