Shareholder services The Marconi registrar American depositary receipts ADR Matters concerning share and warrant holdings in Marconi Corporation The Company has appointed The Bank of New York as its depositary plc such as a change of address or replacement share certificate should in respect of its ADR programme.
The contact details for The Bank of be addressed to: New York in the USA are as follows: The Marconi Registrar The Bank of New York Computershare Investor Services PLC Investor Relations PO Box 82 PO Box 11258 The Pavilions Church Street Station Bridgwater Road New York Bristol BS99 7NH NY 10286-1258 USA Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0118 Facsimile: 44 0 870 703 6116 Telephone: 1 888 BNY ADRS US callers toll free Website: www.
com Electronic shareholder communications Shareholders who wish to register to receive shareholder Existing ADR holders should contact their broker, in the first instance, communications electronically in the future can do so online by for information concerning their holdings.
going to Investors on the Computershare Investor Services PLC website at www.
When the Company chooses to Share, warrant and ADR price information make shareholder communications available electronically, those Marconi Corporation plc share, warrant and ADR prices are available on shareholders who have registered will be able to access shareholder the Companys website www.
Such share, warrant and communications, such as the annual report, and complete electronic ADR prices are quoted subject to a 20 minute delay.
The share and proxy forms over the internet if they wish to do so.
warrant prices can also be obtained on Ceefax UK only, and the share price only on Teletext UK only and the FT Cityline service, telephone Share dealing service number 44 0 906 843 3141 calls charged at 60p per minute within A share dealing service has been established in the UK with the the UK.
Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
A telephone dealing service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm General enquiries Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays, on telephone number For enquiries relating to matters not mentioned above, please write to: 44 0 870 703 0084.
Please ensure you have your Shareholder The Secretary Reference Number SRN ready when making a call.
The SRN appears Marconi Corporation plc on your share certificate statement and details of the terms and New Century Park conditions are available on request by phoning 44 0 870 702 0000.
PO Box 53 A postal dealing service is also available.
To request a dealing form Coventry CV3 1HJ which includes details of the terms and conditions contact or e-mail: shareholder.
com or telephone during Computershare Investor Services PLC on 44 0 870 702 0000. normal office hours on 44 0 207 306 1394 1477.
An internet dealing service is also available for ordinary shares by going to Investors on the Computershare Investor Services PLC website at Website www.
com Further information about Marconi Corporation plc can be found at www.
com Shares held in the nominee service provided by Computershare, on behalf of certain UK resident shareholders, can only be traded using the Unsolicited mail above services.
Marconi Corporation plc, like other companies, is obliged by law to The commission is 1% 0.5% for internet dealing service only, subject make its share register available upon request to other organisations to a minimum charge of 15.
In addition stamp duty, currently at the provided that the organisations concerned pay the appropriate statutory rate of 0.5% of the deal price, is payable on all purchases.
If shareholders in the UK wish to restrict the receipt of unsolicited mail they may like to contact The Mailing Preference Service by Please note, this is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in writing to Freepost 22, London W1E 7EZ or through their website: Marconi Corporation plc.
If you are unsure of what action to take you www.
The Mailing Preference Service can help should contact a financial advisor authorised under the Financial shareholders have their names removed from certain kinds of lists.
Please note that share values may go down as well as up, which may result in you receiving less than you ShareGift originally invested.
In the UK shareholders with small holdings of shares or warrants, the In so far as this statement constitutes a financial promotion for the share value of which makes them uneconomic to sell, may donate them to dealing service provided by Computershare Investor Services PLC it ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme Registered Charity has been approved by Computershare Investor Services PLC for the Number 1052686.
More details can be found on the ShareGift website purpose of Section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets Act at www.
To donate Marconi shares or warrants contact the 2000 only.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and Marconi registrar on 0870 702 0118 to obtain a ShareGift Transfer Form.
regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
There is currently no UK Capital Gains Tax gain or loss on donations of shares to a UK registered charity.
Where this document has been received in a country where the provision of such a dealing service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, it should be treated as being for information purposes only.
