Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of Marconi Corporation plc will be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB on Monday, 28 November 2005 at 11.30am.
The business of the meeting will be: Ordinary business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 1.
To receive the Companys accounts and the reports of the directors and the auditors thereon, for the year ended 31 March 2005.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2005.
To reappoint Mr M K Atkinson as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Mr M W J Parton as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company.
To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That: a in accordance with Article 7.1 of the Companys Articles of Association, the directors be and they are generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to a maximum nominal amount of 17,458,071: b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 31 December 2006: and c all previous unutilised authorities under section 80 of the Act shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 80 7 of the Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted on or after that date.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That subject to passing resolution 7: a in accordance with Article 7.2 of the Companys Articles of Association, the directors be and they are empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities wholly for cash: b the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash within the meaning of section 94 3A of the Act as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment: c the powers under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue and paragraph b above shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 2,600,000: d these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 31 December 2006: and e all previous authorities under section 95 of the Act shall cease to have effect.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That the Company be and is generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of the Act on the London Stock Exchange of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors of the Company may from time to time determine, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased under this authority is 20,900,000 representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital : b the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share purchased under this authority is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market prices shown in quotations for ordinary shares in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased and the minimum price which may be paid is 25p per ordinary share in each case exclusive of expenses and advance corporation tax if any payable by the Company : c unless previously renewed, varied or revoked this authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 31 December 2006: and d the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before its expiry which will or may be executed in whole or partly after expiry of this authority.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That the Articles of Association of the Company be and are hereby altered by the deletion of the text in Article 111 and its replacement with the word deleted.
Resolution 10 By Order of the Board Marconi Corporation plc M A Skelly Company Secretary New Century Park, PO Box 53 Coventry CV3 1HJ 19 September 2005 91 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1.
For the purposes of Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the members entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting shall be those entered in the Companys Register of Members at 11.30am on 26 November 2005.
Any subsequent changes to the Register shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The enclosed form of proxy should be lodged with the Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
The lodging of a proxy form will not preclude a member from subsequently attending and voting at the Meeting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
The form of proxy includes boxes for completion by shareholders who wish to withhold their votes.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified at 2. above.
For this purpose the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The vote on resolution 2 is an advisory vote and arises from the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Mr M K Atkinson and Mr M W J Parton were respectively reappointed to the Board in September 2003 and September 2002 and are required by the Articles of Association of the Company to be subject to reappointment not more than three years after their last reappointment.
Mr Atkinson is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and serves on the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Mr Parton is the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
Their biographies are to be found on page 23.
Copies of the directors service contracts and the register of directors share interests will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday except Saturday and public holidays and at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB from one hour prior to and during the Meeting.
Coffee and tea will be served from 10.30am to 11.25am and after the conclusion of the Meeting.
92 Glossary of terms 3G Third Generation third-generation protocols in mobile telephony that support the much higher data rates needed for broadband and bandwidth-hungry applications such as full-motion video, videoconferencing and full internet access.
Access Networks our fixed wireless access, Access Hub and narrowband access product activities.
ADSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line a technology that allows broadband data to be sent over existing copper telephone lines.
ASTN Automatic Switched Transport Network a technology that uses the GMPLS signalling protocol to set up and monitor edge-to-edge transport connections and restore faults automatically.
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode a transfer mode in which the information is organised into fixed-length cells instead of variable length packets.
AXH Access Hub our Access Hub platform.
AXR Access Radio our Access Radio platform.
BBRS our Broadband Routing and Switching business.
BXR-48000 Broadband Switch Router our high-end switch-router platform.
CALA Central and Latin America.
CPE Customer Premises Equipment equipment located at the customers end of a telecommunication line, to provide an interconnect point.
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access a form of wireless multiplexing, in which data can be sent over multiple frequencies simultaneously, optimising the use of available bandwidth.
Combined Code the Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules.
the Company Marconi Corporation plc.
Core the designation given to the central portion of a network where all types of traffic come together in order to be transmitted to their intended destinations.
CWDM Coarse Wave Division Multiplexing a type of multiplexing that uses lasers to overlay optical light channels in a pipe.
DSL Digital Subscriber Line a high speed method to move data over a phone line.
DSLAM Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer equipment located at the network end of the customer access connection, providing Digital Subscriber Line broadband capabilities.
DWDM Dense Wave Division Multiplexing a type of multiplexing that uses up to 160 different colours also known as lambdas or channels to provide high-capacity bandwidth across an optical fibre network.
Edge the designation given to the outer limits of a network where end users typically enter the network in order to gain access to services and information.
EMEA Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Ethernet the most widely installed local area network technology using coaxial or suitable grades of twisted pair copper cable that is now being deployed at higher speeds using fibre-optic connectivity in metropolitan-scale networks.
Ethernet line cards a type of line card used in optical switches that allows traffic and services to be passed to end users via an Ethernet connection.
ETSI European Telecommunications Standard Institute an independent, non-profit organisation, whose mission is to produce telecommunications standards for today and for the future.
FTTC Fibre to the Curb or FTTH Fibre to the Home the installation and use of optical fibre cable directly to the curbs near homes or any business environment as a replacement for plain old telephone service POTS.
9 Gbit s Gigabits per second, data rate nomenclature for billions 10 of bits per second.
93 Glossary of terms continued GDA General Domestic Appliances Holdings Limited which was sold in March 2002.
GMPLS Generalised Multiprotocol Label Switching a proposed industry standard to simplify the creation and management of IP services over optical networks.
the Group the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings.
GSM Global System for Mobile communications the fide facto 2G wireless telephone standard in Europe.
It was designed to support voice, data, text messaging and cross-border roaming.
GSM is a time division multiplex TDM system, implemented on 900, 1800 and 1900 MHz frequency bands.
Hiper Access an ETSI wireless standard for broadband wireless access.
IC&M our Installation, Commissioning and Maintenance business.
IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Impact SoftSwitch our softswitch product.
IP Internet Protocol a connectionless, best-effort packet switching protocol that offers a common layer over dissimilar networks.
Junior Notes the guaranteed junior secured notes due 2008 issued by the Company as a part of the Restructuring.
LAN Local Area Network a data network intended to serve an area of only a few square kilometres or less.
LIBOR the London Inter-bank Offered Rate.
Listing Rules the Listing Rules issued in the UK by the Financial Services Authority.
Loan Notes the Junior Notes and the Senior Notes together, unless the context dictates otherwise.
M 2003 plc the company formerly known as Marconi plc, that was the ultimate parent company of the Marconi Group until the effective date of the Restructuring.
MAN Metropolitan Area Network a network designed to carry data over an area larger than a campus, such as an entire city and its outlying area.
6 Mbit s Megabits per second, data rate nomenclature for millions 10 of bits per second.
MDMS Marconi Digital Multipoint System our broadband radio access platform delivering toll-quality voice, leased lines and Ethernet-based data traffic to multi-dwelling, small and medium enterprises.
MDRS Marconi Digital Radio System our point-to-point wireless system for short-haul or long-haul access, feeder and backhaul applications operating over a frequency range of 4 to 38 GHz.
Metro a network designed to carry data over an area larger than a campus, such as an entire city and its outlying area.
MPLS Multiple Protocol Label Switching a way of making the best of IP and ATM technologies into one to create multiservice networks that carry any type of traffic.
MSAN Multi-Service Access Node equipment located at the edge of the network that supports a wide range of customer access interfaces and protocols, designed to replace the functionality of individual access platforms such as DSLAMs.
NAA our former North American Access business, which was sold in February 2004.
Network Services our network services businesses, mainly comprising our IC&M and VAS businesses.
OCS Optical Core Switch the generic industry designation that we use to describe our family of Core optical switches.
94 OPP our former Outside Plant and Power business, which was sold in August 2004.
Optical Networks our SDH and DWDM transmission equipment, and our network management systems business.
OTN Optical Transport Network a series of proposed industry standards to boost network bandwidth by building more network functionality into optical networks.
PBX Private Branch Exchange a private telephone exchange that transmits calls internally and to and from the public telephone network.
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network the international telephone system based on copper wires carrying analog voice data.
Restructuring, financial restructuring the financial restructuring of the Group that took effect on 19 May 2003 pursuant to the schemes of arrangement of the Company and M 2003 plc.
SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy a transport technology using optical signals.
Using a mesh ring network topology, SDH transmits data using a point-to-point method that ensures reliability if a link is broken.
Senior Notes the guaranteed senior secured notes due 2008 issued by the Company as a part of the Restructuring.
ServiceOn our portfolio of carrier-class, open-standard network management products.
SIP Session Initiation Protocol an open standard for establishing and managing multiparty, mixed-media communications sessions over converged networks.
Softswitch software-based, carrier-class servers that control voice phone calls across circuit and packet-switched networks.
The attraction softswitches hold is that they cost about a tenth of regular local phone switches, take up much less space, and have open interfaces that enable third-party vendors to write complex services to the switches control.
They also enable completion of calls between circuit-switched and packet networks, enabling carriers to use a single network for voice and data traffic.
Strategic Communications our former Strategic Communications business, which was sold in August 2002.
STRGL our consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses.
12 Tbit s Terabits per second, data rate nomenclature for trillions 10 of bits per second.
TDM Time Division Multiplexing a method of traditional digital multiplexing in which a signal occupies a fixed, repetitive time slot within a higher-rate signal.
UK GAAP generally accepted accounting principles applicable in the UK, including Financial Reporting Standards and Statements of Standard Accounting Practice issued by the Accounting Standards Board, consistently applied and as in effect from time to time.
US GAAP generally accepted accounting principles applicable in the US.
VAS our Value Added Services business.
VDSL Very high bit rate Digital Subscriber Line a DSL-based transmission method that sends data in the 13 Mbit s 55 Mbit s range over short distances, usually between 1,000 and 4,500 feet 300 1,500 metres, of twisted pair copper wire.
The shorter the distance, the faster the connection rate.
ViPr Virtual Presence our desktop video telephony platform that offers multi-party videoconferencing over IP networks.
VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol a means to transport voice, video and data over a packet wide-area IP network.
This does not mean using the public internet.
Data is broken into packets and may be transported using different routes to be assembled into their correct order at the receiving end.
95 Glossary of terms continued VPN Virtual Private Network a private voice communications network built on public switching and transport facilities rather than dedicated leased facilities such as T1.
VTOA Voice & Telephony Over ATM a single, integrated infrastructure that can manage and deliver all types of subscriber signals audio, data, voice, and video as well as switched and dedicated services reliably and efficiently.
WDM Wavelength Division Multiplexing a type of multiplexing developed for use on optical fibre, that modulates each of several data streams onto a different part of the light spectrum.
WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access the industry standard that defines point-to-point broadband wireless access.
xDSL x Digital Subscriber Line a generic way to refer to all the different variations of DSL which can include symmetrical, asymmetrical, DSL Lite, etc.
96 Contents 1 Key financials 2 Chairmans statement 4 Chief Executives review 6 Operating and financial review 18 Marconi people 20 Technology overview 23 Directors 24 Corporate governance 28 Directors report 31 Report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration 42 Corporate social responsibility 44 Statement of directors responsibilities 45 Independent auditors report 46 Consolidated profit and loss account 47 Balance sheets 48 Consolidated cash flow statement 48 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movements in net monetary funds debt 49 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 49 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders interests 50 Notes to the accounts 86 Statistical information 2001 to 2005 87 Information for shareholders 89 Shareholder services 90 Notice of Annual General Meeting 93 Glossary of terms Produced by Radley Yeldar London Marconi Corporation plc Annual report and accounts 2004-05 Marconi Corporation plc Annual report and accounts 2004-05 Marconi Corporation plc New Century Park PO Box 53 Coventry CV3 1HJ United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 24 7656 2000 Facsimile: 44 0 24 7656 7000 www.
