Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We review whether the corporate governance statement Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the losses and the related notes which have been prepared under Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report the historical cost convention and the accounting policies set if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or remuneration report the auditable part.
its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices report and the financial statements in accordance with Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the remuneration report.
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, information and explanations which we considered necessary has been prepared for and only for the companys members in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this auditable part of the Directors remuneration report are free opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the the financial statements give a true and fair view of financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors the state of affairs of the company and the Group at remuneration report have been properly prepared in 26 February 2005 and of the profit and cash flows of accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to the Group for the period then ended: you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent the financial statements have been properly prepared with the financial statements, if the company has not kept in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and proper accounting records, if we have not received all the those parts of the Directors remuneration report required information and explanations we require for our audit, or if by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance with the and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we  LLP become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other London 11 April 2005 information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the operating and financial review and the corporate governance statement.
