INVESTOR INFORMATION 183 INVESTOR INFORMATION GENERAL INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING are charged at 60 pence per minute at all times.
In addition, the share price Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting to be held is listed in most national daily newspapers and on Teletext.
The venue is The Queen Elizabeth II REGISTRAR Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in Tomkins plc, The nearest Underground stations are St. Jamess Park and Westminster.
such as loss of a share certificate, dividend payment instructions, or DIVIDENDS a change of address, should be notified direct to the registrar, Lloyds TSB The final dividend of 8.16 pence per ordinary share will be paid on 31 May Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, telephone 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 April 0870 600 3953.
Your correspondence should refer to Tomkins plc, 2006.
For holders of American Depositary Receipts ADRs, the dividend, quoting the reference 0398, and state the registered name and address declared in pence, is converted to US dollars on the dividend payment date of the shareholder.
using the exchange rate prevailing on that day.
Every effort is made to prevent multiple mailing of documents to PAYMENT OF DIVIDEND shareholders.
If you have received more than one copy of this Report and Shareholders who have mandated their dividends to be credited to a would like to amalgamate your holdings, please complete the enclosed nominated bank or building society account should note that dividends Shareholder Register Multiple Accounts form and return it to the registrar are paid automatically to their account through the Bankers Automated at the address on the form.
Clearing Services BACS with the associated tax voucher being sent direct ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION to shareholders at their registered address unless requested otherwise.
If the The registrar operates a share register internet enquiry service to provide nominated account is with a bank or building society which is not a member shareholders with details of their shareholdings.
To register for the service of BACS, both the payment and tax voucher are sent to the account holding please go to www.
You will need your shareholder branch.
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends and who reference which can be found on your share certificate or tax voucher and wish to have their dividend paid direct to a bank or building society account you will be asked to select your own PIN.
A user ID will then be posted to should complete a dividend mandate instruction form obtainable from Lloyds you.
Once registered, shareholders may elect to receive future shareholder TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, or by information and Company documents in electronic format.
The main telephoning 0870 600 3953. benefits of this system are speed and ease of use while saving money for DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN your Company and reducing the demand on natural resources.
A visit to The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
co. uk will also provide you with more details of the service to invest their cash dividend in purchasing shares of the Company in the and practical help and information on other share registration matters.
The Companys registrar arranges, on behalf of participants, through Further details can be found on the Electronic Communications letter the agency of a suitably authorised stockbroking business, the purchase of enclosed with this Report.
the maximum whole number of ordinary shares possible on, or as soon as ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING reasonably practicable after, the dividend payment date.
Favourable dealing Shareholders may register their voting instructions for the forthcoming costs have been arranged.
For further details or an application form please Annual General Meeting via the internet.
If you have registered for the write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, Share Dividend Team, The Causeway, registrars shareview service described above, you may submit your voting Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, or telephone their Helpline on instructions by logging on to your shareview portfolio and accessing the 0870 241 3018.
If you have not registered with INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS ISAS shareview, you may still register your vote electronically by going to A Tomkins ISA enables UK residents to invest in the Company in a tax www.
You will be required to key in the three security efficient manner.
You can obtain more information on ISAs from our numbers printed on your form of proxy to access the voting site.
corporate ISA provider, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, US LISTING West Sussex BN99 6UY, or by telephoning 0870 242 4244.
Tomkins ordinary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the SHARE DEALING form of ADRs.
Each ADR represents four Tomkins ordinary shares.
Tomkins is A telephone and internet dealing service has been arranged through Lloyds subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC TSB Registrars which provides a simple way of selling Tomkins ordinary in the USA as they apply to foreign companies and files with the SEC its shares.
Commission is 0.5% with a minimum charge of 20 for telephone Annual Report on Form 20-F and other information as required.
ADR holders dealing and 17.50 for internet dealing.
For telephone sales call are not members of the Company but may instruct JPMorgan Chase Bank, 0870 850 0852 between 8.30 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, and N. A. which administers the Tomkins ADR programme, as to the exercise of for internet sales log on to www.
You will need voting rights pertaining to the number of ordinary shares represented by your shareholder reference number shown on your share certificate or tax their ADRs.
A weekly postal dealing service is also available and a form together TRADING SYMBOLS with terms and conditions can be obtained by calling 0870 242 4244: Tomkins London Stock Exchange SEDOL number is 0896265 and its trading commission is 1% with a minimum charge of 10. symbol is TOMK.
The Companys trading symbol for its American Depositary GLOBAL INVEST DIRECT Receipts is TKS.
A simple dealing service is available to US residents only for buying and DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS COMPANIES HOUSE selling Tomkins ADRs.
Details can be obtained from JPMorgan Chase Bank, In accordance with the requirements of the Registrar of Companies in N. A. PO Box 3408, South Hackensack, NJ 07606-3408, or by telephoning England and Wales the registrar and following the passing of the 1 800 428 4237 or emailing adr@jpmorgan.
resolution to be proposed at the 2006 Annual General Meeting to receive WORLD WIDE WEB the financial statements, a copy of the Annual Report omitting photographic The Companys website address is shown on the back cover of this Report.
representations and with such further modifications as may be necessary All Tomkins recent results announcements and press releases are accessible, to comply with such requirements will be lodged with the registrar in together with the latest full Annual Report and Summary Annual Report.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
After being addition, callers may obtain direct access to the websites of many Tomkins so lodged, further copies of the full Annual Report or the Summary Annual operating companies.
Report in the form sent to shareholders will be available from the Company Secretary upon request.
SHARE PRICE INFORMATION The price of Tomkins ordinary shares is available on the Companys website.
The Financial Times Cityline Service also provides share price information.
This telephone service is available on 0906 843 4244 and calls within the UK TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
