GROUP IFRS ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION 123 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW ANALYSIS Reconciliation of the cash flow chart included in the Operating and Financial Review on page 34, to the consolidated cash flow statement prepared in accordance with IFRS on page 67.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2005 1 January 2005 million million million million Cash generated from operations 336.5 333.9 Capital expenditure net Purchase of property, plant & equipment 128.5 154.5 Purchase of intangible assets 14.8 3.2 Disposal of property, plant & equipment 23.8 5.5 119.5 152.2 Operating cash flow 217.0 181.7 Tax Income tax paid 79.5 56.0 Income taxes received 9.0 16.2 70.5 39.8 Interest and preference dividends Interest element of finance lease rental payments 0.7 0.9 Interest received 5.8 4.0 Interest paid 26.1 18.6 Preference dividends paid 16.1 15.9 37.1 31.4 Other movements Capitalisation of development costs 0.4 Dividends received from associates 0.3 0.4 Investment by minority shareholder in a subsidiary 3.9 Dividend paid to a minority shareholder in a subsidiary 5.9 2.7 6.0 1.6 Free cash flow to equity 103.4 112.1 Acquisitions and disposals Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 101.3 24.0 Sales of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 29.3 21.3 Lease obtained on acquisition 2.0 74.0 2.7 Ordinary dividends paid 99.4 94.5 Ordinary share movements Issue of ordinary shares 0.4 1.2 Purchase of own shares 2.4 4.1 Sale of own shares 2.9 0.9 2.9 Foreign currency translation Cash & cash equivalents 24.3 15.2 Other debt 3.8 7.0 28.1 8.2 Net fund movements 97.2 20.2 TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 124 RECONCILIATION OF IFRS TO US GAAP SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN IFRS AND US GAAP A.
BACKGROUND For the benefit of its US shareholders, in addition to its consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Group also presents its consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP.
IFRS differs from US GAAP in certain respects.
An explanation of the significant differences that affect the Groups reported results, cash flows and financial position is presented below, together with reconciliation statements that quantify the effect of those differences on the Groups consolidated net income for the years ended 31 December 2005 2005 and 1 January 2005 2004 and its consolidated shareholders equity as at 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2005.
An explanation of the Groups transition to IFRS is presented on pages 108 and 109.
Under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS the Group was not required to restate its consolidated income statement for the year ended 3 January 2004 2003 previously reported in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP in accordance with IFRS.
Consequently, the reconciliation statements presented below do not include a reconciliation of the Groups net income for 2003.
SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES I GOODWILL Under both IFRS and US GAAP, goodwill is not amortised but is tested at least annually for impairment.
However, a significant difference exists between the carrying amounts of goodwill due largely to historical differences in the initial measurement and subsequent accounting for goodwill arising on past acquisitions.
Under IFRS, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to business combinations that were recognised on or before 3 January 2004.
As a result, the Group recognised goodwill amounting to 216.7 million as at 3 January 2004, which represented the carrying amount of goodwill that was recognised as an asset under UK GAAP on acquisitions completed on or after 3 May 1998.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed before 3 May 1998 amounting to 1,054.8 million was written off to reserves under UK GAAP and was not reinstated on adoption of IFRS.
Under US GAAP, the carrying amount of goodwill as at 3 January 2004 was 953.4 million.
As at 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2005, the difference between the carrying value of goodwill under IFRS and that under US GAAP represents the difference between the carrying values as at 3 January 2004 adjusted for the effect of subsequent currency exchange rate movements.
II ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Under both IFRS and US GAAP, an intangible resource acquired in a business combination is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights.
However, a significant difference exists between the carrying amounts of acquired intangible assets due largely to the differing treatment of intangible resources acquired in past acquisitions.
As a consequence of the decision not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to business combinations that were recognised on or before 3 January 2004, intangible resources acquired in those business combinations are not recognised as intangible assets under IFRS.
Under US GAAP, the carrying amount of acquired intangible assets as at 3 January 2004 was 22.8 million.
As at 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2005, the difference between the carrying value of acquired intangible assets under IFRS and that under US GAAP represents the difference between the carrying values as at 3 January 2004 adjusted for the effect of subsequent amortisation and currency exchange rate movements.
III PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT COSTS Under IFRS, certain product development costs are capitalised when the conditions specified by IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met.
Capitalised development costs are amortised to the income statement over the expected life of the resulting product.
Under US GAAP, all product development costs are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
IV RESTRUCTURING COSTS Under IFRS, a restructuring plan is viewed as a whole and the related expenses are recognised when there exists an obligation to carry out the restructuring, which is generally when a detailed formal restructuring plan is announced.
Under US GAAP, each component of a restructuring plan must be examined separately to determine when the related expenses may be recognised.
Involuntary employee termination costs may be recognised when management has committed to a detailed termination plan and has communicated the plan to employees.
Other restructuring expenses are generally recognised when they are incurred.
V DISPOSAL OF OPERATIONS Differences between the gain or loss recognised on the disposal of an operation recognised under IFRS and that recognised under US GAAP arise principally because of differences in the carrying values of the assets and liabilities of the operation.
In addition, differences in the gain or loss may arise if the operation was previously acquired, due to differences in the carrying amount of goodwill recognised in respect of that operation see Goodwill above and or, if the operation is a foreign operation, due to differences in the cumulative currency translation differences that are recycled to the income statement on disposal of the operation see Cumulative currency translation differences below.
VI CAPITALISATION OF INTEREST Under IFRS, the Group does not capitalise any element of its interest expense.
Under US GAAP, interest expense attributable to the construction of major items of property, plant and equipment is capitalised and amortised over the estimated useful life of the asset concerned.
VII INVENTORY Under IFRS, inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out FIFO basis.
Use of the last in, first out LIFO basis is prohibited under IFRS.
Under US GAAP, inventories are stated at the lower of cost and market value.
Cost is generally determined on a FIFO basis, but a last in, first out LIFO basis is used to determine the cost of inventory held by certain US subsidiaries.
TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 GROUP IFRS RECONCILIATION OF IFRS TO US GAAP 125 SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN IFRS AND US GAAP CONTINUED VIII POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Under both IFRS and US GAAP, the cost of defined benefit plans is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is recognised over the average expected remaining service lives of participating employees, but differences exist, principally concerning the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, surpluses and the minimum pension liability.
Under IFRS, the plan assets if any and the plan liabilities must be measured at the Groups balance sheet date.
Under US GAAP, measurement may take place up to three months prior to the Groups balance sheet date and is carried out as at 1 October each year.
Under IFRS, actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which they occur.
Under US GAAP, the Group uses the so-called corridor approach whereby actuarial gains and losses are amortised to the income statement over the remaining service lives of participating employees to the extent that, measured at the beginning of each year, they exceed 10 per cent of the greater of the market related value of the plan assets or the projected benefit obligation.
Under IFRS, where a plan is in surplus the asset recognised is limited to the amount of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount which the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
Under US GAAP, there is no restriction on the asset recognised in respect of a plan in surplus.
Under US GAAP, a minimum pension liability must be recognised that represents the amount by which the accumulated benefit obligation ignoring projected future salary increases exceeds the fair value of the plan assets.
A corresponding amount is recognised as an intangible asset, to the extent of any unrecognised prior service cost and unrecognised transition obligation, and the balance is recognised in comprehensive income.
Under IFRS, there is no equivalent requirement to recognise a minimum pension liability because the net liability is fully recognised on the balance sheet.
IX SHARE-BASED INCENTIVES Under IFRS, the Group recognises a compensation expense in respect of share-based incentives that is based on the fair value of the awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The Group applied IFRS 2 retrospectively to all awards that were outstanding but had not vested as at 1 January 2005, except those equity-settled awards that were granted on or before 7 November 2002.
Under US GAAP, prior to 2 January 2005, the compensation expense was based on the intrinsic value of the awards in accordance with APB 25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.
Effective 2 January 2005, the Group adopted SFAS 123R Share-Based Payment which requires that the compensation expense is based on the fair value of the awards.
The Group applied SFAS 123R prospectively to the unvested portion of all awards that were outstanding as at 1 January 2005.
While differences between the compensation expense recognised under IFRS and US GAAP will exist for the foreseeable future, it is expected that they will be eliminated in future years when the outstanding unvested equity-settled awards granted on or before 7 November 2002 either vest or are forfeited due to failure to meet the service or non-market performance conditions that apply to them.
X DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING Under IFRS, prior to 2 January 2005, derivative financial instruments were not generally recognised as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet and gains or losses arising on them were not recognised until the hedged item was itself recognised in the financial statements.
From 2 January 2005 onwards, derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date and, in the absence of hedge accounting, changes in their fair values are reflected immediately in the Groups profit for the period.
The Group does not generally apply hedge accounting to transactional foreign currency hedging relationships.
It does, however, apply hedge accounting to translational foreign currency hedging relationships and to hedges of its interest rate exposures where it is permissible to do so under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Under US GAAP, derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date and, in the absence of hedge accounting, changes in their fair values are reflected immediately in the Groups net income.
Prior to 2005, the Group chose not to apply hedge accounting but, thereafter, it has applied hedge accounting to translational hedging relationships where it is permissible to do so under SFAS 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.
While the Group achieves hedge accounting under US GAAP for those hedges of its interest rate exposures that qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS, it is not possible for it to achieve hedge accounting under US GAAP for certain translational foreign currency hedging relationships that qualify for hedge accounting as net investment hedges under IFRS.
XI PREFERENCE SHARES Under IFRS, prior to 2 January 2005, the US dollar denominated 5.56% Convertible cumulative preference shares the Preference shares were classified as non-equity shareholders funds and were translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at their date of issue.
Dividends payable on the Preference shares were treated as an appropriation of profit.
From 2 January 2005 onwards, the Preference shares are classified as non-current liabilities and are retranslated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The Preference shares have been designated as a net investment hedge and, to the extent the hedge is effective, currency translation differences are recognised directly in equity.
Dividends payable on the Preference shares are included within interest payable.
Under US GAAP, the Preference shares are classified as shareholders equity and are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of issue.
Dividends payable on the Preference shares are treated as an appropriation of shareholders equity.
XII CUMULATIVE CURRENCY TRANSLATION DIFFERENCES Under both IFRS and US GAAP, currency translation differences arising on the translation into Sterling of the results, assets and liabilities of foreign operations are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On transition to IFRS, the Group elected to deem cumulative currency translation differences on its net investment in foreign operations to be nil as at 3 January 2004.
Accordingly, the gain or loss on disposal of a foreign operation recognised under IFRS does not include currency translation differences that arose before 4 January 2004.
TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 126 RECONCILIATION OF IFRS TO US GAAP SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN IFRS AND US GAAP CONTINUED C. PRESENTATIONAL DIFFERENCES I DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Under IFRS, an operation is classified as discontinued if it has been sold or is classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date, and itself represents, or its sale is part of a single plan to dispose of, a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
Under US GAAP, discontinued operations include all components of the Groups businesses that have identifiable operations and cash flows and have been sold or are classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date.
II STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Under IFRS, cash flow represents increases or decreases in cash and cash equivalents, which comprise cash in hand, deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity on acquisition of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Under US GAAP, cash flow is as defined under IFRS, except it excludes increases or decreases in bank overdrafts.
Under IFRS, dividends received from associates have been classified as cash flows from investing activities whereas under US GAAP they are classified as cash flows from operating activities.
Under IFRS, interest paid and interest received has been classified as cash flows from financing activities whereas under US GAAP they are classified within cash flows from operating activities.
