Notes to the Consolidated Financial statements 1.
General information Autonomy Corporation plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985.
The registered office at Autonomy House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ, UK.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out on page 7.
The groups functional currency is pounds sterling, however these financial statements are presented in dollars as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time.
The group has historically reported under US GAAP and under UK GAAP for UK statutory purposes.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from US GAAP to IFRS are given in note 26.
The date of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2004.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with the IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial information has been prepared on the basis of all applicable IFRS, including all International Accounts Standards IAS, Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Commission IFRIC interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB before 31 December 2005.
These include IFRS endorsed by the EU and those awaiting formal endorsement.
The rules for first adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS1 requires use of the same accounting policies in the IFRS transition balance sheet and for all periods presented thereafter.
The accounting policies must comply with all IFRS effective at the reporting date for the first financial reporting under IFRS for year ended 31 December 2005.
IFRS1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
This financial information has been prepared on the basis of taking the following exemptions: a Business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated to comply with IFRS3 Business Combinations: and b IAS32 and IAS39 have been adopted from 1 January 2005.
There is no effect on reported profits and no restatement of comparative information is required.
The financial information presented for the year ended 31 December 2004 has been restated to comply with IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of trade investments and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the company are set out below.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
