Notes to the Consolidated Financial statements 1.
General information Autonomy Corporation plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985.
The registered office at Autonomy House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ, UK.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out on page 7.
The groups functional currency is pounds sterling, however these financial statements are presented in dollars as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time.
The group has historically reported under US GAAP and under UK GAAP for UK statutory purposes.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from US GAAP to IFRS are given in note 26.
The date of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2004.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with the IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial information has been prepared on the basis of all applicable IFRS, including all International Accounts Standards IAS, Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Commission IFRIC interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB before 31 December 2005.
These include IFRS endorsed by the EU and those awaiting formal endorsement.
The rules for first adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS1 requires use of the same accounting policies in the IFRS transition balance sheet and for all periods presented thereafter.
The accounting policies must comply with all IFRS effective at the reporting date for the first financial reporting under IFRS for year ended 31 December 2005.
IFRS1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
This financial information has been prepared on the basis of taking the following exemptions: a Business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated to comply with IFRS3 Business Combinations: and b IAS32 and IAS39 have been adopted from 1 January 2005.
There is no effect on reported profits and no restatement of comparative information is required.
The financial information presented for the year ended 31 December 2004 has been restated to comply with IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of trade investments and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the company are set out below.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Autonomy Corporation plc 26 Notes to the Consolidated Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued c Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for using the method of proportionate consolidation.
The application of this method combines on a line-by-line basis the assets, liabilities, income and expense of joint ventures with those of the group.
If the group contributes or sells assets to a joint venture only that portion of the gain or loss attributable to the interests of the other venturers is recognized.
d Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous US GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.
e Revenue recognition The group generates revenues from licensing the rights to use its software products directly to end-users and indirectly through resale by resellers.
The group also generates revenues from sales of consulting, customer support and training services performed for customers that licence its products.
Revenues from software licence agreements are recognised where there is persuasive evidence of an agreement with a customer, delivery of the software has taken place, collectability is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
If an acceptance period is required, revenues are recognised upon the earlier of customer acceptance or the expiration of the acceptance period.
Revenue is recognized on contracts with credit terms of up to one year providing that the customer passes defined credit-worthiness checks.
If significant post-delivery obligations exist or if a sale is subject to customer acceptance, revenues are deferred until no significant obligations remain or acceptance has occurred.
The group enters into reseller arrangements that typically provide for fees payable to the group based on agreed discounted license rates.
Sales are generally recognised as reported by the reseller in resale of the groups products to end-users.
Sales are recognised if all products subject to resale are delivered in the current period, no right of return policy exists, collection is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
The group also enters into OEM agreements that may provide for the payment of advance license royalties and ongoing license royalty obligations.
In certain circumstances, advance royalties are recognised upon the initial contract if all products subject to sub-licensing are delivered in the current period, no right of return policy exists, collection is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
Revenues from customer support services are recognised rateably over the term of the support period.
If customer support services are included free or at a discount in a licence agreement, these amounts are allocated out of the licence fee at their fair market value based on the value established by independent sale of the customer support services to customers.
Consulting revenues are primarily related to implementation services performed on a time and materials basis under separable service arrangements related to the installation of the groups software products.
Revenues from consulting and training services are recognised as services are performed.
If a transaction includes both licence and service elements, licence fee revenue is recognised upon shipment of the software, provided services do not include significant customisation or modification of the base product and the payment terms for licences are not subject to acceptance criteria.
In cases where licence fee payments are contingent upon the acceptance of services, revenues from both the licence and the service elements are deferred until the acceptance criteria are met.
Cost of licence revenues includes the cost of royalties due on third party licences, cost of product media, product duplication and manuals.
Deferred revenues primarily relate to customer support fees, which have been invoiced to the customer prior to the performance of these services.
Deferred revenue is generally recognised over a period of one to three years.
27 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued f Leasing Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
g Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than U. S. dollars are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
h Profit from operations Profit from operations is stated before investment income and finance costs.
i Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Autonomy Corporation plc 28 Notes to the Consolidated Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued j Property, plant and equipment Leasehold improvements, fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Leasehold improvements Over shorter of economic useful life and lease term Fixtures and equipment Over 35 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
k Internally-generated intangible assets - research and development expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the groups product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: - an asset is created that can be identified such as software and new processes : - it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: - the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably: and - the product from which the asset arises meets the groups criteria for technical feasibility.
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, which is 3 years.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
l Other intangible assets excluding goodwill Other intangible assets excluding goodwill are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, on the following bases: Patents and trademarks 3 years Software licences 3 years Purchased intangibles 3 12 years.
m Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
