Notes to the Consolidated Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued n Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
o Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
p Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognized in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
q Financial liability and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
r Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
s Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
t Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
u Provisions Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
v Equity and other investments Equity and other investments are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
These investments have been designated as fair value through the profit and loss account.
w Share-based payments The group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2004.
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black Scholes model.
3. Business segments Whilst the company currently operates under a number of different divisions, the companys core technology, types of revenue and associated costs and returns are comparable.
Each of these divisions is founded on the companys unique Intelligent Data Operating Layer, the companys core infrastructure for automating the handling of all forms of unstructured information.
As a result, the company maintains only one reportable business segment, as is reflected in the reporting in this annual report.
