NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Topps Tiles Plc the Company will be held at Topps Tiles Plc, Thorpe Way, Grove Park, Enderby, Leicestershire, LE19 1SU on Tuesday 10 January 2006 at 10.30 a. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1 To receive and adopt the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statement for the financial period ended 1 October 2005 together with the last Directors Report, the last Directors Remuneration Report and the Auditors Report on those accounts and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
2 To declare a final dividend of 6.00 pence per Ordinary Share on the Ordinary Shares for the period.
3 To re-elect Barry Bester as a Director of the Company.
4 To re-elect Andrew Liggett as a Director of the Company.
Michael Jack as a Director of the Company.
6 To re-elect Victor Watson who reached the age of 77 years on 26 September 2005, as a Director of the Company.
7 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors to hold office from the conclusion of the meeting to the conclusion of the next meeting at which the Annual Report and Financial Statements are laid before the Company at a remuneration to be determined by the Directors.
8 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial period ended 1 October 2005 as set out in the Annual Report and Financial Statements for that period.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the resolutions set out below which, in the case of Resolution 9 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and, in the case of Resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
9 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of and pursuant to Section 80 1 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,885,303 in substitution for to any existing authorities under the Act to such persons at such times and upon such terms and conditions as they may determine subject always to the articles of association of the Company provided that this authority shall unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, if earlier save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer, agreement or arrangement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such period and the Directors may then allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer, agreement or arrangement as if the authority or power conferred hereby had not expired.
TOPPS TILES PLC 61 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued Special business continued 10 THAT subject to and conditional on the passing of Resolution 9 set out above, the Directors of the Company be and they are authorised and empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the general authority and power conferred by Resolution 9 above as varied from time to time by the Company in general meeting as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this authority and power shall unless renewed, varied or revoked, expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, if earlier and provided further that this authority and power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities pursuant to a rights issue or similar offer to Ordinary Shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary Shareholders are proportionate or as nearly as practical and taking into account any prohibitions against or difficulties concerning the making of an offer of allotment to shareholders whose registered address or place of residence is overseas and subject to such exclusions as the Directors of the Company may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlement or record dates to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of the greater of 282,795 or 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
11 THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 of the Act to make market Purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares provided that: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 33,709,234 representing 14.9% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital : b the minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 2.5p: c the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which such Ordinary Share is Contracted to be purchased: d unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority conferred shall expire at the close of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or twelve months from the date of this resolution, if earlier: and e the Company may make a contract for the purchase of Ordinary Shares under this authority before the expiry of this authority which would or might require to be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make purchases of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of such a contract as if such authority had not expired.
TOPPS TILES PLC 62 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Notes 1 This notice has been sent to all Ordinary Shareholders who are entitled to attend or be represented at the meeting.
2 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend on a poll vote and, on a poll, vote on his or her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be valid, a Form of Proxy and any power or authority under which it is signed, must be lodged with the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars Proxies, PO Box 25, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR, no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the Annual General Meeting.
3 A proxy is not entitled to speak at the meeting except to demand a poll, and may vote only when a poll is taken.
4 A Form of Proxy is enclosed and instructions for use are shown on the form.
The fact that shareholders may have completed forms of proxy will not prevent them from attending and voting in person should they afterwards decide to do so.
5 As permitted by Regulation 41 of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001, only those shareholders who are registered on the Companys share register at 8.00am on 9 January 2006 or if the meeting is adjourned, shareholders entered on the Companys register of members not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting and to vote in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes to entries on the share register after 8.00am on 9 January 2006 or, if the meeting is adjourned after 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CRESTProxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID : RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
7 The following documents are available for inspection by members at the registered office of the Company except Bank Holidays during the normal business hours and at the place of the meeting but not less than 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: a the register of Directors interests required to be kept under Section 325 of the Act: and b copies of the Directors service contracts.
A. Liggett Registered Office: Registered No: Company Secretary Rushworth House 3213782 29 November 2005 Wilmslow Road Handforth, Wilmslow Cheshire SK9 3HJ TOPPS TILES PLC 63 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
