TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the forty second Annual General Meeting of Travis Perkins plc will be held at Lords Conference and Banqueting Centre, St. Johns Wood Road, London, NW8 8QN on Monday 24 April 2006 at 11.45 a. m. The resolutions Resolutions 1 to 9 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the Companys financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 together with the directors report, the directors remuneration report, the auditors report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2005 of 23.0 pence per ordinary share, payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 April 2006.
To appoint, pursuant to Article 71 of the Companys Articles of Association, Andrew Simon who was appointed as a non-executive director by the board on 20 February 2006.
Biographical details of Andrew Simon appear on page 29.
To re-appoint Chris Bunker, who is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Chris Bunker appear on page 29.
To re-appoint Paul Hampden Smith, who is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Paul Hampden Smith appear on page 28.
To re-appoint Tim Stevenson, who is retiring by rotation, pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Tim Stevenson appear on page 28.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
That the directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 December 2005 set out on pages 36 to 44 be approved.
That the authority conferred on the directors by Article 4 B of the Companys Articles of Association be and is hereby renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and for that period the section 80 amount is 1,364,633.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 9, the power conferred on the directors by Article 4 C of the Companys Articles of Association be and is hereby renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and for that period the section 89 amount is 406,534.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: 95 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC a. the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 12,135,366 representing 10 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 7 March 2006 : b. the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 pence, exclusive of expenses: c. the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for each of the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased, exclusive of expenses: d. this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date fifteen months from the date of passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: and e. the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the board, Andrew Pike Secretary Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton, NN5 7UG 7 March 2006 Registered in England No.
824821 Directions to Lords Conference and Banqueting Centre can be found on the last page of the Notes to the notice of the annual general meeting.
