TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Notes to the notice of annual general meeting 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such authority must be returned by post, courier or by hand, to the offices of the Companys Registrar, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 24 April 2006 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
"In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo's specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual."
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice of Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In each case the proxy appointments must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members entered on the register of members of the Company as at 5.00 p. m. on 21 April 2006 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Copies of contracts of service of directors with the Company, or with any of its subsidiary companies, will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice to the date of the meeting and at Lords Conference and Banqueting Centre from 11.15am on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
The register of directors interests kept by the Company under section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 will be produced at the commencement of the meeting and remain open and accessible during the continuance of the meeting to any person attending the meeting.
A copy of article 147 of the Company's Articles of Association, which sets out the Directors' and officers' indemnity entitlements, will be produced at the commencement of the meeting and remain open and accessible during the continuance of the meeting to any person attending the meeting.
97 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Travel directions to Lords Lords is located on St. Johns Wood Road, in the borough of Westminster.
The ground is very easily accessed both by car and by public transport.
By road The ground is 4.5 miles from the M1 and 1.5 miles from Marble Arch, it is also close to the M40 and the M4.
From the end of the M40 take the A40 Westway.
Turn left into Lisson Grove.
At the end of Lisson Grove, turn right into St. Johns Wood Road.
From the end of the M1 follow signs to central London on the A41 and continue to Wellington Road.
Pass St. Johns Wood Underground Station on the left, and the Wellington Hospital on the right.
By bus Several routes run within easy reach of the ground.
For more information on bus routes www.
uk buses By tube The following are all within fifteen minutes walk of the Ground.
St. Johns Wood Jubilee Line Warwick Avenue Bakerloo Line Marylebone Bakerloo Line Edgware Road Bakerloo, Circle, District, Hammersmith & City Baker Street Bakerloo, Circle, Jubilee, Metropolitan, Hammersmith & City For more information on tube routes www.
