TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Chief operating officers report For the year ended 31 December 2005 Review of operations Our markets for both the retail and merchanting operations have been weaker during 2005 than we have seen for a number of years.
These conditions have meant that a major focus of our efforts during the year has been on efficiency and cost reduction programmes.
However we have also maintained our strategy to grow the businesses through new product introduction and network expansion through acquisitions and brown field site openings.
We made further progress on improving our merchanting operational capability in 2005, particularly in productivity, management information and relationships with customers.
In our retail division we continued, and refined, our branch network expansion and developed initiatives aimed at improving the sales performance and staff productivity of like-for-like stores.
Throughout the business we have seen high inflationary costs on commodity products, particularly affecting the heavy building materials and plumbing and heating categories.
We have been able to take advantage of cost increases by buying stock whenever practical prior to cost increases taking effect.
Although distribution costs have come under pressure with increases in oil prices during the year, we have offset much of this increase by investing in our Brackmills distribution facility, extending the range of products distributed centrally and by obtaining better buying terms.
This investment creates a good platform for our planned expansion of global sourcing.
The Travis Perkins branch network was expanded during the year with 18 branches acquired and 25 opened on brown field sites.
Two branches were consolidated during the year leaving our Travis Perkins branded network operating from 533 branches by the end of the year.
In addition, major refurbishment and enhancement programmes were completed at Wycombe, Bristol Clifton, Hemel Hempstead, Peterborough, Brackmills distribution centre in Northampton, Ashton-in-Makerfield and Vauxhall.
In the tool hire sector we now have 156 units up from 155 last year.
We have recently appointed a senior category director for tool hire and we intend to develop this part of our business vigorously in future.
Our strategy of new branch openings continues to serve us well.
Within Keyline, our specialist heavy-side merchant, the focus during 2005 has been on both deepening and widening our category focus.
In addition we have continued to grow the network through the integration of one acquired branch at Haddington near Edinburgh, and through the opening of the first two brown field sites for this brand at Kilmarnock and Castle Douglas in the Borders.
Two branches were closed during the year: in both locations the sales were transferred to other branches, leaving this brand with 73 locations by the end of year.
Our City Plumbing Supplies business CPS had a difficult year in 2005 following the major programme of re-organisation of the Jayhard and B&G acquisitions integrated in 2004.
During 2005 we changed the management of the division and the new team 14 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC has made good progress with a recovery plan to improve pricing, product range availability and branch administration.
Towards the end of the year we took the opportunity to consolidate a number of stores that were in poor locations and 5 branches were closed.
In addition we opened 17 new brown field sites during the year giving a total network of 178 branches for CPS by the end of 2005.
CCF, our dry-lining and insulation specialist business performed very well during the year as the market continued to grow and the CCF branches continued to increase their supply to our generalist merchanting network.
During the year we opened two new branches at Carlisle and Plymouth and both are performing ahead of expectations.
We also re-sited our Liverpool branch to larger premises with sales and profits improving as a result.
We ended the year with a total of 23 branches.
Within our Wickes operations we have had a similar dual focus on cost reduction and business growth.
Cost reduction gains have come primarily from procurement of goods for resale, but also from headcount reduction in stores, a number of back office functions and from lowering the cost of bought-in-goods and services such as mechanical handling equipment and waste services.
We have recently introduced more than 1,400 additional products into the Wickes range in the Extra stores through a programme of space optimisation and have also added significantly to the range breadth in the standard stores, removing a limited number of poorer performing product categories without losing the benefits of our low assortment model.
Since the acquisition we have converted two stores from the Standard to the Extra format in Aylesbury and Swansea, and opened five new Standard stores at Salisbury, Lowestoft, Bexhill, Bicester and Wakefield.
Wickes was trading from 176 stores at the end of 2005, including a total of seven Extras.
Taking advantage of our tool hire merchanting expertise we introduced tool hire in three Extra stores during the year the early indications from this new initiative are encouraging.
Continuous improvement We introduced a substantially improved merchanting management information system during 2005 that provides succinct information in a number of key result areas KRAs to branch managers as well as to regional and senior management.
The system is intranet based and can be interrogated to provide specific information for each branch as the underlying reasons for a particular level of performance on each KRA.
The measures are monitored continuously and management review all performances on an exceptions basis every month.
KRAs include sales and profit performance, labour and distribution costs, stock levels, trading customer numbers, staff turnover and administration standards.
A range of customer service performance parameters are also included within the new KRA system.
Our successful delivery of the anticipated procurement savings as forecast at the time of the Wickes acquisition has led to a further significant lowering of our overall cost of goods sold ratio for the group.
15 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Customers During 2005, we commenced a major programme of customer insight research.
This initiative will assist us in developing a stronger understanding of the precise requirements of our wide range of customer segments and will help us to focus our product and service offer to each segment as well as to target growth with the most attractive segments.
Ongoing consolidation in the house building sector has presented us with some good opportunities for volume gains through our key account relationships.
Suppliers With the acquisition of Wickes we have taken the opportunity to review the majority of our supply base through both the retail and merchanting channels during this year.
During the integration process we have aligned ourselves increasingly with those companies that have the greatest potential to be major strategic suppliers to the enlarged group for the long term.
A significant proportion of the products sold in Wickes are supplied via 3 intermediate warehouses, operated by us using a third party logistics contractor.
One of these, at Hemel Hempstead, suffered an interruption to its warehouse operations in December as a result of the Buncefield oil terminal fire.
Well practiced disaster recovery procedures were operated immediately and alternate supply arrangements were set up within a matter of hours.
Despite the warehouse being out of operation until mid-February the impact on stock availability in stores was relatively low.
Towards the end of 2005 the quality assurance functions in the merchanting and retail divisions were merged into one group QA department with responsibility for both product and supplier quality across all group companies.
One of the prime objectives of the new department for 2006 is to review all existing product and supplier assessment and approval processes and introduce formal common documented procedures.
In addition to product quality, the supplier assessment process will also include social, ethical, health & safety and environmental issues, with a supplier grading structure that identifies the risk by these categories.
At the end of 2005 we established a full time QA office in China.
During 2005 a revised Statement of Expectations and associated questionnaire was issued for new suppliers.
This will be developed further to incorporate requirements into the revised group QA supplier assessment and approval process, with suppliers categorised as high risk being subjected to annual QA audits.
Non-responses to the August 2004 survey were actioned with the suppliers concerned during 2005.
An updated categorisation of suppliers surveyed and assessed during 2005 is as follows: Risk rating Employment category Number Low Employment including key sub-suppliers is wholly within the EU OECD 196 Medium There is employment outside the EU OECD and monitoring systems are in place 65 High There is employment outside the EU OECD and monitoring systems are not in place 12 There is employment outside the EU OECD and compliance cannot be confirmed 2 275 Employees In 2005, we took action to reduce headcount across both trade and retail divisions.
Total employees in the merchant divisions reduced on a like-for-like basis from 9,487 to 9,029 at 31 December 2005 with total employees increasing to 9,533 when acquisitions and new brown fields are included.
In Wickes there were a total of 4,227 employees at the end of the year, a reduction of 349 from the level at the date of the completion of the acquisition.
During 2005 we established corporate values which will underpin the behaviour of every colleague in our business from the Chief Executive to the yard assistant.
It is our intention to inculcate these values during 2006 to ensure that the values reflect the way we go about our business.
By including our values in our performance management systems, recruitment and selection processes 16 and reward mechanisms, we can ensure that this objective is achieved.
TRA VIS PERKINS PLC We recognise that our future growth and prosperity will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain the very best employees.
We believe passionately that the promotion of knowledgeable, experienced and capable management from within the organisation is the route to success.
Consequently the following mechanisms are in place to enable our colleagues to maximise their potential: Our commitment to training and development at all levels in the organisation continues.
There is a continued commitment at board level to ensure that new colleagues are effectively inducted into our group and given the necessary training to fulfil their role and develop their full capabilities.
In merchanting particular emphasis is placed on customer service, health & safety and youth training.
In 2005 alone we recruited more than 100 new management trainees onto our 2 year development programme, the successful completion of which will prepare them for their first management appointment.
We also introduced computer based training in our merchanting business, providing all colleagues access to learning opportunities at their place of work or via their PC at home.
In retailing we successfully launched the Master Programme which is a new training framework for all store colleagues.
The aim is to build skills and product knowledge through a comprehensive programme of on and off the job training including elearning and self development activities.
The Programme has five levels and Level 1 was launched in September 2005.
Four thousand store colleagues have completed a backtrack validation of their knowledge and new starters now complete a 16 week comprehensive induction to ensure they have all the necessary skills and product knowledge to do their job, which is validated through computer based tests.
The Level 1 programme has been externally accredited by Edexcel and as a result of completing Level 1, colleagues qualify with a BTEC in DIY Retail, exclusive to Wickes.
Our investment in management development at all levels has increased during the year and programmes are in place with the principal aim of ensuring consistent standards of management practice across the group and strong succession into senior appointments.
In Wickes there is a programme that compliments the Master Programme and supports the transition to the next level.
We continue to place great emphasis on performance management with an annual performance review taking place at all levels in the organisation, enabling: recognition of achievement: the opportunity for personal development and career progression and: effective succession planning.
We regularly consult with our workforce.
Throughout our merchanting branch network, staff meet with management on a formal basis to consult over matters such as health and safety and customer service.
We also distribute a number of company newsletters and encourage wide use of our intranet, both providing valuable 17 information and inviting feedback.
Employees are regularly informed of the groups TRA VIS PERKINS PLC financial results and the market conditions in which it Accident frequency rate 2005 14.00 operates and are consulted regarding any changes in employment conditions.
To encourage the involvement of 13.00 employees in the groups performance, the group operates a 12.00 Save As You Earn option scheme.
In addition, the directors, 11.00 managers and many other employees are members of discretionary bonus schemes.
10.00 In our retail division, Wickes, has two colleague representative 9.0 forums: Operations Liaison Group and Support Centre Liaison Group who meet quarterly to inform and consult with 2005 representatives from across the business.
Accident severity rate 2005 In Wickes we also run a number of communication events 15.00 hosted by directors to provide information and celebrate 12.00 success.
One of these is the colleague suggestion scheme Bright Sparks which generates an average of 1,000 9.00 suggestions each year with the best being put into practice 6.00 and culminating in a lunch to recognise the winning 3.00 contributions.
There are plans to extend this programme across the group.
0 The health of our 17,000 colleagues is important to us.
2005 Consequently our management are encouraged to undergo regular health screening and any colleagues who are unfortunate to be absent from work through illness on a long-term basis are provided with full medical support to enable rehabilitation and an early return to work.
In 2005 we successfully trialled medical intervention for all work related absence and will seek to roll this out in 2006.
Our employee assistance programme for stress and other employee problems continues to be provided for all colleagues.
Labour turnover and absenteeism are key performance indicators for our business.
I am pleased to report significant year-on-year improvements in labour turnover for both our merchanting and retail businesses 11 per cent improvement in merchanting and 9 per cent in retail.
Management retention is a critical factor in our ongoing success and it was pleasing to see that our retention of managers continued to be strong in 2005 at less than 10 per cent turnover across the group.
The group is firmly committed to ensuring that the manner in which it employs staff is fair and equitable.
Our equal opportunities policy is designed to ensure that no person or group of individuals will be treated less favourably because of their race, colour, ethnic origin, gender or sexual orientation, age or disability.
Health and safety Our commitment to the achievement and maintenance of the highest standards in health and safety management continues.
During 2005 we have worked closely with our Lead Authorities to introduce improvements to our health and safety management systems.
We are currently developing and implementing improvements in the management of, and compliance with, risk assessment, manual handling and traffic management controls.
18 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 12 Months Rolling 12 Months Rolling TRA VIS PERKINS PLC An external health and safety consultant review during 2005 at Wickes has confirmed the suitability of many of the current health and safety management systems in place.
We are continuing to improve the health and safety culture within the business including a review of existing risk assessment procedures and strengthening internal auditing arrangements.
We were pleased to achieve year-on-year improvements in our health and safety key performance indicators within Travis Perkins merchanting sites, with a 5 per cent improvement in accident frequency rates and a 10 per cent improvement in accident severity rates.
Full year accident frequency and severity rates are not available for Wickes during 2005, however RIDDOR reportable accident trends involving both customers and colleagues have reduced year-on-year during 2005.
In 2005 there was one prosecution relating to an incident that occurred in the Wickes organisation, prior to the acquisition by the group.
There were no workplace fatalities during 2005.
We were pleased to work closely with the Health and Safety Executive during 2005 on two initiatives: one to improve health and safety standards throughout the Builders Merchant industry and the other focusing on retail and warehouse transport and handling.
The Merchant Initiative initially focusing on the Midlands enables Travis Perkins to help set best practice in health and safety management for the industry as a whole by sharing our health and safety management systems with the smaller builders merchant businesses in the region.
This initiative continues into 2006 with a series of workshops run in conjunction with the HSE throughout the Midlands.
The Retail initiative focused in the London area enabled Wickes to influence best practice management in retail and provided a benchmarking opportunity within the retail sector.
Our investment in health and safety training increased during 2005 and a comprehensive programme operates throughout the group.
Effective communication and consultation is critical to our success: branch based health and safety committee meetings take place on a regular basis within the existing Travis Perkins sites and the Corporate Health and Safety and Environment Committee meet six times a year.
A similar arrangement exists within Wickes with a monthly health and safety satellite group meeting to consider all health and safety related issues within the business.
J. P. Carter Chief Operating Officer 7 March 2006 19
