Accounting policies year ended 31 December 2004 a Basis of Accounting g Share Based Payments The financial statements have been prepared under The Company has applied the requirements of the historical cost convention in accordance with FRS 20 Share Based Payments.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and UK Generally Accepted the transitional provisions of that standard, only those Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The following awards that were granted after 7 November 2002, paragraphs describe the main accounting policies under and had not vested at 1 January 2005, are included.
UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
All share-based awards of the Company are equity In accordance with the provisions of Section 230 of settled as defined by FRS 20.
The fair value of these the Companies Act the Profit and Loss Account of the awards has been determined at the date of grant of Company is not presented separately.
In accordance the award allowing for the effect of any market-based with the exemptions available under FRS 1 Cash Flow performance conditions.
This fair value, adjusted by Statements the Company has not presented a cash flow the Companys estimate of the number of awards that statement as the cash flow of the Company has been will eventually vest as a result of non-market conditions, included in the Cash Flow Statement of Tullow Oil plc is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
The fair values were calculated using a binomial b Investments option pricing model with suitable modifications to allow Fixed asset investments, including investments in for employee turnover after vesting and early exercise.
subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed for Where necessary this model was supplemented with impairment if there are indications that the carrying a Monte Carlo model.
The inputs to the models include: value may not be recoverable.
the share price at date of grant: exercise price: expected volatility: expected dividends: risk free rate of interest: c Finance Cost and Debt and patterns of exercise of the plan participants.
Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Arrangement fees and issue costs are deducted from the debt proceeds and are amortised and charged to the profit and loss account as finance costs over the term of the debt.
d Foreign Currencies Sterling is the reporting currency of the Company.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, with a corresponding charge or credit to the profit and loss account.
e Share Issue Expenses and Share Premium Account Costs of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the issues of share capital.
f Taxation Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 77
