Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be Report and the financial statements.
The Directors have achieved by compliance with all applicable International chosen to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance Financial Reporting Standards.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Directors are also required to: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
properly select and apply accounting policies: In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required present information, including accounting policies, in to prepare financial statements for each financial year a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of and understandable information: the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for provide additional disclosures when compliance with that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the the specific requirements in International Financial Directors are required to: Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to select suitable accounting policies and then apply understand the impact of particular transactions, other them consistently: events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Group to continue as state whether applicable accounting standards have a going concern, management either intends to liquidate been followed: the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic prepare the financial statements on the going concern alternative but to do so.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Company will continue in business.
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting any time the financial position of the Group and Company, Standard 1 requires that financial statements present for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, for the prevention and detection of fraud and other financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply events and conditions in accordance with the definitions with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Approved by the Board on 28 March 2006 Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
Aidan Heavey Tom Hickey Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullow Oil plc We have audited the Group financial statements of We have reported separately on the individual Company Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 financial statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group 31 December 2005.
Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses and the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as related notes 1 to 31.
These Group financial statements a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies have been prepared under the accounting policies set Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we out therein.
We have also audited the information in the might state to the Companys members those matters we Directors Remuneration Report that is described as are required to state to them in an auditors report and having been audited.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
42 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We conducted our audit in accordance with International Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in disclosures in the Group financial statements and the the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial of the significant estimates and judgements made by statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial Report described as having been audited in accordance statements, and of whether the accounting policies are with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently requirements and International Standards on Auditing applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain We report to you our opinion as to whether the all the information and explanations which we considered Group financial statements give a true and fair view in necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial and whether the Group financial statements and the part statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having Report described as having been audited are free from been audited have been properly prepared in accordance material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Directors Report is not consistent with the Group financial information in the Group financial statements and the statements.
We also report to you if we have not received part of the Directors Remuneration Report described all the information and explanations we require for our as having been audited.
audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors transactions with the Company and other Opinion members of the Group is not disclosed.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in not complied with any of the four Directors remuneration the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs disclosure requirements specified for our review by the as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These then ended: and comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long the Group financial statements and the part of term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined the Directors Remuneration Report described as benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent having been audited have been properly prepared possible, of details of any non-compliance.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Separate opinion in relation to IFRS Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the As explained in note 31 of the Group financial statements, nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial to comply with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are Union, has also complied with the IFRS as issued by the not required to consider whether the Boards statement International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form in our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as Deloitte & Touche LLP described in the contents section including the unaudited Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors part of the Directors Remuneration Report and we London consider the implications for our report if we become 28 March 2006 aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 43
