Accounting Policies year ended 31 December 2005 a Basis of Preparation d Over Underlift This is the first year in which the Group has prepared Lifting or offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced its financial statements under International Financial in certain of the Groups jointly owned operations are Reporting Standards IFRS and the comparatives have such that each participant may not receive and sell its been restated from UK Generally Accepted Accounting precise share of the overall production in each period.
Practice UK GAAP to comply with IFRS.
The Group The resulting imbalance between cumulative entitlement issued a press release in August 2005 incorporating its and cumulative production less stock is underlift or preliminary IFRS financial statements for 2004, which overlift.
Underlift and overlift are valued at market value are unchanged in these financial statements, and the and included within debtors and creditors respectively.
reconciliations to IFRS from the previously published UK Movements during an accounting period are adjusted GAAP financial statements are summarised in note 31. through Cost of Sales such that Gross Profit is recognised on an entitlements basis.
The Groups share of any The accounting policies which follow set out those policies physical stock is accounted for at the lower of cost which apply in preparing the financial statements for the and net realisable value.
The financial information has been prepared under the historical cost convention e Foreign Currencies and using accounting policies consistent with IFRS.
The Pound Sterling is the presentation currency of the Group.
Financial statements of foreign currency b Basis of Consolidation denominated subsidiaries are translated into Sterling The consolidated financial statements consist of the whereby the results of the overseas operations are financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary generally translated at the average rate of exchange undertakings.
All intra-group transactions, balances, for the year and their balance sheets at rates of exchange income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
ruling at the Balance Sheet date.
Currency translation adjustments arising on the restatement of opening net Revenue and results of subsidiary undertakings are assets of foreign subsidiaries, together with differences consolidated in the Group Income Statement from the between the subsidiaries results translated at average dates on which control over the operating and financial rates versus closing rates, are taken directly to reserves.
All resulting exchange differences are classified as equity until disposal of the subsidiary.
On disposal the Acquisitions cumulative amounts of the exchange differences are On an acquisition that qualifies as a business combination, recognised as income or expense.
the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Any excess Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the the rates of exchange ruling at the transaction dates.
identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair at the exchange rate ruling at the Balance Sheet date, values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited with a corresponding charge or credit to the Income to the Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
However, exchange gains and losses arising on long-term foreign currency borrowings, which are Joint Ventures a hedge against the Groups overseas investments, The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, are dealt with in reserves.
development and production through unincorporated joint ventures.
The Group accounts for its share of the results f Exploration, Evaluation and Production Assets and net assets of these joint ventures as jointly controlled The Group adopts the successful efforts method of assets.
In addition, where Tullow acts as operator to the accounting for exploration and appraisal costs.
All licence joint venture, the gross liabilities and receivables acquisition, exploration and evaluation costs are initially including amounts due to or from non-operating partners capitalised in cost centres by well, field or exploration of the joint venture are included in the Group consolidated area, as appropriate.
Directly attributable administration Balance Sheet.
costs and interest payable are capitalised insofar as they relate to specific exploration and development activities.
c Sales Revenue Pre-licence costs are expensed in the period in which Sales revenue represents the sales value, net of VAT and they are incurred.
overriding royalties, of the Groups share of liftings in the year together with tariff income.
Revenue is recognised These costs are then written off unless commercial when goods are delivered and title has passed.
reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed and there are no Revenues received under take-or-pay sales contracts indications of impairment.
in respect of undelivered volumes are accounted for as deferred income.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 47 Accounting Policies continued All field development costs are capitalised as property, j Property, Plant and Equipment plant and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated in the Balance related to production activities are amortised in Sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation accordance with the Groups Depletion and Amortisation on property, plant and equipment other than exploration accounting policy.
and production assets, is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each g Commercial Reserves asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas economic life of between three and five years.
reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which k Finance Costs and Debt geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, with a specified degree of certainty to be recoverable construction or production of qualifying assets, which are in future years from known reservoirs and which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time considered commercially producible.
There should be to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
estimated as a proven and probable reserves and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying h Depletion and Amortisation Discovery Fields amount.
Arrangement fees and issue costs are deducted All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from from the debt proceeds on initial recognition of the liability the commencement of production on a unit of production and are amortised and charged to the Income Statement basis, which is the ratio of oil and gas production in as finance costs over the term of the debt.
the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the period plus the production l Share Issue Expenses and in the period, on a field-by-field basis.
Costs used in Share Premium Account the unit of production calculation comprise the net book Costs of share issues are written off against the premium value of capitalised costs plus the estimated future arising on the issues of share capital.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future field development costs m Taxation are dealt with prospectively.
Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas corporation tax, are provided at amounts Where there has been a change in economic conditions expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that that indicates a possible impairment in a discovery have been enacted or substantially enacted by the field, the recoverability of the net book value relating to Balance Sheet date.
that field is assessed by comparison with the estimated discounted future cash flows based on managements Deferred corporation taxation is recognised on all expectations of future oil and gas prices and future temporary differences that have originated but not costs.
Any impairment identified is charged to the Income reversed at the Balance Sheet date where transactions Statement as additional depletion and amortisation.
or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised reversed as a credit to the Income Statement, net of only to the extent that it is considered more likely than any depreciation that would have been charged since not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the impairment.
the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
i Decommissioning Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full when Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences the related facilities are installed.
A corresponding amount arising on acquisitions that are categorised as Business equivalent to the provision is also recognised as part Combinations.
Deferred tax is recognised at acquisition of the cost of the related property, plant and equipment.
as part of the assessment of the fair value of assets and The amount recognised is the estimated cost of liabilities acquired.
Any deferred tax is charged or credited decommissioning, discounted to its net present value, in the income statement as the underlying temporary and is reassessed each year in accordance with local difference is reversed.
Changes in the estimated timing of decommissioning or decommissioning cost Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT is treated as an income tax estimates are dealt with prospectively by recording an and deferred PRT is accounted for under the temporary adjustment to the provision, and a corresponding difference method.
Current UK PRT is charged as a tax adjustment to property, plant and equipment.
The expense on chargeable field profits included in the Income unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning Statement and is deductible for UK corporation tax.
provision is included as a finance cost.
48 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 n Pensions Assets held under finance leases are recognised Contributions to the Groups defined contribution as assets of the group at their fair value or, if lower, pension schemes are charged to operating profit on at the present value of the minimum lease payments, an accruals basis.
each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the o Derivative Financial Instruments Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease The Group uses derivative financial instruments to payments are apportioned between finance charges manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve rates, interest rates and movements in oil and gas prices.
a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance The purpose for which a derivative is used is established with the Groups policy on borrowing costs.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the derivative must be highly effective in achieving its objective and q Share Based Payments this effectiveness must be documented at inception and The Company has applied the requirements of throughout the period of the hedge relationship.
The hedge IFRS 2 Share Based Payments.
In accordance with the must be assessed on an ongoing basis and determined transitional provisions of that standard, only those awards to have been highly effective throughout the financial that were granted after 7 November 2002, and had not reporting periods for which the hedge was designed.
vested at 1 January 2005, are included.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are All share based awards of the Company are equity classified as either fair value hedges, when they hedge settled as defined by IFRS 2.
The fair value of these the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised awards has been determined at the date of grant of asset or liability, or cash flow hedges, where they hedge the award allowing for the effect of any market-based exposure to variability in cash flows that is either performance conditions.
This fair value, adjusted by attributable to a particular risk associated with a the Groups estimate of the number of awards that will recognised asset or liability or forecasted transaction.
eventually vest as a result of non-market conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
In relation to fair value hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring The fair values were calculated using a binomial option the derivative and the hedged item at fair value is pricing model with suitable modifications to allow for recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Any employee turnover after vesting and early exercise.
gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged Where necessary this model was supplemented with risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the a Monte Carlo model.
The inputs to the models include: hedged item and recognised in the Income Statement.
the share price at date of grant: exercise price: expected volatility: expected dividends: risk free rate of interest: For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gains and and patterns of exercise of the plan participants.
losses on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is taken to equity and the ineffective portion, as well as any change in time value, is recognised in the Income Statement.
The gains and losses taken to equity are subsequently transferred to the Income Statement during the period in which the hedged transaction affects the Income Statement or if the hedge is subsequently deemed to be ineffective.
A similar treatment applies to foreign currency loans, which are hedges of the Groups net investment in the net assets of a foreign operation.
Gains or losses on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment either from inception or during the life of the instrument are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
p Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 49
