Statement of accounting policies for the Company accounts A summary of the Companys principal accounting policies, which has continued to apply United Kingdom accounting standards, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding year in the separate financial information presented for the Company, is set out below: a Basis of accounting The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The Company has adopted FRS 20 and 21 during the year which reflect the accounting treatment contained within IFRS 2 share based payments and IAS 10 post balance sheet events.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company, as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Companys retained profit for the year is disclosed in note 36. b Fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are shown at original historical cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years IT hardware and software 3 to 5 years c Taxation UK Corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
These arise from including gains and losses in tax assessments in different periods from those recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing difference can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not discounted.
d Retirement benefit costs The Company provides pensions to its employees and Directors through defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The schemes are funded and their assets are held independently of the Group by trustees.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account for defined benefit schemes is the estimated regular cost of providing the benefits accrued in the period adjusted to reflect variations from the cost.
The regular cost is calculated so that it represents a substantially level percentage of current and future pensionable payroll.
Any difference between the amount charged to the profit and loss account and contributions paid to the pension scheme is shown as a separately identifiable liability or asset in the balance sheet.
Certain employees and Directors participated in the UK defined benefit scheme operated by Ultra Electronics Limited.
Paragraph 9 b of FRS 17 allows for a defined benefit scheme to be accounted for as a defined contribution scheme where there are multi-employers and one employer is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis.
The Ultra Electronics Limited defined benefit scheme has been accounted for on this basis.
The deficit in the scheme at 31 December 2005 was 44.7m 2004: 38.7m.
Further disclosures in relation to this pension scheme are given in note 26 to the financial statements.
e Investment Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 81 Statement of accounting policies for the Company accounts continued f Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at the actual exchange rates at the date of the transactions or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
g Leases Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives.
The capital element of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, whilst the interest elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of the capital repayments outstanding.
Hire purchase transactions are dealt with similarly, except that assets are depreciated over their useful lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
h Share-based payments The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an option pricing model, using the assumptions disclosed within the Group accounts in note 22.
